

601 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Shift on Beijing: Will Embrace Win Change?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Jan. 21

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration has subtly shifted its China policy in recent months, gambling that intensified economic and political contacts with Beijing will prove more effective than the threat of trade sanctions has been in changing China's human rights policies.
The Administration has by no means removed the threat of withdrawing China's preferential trade status this June, if Beijing does not meet very specific criteria on respecting human rights and abandoning illegal trade practices. That threat still exists. It seems real. American officials have even stated publicly in recent weeks that if the decision were made today, China would lose its benefits, which allow it to export products to the United States at the lowest possible tariffs. 
 But in an effort to persuade the Chinese to meet the President's conditions by June, and to broaden the relationship in such a way that the United States would not have to rely anymore on the threat of trade sanctions if China complies, the Administration has, without fanfare, been pursuing a new policy of intensive engagement.
 
A Parade of Visitors
 President Clinton met with President Jiang Zemin in Seattle in November. Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen paid a four-day visit to China this week, following on the heels of Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy. Mr. Bentsen restored the Joint Economic Committee, a bilateral discussion group, with his Chinese counterpart and announced that the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Alan Greenspan, would also be visiting.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher has scheduled two days of talks in Paris next week with China's Foreign Minister, Qian Qichen. Technical advisory missions from the Securities and Exchange Commission and United States Customs are expected in China soon.
One reason for the shift in strategy is that the old standoffish approach did not seem to be working. But, more important, is an acknowledgement that the old approach of using the threat of withdrawing China's "most favored nation" trade status is becoming an anachronism. A tactic adopted in the 1970's to give Congress and the President a lever in pressing the Soviet Union to allow more Jews to emigrate, the trade threat makes less and less sense in the American relationship with China today.
Trade between the United States and China, the world's biggest emerging economy, is now so economically important to the United States, and so politically important to the reform process in China, that threatening to cut it off has become the diplomatic equivalent of the United States holding a gun to its own head and threatening to pull the trigger.
 
Other Interests at Stake
 China is expected to spend about $560 billion on infrastructure projects between now and the end of the century. Just 1 percent of those projects would mean several hundred thousand American jobs.
But there are more than commercial interests at stake now with China. As Chinese reformers themselves point out, trade with the rest of the world has become the engine of so many economic, social and even political changes here that to diminish it in any way now would hurt their cause much more than the Government.
Trade has brought China the satellite dish, the portable fax, the cellular phone, increased freedom to travel abroad, international newspapers, Western investment banks and financial services. It has forced the state to relinquish some control over individual businesses and permit more of the individual initiative required for successful capitalism and entrepreneurship.
"The areas where contacts with the West are the greatest, the areas where they have moved ahead most on human rights and accepting influences from the West, are those where trade is most intense," said Robert D. Hormats, the vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International and a former Assistant Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, who is to arrive in China on Sunday.
Today Treasury Secretary Bentsen visited the Shanghai Diesel Engine Company Ltd., a newly privatized factory that has been heavily influenced by systems imported from International Harvester. The company's president told Mr. Bentsen that just in the last year the Government had allowed the executives here autonomy in investment, recruiting, and decisions on manufacturing and management.
 
Toward a 'Virtuous Circle'
 Even allowing for China's continued practice of organizing labor in work units that are carefully controlled by the state, the arrival of Western businesses is forcing liberalization, factory by factory. Business demands for contract laws, bankruptcy laws, repossession laws -- all critical elements of a market economy -- are also forcing greater reliance on rule by law rather than arbitrary edict.
The hope of American officials and Chinese reformers is that over time the demands of the global market will force the Government into what economists call a "virtuous circle" in which more economic reform leads to more growth, more growth leads to more economic reform, and eventually economic reform begins to spill over into political reform.
China is still a long way from democratic change, but the dynamics of such a circle are apparent. It is precisely such an evolutionary process that hard-line Communist conservatives here denounce as an American "plot."
In some ways the Administration's logic is in line with that of former President George Bush, who was roundly condemned by Democrats -- and by candidate Clinton -- for insisting on continued engagement with Beijing after the brutal 1989 crackdown in Tiananmen Square and other acts of political repression.
 
A Broader Agenda
 But in linking renewal of trade benefits to explicit demands on human rights, Mr. Clinton appears to have gone further than President Bush did in putting pressure on Beijing.
It is a recognition of the new political and commercial reality of China that has prompted the Clinton Administration since September to broaden the range of contacts between Beijing and Washington, in the hope that the mass of those contacts will be a far greater source of pressure on Beijing to change its human rights practices than the annual threat of trade sanctions, officials said.
It would also make human rights part of a broader agenda rather than the focus of the whole relationship. Some human rights campaigners argue that will only make abuses easier to ignore; Administration officials, basically accepting the Asian argument, say that human rights will be easier to address if the issue is out of the spotlight.
There is only one problem with this new approach. It cannot really go fully into effect until June, if China passes what American officials hope will be their last most-favored-nation exam. If Beijing meets the criteria set by the Clinton Administration, the reasoning goes, the United States will shift to conventional diplomatic means of pressing China to respect human rights rather than adopting a new set of goal posts for renewal in 1995.
 
The Chinese Respond
 Last June, when he renewed China's most-favored-nation benefits, President Clinton issued an executive order naming the conditions that China would have to meet to get the preferential trade status renewed this June. In recent weeks, the Chinese have obviously started to respond.
They agreed to a demand to allow more visits by American customs inspectors to Chinese prison factories to make sure they are not producing goods for export to the United States. They released some Tibetan political prisoners in Lhasa. They have begun serious discussions with the Red Cross about allowing the organization to visit political prisoners and about providing a list of all those prisoners -- two crucial demands made by Mr. Clinton that are still unmet.
"Progress has been made," Mr. Bentsen said. "We're hoping for more. I hope sufficient progress can be made so we can put this issue behind us and there will not be an annual review" of China's most favored nation status any longer.
Senior Clinton Administration officials say that as much as they know it would be self-defeating both for them and for Chinese reform to cut off China's most-favored-nation status, politically the President will have no choice but to do so if the Chinese do not live up to the terms of his executive order. Not to revoke it would open the President to charges of ignoring his own executive order, violating his campaign promises on China and cynically giving into commercial interests. Those familiar with his thinking assert that he is determined not to let that happen.
"Anyone who tells you that the President is just looking for a fig leaf and he will renew M.F.N. again is dead wrong," a senior Administration official said.
Still, Mr. Hormats said, so much is now at stake in maintaining the trade relationship between Washington and Beijing, "I have to believe that they will find a way to work this out."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen accepted a stock certificate yesterday while visiting Shanghai Diesel Engine Company Ltd., a newly privatized factory that exercises some autonomy in decision-making. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); FRANCE (78%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); FRANCE (78%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (74%); EXPORT CONTROLS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (65%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



602 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Crisis on Political Reform Overshadows Bentsen Trade Trip

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 22

 BODY:
With Japan's coalition Government reeling from a surprise internal rebellion that could drive it from power, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen arrived here today prepared to tell the country's leadership that Tokyo's political chaos would no longer be an excuse to resist major concessions on trade.
But Mr. Bentsen, who is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa on Sunday, has little leverage. Japanese leaders spent the day preoccupied with strategies to salvage their Government after the defeat on Friday of legislation to clean up the country's political system. Even with deadlines looming on trade issues, a conflict with the Clinton Administration seemed the least of their problems. 
 Today Mr. Hosokawa's Government still seemed shocked by the magnitude of its miscalculation. Though the bills had passed the more powerful lower house of Parliament in November, they were defeated in the upper house after the defection of some Socialists who feared the legislation would eventually wipe out their party's seats and influence.
 
Compromise Bill Planned
 Mr. Hosokawa has vowed to try to work out a new, compromise bill before the Parliament goes out of session in a week. But the opposition Liberal Democratic Party, eager to embarrass Mr. Hosokawa after he helped oust them from power last summer, would not even agree on a meeting to discuss the issue. Many doubt a compromise is possible, out of a suspicion that the Liberal Democrats and many Socialists will seek to kill any reform bills that would disturb the status quo, if they can do so without taking the blame.
"Hosokawa's coalition has completely lost its confidence," said Minoru Morita, a leading political commentator. "Right now, there really isn't a Government." If Mr. Hosokawa chooses to call a snap election in the hope of regaining a mandate to push through political reform legislation, the turmoil could go on for weeks.
But the brunt of public criticism over the defeat of the legislation seemed to be aimed at Mr. Hosokawa's opponents. Several major newspapers warned the Prime Minister to hold fast and resist any temptation to give in to to the Liberal Democrats, especially on the regulation of political donations.
Mr. Bentsen made a last-minute decision to add Tokyo to the end of his Asian tour even though the Japanese have made it clear he is an unwelcome guest. Treasury officials said President Clinton asked Mr. Bentsen to go to Tokyo to insure that Japan's political leaders, rather than its bureaucrats, begin taking control of the crucial decisions needed before Mr. Clinton and Mr. Hosokawa meet on Feb. 11 in Washington.
 
New Approach on Trade
 That date was chosen last July, when the two countries agreed on a new approach to solving trade issues. But in the interim, no progress has been made, and the two sides are still arguing over fundamental issues that were supposed to be solved last summer.
After giving a grace period of several months to Mr. Hosokawa, who took office in August on a pledge to fight corruption in government, the Clinton Administration has declared that it is out of patience.
When Mr. Bentsen decided earlier this week to come to Tokyo, the assumption was that he would be delivering the tough message to a Prime Minister empowered by an expected victory in securing passage of legislation to change the way campaigns are financed and members of Parliament are elected.
Instead, Mr. Bentsen landed as Mr. Hosokawa was scrambling to hold on to his job. Even if he survives, he may be so weakened that there would be little he could do to override the Japanese bureaucrats who are running the negotiations with the United States and are resisting many of Washington's demands.
 
No 'Cosmetic Agreements'
 "We are not going to accept cosmetic agreements," said a senior Treasury Department official traveling with Mr. Bentsen. "We can't reach a satisfactory agreement without political determination on both sides."
"There is no question that the Japanese Government has the capacity to take the steps necessary," the official added. "We've shown quite a lot of understanding for a long time on the political issues in Japan."
Despite the stern words, there is very little the Clinton Administration can do to force concessions. Just as it has staked its bets for reform in Russia on President Boris N. Yeltsin, it has counted on Mr. Hosokawa and the movement that brought him to power to open up Japan's economy, deregulate many of its industries and press for greater access for imports. If Mr. Hosokawa's coalition collapsed, it would probably bring back the Liberal Democratic Party, which has expressed little commitment to such changes.
Mr. Bentsen's aides suggested today that Mr. Hosokawa could move quickly to cut taxes to revive economic growth, but they made it sound far simpler than it seems to the Japanese.
"Tax cuts are hardly a strain for any government," one American official asserted. "They would not exactly weaken this Government."
In fact they might well do that. Japan's Finance Ministry has said that an income tax cut would mean a sharp and unpopular increase in Japan's 3 percent "consumption tax," to avoid deficit spending by the Government.
The battle over adding to the burden on consumers seems bound to raise more objections within the Socialist Party, and Mr. Hosokawa cannot afford to lose more of their votes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LEGISLATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



603 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: New York Car Theft Draws Police Priority

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
For Jason Wolder, a 34-year-old Queens sales representative, the theft of his 1980 Delta 88 in August was troubling enough. But then there are the near-nightly screams of car alarms that stir his otherwise graceful Douglaston neighborhood and frequently wake his infant son.
They are not only a constant reminder of the loss of his old car, but just as important, they make him feel that maybe his family isn't safe. "An anxiety pops up," he said. "God knows what could happen if you have to face one of those guys by mistake in the street." 
 As the most pervasive property crime afflicting the nation's big cities, motor vehicle theft is a constant irritant to New York City's 1.8 million auto owners, costing them an average of $360 a year in added insurance fees alone. Mr. Wolder's Oldsmobile was one of an estimated 112,000 motor vehicles stolen in New York City last year, and his case, like more than 90 percent in the city, went unsolved and unprosecuted.
 
Recent Trend Is Down
 Stark figures show the magnitude of car theft in New York. About 1,700 vehicles were stolen in the city in 1992 per 100,000 residents, compared with a national average of about 650. In the region, only Newark, with 5,000 thefts per 100,000 residents, has a more overwhelming problem.
In New York, there are some hopeful signs: reported car thefts in the city have drifted significantly downward since peaking at 146,300 in 1990, according to police statistics. That trend roughly matches the experience of the metropolitan suburbs and the nation's cities at large.
The downward trend in auto theft numbers, both in New York and nationally, suggests to law-enforcement authorities that stiffer Federal and state laws and improved security measures by auto companies and owners are having an effect, as well as increased political pressure on police forces and local district attorneys to apply more resources.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani promised during the fall campaign to step up the police effort against car theft, which was already rising during the Dinkins administration with more investigations of dealers in stolen cars and parts and with nightly checkpoints on major thoroughfares.
"Car theft will have a higher priority than it does now," the new Police Commissioner, William J. Bratton, promised in a recent interview. "This is one of those things that drives people crazy, that constantly creates fear and reminds them that the street isn't safe." He promised to come up with new strategies to fight the problem in the next few weeks.
 
Tougher Law Enforcement
 Of 31,000 police officers in the New York City department, 375 now work full time on auto theft. The Police Department plans to strengthen its borough car-theft units with a significant number of police academy graduates in February. The Queens Auto Larceny Unit, for instance, has been told 5 graduates will be added to its 10 full-time members.
Police patrol cars have been given more sophisticated computer software in recent months to check licenses and vehicle identification numbers quickly for stolen cars during patrols and at checkpoints. And local officers are urging residents to visit precincts to have identification numbers etched on their car windows.
Since car ownership became commonplace in the 1920's, there have been several waves of car theft followed by years when thefts tapered off. The trends matched economic cycles to some degree, but in recent years appear to have soared as organized crime has become more involved, operating junkyards willing to buy stolen parts for resale and repair shops that rebuild vehicles for export.
The crime of auto theft has, in fact, changed radically in recent years, creating new challenges for the police but also providing new opportunities to manage the problem. Auto theft was once the province of young thugs, who stole cars to get money for drugs or take joy rides.
 
Entry-Level Crime
 Today, it is an entry level for organized-crime apprentices, who typically make $200 to $400 a car, the police say.
In New York City, according to the police, organized crime commonly hires people to steal cars and deliver them to so-called chop shops, where they are dismantled for parts or resold, frequently for export.
"Back in the old days, they hung horse thieves," said Inspector Charles DeRienzo, the head of the auto crime division. "But now the answer is simpler: regulate the businessmen who are using and exporting these parts."
Early this month, in an effort to do just that, 30 of Mr. DeRienzo's men raided the sprawling junkyard attached to Dom's Truck Sales in East New York, Brooklyn, which the police say is one of the city's major chop shops. In the raid, which followed more than six months of surveillance, the police found a pile of semiautomatic weapons and vehicle parts that they said were stolen. They also accused the owner and employees of removing and altering vehicle identification numbers to mislead the police and customs authorities.
 
Suspects Back at Work
 But less than a week later, the junkyard hummed and clanked with the usual cacophony, as mechanics sanded fenders and ran their clattering lifts. At least one mechanic was back at work less than a week after his arrest, released without bail along with 10 other employees. The owner, Dominick Vitucci, was held for two days and released on $5,000 bail.
Mr. Vitucci's wife, Carol, a bookkeeper in his office, expressed confidence that Dom's Truck Sales would quickly return to full operations. "Our customers are repeat customers," she said. "They'll come back."
Police officers are still visiting the junkyard, to monitor its workings and scare away the car thieves who they say deliver their wares there.
To many victims, the way to solve car theft is to arrest more street criminals. But law-enforcement officials and criminologists agree that the most efficient way is to attack those who make the big profits from the trade in stolen parts.
 
Identification Deterrent
 Mr. DeRienzo, the chief of the auto crimes division, suggested that a major reason for the decrease in auto theft was the growing prevalence of vehicle identification numbers on cars and parts. The identification plates, which are the principal way the police can spot stolen parts and cars, have deterred a growing number of legitimate businessmen from using stolen parts out of fear they will be caught, said Mr. DeRienzo.
"If we can regulate the auto repair and auto salvage industry, we can cut auto theft in half," he said. "Everybody is looking for the police to solve the problem, but it is up to the auto industry and the Government to regulate the industry to label every component part that is manufactured."
Congress took a step in that direction when it passed the Anti-Auto Theft Act of 1992, which requires car makers to mark 13 parts with vehicle identification numbers and makes the removal of the numbers a Federal offense.
Still, some lawmakers, law-enforcement officers and criminologists have accused the auto makers of dragging their feet in providing better anti-theft security. Representative Charles E. Schumer, who was the main House sponsor of the car-theft measure, complained that the auto industry lobbied hard to limit the number of parts covered by the identification-number regulation.
 
Do Auto Makers Care?
 "There's a suspicion that it doesn't bother them that lots of cars are stolen, because when somebody's car is stolen they buy a new one," the Brooklyn Democrat said. Two of his cars have been stolen from his Park Slope neighborhood in the last five years, and he says he now prays for rain, which discourages thieves, after parking his car each night.
Andrew Karmen, an auto-theft specialist at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, also contended that car makers put profits before security. "Vehicle security is given a low priority by the auto companies," he said. "Consumers should be outraged that it is so easy to start a car without a key."
Representatives of car companies insisted that they were concerned about security, but said they opposed the Congressional mandate on identification numbers because they were expensive and ineffective. "Our basic position on parts marking is that they are a cost burden to consumers with no benefit in terms of anti-theft prevention," said Patrick Morrissey, a General Motors spokesman in Washington. He estimated that the cost of parts marking was $225 million for customers "with no proven benefits."
 
Checking Every 3d Car
 But the New York City police see it differently. At a moving checkpoint on Hillside Avenue and Queens Boulevard last week, bordering Jamaica and Kew Gardens, officers in a car-theft unit wearing bulletproof vests checked the identification numbers of every third car, along with license plates and the drivers' documents.
As the officers in one car punched the numbers into the computer, looking for evidence that the vehicle was stolen, the officers in a second car waited behind, ready for possible pursuit. Most nights the officers make an arrest or two, in an operation they began in Queens only three years ago.
Arashb Shoughi, an Iranian-born Briarwood resident, was startled by the piercing red flashes of the rotary lights of four patrol cars following him, but quickly expressed support when the officers assured him he had broken no laws. "I've had four cars stolen in the last two years," he said with a sigh. "If this helps, why not?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Auto theft costs the 1.8 million car owners in New York City an additional $360 a year in insurance premiums. Members of the Queens Auto Larceny Unit checked identification numbers of every third car at Hillside Avenue and Queens Boulevard. (pg. 21); Some 1,700 vehicles were stolen in New York in 1992 per 100,000 residents, a rate second in the region to Newark's. Car-theft units use advanced computers for faster checks. Officer Robert Benson, left, and Sgt. James Geraghty ran the plates of an abandoned car on the Long Island Expressway. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. 26)
 
Graphs: "CAR THEFTS: Sounding the Alarm" shows number of vehicles stolen in New York City, New York State, Westchester, New Jersey Connecticut, Suffold and Nassau for every 100 registered in 1992. (Sources: New York Police Department; National Insurance Crime Bureau; New York, New Jersey and Connecticut Departments of Motor Vehicles) (pg. 21); "CAR THEFTS: The Hottest Models" lists the most frequently stolen cars nationwide in 1992. (Source: C. C. C. Information Services) (pg. 26); "CRIME: Car Theft Trends" tracks annual number of vehicles stolen in the U.S. and New York City since 1985. (Source: Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York Police Department) (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSURANCE CRIME BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); NATIONAL INSURANCE CRIME BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSURANCE CRIME BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); NATIONAL INSURANCE CRIME BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; AUTOMOBILES; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS VEHICLE THEFT (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TRENDS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); CRIME STATISTICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); VANDALISM (75%); PROPERTY CRIMES (73%); LAWYERS (71%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (71%); MAYORS (66%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (57%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD RUDY GIULIANI (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



604 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: U.S. ASKS INCREASE ON BIRTH CONTROL

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration is seeking a substantial increase in spending next year on population control programs with the goal of providing birth control to every woman in the developing world who wants it by the end of the decade.
The emerging policy, a sharp departure from the approach taken by the Reagan and Bush Administrations, emphasizes not only family planning but also education for women, which by boosting their living standards and independence ultimately increases their power to decide how many children they will bear. 
 In revamping American foreign policy to take account of the passing of the cold war, the Clinton Administration has concluded that slowing population growth is crucial because it promotes so many goals at once: reducing political instability, hunger, migration and strains on the environment.
"When we think about what factors are going to affect the future of the world, population is absolutely at the top of the list," said Timothy E. Wirth, the State Department Counselor and the Administration's main spokesman on population policy.
"Everything that we would think of doing to further our goals of increasing political stability and living standards around the world can be compromised and destroyed by unchecked population growth."
 
Request $585 Million
 To back up the new policy, President Clinton plans to request $585 million in spending on population programs in his budget for fiscal 1995, up from $502 million this year and almost double the amount spent in fiscal 1992, the year before he took office.
Mr. Wirth talks of raising annual spending to $1.2 billion by the year 2000 to meet his goal of providing family planning services to the more than 600 million women of childbearing age in developing countries.
Population experts predict that if present trends continue unchecked, the world's current population of 5.5 billion will double in 40 years and reach between 13 to 15 billion by the year 2050.
With the efforts proposed by Washington, other governments and the World Bank, Mr. Wirth said, world population could stabilize near 10 billion around 2050.
 
Influence of Gore
 Administration officials said the population strategy was perhaps the most concrete sign of Vice President Al Gore's influence on foreign policy. Mr. Gore argues that unbridled population growth will severely tax the environment by, for example, speeding up deforestation of the planet.
Patrick J. Leahy, who as chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee on foreign operations spent years asking the Bush Administration for more spending on population control, praised President Clinton's approach. In the long run, the Vermont Democrat predicted, the effort will save governments money.
"If you don't do something on population, you really can't do anything effective for the rights of women, for economic development, for children's health, and for hunger programs, all to which we have contributed tens of billions dollars to over the years," he said.
The Reagan and Bush Administrations fought spending increases for population control largely because many conservative supporters opposed the idea of the Government paying for abortions and contraceptives.
 
More Money for Health Services
 As part of its strategy, the Administration wants the Agency for International Development to channel money into health services for women in developing countries. If women in poor African, Asian or Latin American regions come to rely on such clinics for their care, the reasoning goes, they will more readily take advantage of assistance on birth control.
The Administration is also emphasizing the link between higher rates of child survival and lower fertility rates. If women know that more of their children will survive, demographic statistics suggest, they tend to have fewer children.
Population experts say the introduction of programs emphasizing survival, a strategy that involves child immunizations and improved nutrition, initially accelerate the rate of population growth but ultimately reduce it because fertility rates fall as a result.
For population experts, one of the most intriguing aspects of the Administration's broader approach is the effort to improve women's education. In Colombia, for example, women with no education bear an average of 5.4 children, while those with some primary schooling average 4.0 children and women who have completed secondary school average 3.2.
"The purpose of these population policies is to improve people's well-being, not simply to control some nebulous idea such as population growth," said Joan Dunlop, president of the International Women's Health Coalition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; POPULATION POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); WOMEN (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FAMILY PLANNING (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); COLD WAR (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); DEFORESTATION (69%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; BUSH, GEORGE BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); AL GORE (78%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



605 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: ACCORD IS REACHED ON USE OF FORESTS

BYLINE: By DAVID E. PITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 22

 BODY:
With the world's forests vanishing at an accelerating rate, rich and poor countries have agreed on a draft accord that would put forest preservation on a par with the commercial demands of the global timber industry. But the agreement, reached late Friday in Geneva, falls far short of what many developing countries and environmental groups sought.
The final round of talks was convened two weeks ago under the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. The goal was to complete a new version of the International Tropical Timber Agreement, a 1983 commodity pact that is supposed to promote environmentally benign free trade in wood harvested in the tropics, including logs, plywood and veneer sheets. The original agreement expires on March 31. 
 United Nations figures show tropical timber as worth $7.5 billion a year in an $85-billion-a-year global industry.
 
Split Among the Signers
 The agreement's signers -- 23 producer countries like Malaysia and Brazil and 27 so-called consumers, including European countries, the United States, and Japan, the world's biggest timber importer -- entered the talks bitterly split over calls by tropical producers that the pact be broadened to encourage conservation-oriented logging in the temperate forests of the northern industrial nations. Similar demands doomed diplomatic efforts to produce a world forestry pact in time for the 1992 Earth Summit in Brazil.
Under a compromise that awaits formal ratification, developing countries would drop their insistence that the pact be expanded to cover all timber. For their part, the northern countries would pledge to adopt "appropriate guidelines and criteria for sustainable management" of their forests, and affirm the need to provide developing countries with "appropriate resources" for conservation programs.
The draft agreement also calls on countries to submit regular reports on progress toward practices that would let them use their forests while preserving them for future generations.
But environmentalists at the talks expressed dismay, characterizing the overall compromise as a public-relations facade by both sides to cover up a lack of political will to come to grips with the problems of deforestation. Studies cited by United Nations agencies say human activity has led to the destruction of as much forested land in the last 20 years as has been previously cleared in all of history.
 
Pledges of Assistance
 Developing countries pledged early in the talks to adopt specific policies by the year 2000 that would help sustain their forests. But they assert that the consumers -- especially European nations led by Germany, France and Britain -- refused to offer more than vague nonbinding promises to do the same.
Many people close to the talks sympathize with the developing nations, noting that the tropical timber pact is the only commodity agreement that covers a trade item originating in one part of the world but not another.
"They see I.T.T.A.'s current tropical focus as a perpetuation of the very kind of onerous double standards so widely condemned at the Earth Summit -- those which require developing countries to abide by standards the industrialized countries are unwilling to accept themselves," former President Jimmy Carter told Secretary of State Warren Christopher last year.
The United States is both a major producer and a consumer, but it speaks for the timber-consuming countries. In June, Washington pledged at a separate ministerial meeting that it would adopt sustainable forestry management policies by the end of the century. But officials have released few details on the plan, provoking doubts among many developing countries.
 
East European Timber
 Environmentalists assert that the Europeans, eager to maintain their furniture industries, do not want environmentally safe cutting rules because they are hopeful that a major new source of cheap timber will soon open in untapped areas of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
William E. Mankin, coordinator of the Global Forest Policy Project, a Washington-based advocacy group supported by the Sierra Club, the National Wildlife Federation and Friends of the Earth-U.S., said, "It boils down to northern countries determined to protect their economic interests and unwilling to abide by common standards -- and developing countries who say, 'If you want us to save our forests you've got to give us money.' "

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (75%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) TRADE & DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MONGOLIA (57%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (75%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; LOGGING INDUSTRY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET FORESTS & WOODLANDS (93%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PLANT CONSERVATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); DEFORESTATION (78%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (72%); TIMBER WHOLESALERS (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: PITT, DAVID E

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



606 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1914 words

HEADLINE: FIGURE SKATING;
Traveling Far and Lying Low to Get Nancy Kerrigan

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 22

 BODY:
On a freezing night two weeks ago, Shane Stant checked into a budget motel on the edge of Detroit's main airport, rented a couple of X-rated movies and settled in for the final phase of a calculated mission to injure one of America's top figure skaters.
The account of the attack was made public by investigators this week, who said Stant, a 22-year-old weight lifter and unemployed bar bouncer, was promised tens of thousands of dollars to track down the skater, Nancy Kerrigan. And like a heavy from an old gangster movie, he agreed to club her in the knees to prevent her from competing in the United States Figure Skating Championships, being held in Detroit. 
 It was a plan, the authorities say, to guarantee a place at the Winter Olympics and a shot at great profits for Tonya Harding, Kerrigan's chief rival and her opposite image in the pristine world of glistening ice and precision movement.
Rather than taking on the assignment for a fixed amount, Federal law enforcement officials now say, Stant and his 29-year-old uncle, Derrick Smith, told the investigators they were promised that their prize for keeping Kerrigan out of the competition would be permanent jobs as bodyguards for Harding at $1,000 a week each.
Although that kind of money may sound absurd, the investigators said it was no more bizarre than the rest of the plan, which, according to law enforcement officials, court documents and many who had contact with the principals, was as clumsy and ill-conceived as it was nasty.
It was a scheme that failed in nearly every way. Kerrigan was knocked out of the championship in Detroit with a powerful blow to her right knee from a telescopic metal baton, and Harding went on to win the event. But the United States Figure Skating Association decided the night competition ended that both skaters should go to the Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, Norway. Kerrigan is recovering from the injury, and she and Harding have both resumed training for next month's Games.
Stant, Smith and two others, Shawn Eckardt, Harding's bodyguard, and Jeffrey Gillooly, her former husband with whom she had been living until last week, have now been charged with conspiracy. Moreover, officials of the figure skating association have considered removing Harding from the Olympic team.
The authorities say Stant, Smith and Eckardt have acknowledged roles in the plot. Gillooly and Harding insist they are innocent.
The attack riveted the nation with its juxtaposition of the figure skater's porcelain world against a tawdry panorama of raw ambition, petty scheming and ham-handed thuggery. As much as anything, it was a tale of stunning banality.
 
Starting the Trek
 By the time Stant checked into the Super 8 Motel on the eastern flank of the Detroit Metropolitan Airport on Jan. 4, he had been stalking Kerrigan for more than a week in Boston and Cape Cod, near where she lives.
According to court documents in Oregon, where Harding lives and where the authorities say the plot was hatched, Stant flew to Boston from Portland, three days after Christmas.
Stant and Smith, who both live near Phoenix, drove to Portland in Smith's black 1983 Porsche a day or so after the holiday, law enforcement officials say, for a meeting at the home of Eckardt. There, the three worked out the details of the attack.
After the meeting, Oregon authorities say, Gillooly gave Eckardt $2,000 in $100 bills, which in turn went to Smith to pay for Stant's travel expenses.
 
No Holiday Success
 Arriving on the East Coast, Stant checked into the Logan Airport Hilton, across the harbor from Boston. He stayed for two nights before deciding to go to the Tony Kent Arena on Cape Cod, where Kerrigan regularly practiced.
On that Friday, New Year's Eve, Stant headed out for the practice rink, which was 75 miles south in the Cape community of South Dennis. But by then, Kerrigan had already left the Cape to bring in the New Year with her parents at their home in Stoneham, 10 miles north of Boston.
Out on the Cape, unaware that his quarry was gone, Stant took a room at the Gull Wing Suites, a resort motel on Route 28 and a short ride to the big green shed of the Tony Kent Arena.
Gull Wing Suites, which boasts a heated indoor pool, was offering a New Year's package of two nights with dinner and dancing at a nearby restaurant for $260. But Stant took just the standard suite -- with a sitting room, refrigerator, king-sized bed and color television for $90 a night -- said William B. Chase, the hotel's general manager.
Through the long holiday weekend, Stant could do nothing but kill time. Finally, on Monday, Jan. 3, Kerrigan returned to the rink.
"But she was only here for a short time," said Dottie Larkin, the manager of the rink. "The weather was getting bad, we had some light snow and the parking lot had ice in it, and she had a costume fitting in New York and then had to fly on to Detroit."
 
Rink in the Focus
 The Oregon authorities say that on Dec. 28, three calls went to the Tony Kent Arena from the home shared by Gillooly and Harding in Oregon City, south of Portland. Another call to the rink came from Stant's room at the Gull Wing Suites on Jan. 1, the authorities say. On Jan. 3, another call came from the Harding-Gillooly home.
But Larkin said neither she nor any of her staff recalled seeing anyone fitting Stant's description -- 6 feet tall and more than 200 pounds of muscle -- at the arena.
"We watch who comes in and we didn't see him," she said. "He would kind of stand out in a crowd."
Later that same day, as Kerrigan was flying to New York, Stant went back to Boston and bought a $125 ticket for a grinding 20-hour trip on a Greyhound Bus bound to Detroit.
When he checked into the Super 8 Motel, a Tudor-inspired three-story building flanked by acres of parking lots, Stant asked for a room with a waterbed, which went for $33.92 including tax. It was 11 P.M. Tuesday.
 
Movies and Phone Calls
 Using his own name, as he had at the other hotels, and occasionally glancing into the eye of a constantly running security camera, Stant filled out the motel registry and paid $101.76 in cash for three nights, a clerk said.
He also rented a videotape player and two "mature titles," "Hollywood Fantasies" and "The Girls of Beverly Hills," for $10.39, the clerk said, and handed over another $10 as a deposit against telephone charges.
Shortly after midnight, the authorities in Oregon say, a telephone call was placed from Stant's room to Harding's home.
Altogether, motel employees said, Stant made about a dozen phone calls to Arizona, Oregon and the Detroit area. The conversations were brief and the charges came to $20 to $25.
The next day, Jan. 5, investigators believe, Stant made his way downtown for a reconaissance of the riverfront Cobo Arena, where the competitors in the United States Figure Skating Championships were practicing.
 
Money Is Wired
 At some point, the investigators say, he picked up a brown General Motors car from an Alamo Rent A Car agency just down Middle Belt Road from his motel.
As Stant was checking out the Cobo Arena, Eckardt went to a grocery store on the West Coast and wired $750 to Smith in Phoenix. Smith then boarded a plane, and later that day, Stant met him at the Detroit airport.
"I believe they went back to the hotel where Stant was staying," one Federal investigator said. "I don't know if they went there directly or not. But I know they got a pizza and took it back to the hotel."
On Jan. 6, the day of the attack, the investigators say, Stant and Smith went together to the skating arena on the banks of the Detroit River and adjacent to another athletic auditorium and a convention center, where automotive journalists and industry workers were attending a preview of the annual Detroit Auto Show.
"They looked the place over, and 45 minutes before the attack Smith went to get the car," one investigator said. "He put it out on the street, where he could see the doors."
 
Corrider of Attack
 Sometime shortly before 2:40 P.M., the investigators and witnesses say, Stant made his way into a tunnel-like corridor leading off the ice to the dressing rooms.
Moments later, Kerrigan, in a short white skirt and lacy top, finished her drill, slipped plastic guards over her skate blades and stepped through a blue curtain draped over the entrance to the corridor.
Dana Scarton, a sports writer for The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, had eased into the cooridor earlier in hopes of asking Kerrigan a few questions.
"I took maybe a step forward to introduce myself," Scarton said, "but she never responded verbally."
Suddenly, out of nowhere, Scarton said, a dark, bulky form shot past her. Instinctively, Kerrigan fell back and drew close to the wall, the writer said. The attacker crouched and swung the baton into her legs as if it were a baseball bat.
"It almost seemed to flex or give a little when it made contact," Scarton said.
 
'Blood-Curdling Scream'
 Back in the arena, Cynthia Patrasso, an executive producer for Intersport, a television sports production company based in Chicago, said she heard "a blood-curdling scream" as Kerrigan staggered backward and crumpled to the corridor floor and her assailant fled.
Patrasso, a cameraman and others bolted into the corridor. "At first glance you think, she just might have slipped, even though the scream didn't fit," Patrasso said. "Then someone says someone hit her and that's when the panic started to take off."
Kevin Cusick, a freelance producer working with Patrasso, sprinted toward the rear of the arena.
Outside, a steady snow was falling. Guiding Ford Motor Company employees from the auto show into a bus heading back to their headquarters, Meredith Meyer, a 22-year-old public relations assistant, heard frantic pounding from a bank of narrow, plexiglass doors.
It was Stant, the authorities say. The doors were chained and padlocked, and he now found himself trapped. But with a wild lunge, the investigators say, Stant lowered his head like a charging ram and butted the plexiglass panel out of its frame.
 
Fruitless Chase
 "I saw this man crawling through the door frame," said Meyer, "and a woman was shouting, 'Somebody stop him. Somebody stop him.' "
Seconds later, Cusick wriggled through the broken door frame. He and Meyer gave chase. But by then the attacker was gone.
Inexplicably, Stant and Smith did not immediately leave Detroit, the investigators say, but slowly made their way through the snow along 17 miles of accident-clogged expressway to the Super 8 Motel.
Shortly after the attack, the investigators say, Smith telephoned Eckardt. After they spoke, Eckardt wired $1,300 more to Detroit.
Early the next morning, on Jan. 7, Stant and Smith flew to Phoenix, the investigators say, and, for the first time in their haphazard odessey, traveled under false names.
 
Two Arrests, Then Another
 People to whom Eckardt had confided details of the caper soon began contacting the police, and one by one, the suspected plotters were arrested. Smith and Eckardt were arrested on Jan. 13, and the next day, Stant turned himself in.
Since the attack, Stant and Smith have sometimes been referred to as hit men. To some investigators, though, that is hyperbole.
"These guys are just opportunists," said one investigator. "The term 'hitman' suggests a certain professionalism and expertise that didn't exist here. These are thugs. Nothing more."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tony Kent Ice Arena in South Dennis, Mass., where Nancy Kerrigan trains. The authorities have said Shane Stant staked out the rink but failed to carry out his attack on her there. (Steve Heaslip for The New York Times)(pg. 7); The Super 8 Motel near the Detroit airport, where Shane Stant stayed. (Kristoffer Gillette for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (50%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORWAY (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SUPER 8 WORLDWIDE INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORWAY (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ICE SKATING; ASSAULTS; FIGURE SKATING WINTER SPORTS (94%); ICE SKATING (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); MOVIE RATINGS (77%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (77%); FILM (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); FILM GENRES (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); CONSPIRACY (71%); WEIGHTLIFTING (71%); STALKING (64%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B; HARDING, TONYA; KERRIGAN, NANCY; ECKHARDT, SHAWN; SMITH, DERRICK; STANT, SHANE; GILHOOLY, JEFF NANCY KERRIGAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



607 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: THE EARTHQUAKE;
Health Concerns Mounting As Tents Rise After Quake

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 22

 BODY:
Hundreds of green canvas tents went up today in parks around the city as thousands of earthquake refugees began a new routine, cooking breakfast on campfires, combing their hair in their car mirrors and heading off in search of housing.
With rain forecast for Sunday, Henry G. Cisneros, the Housing Secretary, announced on Friday that six tent cities would be opened in North Hollywood and the San Fernando Valley, where the earthquake was centered, despite a debate over whether they would become a long-term problem for the city. 
 Early today, he moved among the tents and through disaster-relief centers, looking over the shoulders of Federal employees and sometimes personally escorting applicants through the process, offering directions to shelters and once even giving a woman $5 for gas.
 
Fighting Frustration
 With people camped under cardboard and plastic, and long lines of angry applicants stranded outside disaster-relief centers, Federal, state and local officials were eager to ease public frustration after the earthquake on Monday.
The Clinton Administration moved to streamline the application process for housing grants, to open more disaster-assistance centers and to double the number of telephone operators handling requests for aid over a special line.
The White House also announced today that it would release $283 million in new Federal aid: $140 million for loans through the Small Business Administration and $143 million to the Federal Emergency Management Agency for its earthquake operations, like debris removal and housing assistance, The Associated Press reported. With this new money, the White House said, the Government has so far provided $639 million for small-business loans, $41 million for emergency highway repairs and $143 million for F.E.M.A. operations.
 
Sanctions for Price Gouging
 Meanwhile, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said it would aggressively enforce an emergency prohibition on price gouging, and the Southland Corporation threatened to revoke the franchise licenses of three of its 7-Eleven stores suspected of boosting prices on scarce items.
Mr. Cisneros said he understood the concerns of some local officials that the tent complexes might become something other than an emergency shelter remedy, but he said measures were being taken to insure against this.

 "The strategy of tents is to be temporary," Mr. Cisneros said. "The danger is that it will be impossible to take them down, and city officials legitimately were concerned that we were putting up some facilities that would be there for a very long time."
To prevent this, he said, large tents were being used to minimize any feeling of home, and people were being told they had about three weeks to find housing.
 
Fear of the Indoors
 Many of the refugees said that even though their homes had been found to be structurally sound they were afraid to sleep indoors. Some people camped out within sight of their apartments, returning to them in the morning to make breakfast and take showers.
Martin Leyva, a 25-year-old shipping clerk who is one of the Hispanic immigrants who make up the overwhelming majority of the people living outside, said he was avoiding any building with a roof. "I don't feel safe in any place," he said. "I'm really scared. I don't want to put my family in any shelter or any building."
Mr. Cisneros said tents erected by the National Guard could accommodate up to 6,000 people in total and that other tents would be obtained by contract from other sources, if needed. The Red Cross said 4,000 people were living in its shelters and another 6,000 were camped outside them. The National Guard estimated that 14,000 people were sleeping in parks, mostly in the San Fernando Valley.
 
Health Concerns
 With fears rising over sanitation and illness in the camps, and with the sound of coughing coming increasingly from the tents, the county health department sent teams of doctors and nurses to tour the tent cities. Hospital emergency rooms, which have handled thousands of earthquake injuries since Monday, reported an increasing number of exposure-related illnesses.
As soldiers swung circus-sized wooden mallets to put up the heavy canvas tents -- most of them capable of housing 30 people -- the Red Cross, the Salvation Army and several private organizations, as well as some neighboring residents, served food and hot coffee. Generators provided lighting inside the tents, but no heat, as nighttime temperatures dipped.
Some city parks took on the look of refugee camps as people sat aimlessly outside their shelters while children played ball, religious organizations handed out food and clothing, clowns performed skits, and armed and helmeted soldiers stood guard to maintain order. The air was filled with the smell of wood smoke, and sea gulls picked through the garbage.
 
'Emphasize Temporary'
 "These are not tent cities," said Maj. Dan Nation, a spokesman for the National Guard, in a refrain heard at refugee camps around the world. "These are temporary -- emphasize temporary -- shelters."
Mr. Cisneros, who flew here on the day of the earthquake, said he hoped that an accelerated disaster-assistance program would help people move quickly into new housing.
By late today, he said he hoped the first 1,000 of what he said could be 10,000 certificates would have been issued to cover the cost of temporary housing, bypassing the normal wait for verification of damage by housing inspectors.
"The first part of our effort is to get people from parks into shelters," he said. "The second is fielding 'reassurance teams' -- housing counselors, crisis counselors, clergy -- to work with people to advance the housing situation."
 
'Truly, Truly Afraid'
 The next priority, he said, would be to begin work on home repairs for the many thousands of people whose homes remained structurally sound but had damage serious enough to make them uninhabitable.
"In some communities I have driven through, every third house has damage in the $20,000 to $25,000 range -- damaged roofs or porches, broken and crushed masonry," he said.
Some of the people with serious damage to their houses, which were still inhabitable, were too afraid to return to them. Speaking of them, Mr. Cisneros said, "Many people are truly, truly afraid."
One such person is Olga Moreno, a 19-year-old student who spent last night in a National Guard tent with her husband, two children and about 25 other people, even though she and her parents had been told that their apartment was safe.
"We still see cracks in the walls," she said. "I don't know, it's just scary."
 
Little Trust in Buildings
 Larry Mellon, the recreation director for Lanark Park in the neighborhood of Canoga Park, where Miss Moreno spent the night, said most people here had come from nearby buildings that were found to be safe.
"They're scared," he said. "They're from third-world countries where a 5-magnitude quake will knock down a home. Officials tell them it's safe, and they don't believe it."
Stephen Barnaby, a Spanish-speaking specialist with the National Guard, said: "Owners of buildings are telling people that their apartments and houses are safe. Then an aftershock hits and they come back here. They can't trust anything."
Lieut. Jeff Soundas of the National Guard said: "Some people go back into their house for showers. When we have another aftershock, you'll see everybody running out."
 
Cabinet Chief's Helping Hand
 At a disaster-assistance center in Van Nuys late Friday, Mr. Cisneros seemed to be the busiest man in a room full of clerks who sat at long tables offering Federal, state and local help in 13 steps: loans, grants and housing assistance, tax advice, Social Security assistance, veterans assistance, insurance information, crisis counseling and disaster unemployment aid.
As weary families waited in lines with their even wearier children, Mr. Cisneros hustled from table to table, inquiring into individual cases and taking some of the people in hand, hustling them through the system.
"Look, here's one around here," he said to Antonette Robinson, an unemployed 23-year-old woman with three children who had received her 18-month rental-assistance certificate and was now looking through a binder showing available low-income housing.
"What about Western Avenue and Santa Monica?" Mr. Cisneros asked, as Mrs. Robinson scribbled notes on the back of an envelope. "Here's one, 6828 Troost. That's around here. The next one, 68 Coldwater Apartments. The next one, just next door."
Bending to the force of Mr. Cisneros's energy, Mrs. Robinson's hardships seemed to be easing. The slow-moving line for disaster assistance stretched far outside into the chilly night.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Specialists Bob Duker, left, and Mike Wallace playing soccer yesterday with children living in a tent city in Lanark Park in Los Angeles. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SLCM (NASDAQ) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (53%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (53%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (SBA); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY 7-ELEVEN INC (53%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (82%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (82%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (82%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (SBA); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (82%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (82%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (82%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; PRICES; TENTS; SANITATION; HOUSING; FEDERAL AID (US) NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); REFUGEES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EARTHQUAKES (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (65%); SHERIFFS (63%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MYDANS, SETH BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



608 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. CHALLENGES CLINTON'S AGENDA

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22

 BODY:
Setting an acrimonious tone as the election year opens, Republican leaders put President Clinton on notice today that they were ready to fight him on virtually every major issue on his agenda, from crime to health care to welfare.
Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, went a step further at the winter meeting of the Republican National Committee here, suggesting that Mr. Clinton's involvement in the Whitewater real estate deal when he was Governor of Arkansas might be used to the Republicans' benefit during the fall Congressional campaigns. 
 "If the Democrats don't want to have a hearing, they're going to suffer the consequences," Mr. Dole said of the Democrats' unwillingness to hold Congressional hearings on Whitewater. He said he was not fully reassured by Attorney General Janet Reno's appointment this week of an independent counsel, Robert B. Fiske Jr., to investigate the matter.
 
Kemp Urges Caution
 But most of the speakers at the committee's three-day winter meeting, which ended today, emphasized policy differences with the Administration. Jack F. Kemp, who like Mr. Dole is mentioned as a possible Presidential contender in 1996, was most critical of the President's health care plan.
Asserting that the country's health care system was a "problem" and not a "crisis," Mr. Kemp echoed Mr. Dole's comments that Mr. Clinton was moving too fast on trying to overhaul the system. "President Clinton is trying to scare the American people into thinking that we have to radically nationalize," Mr. Kemp declared in a luncheon speech today.
But on the issue of violence, Mr. Kemp departed from many other speakers here who sought to outdo one another in trying to appear toughest on the need to lock away criminals. He cautioned the party against becoming too fixated on building prisons in its zeal to score political points.
"There's got to be something in between gun control on the left and just building more prison space on the right," said Mr. Kemp, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in the Bush Administration.
The recent polls showing that Mr. Clinton's popularity has rebounded only seemed to encourage Republicans to attack the President harder. "I know that President Clinton is going to try to steal the crime issue," Mr. Dole said, "and try to steal the welfare issue and try to steal the immigration issue. He'll probably get credit for health care."
The only thing the Republicans were giving Mr. Clinton credit for was the party's victories in every major election last year. It was a mantra heard in almost every speech here.
"The powerful principles that we forgot to talk about enough over the last few years but which unite us as Republicans have catapulted us back to victory in 1993," said Haley Barbour, the party chairman.
Despite the upbeat talk, the Republicans are still adjusting to the notion of a Democrat in the White House, and they were hard-pressed to explain Mr. Clinton's improved standing in recent polls.
At a news conference on Thursday at the opening of the party's conference, Mr. Barbour said Mr. Clinton's popularity reflected in part positive economic news. But the chairman said former President George Bush, not Mr. Clinton, deserved the credit.
 
Look at News Media
 Mr. Barbour then offered a second explanation for Mr. Clinton's popularity: with Congress not in session, Mr. Clinton had been able to dominate the news media. But he did not point out that the coverage was far from glowing because much was devoted to Mr. Clinton's involvement in the Whitewater deal and to accusations from Arkansas state troopers about Mr. Clinton's private life while he was Governor.
Perhaps because the accusations do not appear to have dented Mr. Clinton's ratings, Mr. Barbour backed off from his comments to reporters last week that the party would attack the President on character issues. Asked about such accusations this week, Mr. Barbour was strikingly less critical, saying, "I think the President should get the benefit of the doubt."
Yet today Mr. Dole was not so willing to let Whitewater drop although he had said last Sunday that he might forgo his call for Congressional hearings depending on who was chosen as independent counsel. "We're not after anybody," he said today, "but we do have some oversight responsibilities."
Mr. Dole stopped well short of predicting that Republicans would win control of the Senate this fall, saying of the Democrats, "As long as 41 Republicans stick together, they can't pass legislation."
But Representative Bill Paxon of New York, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said Republicans had a good shot at taking control of the House in the next two election cycles. And Gov. John R. McKernan Jr. of Maine, chairman of the Republican Governors' Association, predicted that Republicans would dominate governorships in this year's elections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KANSAS, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; WHITEWATER CASE; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (67%); PRISONS (62%); GUN CONTROL (50%); CITIES (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN) BILL CLINTON (94%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



609 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: The G.O.P.: Wising Up About Race?

 BODY:
In a nation that's growing blacker and browner by the day, the Republican Party remains astonishingly white. Blacks were so scarce at the last national convention in Houston that TV news-show hosts held hostage the few they could find, whisking them from one appearance to the next, trying to show some diversity.
At election time, George Bush got only 11 percent of the black vote. David Bositis, of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies in Washington, says the G.O.P. could have reaped almost 20 percent, simply by campaigning in black areas and touting black appointments to the Administration. 
 But pride in diversity was not the game plan. As in years past, when the race-mongering Lee Atwater was at the helm, Republican strategists wrote off the black vote, and exploited racial tension in an attempt to lure conservative whites. With Ross Perot splitting the vote a third way, that strategy was dead on arrival. Bill Clinton swept the black vote without breaking a sweat. The irony here is that the black middle class -- prosperous, often conservative and larger than at any time in history -- is natural Republican timber.
A more diverse Republican Party would be less tempted to race-mongering and therefore less corrosive of the racial atmosphere. Such a party would be better equipped to win and keep a substantial representation in Congress. It would also bring balance to American politics. But to break the Democratic lock on blacks, the G.O.P. needs to shed the racial attitudes that have dominated the party since Barry Goldwater's ascension in 1964 and return to the more moderate positions that were still in force four years earlier, when Eisenhower was the standard-bearer. Simply put, the G.O.P. needs a diversity push.
The Republican National Committee seems to be waking up. Call the R.N.C. these days, and you're apt to hear spokesmen bragging about how many black votes their candidates received while winning governorships in New Jersey and Virginia. In New Jersey Christine Todd Whitman got 25 percent of the black vote -- and defeated Jim Florio by less than two percentage points. In Virginia, George Allen received 20 percent of the black vote, defeating the Democratic candidate, Mary Sue Terry. Smart money says Republican candidates will need similar numbers to win back the White House.
Prompted by moderate black Republicans from Massachusetts, the R.N.C. is planning grass-roots African-American policy conferences in Chicago, Atlanta, and that bastion of the black middle class, Washington. The strategy emerged from the Massachusetts Black Republican Council, which held its first annual convention last fall. The council's most important recommendation: Repeal the delegate selection rules that shortchange the most populous states, where blacks are more numerous. Last year only 3 of the R.N.C.'s 165 voting members were black -- all three from the Virgin Islands.
The council sees an urgent need for Republicans to "regain credibility and recover lost ground and votes among African-Americans." The R.N.C. needs to take that message to heart. The party would be healthier. So would American politics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOINT CENTER FOR POLITICAL & ECONOMIC STUDIES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CENTER FOR POLITICAL & ECONOMIC STUDIES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; BLACKS (IN US) CONSERVATISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



610 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Tip O'Neill Gave Leadership as House Speaker

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"The Shrinking Speaker," your Jan. 8 editorial on Thomas P. O'Neill Jr.'s tenure as Speaker of the House of Representatives, approvingly recalls the autocratic rule of Thomas B. Reed as Speaker in the 1890's and criticizes O'Neill. 
 Your ode to partisan leadership asserts that Reed "clearly spoke for" Republican majorities, conveniently ignoring that he lacked the guts to take the floor and speak against declaring war against Spain and, two months later, was a no-show on the vote to annex Hawaii, preferring instead to send an announcement that he would have joined his three Republican colleagues who voted against the resolution.
When it came to the most important votes the Constitution gives Congress, declaring war and expanding United States territory, Reed was not only silent but, in the case of Hawaii, also could not be found.
Reed may have been adept at counting quorums and recording majorities, but he seldom engaged in the art of political persuasion. O'Neill, in contrast, preferred the friendly embrace over the iron hand, the gentle nudge over the twisted arm in seeking votes. But his voice was never muted in debate, and his presence was not absent from the chair during important votes.
When Tip O'Neill's ideals were at stake, the prospect of defeat in the roll call did not deter him from taking the well of the chamber to persuade his colleagues to vote with him.
As Mickey Edwards, a former member of the Republican House leadership, wrote recently, the O'Neill axiom that all politics is local "meant knowing -- really knowing -- the people in the streets in the precinct, in the shops," not just to please them with your vote, but to explain to them like family and friends when you voted against their wishes. O'Neill did this when he opposed the war in Vietnam before most of his constituents did and when he opposed President Reagan's economic legislation in 1981, when his constituents strongly supported it.
O'Neill served in the leadership of the House nearly two decades. It was a time of enormous change when the "go along to get along" Congressional ethos was replaced by the antileadership ethos of independent legislators. Yet it was also the occasion for the emergence of the Party Caucus, a body that Speaker Sam Rayburn spurned and Reed feared. O'Neill welcomed the rise of the caucus and worked with it, most notably in forging support for landmark legislation on Social Security in 1983 and tax reform in 1986.
The Democratic Caucus was not only a vehicle for procedural reform, but in the hands of Tom Foley, Gillis Long and Dick Gephardt, it became a vehicle for the development of new ideas like tax reform. Indeed, under Gillis Long, it laid the foundation for the Democratic Leadership Council and the New Democrat Agenda embraced by President Clinton.
You assert that O'Neill's legacy is a weakened speakership. On July 5, 1981, you suggested that after the 1982 Congressional elections, "Democrats in the House of Representatives may not be electing anything higher than a minority leader." You underestimated O'Neill's political leadership in 1981 and have done so again in 1994.
 
KIRK O'DONNELL
Washington, Jan. 14, 1994
 
The writer served as counsel to the Speaker of the House, 1978 to 1986.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (67%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (67%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); US TERRITORIES (68%); TAX REFORM (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: O'NEILL, THOMAS P JR; O'DONNELL, KIRK RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



611 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Conversations/Frank Sweeney;
Prison Graduate Sells 'New Fish' Words to Live (or Do Time) By

BYLINE: By CHARLES STRUM

 BODY:
THE classified advertisement in USA Today and The National Law Journal was a model of brevity and wit:
"Going to Federal prison for the first time? We will tell you what to expect and how to survive. Our consultants are graduates of the Federal prison system. Frank A. Sweeney & Associates. Box 15 Demarest, N.J. 07627." 
 At last, in a country that offers Dr. Ruth for your sex life, Bob Vila for your old-home life and enough syndicated investment columnists to liquidate the gross national product, comes Frank Abbott Sweeney, convicted swindler and consummate prison insider, with an intuitive grasp of a potentially bottomless new advice market.
Until inspiration struck Mr. Sweeney last fall, felons as famous as Sol Wachtler and Charles Keating and as anonymous as Mr. Sweeney himself were being spirited off to the great maw of Federal prison like 10-year-olds to their first sleep-away camp.
But 10-year-olds can network to get the lowdown on camping's tribal pathways. For first-time prisoners ("new fish," in prison parlance), once bail is revoked the darkness descends quickly and the woods are not marked.
This anxiety and what to do about it is at the heart of Mr. Sweeney's idea, which evolved after he read that Officer Laurence Powell of the Los Angeles Police Department was "terrified" at the prospect of a prison sentence in the Rodney L. King beating case.
Recalling his epiphany, Mr. Sweeney said: "I thought to myself, 'My God, there's probably a lot of people going to prison who've never been in jail before, primarily white-collar criminals, and they're probably terrified, too. They're just as frightened as he is.'
"So I thought maybe I can use my misfortune to help people and maybe make a profit doing it."
Since November, he said, 27 clients paying up to $200 each (the standard fee) have answered his ad. In their search for help, they have put themselves in the hands of Mr. Sweeney and two equally experienced associates -- a pilot/drug smuggler (seven years served) and a bank robber (14 years served). In almost any other walk of life, offering such resumes would be awkward at best. For Sweeney & Associates, it is bread and butter.
Trim, articulate and elfin-like, with a curly mop of red hair, Mr. Sweeney, 50 years old, is the son of a successful architect from Tenafly, N.J. Bright but bored, he left school after the 11th grade and, as a result of his time in prison, never established a career. He lives primarily on income from an inheritance.
A brief curriculum vitae:
1967: First arrest, on state charges, after he wounded a police officer with a Thompson submachine gun. Mr. Sweeney had legally purchased the nonfunctioning weapon by mail and undertook to restore it to working order. A mistake. During a field test in the woods near his home, he was confronted by -- and fired at -- a police officer who had drawn his own weapon. Seven years in state prison.
1976: Arrested for mail fraud. "I claimed to be selling firearms that I didn't have." Three years.
1982: Pistol-possession charge. (It is illegal for a convicted felon to possess a weapon.) Four years.
1988: Rearrested for mail fraud (same m.o.). Three years 8 months.
Having shared his record, he gently rebuffed attempts at self-analysis, saying: "I remember it was Nietzsche who wrote, 'The crime is not in the act but in the stupidity of being caught.' I was caught, and stupid."
But not dumb.
Mr. Sweeney is to prisons what the mythical Master Sgt. Ernest G. Bilko was to the barracks in the the post-World War II Army: a charming and persuasive goldbrick, adept at finding advantage in a bureaucracy designed to thwart him. In Mr. Sweeney's view, a system as rigid as the Bureau of Prisons is bound to crack under even minimal pressure and expose a loophole or two, a fact borne out by his own experience.
"We advise our clients how to manipulate the Bureau of Prisons to their advantage," he says in a letter sent to prospective clients. Then, by eliciting a rundown on the client's criminal and personal history, Mr. Sweeney essentially tries to duplicate the Government's assigning process, to give the client an idea of where he might go and what he might expect when he gets there.
A minimum-security prison camp like Allenwood, in Pennsylvania, a typical resting place for nonviolent white-collar criminals, is less onerous, say, than the penitentiary at Terre Haute, Ind., a high-security prison for drug offenders and bank robbers serving 10 years or more. Mr. Sweeney will tailor his advice accordingly.
He will also advise on how to arrange transfer from prison to prison (perhaps to be closer to home) and intercede with regional administrators by phone or letter on issues ranging from safety, to work assignment to diet.
"I say I'm a consultant," he said. "You know how readily people will give you information over the phone if you sound convincing enough."
With few exceptions, he said, clients are in their mid- to late 40's and typically face sentences for income-tax evasion, embezzlement, computer fraud, wire fraud and low-level drug offenses. Few will enter the most dangerous prisons and do really hard time. But almost all of them have the same concerns.
"The two questions my clients ask: 'Will I be the recipient of homosexual or racial violence?' " Mr. Sweeney said. "The answer to the first is almost always no. There is homosexuality, but men generally enter into these arrangements consensually and there is no violence."
Racial violence, or violence of any sort, he said, often occurs because prisoners become involved in gangs or in avoidable disputes -- failure to repay a loan, for example -- with other prisoners.
"We advise people to try to do their own sentences, and not bother with other people," he said.
Having been an inmate in 17 of the Government's 70 prison camps and penitentiaries, Mr. Sweeney relied on his own advice. "Everything I've done is legal," he said, "though some is kind of underhanded."
For example, here's how he approached some basic issues:
*Cuisine. Revolted by ordinary prison food, he persuaded the rabbi in Springfield, Mo., to put him on a kosher diet. "He was skeptical because of my appearance and my name. But my mother had a German name. That seemed to do it. The food was delicious." (Mr. Sweeney's mother is Lutheran.)
*Lodging. "When I was at Jessup, Ga., a fairly nice institution, I feigned mental illness, so the psychologist gave me a cell by myself."
*Career. "I tried to get out of work as much as I could. In fact, I never really had work. I claimed I had terrible arthritis. I have a mild case, but I exaggerated it to the point where I borrowed a cane from a prisoner who was crippled and I went to see the doctor. I said, 'Oh, my God, I can barely bend over.' "
Mr. Sweeney said he was thinking of producing a guidebook, a kind of Penal Michelin, to annotate the Government's own "Facilities" manual. As to the difficulty of being on the outside and staying current with conditions inside, he says that's not a problem.
"I'll tell you the truth," Mr. Sweeney said, "It hasn't changed from the time I went in in 1976 to the time I was released 14 months ago."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank Sweeney outside his office in Demarest, N.J. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: USA TODAY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PRISONS (91%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SENTENCING (78%); FELONIES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); BAIL (73%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ADVICE COLUMNS (72%); SMUGGLING (71%); ARRESTS (71%); ROBBERY (69%); BANK ROBBERY (65%); POLICE FORCES (65%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (64%); WRITERS (55%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); 

PERSON: STRUM, CHARLES; SWEENEY, FRANK MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



612 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST SIDE;
Windows Pop: A Mystery Story

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

 BODY:
Hundreds of windows have been popping and shattering inside apartments at Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, and the problem is getting worse, tenant leaders say.
Complaints were first heard two years ago, when 138,000 new windows were installed as part of a major capital improvement program at the two developments. But they escalated late last year, and a recent survey has turned up 20 broken windows in one apartment building on First Avenue. 
 No casualties have been reported but 30 to 40 complaints are coming in daily to the office of the tenants association for the two communities, said Jo-Ann Polise, vice president of the organization. The group has received complaints from more than 500 people since November, she said, with some reporting several broken panes.
The windows have two panes for insulation, and most of the shattered ones are on the inside, so the glass has generally been falling inside apartments.
It is possible the bitter weather has aggravated the problem, but no one knows for sure. Building workers have boarded up the broken windows to keep out the cold.
Metropolitan Life Insurance, which owns and manages the two rent-stabilized complexes for 10,000 residents, has received complaints on "less than half of 1 percent of the windows," said a company spokeswoman, Nancy Peskin. But that means more than 600 broken windows, and the company has asked its technical consultants and the manufacturers to investigate.
The manufacturer, Efco, based in Monett, Mo., says it has never experienced such a problem. Chris Fuldner, president of Efco, said the two panes of the aluminum-frame windows are separated by a space filled with argon gas to enhance insulation.
Preliminary investigations show that the units are "imploding, not exploding," Mr. Fuldner said. This indicates a loss of gas between the panes, putting stress on the inner pane and causing it to shatter, he said, adding that he hoped to find a cause within two weeks.
Concern has spread among the residents. Last Tuesday, Charmian Neary, a Stuyvesant Town resident, said, she heard what sounded like a muffled explosion. "I looked up and saw the whole inner pane, which is five feet high and one foot wide, had totally shattered inside the screen," she said. "Some of the shards were 18 inches long and there was glass dust all over the place."
It was her second experience with imploding glass. The first one was last summer.
Metropolitan Life is seeking a $9-a-room rent increase for its capital improvement program. The tenants association has asked Donald Halperin, commissioner of the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, to turn down the proposal until the window problem is solved.
 M.H.

GRAPHIC: Map of Manhattan showing locations of Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Restaurant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE CO; EFCO CO METLIFE INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE CO; EFCO CO

GEOGRAPHIC: STUYVESANT TOWN (NYC); PETER COOPER VILLAGE (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; WINDOWS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); RENT CONTROL (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LIFE INSURANCE (66%); 

PERSON: HOWE, MARVINE

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



613 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BUSHWICK;
New Stores To Serve Retail Desert

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

 BODY:
Since the 1970's, when arson fires raged through the streets of Bushwick, destroying as many as 500 wood-frame buildings a year, hundreds of new and rehabilitated homes have been completed along with thousands of units of public housing. But retail development has lagged, forcing residents to go to other communities to find coin-operated laundries and dry cleaners and to buy simple necessities like aspirin and disposable diapers.
Next month, weather permitting, construction will begin on five storefronts on vacant city-owned lots along Broadway between Gates Avenue and Cornelia Street. The tenants will include a currency exchange, a pizzeria, a coin laundry and Saverama, a variety store. The developer, Broadway Bushwick Builders, is also negotiating with other possible tenants, including Rainbow Shops, a national clothing chain, and Blimpie's, the fast-food chain. 
 "The hardest thing in attracting tenants," said Jeffrey Stern, a partner in Broadway Bushwick, "is that no one believes anything will happen there." The project is being financed with $5.5 million from a retail redevelopment program that was set up by the City Economic Development Corporation.
"Bushwick is a long neglected part of the city," said Daniel Gerard, another partner. "Since the fires in the 70's, nothing in terms of large-scale retail development has happened. But with the new homes that have been built there in the last decade, it's fast becoming a vibrant and growing neighborhood. We're just a small part of the revival."
A major factor in the Bushwick revival was the construction 15 years ago of Hope Gardens, a housing development. With its neat, three-story buildings spread over a half-mile of once-vacant lots, Hope Gardens is the largest public housing project built in America since 1981. Its 3,586 residents raised Bushwick's population nearly 12 percent in a decade, according to 1990 census figures.
Mildred Stevens, a Westchester County resident, shops for her elderly mother in Hope Gardens once a week. She said the new storefronts would be a blessing.
"I think my mother would be more inspired to go out walking around if there were more stores," said Mrs. Stevens, whose mother has lived in Hope Gardens' 14-story apartment building for the elderly for five years. "Right now, she won't go out because it's so barren around here."
In July 1977, in the days after the power blackout, Bushwick was the scene of more looting and arson than any other neighborhood in New York City.
"We're trying to get beyond the past and move toward the future," said Anna Gonzalez, who is the chairwoman of Community Board 4, which covers Bushwick. "We really have hope that we can wipe out this image of Bushwick as being a troubled place with vacant lots and abandoned buildings."
 LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUSHWICK (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FIRES (90%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (90%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); ARSON (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); CURRENCIES (70%); FAST FOOD (69%); CENSUS (65%); AGING (61%); POWER FAILURES (50%); 

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



614 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 10; Page 15; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Corporate Headquarters;
Marketing Opulent Waifs Abandoned by Austerity

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD

 BODY:
THROUGHOUT the metropolitan New York region, one can see opulent corporate headquarters buildings that now stand as reminders of the halcyon days when a booming economy led companies like Nestle, the American Can Company and Exxon Chemical to build monuments to themselves and their achievements.
 Many of these buildings are now only partially occupied or, in some cases, vacant, victims of corporate relocations, downsizing and a generally more austere corporate climate. 
They now find themselves competing for tenants alongside an abundance of other, often more modern, office buildings in Westchester County, Connecticut and New Jersey. And their opulent appointments, winding driveways, campus settings and huge parking lots are not always an easy sell, according to several local real estate brokers.
 "In the 70's and 80's, a C.E.O. would find an architect that would convince him that he was a Medici prince," said John L. Dowling, an executive vice president at Cushman & Wakefield in Manhattan. "And then the architect would build him a palace. The building would win a magazine award, but it was an instant image of that business on that day. And buildings survive C.E.O.'s, and many of these buildings are now dysfunctional."
 One building that might have seemed that way is the 279,180-square-foot former Nestle Food Corporation headquarters in Purchase in Westchester County. Built in 1986, it has a two-story atrium lobby, a dining area that doubles as a 325-seat theater and an executive wing with private bathrooms and a mahogany-paneled board room with an octagonal skylight. The four-story building is faced with blue-gray granite and blue reflective glass.
 It languished on the market for more than a year until TransAmerica Leasing took 125,000 square feet of office space there in 1993, Westchester's largest lease for the year.
 TransAmerica Leasing, which leases large container boxes for transportation of goods in ships and tractor trailers, moved from a comparable office building at 711 Westchester Avenue, where it was the sole tenant.
 "We thought the time was right to upgrade our work environment," said Edward T. Mann, chief financial officer for TransAmerica Leasing. "The building we were in had gotten tired,"
 Mr. Mann said that his company had looked at several other "premium" buildings, both in Westchester and Connecticut, several of them corporate headquarters. In some cases, the buildings were just too opulent for the company's taste.
 For instance, Mr. Mann said, he looked at the former American Can Company headquarters in Greenwich, Conn., where Witco Corporation, a chemical company, recently leased 250,000 square feet.
 "It's an absolutely spectacular headquarters," said Mr. Mann. "We're a $2 billion company, and we thought it was more appropriate for our parent company, TransAmerica, which is a $30 billion company."
 BUILT in 1971, the 500,000-square-foot American Can building has huge floor sizes and high ceilings. And on its 155-acre campus are a 50,000-square-foot annex building and a guest house that sleeps 12.
 Because of the high ceilings, it was not thought capable of being easily broken up into smaller spaces. Witco, which took over half the building and will consolidate its management and support staff there, said it would relocate about 800 employees from several states to the new offices.
 Witco will receive $8 million in direct financial assistance from the State of Connecticut in an incentive package negotiated by its Department of Economic Development. As part of the package, the company has agreed to remain in Connecticut at least 10 years with an average minimum employment of 800 people.
 To keep TransAmerica in Westchester, it was also given some financial incentives in the form of tax abatements by the Town of Harrison and energy rebates by Consolidated Edison.
 "Since we have no state program to help us, we have to do the best we can to try to keep our companies," said Alfred B. DelBello, former Lieutenant Governor and Westchester County Executive, who is now a private lawyer and an unpaid consultant for the county. "We work with the towns, industrial development agencies and the utilities to work out the best package we can."
 As for TransAmerica Leasing's reduced tax rate, Mr. DelBello said that the town "saw a greater benefit in having a building occupied than getting the most taxes they possibly could."
 According to Mr. Mann, with incentives and a very competitive rental, his company was able to move from a grade B building to a grade A and achieve a greater than 25 percent savings.
 "It was really a matter of being in the right place at the right time," he said. "It's like we outsmarted the market."
 Such grade A space that in the mid-80's leased for $33 a square foot now goes for $21 to $25, according to Michael H. Siegel, executive director of the Westchester/Fairfield office of the Edward S. Gordon Company, the commercial brokerage firm. But that could change when supplies diminish.
 "What we're finding is that large blocks of space, in excess of 100,000 square feet or more, are diminishing," Mr. Siegel said. "There's still a lot in Westchester, but if a large block goes on the market in Connecticut, it's good news."
 One of the largest blocks now on the market in Westchester is perhaps I.B.M.'s premier property at 2000 Purchase Street in Purchase. While it is not the headquarters of International Business Machines, which is in Armonk and is still occupied by the company, 2000 Purchase is considered a "headquarters-quality" building, according to John Rostenberg, a principal at Rostenberg-Doern, a commercial brokerage with offices in Stamford, Conn., and Purchase.
 "I think it's the architectural jewel of Westchester," said Mr. Rostenberg of the 476,823-square-foot building, designed by I.M. Pei.
 Built in 1983, it had been occupied in its entirety by I.B.M. for seven years starting in 1985. As a cost-cutting measure, the company started moving 550 employees out of the building in May 1992 and relocating them to Armonk and company owned buildings in White Plains and Mount Pleasant. The company found it could cut its costs at the Purchase building by 50 percent simply by shutting it down.
 Edward S. Gordon is the exclusive sales agent for the property, which is being marketed for a single tenant.
 "I.B.M. desires to find a single user," said Mr. Siegel. "Every company who's even thinking about leaving New York City wants to see this building. We've had a lot of showings in the last few months for whatever reason."
 THE preference on the part of I.B.M. is to sell the property. The asking price has been quoted at $75 million, "which is as official as any other number at this point," Mr. Siegel said.
 Taking a slightly different tack is Newmark & Company Real Estate, which is now marketing the former world headquarters of Exxon Chemical Corporation in Darien, Conn. The 214,200-square-foot building has been on the market for two years. Like many headquarters buildings, it features wood interiors, a private dining room and an executive board room.
 "We'd like to get the first big bulk tenant in there first," said John D. Goodkind, senior vice president and director of Newmark's Westchester/Connecticut office. He said he was now in negotiation with a tenant who was interested in half of the building.
 "Then we can break up the space as needed," Mr. Goodkind said, "preferably into 20,000- to 30,000-square-foot blocks. That's the market now. And that's good. One reason Connecticut is now doing better than Westchester is that it never relied on one major company like Westchester did with I.B.M. If you have a variance of companies, the risk is so much less."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 1994, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 23 about the marketing of corporate headquarters buildings misstated the size of the former Exxon Chemical Corporation building in Darien, Conn. A reader's letter, received last week, points out that the building totals 71,400 square feet, not 214,200.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Purchase, partly occupied former Nestle headquarters, above, and vacant I.B.M. property at 2000 Purchase Street. (Steve Rosenthal)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (95%); C (BMV) (95%); 8710 (TSE) (95%); NESN (SWX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (95%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (61%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (58%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (95%); WITCO CORP (61%); NESTLE SA (58%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); CITIES (73%); CHEMICALS (72%); CHEMICALS MFG (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (55%); 

PERSON: VIZARD, MARY MCALEER MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1994



615 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: THE GOVERNORSHIP;
Changing of the Guard: The Whitman Team

 BODY:
Christine Todd Whitman will have 20 Cabinet members, one more than Gov. Jim Florio. She is restoring the chairman of the Board of Regulatory Commissioners. Mrs. Whitman has not announced her appointments for Corrections Commissioner, Adjutant General, Health Commissioner, Insurance Commissioner, Labor Commissioner and Public Advocate. Cabinet members are paid $100,225 a year.
 
ELIZABETH RANDALL, Banking Commissioner
AGE: 40.
HOMETOWN: Westwood. N.J.
BACKGROUND: State assemblywoman, 1985-1991. Partner, Randall, Randall & Stevens of Westwood, March 1984-February 1991. Has served in a variety of legal jobs in state and local government including assistant counsel to former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, Assistant Essex County prosecutor, municipal prosecutor in Park Ridge, and borough attorney in Hillsdale. She has been Bergen County counsel since 1991.
FAMILY: Single.
 
 ROBERT C. SHINN JR., Commissioner of Environmental Protection and Energy.
AGE: 56.
HOMETOWN: Hainesport, N.J.
BACKGROUND: Founder of Material Handling Systems, a heavy-equipment sales firm. Elected to the Burlington County Board of Chosen Freeholders in 1977. Since 1985, he was served in the New Jersey Assembly, where he has been chairman of Assembly committees on solid waste and land use planning.
FAMILY: Divorced, two daughters.
 
GUALBERTO MEDINA, Commissioner of Commerce and Economic Development
AGE: 45.
HOMETOWN: Cherry Hill, N.J.
BACKGROUND: A Temple University law graduate, served in 1979-80 as an attorney for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in Philadelphia. Private law practice since then and has worked for accounting firms. Most recently, director of management advisory services for John Milligan & Associates, a regional accounting firm in Philadelphia.
FAMILY: Married, two sons and a daughter.
INTERESTS: Classical literature, classical music, running.
 
JUDITH SHAW, Chief of Staff
AGE: 50.
HOMETOWN: Princeton, N.J.
BACKGROUND: Deputy director for marketing of the Lottery Commission for three years, then joined the Department of Transportation and became its chief of staff in 1987. Left in 1990 and joined Public Policy Advisers, a lobbying firm in Trenton. Became a partner and vice president in 1991.
FAMILY: Divorced, two stepdaughters.
INTERESTS: Golf, photography.
 
BRIAN W. CLYMER, Treasurer
AGE: 46.
HOMETOWN: Swarthmore, Pa.
BACKGROUND: Director of the Federal Transit Administration during the Bush Administration. Most recently president and chief executive of Railway Systems Design Inc., a transportation engineering concern in Harrisburg, Pa.
FAMILY: Married, a son and daughter.
INTERESTS: Fishing, golf.
 
LONNA R. HOOKS, Secretary of Stat
AGE: 35.
HOMETOWN: Montclair, N.J.
BACKGROUND: A Howard University law graduate, clerked in the District of Columbia Court of Appeals. Left the private practice of law to become chief of staff to the State Board of Public Utilities while Mrs. Whitman was chairman. Most recently, a senior attorney for Schering-Plough in Kenilworth, N.J.
FAMILY: Single.
INTERESTS: Jazz, cooking, art.
 
EDWARD D. GOLDBERG, Chancellor of Higher Education
AGE: 56.
HOMETOWN: Union, N.J.
BACKGROUND: Joined the New Jersey Department of Higher Education in 1975 as director for community colleges. Became assistant chancellor for academic affairs in 1981 and assistant chancellor for institutional affairs in 1989. Has served as Chancellor of Higher Education since 1990.
FAMILY: Married, two sons
INTERESTS: Opera, theater.
 
LEO F. KLAGHOLZ, Commissioner of Education
AGE: 51.
HOMETOWN: Ewing Township, N.J.
BACKGROUND: Originally an elementary school teacher, taught elementary education at Trenton State College and served as assistant dean there. Joined the Department of Higher Education as assistant director for academic affairs, Office for State Colleges, in 1977. Became director of teacher preparation in 1980 and has served as assistant commissioner for the Division of Academic Programs and Standards since 1983.
FAMILY: Married, no children.
INTERESTS: Sailing.
 
DEBORAH T. PORITZ, Attorney General
AGE: 57.
HOMETOWN: Princeton, N.J.
BACKGROUND: Originally an English Teacher at Ursinus College, earned a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania. Became a Deputy Attorney General in 1977 and assistant cheif for environmental protection in the Department of Law and Public Safety in 1981. Became Deputy Attorney General in charge of appeals and later chief of the Banking, Insurance and Public Securities Section. Served Gov. Thomas H. Kean as chief counsel in 1989-90; most recently practiced law in Princeton.
FAMILY: Married, two sons.
 
FRANK J. WILSON, Commissioner of Transportation
AGE: 46.
HOMETOWN: Danville, Calif.
BACKGROUND: Worked as a staff engineer for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and then as a senior transportation planner for the City of Philadelphia. Served the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority in its capital program and, after a stint at New Jersey Transit, as its assistant general manager of operations. Was deputy executive director for operations for the Chicago Transit Authority and, most recently, general manager of the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District.
FAMILY: Married, two daughters.
 
LINDA M. ANSELMINI, Commissioner of Personnel
AGE: 47.
HOMETOWN: Pennington, N.J.
BACKGROUND: Joined the Department of Environmental Protection in 1970 and in 1981 became its director of the division of personnel and data processing services. Was an assistant commissioner in the Department of Insurance and later in the Department of Transportation. Returned to Environmental Protection as its director of employee management and development and moved to the Division of Youth and Family Services as assistant director for fiscal and human resouces operations. Most recently, vice president for customer and information services at American College of Physicians in Philadelphia.
FAMILY: Single.
INTERESTS: Gardening, reading, movies, music.
 
WILLIAM WALDMAN, Commissioner of Human Services
AGE: 50.
HOMETOWN: Piscataway, N.J.
BACKGROUND: For Two decades worked in welfare for Essex County and Middlesex Counties. Joined the New Jersey Department of Human Services in 1987 as assistant commissioner for community relations. Became director of its Division of Youth and Family Services that same year, deputy commissioner for institutions and support in 1990, and commissioner of the department in 1992.
FAMILY: Married, two sons, one daughter.
INTERESTS: Hiking, reading.
 
ARTHUR R. BROWN JR., Secretary of Agriculture
AGE: 58.
HOMETOWN: Egg Harbor, N.J.
BACKGROUND: Worked for Seabrook Farms in Upper Deerfield for a decade, later served as an agricultural agent in Atlantic County for 11 years. Became New Jersey Secretary of Agriculture in 1982 and has since been reappointed.
FAMILY: Married, four sons and two daughters.
INTERESTS: Hunting, fishing, birdwatching.
 
HERBERT H. TATE JR., Chief, Board of Regulatory Commissioners
AGE: 40.
HOMETOWN: West Orange, N.J.
BACKGROUND: A Rutgers University law graduate, became an assistant Essex County Prosecutor in 1978. Practiced law in Roseland, N.J., then became Essex County Prosecutor in 1986. In 1991 joined the Environmental Protection Agency as assistant administrator for enforcement. Most recently, an environmental consultant.
FAMILY: Single
INTERESTS: Golf, tennis, theater, jazz, dance.
 
HARRIET E. DERMAN, Commissioner of Community Affairs
AGE: 50.
HOMETOWN: Metuchen, N.J.
BACKGROUND: A Seton Hall law graduate and senior partner in Weiner, Hendler & Derman of New Brunswick. Served as president of the Middlesex County Bar Association in 1992 and as first vice chairwoman of the taxation section of the New Jersey Bar Association that same year. A director of New Jersey Women Lawyers.
FAMILY: Married, two sons and one daughter.
INTERESTS: Family, reading, skiing.
 
JANE M. KENNY, Chief of Policy and Planning
AGE: 42.
HOMETOWN: Highland Park, N.J.
BACKGROUND: A lecturer in literature at Rutgers, became Governor Kean's director of constituent relations in 1983 and three years later his Cabinet Secretary. Most recently, vice president for corporate and community affairs, Beneficial Management Corporation and chairman of the New Jersey Committee on the Humanities.
FAMILY: Married, one son, two daughters.
INTERESTS: Reading, movies, swimming, sailing, skiing, ice skating
 
PETER G. VERNIERO, Chief Counsel
AGE: 34.
HOMETWON: Annandale, N.J.
BACKGROUND: A Duke University law graduate, practiced law in Morristown from 1985 to 1987. Became executive director of the New Jersey Republican State Committee in 1989 and returned to private law practice in 1990.
FAMILY: Married, one daughter.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Each Cabinet member pictured.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SGP (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: RANDALL & RANDALL LLP (57%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available COUNTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); CITY LIFE (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); INSURANCE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); CITIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (69%); MATERIALS HANDLING (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (68%); STEPPARENTS (66%); CLASSICS (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (65%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (64%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (63%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (62%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); LOTTERIES (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1994



616 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 12; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Finding Profits in Architectural Specialties

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
POOLS and schools. In a profession that continues to suffer from the slowdown in construction, architects who have developed special areas of expertise seem to be faring better than most.
Lap pools are a specialty of Leonard Weinberg, an architect who started his own practice 21 years ago today in White Plains. And schools are a specialty of Barbara and Allan Anderson of the firm Anderson La Rocca Anderson Architects and Planners in Rye. 
 To take Mr. Weinberg's experience first, he recalled that in 1973, "one of my first commissions was to design an indoor lap pool for a client who lived on the Sound in Mamaroneck." Mr. Weinberg continued: "It was an unusual site, a point surrounded by water on two sides. The pool was housed in its own house, which was connected to a studio and a guest room we also designed. It was really beautiful, and what happened is that on the strength of that project, I began to get referrals mostly from people of that town who wanted pools for health reasons -- bad backs and that kind of thing. Then when fitness became the watchword, there was increased interest in installing lap pools."
Before Mr. Weinberg started his practice, he worked for several large architectural firms in Manhattan. Two of his projects were for the Metropolitan Museum of Art: the Blumenthal Patio and expansion at the Cloisters. Yet, he said, he had always been drawn to residential design.
 
Year-Round Use
 "When we bought our house in White Plains, I started doing freelance residential work and by 1973 I felt the time had come to go out on my own," he said. "Currently my practice consists of custom residential work: new homes, additions and alterations. However, many of the alterations are more than that; they are complete changes to existing homes. And about 20 of the additions I have done have been involved with pools, designing both lap and recreational swimming pools and their houses."
Indoor pools, he explained, are in reality year-round pools. "It makes sense to be able to use a pool 12 months a year, and the trend has been for year-round use," he said. "The pool houses I design can be opened up on two or three sides."
Demand is about evenly split for lap pools -- 12 feet by 50 or 60 feet -- and recreational pools -- 20 by 30 feet.
"Of course a lot depends on the site and the zoning restrictions," Mr. Weinberg said. "A pool house is essentially an addition, but an addition that can be very tricky to build since it has very specific requirements such as air changes, which have to be taken into consideration. Designing a system to take out the humidity created by the pool and substituting warm dry air is critical. If the flow of air can't be controlled properly, what happens is that you end up with jungle conditions that lead to rot and growth of mold."
Mr. Weinberg added, "I experimented with various systems before I found the best way to go."
Despite the recession and the cost, -- a complete indoor pool project ranges from $200,000 to $600,000 -- there is still a steady demand for indoor pools in the county.
"It's a limited market, by no means an everyday type of project," Mr. Weinberg said. "Some are very elaborate with heated spas, saunas, kitchens and bars, but in general there has been increased interest in year-round pools. Of course, they are particularly great when it's snowing outside."
The price of indoor pools, Mr. Weinberg said, reflects construction costs and the materials used. "The pool itself costs $35,000 to $45,000," he said. "And there is the construction of the addition, which is a building with movable walls, a mechanical system, heating equipment, and even the laminated wood beams that have to be used for the decking are expensive items."
Mr. Weinberg said he may soon have a partner in his practice. "My daughter, Denise Dorfman," he said. "She recently graduated with a degree in architecture from Pratt, which is just 30 years after I graduated from Pratt."
As for the Andersons -- a husband-and-wife design team -- they have received a number of architectural awards for school projects, including their design for the new Rye Middle School, which won a historic preservation award from the city of Rye last May.
"What especially pleased us about the award is that the historic preservationists would honor a new building," Mr. Anderson said. "Our aim as architects, was to design an addition to be compatible with the original 1931 Gothic structure in size, scale and material. We were lucky to be able to get random hand-cut ashlar stone from the same quarry that was used for the original building, and we repeated the old slate roofs. In the interiors we used the deep rich tones favored in medieval times."
 
A Staff of 16
 The project, he said, was finished under budget at a total cost of almost $3 million.
"School design means dealing with budgets, schedules, night meetings and knowing how to work with constraints, if you are going to be successful at it," said Mr. Anderson, who obviously is, because school projects account for 90 percent of the firm's work.
"The work is steady but very competitive," he continued, adding that it was in 1974, shortly after the couple established their practice, that they landed their first project, the Milton Elementary School in Rye.
"I had attended Milton myself as a kid, which made the assignment a lot of fun for me," he said. "We won an award for our design, and on the strength of that project we got a commission to do the Woodlands Junior High School in White Plains. Eventually we got so busy with schools that we gave up doing residential work entirely."
The Andersons have 16 people in their firm, 8 of them architects, and they expect the rise in the national birth rate to keep them all busy.
"School work has been very steady," Mr. Anderson said. "Some projects are even coming around for the second time. For instance, 21 years later, we are back working on Woodlands Junior High School in White Plains. Right now we are doing a $16 million middle school in New Fairfield, Conn., two other school projects in Connecticut, and we recently got a job, competing against a field of 19, for a school in Dorset, Vt., in addition to several other school projects. The technology in school design today, Mr. Anderson said, focuses on security. "Casual supervision is built in. And the trend is to make schools more home-like in appearance. We do the classroom development as well as the classroom design as well as the architecture and before we start any project we meet with building committees, school staff parents and children to get their input."
Eugenio Maria de Hostos Microsociety School, or School 19, a magnet school in Yonkers, designed for the Yonkers Board of Education and completed in October 1992, is a case in point, Mr. Anderson said.
"In addition to the normal space of a contemporary elementary school, we included areas that reflect the students' own environment," he said. "There are microsociety spaces that include a marketplace, banks, government offices and manufacturing, media and publishing spaces." The project won two awards, one from the American Institute of Architects and another from the American Association of School Administrators.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leonard Weinberg, an architect who specializes in designing lap pools for homes. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; SWIMMING POOLS ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (79%); SWIMMING (79%); SPORTS (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ZONING (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); CITIES (67%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY; WEINBERG, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



617 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1808 words

HEADLINE: Profile;
The 'Iron Lady' Keeping Lotus on Track

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
JUNE L. ROKOFF dislikes nicknames, but at the Lotus Development Corporation, where she is senior vice president for software development and a cult hero, Ms. Rokoff is known as St. June, or sometimes the Iron Lady.
As Lotus rides the crest of a remarkable upturn in its fortunes, Ms. Rokoff plays a central role: the glue that holds Lotus's development organization together. 
 In the tempestuous, ego-driven industry that creates software for personal computers, she is a manager who combines technical savvy and an understanding of a programmer's mindset with intuitive people skills and a willingness to fight on others' behalf. Many people around her say she has saved more than one crucial product.
"June Rokoff is the most widely respected executive at Lotus," said Mitchell Kertzman, chairman and chief executive of Powersoft, a neighboring software maker.
Ms. Rokoff is credited, for example, with saving the crucial follow-on release to the company's 1-2-3 spreadsheet package in 1989 by leading a disastrous development project to success.
And more recently, her strong support and leadership brought 1-2-3 for Windows to a highly successful debut and kept key team members from leaving. She has run almost every piece of Lotus at one time or another, including its hugely successful communications group, which included its hot Notes software, during a delicate formative stage.
She has also forged close relationships with many Lotus customers. "She sees to it that Lotus meets its commitments, even if it's not the best economic deal for them," said Craig D. Goldman, chief information officer at Chase Manhattan, who often uses Lotus software.
Lotus -- after several years of product delays, harsh press notices and management defections -- has been boosted by strong sales of Notes software and emerged in the past six months as one of the hottest software companies. It is now an industry darling and its stock is trading near an all-time high.
A soft-spoken 44-year-old, Ms. Rokoff is so respected within Lotus, which she joined in 1986, that word of her deeds has spread, making her a prized target for recruiters looking for chief executives. Having spent time as chief operations officer of Isys, a high-tech start-up, in the early 1980's, she fits a rare profile: an executive who understands both technology and management.
The reason for such high praise is Ms. Rokoff's ability to build trust and commitment within groups of software programmers, notorious for being temperamental and cynical. "Technologists don't generally like to take direction, but they like to take direction from June," said Don McLagan, a former boss of hers. Ms. Rokoff sums up her skill simply: "When things are crazy, I tend to be a calming influence."
When Lotus was being hammered 18 months ago because its Windows version of 1-2-3 was late, morale hit rock bottom and some talented software developers considered leaving. Lotus had gone through a steady stream of technology chiefs since the founder, Mitchell Kapor, left in 1986, and the latest was Frank King, a respected former I.B.M. executive, who resigned in 1991.
Jim Manzi, Lotus's chairman and chief executive, then hired John Landry, an industry veteran, a move not embraced by everyone at Lotus. Outspoken and aggressive, Mr. Landry acknowledges he lacks the operational skills needed to handle the 1,300-person organization. But when, five months later, Mr. Manzi elevated Ms. Rokoff to her current position as Mr. Landry's equal partner, the disgruntled designers decided to stay.
The two-headed leadership has succeeded despite early misgivings around the company and rumors that it signaled more management turmoil. Both Ms. Rokoff and Mr. Landry say their skills and personalities are well matched, which they agree is crucial.
Mr. Landry, as chief technology officer, spends his time on strategy and evangelizing Lotus's products to the outside world while Ms. Rokoff runs day-to-day operations. They handle personnel matters jointly.
"A lot of key people are still at Lotus today because of June Rokoff," said Jeffrey R. Beir, vice president of the spreadsheet division. "She's got an insight about how to motivate and lead people that is unmatched."
It was Ms. Rokoff, for example, who backed the spreadsheet development team when it wanted to spend more time building added features for a new version of Lotus 1-2-3 for Windows when internal pressure from sales and marketing people to ship the product was at a fever pitch.
She and Mr. Landry participated in triage and "bug detection" meetings, sometimes three times a day and on weekends, to help determine which problems needed fixing first. That showed the programmers that senior management was not only supportive, but willing to work side by side with them.
Three years earlier, Ms. Rokoff had volunteered to take over the development team that was building the follow-on to Lotus's original 1-2-3 spreadsheet for DOS. That product, known as Release 3, had become a company nightmare and threatened to scuttle Lotus completely.
The product was late, the development team disorganized. Six managers had come and gone as the project dragged along. Ms. Rokoff, who at the time had been with the company only two years, had never handled a project of that magnitude, but she persuaded Mr. King, then a senior vice president, that she could break the logjam.
"I thought, 'I'm here. I've got to get the company moving,' " she said. "The truth is, I had no idea what I was getting into." From October 1988 until the product was shipped the following June, Ms. Rokoff, with three young children at home, worked seven days a week alongside the software developers. Her husband, David Rokoff, a lawyer, took over many of the family obligations. "We underestimated the whole experience," he said. "It was horrible." But they agreed that it was a career-making opportunity.
MS. ROKOFF walked into a maelstrom when she took over the Release 3 team. The developers thought Lotus managers could not be trusted. Ms. Rokoff recognized quickly that these people weren't getting the leadership they needed. At the same time, the technical mess needed to be cleaned up, and morale had to be lifted.
She immediately set and clarified objectives and made sure they were communicated clearly and often. She set interim milestones to test the progress of the new software and had daily "bug" meetings in which quality-assurance engineers and programmers discussed problems, taking immediate action if needed. Knowing that programmers hate meetings, she instituted a rule limiting them to an hour. The company has institutionalized these changes.
In most such projects, there is one quality-assurance engineer to each programmer, but given this product's importance, Ms. Rokoff assigned two to each programmer.
She also tackled personnel issues. The programmers' area was cleaned up, and the quality of people's lives was addressed. After months of cold pizza, deli sandwiches and beer, Ms. Rokoff instituted a "guest chef" night. On Tuesdays, when testing forced everyone to work well into the night, Lotus executives, including Mr. Manzi, would cook up a gourmet meal for 70 or 80 people.
People started getting recognition for their work -- for example, tailor-made posters for individual achievements.
She insisted that Mr. Manzi and other top executives stop in regularly to congratulate team members who had made some important breakthrough. And she had a rock video made of the team members, which was shown to the entire company. When the product was shipped, she took out a full-page ad in the local newspaper to thank the team, and champagne bottles were broken over the first delivery trucks at a company picnic.
"We called her the Iron Lady during the process because she was so strong about being decisive and making sure team needs were met," Mr. King recalled. "She made listening the culture of her team. Without her, Release 3 wouldn't have happened."
At a company known for its philanthropy and commitment to diversity, Ms. Rokoff is also the leading voice for bringing in more women and minorities. She insists that the people who report to her execute plans to increase hiring and promotion of women and minorities and assesses the managers' efforts in performance reviews. "She stays in everyone's face on this," Mr. Landry said.
THE oldest child in a middle-class family from Queens, June Lapides was doted on by her parents, who encouraged her in science and math. Her father, an accountant who grew bored with his work and became a successful stock trader on his own, instilled a willingness to confront a challenge.
She said her parents are proud but not especially surprised at her accomplishments. But she is still not satisfied. "We women don't believe we are as good as we are," she said. "I see all the warts, all the things I still want to accomplish. I still have so much I think I need to do, and I'm very hard on myself. I don't ever feel I'm done."
A former programmer, Ms. Rokoff spent 13 years at Data Resources Inc., rising to the rank of vice president. She credits her boss there, Don McLagan, for being her key mentor, pushing her into projects that tested both her technical and managerial skills.
And it was at Data Resources that she learned about the commitment necessary to make disgruntled developers into teams.
"I put myself in other people's shoes," she said. "It's a combination of really listening and remembering the days when I was a programmer. Once you get into their shoes, you can solve the problem from their side."
It was also about commitment, a willingness to move in with the group, live their schedules, see the world through their eyes. "Whatever it takes," she said. "If I'm going to do something, I jump in whole hog."
Ms. Rokoff says she is not motivated by money. Her husband cringes at the 1989 Oldsmobile she insists on driving and her refusal to indulge herself. "She's happier knowing the money's in the bank," he said.
And there is money in the bank. On top of a $325,000 salary, she recently cashed in more than $1 million in stock options and still owns options worth nearly $7 million.
She says she has no interest in a chief executive position, saying she needs at least two more years to get Lotus's development organization where she wants it. "I can't imagine a place where I could make the impact I can here," she said.
 
June L. Rokoff
 
 
 Born: June 22, 1949; Queens, N.Y.
 
 Education: B.S., math and computer science, State University of New York at Albany.
 
 Family. Husband, David, a lawyer. Three children, aged 10, 13 and 15.
 
 Recent reading: "Fire With Fire," by Naomi Wolf.
 
 Ideal vacation: Houseboating on Lake Powell in Utah with her family.
 
 Drives: 1989 Oldsmobile.

GRAPHIC: Photo: June Rokoff, software guru at Lotus: "When things are crazy, I tend to be a calming influence." Ms. Rokoff, a k a St. June, with staff members. (Photographs by Evan Richman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (93%); IBM (NYSE) (93%); IBM (LSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: LOTUS DEVELOPMENT CORP INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOTUS DEVELOPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION COMPUTER SOFTWARE (92%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (89%); SALES FIGURES (74%); SPREADSHEET SOFTWARE (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); STARTUPS (60%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, GLENN; ROKOFF, JUNE L; ROKOFF, JUNE L (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) ANN LIVERMORE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



618 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 26; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: The Other Side of the Wall

BYLINE: By Joan Countryman; Joan Countryman, a daughter of the first African-American high school teacher in the Philadelphia public schools, is head of the Lincoln School in Providence, R.I.

 BODY:

ON THE EDGE
A History of Poor Black Children and Their American Dreams.
By Carl Husemoller Nightingale.
254 pp. New York:
Basic Books. $24.
 
HARDBALL
A Season in the Projects.
By Daniel Coyle.
317 pp. New York:
G. P. Putnam's Sons. $22.95. 
IF the walls that many affluent communities would like to construct as barriers between suburb and city were mirrors, suburban residents looking to explain the alarming rise in violence across the United States would see not poor children in inner cities, but reflections of themselves and their American values. Both Carl Husemoller Nightingale, an assistant professor of history at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, and Daniel Coyle, a senior editor for Outside magazine in Chicago, would find those pictures more accurate.
In "On the Edge," Mr. Nightingale argues that the drastic increase in urban crime is not evidence of a widening gulf between city and suburb. Rather, he says, the enthusiasm of poor black children both for conspicuous consumption and for violence suggests that inner-city residents aspire to embrace all the trappings of mainstream America, even the link many white people in this country make between race and violence.
Gun sales in the United States increased more than 20 percent from 1990 to 1992 alone, a startling measure of fear in a country that prefers not to acknowledge its own acceptance of violence. Poor African-American children see that attitude and celebrate it. "I know y'all don't like violence," said a teen-age girl in the Philadelphia neighborhood where Mr. Nightingale lived from 1987 to the early 90's, working on a study of African-American children growing up there in the 1950's and 1960's. "But I like my movies violent," she told him. "Movies that don't got violence is corny to me."
Mr. Nightingale's research has produced a fine book about American children in the second half of the 20th century; it is a story of history, of horror and of hope. Explaining that he found himself learning more about the lives of African-American children in Philadelphia 40 years ago by paying attention to the voices of the contemporary children he was befriending in his urban neighborhood, Mr. Nightingale offers a vivid portrait of a poor community. "On the Edge" weaves together social service agency case reports on children who grew up in Philadelphia immediately after World War II, recent urban history and the story of the Kids' Club, a volunteer neighborhood organization formed in the late 1980's to find alternatives to violence by helping a group of children with schoolwork, recreation and employment. The book tells a depressing story of failed leadership potential: Chauntey Patterson, one of the most intelligent and attractive children Mr. Nightingale first met in 1987, became a drug dealer and later went to jail, "largely because of the grinding memories and the delusions of psychic relief that his American upbringing has offered to him and his generation."
The children in "On the Edge" love television, action-adventure movies, popcorn, basketball, boxing, football, Mickey Mouse T-shirts, Coca-Cola, McDonald's, fancy cars, the Army and the Marines. "During the cold war they hated Russians; and during the gulf war many of them wore a red, white and blue T-shirt with 'Support Operation Desert Storm' on it," Mr. Nightingale reports. At the same time, he says, they continue to grow up with "the nagging feeling that blackness is something to be ashamed of." To compensate for the hurt of growing up poor, jobless and outcast, they have sought these essentially American dreams and made them their own. "On the Edge" describes in painful detail the ways that poor black children both suffer and embrace the effects of racism, deprivation and violence.
In "Hardball," Mr. Coyle's daily chronicle of the 1992 Little League season in Cabrini-Green, the Chicago housing project where the death of a 7-year-old boy by sniper fire caught national attention during the Presidential campaign of that year, children and adults struggle with the same visions. Can you pull dozens of African-American children from one of the country's worst housing projects, put them on a baseball field with a bunch of white suburban businessmen as coaches, have them play a difficult and demanding sport, and expect it to come off? As Mr. Coyle's affecting narrative shows, fielding a grounder in Carson Field, the sports complex at Division and Sedgwick where the First Chicago Near North Kikuyus practice and play the great American game, may be tough, but no tougher than dodging bullets, avoiding gangs and coping with the devastating effects of poverty.
The efforts of countless social workers and community leaders notwithstanding, there is no evidence that recreation programs will help the boys of the Near North Kikuyus learn the ways that the middle class claim as values: be responsible, play fair, show up on time. Indeed, showing up at all was an accomplishment for some of the Kikuyus. The team roster listed 16 players, but some days the tardy appearance of the ninth boy was a welcome relief; the coaches had feared they might have to forfeit a game. Most Little Leaguers have some measure of comfort, a space that allows them time to play. "Hardball" shows that baseball is a poor substitute for what is missing in Cabrini-Green: safety, education, jobs and money.
In Mr. Nightingale's view, the ultimate test of America's political and economic arrangements may be our willingness to raise the children of inner cities in "more healthy, more cherishing, more optimistic ways." He finds hope in two goals: the creation of employment for inner-city residents and the construction of "a national culture of commitment and community that is emotionally expressive, ethnically diverse and compelling to children." Many of the coaches in Daniel Coyle's book make an effort to do the latter, with mixed results. At best, as one child reports, "It ain't really so bad, living here. In summertime, we play baseball."
Both books demand that we pay attention to these children and their very American dreams. Both books make compelling reading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ON THE EDGE (BOOK); HARDBALL: A SEASON IN THE PROJECTS (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (72%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); SUBURBS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); HISTORY (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); CITIES (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: COUNTRYMAN, JOAN; NIGHTINGALE, CARL HUSEMOLLER; COYLE, DANIEL

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



619 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 14; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
'Home,' Uplifting Tale Of Young Black Farmer

BYLINE: By LEAH D. FRANK

 BODY:
THEATER Three in Port Jefferson is one of the few theaters on Long Island to make an effort to produce drama by black playwrights on a regular basis.
In honor of Black History Month, the Second Stage is presenting through Feb. 9 Samm-Art Williams's uplifting drama "Home." It is the story of a young black farmer who finds himself torn from his land and thrust into the turmoil of the Vietnam War and American urban decay. 
 The play, which on first description might sound anything but uplifting, is in fact a valentine to the indomitable soul of so many black men and women who have fought and triumphed over personal tragedies, racial barriers, political movements, economic upheaval and social and cultural discrimination.
The hero of "Home" is Cephus Miles, a black man growing up in rural South Carolina. His mentors are his grandfather and uncle, who instill in him a deep respect for the land, for nature and for God.
Cephus might on occasion use his Sunday school money for a bit of gambling, but he has a love of God and nature that is humbling in its purity. Yet like all good men in literature, Cephus, like Job for instance, must be put to a test to see if his faith and goodness are true and unyielding.
When his uncle is killed in an accident that also claims their horse, Cephus begins to believe God is vacationing in Miami. Then his grandfather dies working in the field and his beloved girlfriend, Pattie Mae, goes away to a teachers' college and winds up marrying a lawyer.
What finally does Cephus in, however, and convinces him that God has indeed taken time off from caring for his flock is the war in Vietnam. When he is drafted, Cephus simply states his conviction that "Thou Shalt Not Kill" is a commandment from God that must be taken seriously. He quickly discovers that that particular commandment is suspended in wartime.
The rest of the story is about Cephus's fall and redemption, and its ending is so stirring that it can evoke copious tears of the sort that one shares at weddings and other joyful occasions.
This three-member cast has been artfully directed by Bill Van Horn, who wisely allows the material to unfold without adding the kind of melodramatic fireworks that might be expected from a less talented director. Mr. Van Horn has also cast "Home" with care.
The struggling Cephus is played by Kenshaka Ali, a large man with a Charles Barkley haircut, who manages to create a character with pride and dignity without the added burden of militant fervor.
Although it would have been nice to have a greater sense of Cephus's emotional change and development, Mr. Ali presents us with such a kind, gentle farmer that it is difficult to wish for anything more.
Tessa Martin is riveting in a variety of roles, ranging from the flirtatious Pattie Mae to a number of other women and children in Cephus's life. Ms. Martin gives a fresh, original performance and is remarkable for the smooth and effective manner in which she brings each character to life.
The third member of the cast is Andrea Fletcher, who plays a number of minor characters. The play has several song segments, and Ms. Fletcher and Ms. Martin have clear, strong musical voices whether singing or speaking.
Proving that ingenuity and talent can overcome the challenge of a tiny space and a limited budget, Ned Fox, the set designer, and Marvin Lune, who designed the lighting, have created a world that ranges from Cross Roads, N.C., to an unnamed megalopolis, with a couple of stops in between.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HOME (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); VIET NAM (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: THEATER THREE (PORT JEFFERSON, NY)

ORGANIZATION: THEATER THREE (PORT JEFFERSON, NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIET NAM (72%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER (92%); THEATER REVIEWS (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); WRITERS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); HISTORY (77%); MEN (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: FRANK, LEAH D; WILLIAMS, SAMM-ART SIR GEORGE YOUNG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



620 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Viewpoints: 10 Years After Bell's Breakup;
The Split-Up Worked. No, It Didn't.

BYLINE: By ELI M. NOAM; Eli M. Noam is a professor of finance and economics at the Columbia University Graduate School of Business and the director of its Institute for Tele-Information.

 BODY:
WHEN the old Bell System came to an end a decade ago, there was instant nostalgia for a lost golden age and great anxiety about the future. Many dire predictions were made about the breakup's effect on affordable rates, service quality and technological progress.
The reality has been much more benign. The percentage of households with telephones has increased, from 91.4 percent in 1983 to 94.2 percent in 1993, according to the Federal Communications Commission. For the poorest fifth of the population, this rose from 80.1 percent to 83.7 percent. Average telephone rates did not double or triple, but grew at only half the rate of inflation. Industry research and development increased, too, as did productivity, although at the expense of some employment. The market for telecommunications equipment became competitive, with prices that are now among the lowest worldwide. Nor were the very poor damaged by divestiture; a cheap "lifeline" service was introduced. 
 True, technological advances were in part responsible for these many successes. But the Bell breakup deserves credit, too. Without question, today's communications sector is more dynamic and innovative than it was under the stately, tightly regulated A.T.& T. monopoly.
And it was precisely that promise of greater dynamism and innovation that was the driving force behind the divestiture. Why? Because as technology advanced and the service economy grew, large corporations and other organizations realized that the electronic transmission of information was of ever-increasing importance -- and expense. But the American Telephone & Telegraph Company was too slow, too dominant and too tightly regulated to meet these growing needs.
As a result, MCI Communications and other new carriers emerged. The Government gradually let these companies compete with A.T.& T. but, understandably, the monopoly resisted at each step. Soon, it became clear that the tiny new carriers could not compete with an 800-pound gorilla whose cooperation -- and phone lines -- they needed to do business. The result was the A.T.& T. divestiture.
It was the correct move. The monopolistic A.T.& T. was like I.B.M. at the dawn of the minicomputer age -- too dominant and too powerful to respond to the explosion of new electronic technology and applications. With one big difference: as a regulated monopoly that controlled the telephone lines, A.T.& T. could keep competitors out of telecommunications much more effectively than I.B.M. could keep them out of computers.
Also, despite A.T.& T.'s large size and impressive past, it is clear that no single company can tend the information infrastructure of a large high-tech economy, and do it well, across all hardware, software and services. Some economies of scale may have been lost by the divestiture, but this loss was more than offset by gains in innovation and customer responsiveness.
Today, policy makers face a different challenge: fitting the multiplying pieces of the telecommunications puzzle together. Their many tasks include establishing technical and legal inter-connectivity, assuring local phone competition, designing pricing policies that equitably distribute among carriers the cost of affordable rates, protecting privacy and encouraging the spread of new applications of telecommunications technology to aid economic growth.
For its part, industry is responding to these issues by reshaping itself at a dizzying pace through mergers and other reorganizations.
And how is the Clinton Administration responding? Earlier this month, after a year of high-sounding generalities from Washington, Vice President Al Gore added some specifics. In a forward-looking speech in Los Angeles that endorsed some pending Congressional efforts, he committed the Administration to local telephone and cable competition nationwide. The traditional companies, in return for new freedoms, must cooperate with the new competitors, offering them inter-connection and open access.
But if the established companies suppress competition, the future will bring calls for strict regulation and, yes, Divestiture II.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); T (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T) VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); AT&T INC (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; RATES ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); INFLATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); MONOPOLIZATION (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); 

PERSON: NOAM, ELI M (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



621 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Viewpoints: 10 Years After Bell's Breakup;
The Split-Up Worked. No, It Didn't.

BYLINE: By ELI M. NOAM; Eli M. Noam is a professor of finance and economics at the Columbia University Graduate School of Business and the director of its Institute for Tele-Information.

 BODY:
WHEN the old Bell System came to an end a decade ago, there was instant nostalgia for a lost golden age and great anxiety about the future. Many dire predictions were made about the breakup's effect on affordable rates, service quality and technological progress.
The reality has been much more benign. The percentage of households with telephones has increased, from 91.4 percent in 1983 to 94.2 percent in 1993, according to the Federal Communications Commission. For the poorest fifth of the population, this rose from 80.1 percent to 83.7 percent. Average telephone rates did not double or triple, but grew at only half the rate of inflation. Industry research and development increased, too, as did productivity, although at the expense of some employment. The market for telecommunications equipment became competitive, with prices that are now among the lowest worldwide. Nor were the very poor damaged by divestiture; a cheap "lifeline" service was introduced. 
 True, technological advances were in part responsible for these many successes. But the Bell breakup deserves credit, too. Without question, today's communications sector is more dynamic and innovative than it was under the stately, tightly regulated A.T.& T. monopoly.
And it was precisely that promise of greater dynamism and innovation that was the driving force behind the divestiture. Why? Because as technology advanced and the service economy grew, large corporations and other organizations realized that the electronic transmission of information was of ever-increasing importance -- and expense. But the American Telephone & Telegraph Company was too slow, too dominant and too tightly regulated to meet these growing needs.
As a result, MCI Communications and other new carriers emerged. The Government gradually let these companies compete with A.T.& T. but, understandably, the monopoly resisted at each step. Soon, it became clear that the tiny new carriers could not compete with an 800-pound gorilla whose cooperation -- and phone lines -- they needed to do business. The result was the A.T.& T. divestiture.
It was the correct move. The monopolistic A.T.& T. was like I.B.M. at the dawn of the minicomputer age -- too dominant and too powerful to respond to the explosion of new electronic technology and applications. With one big difference: as a regulated monopoly that controlled the telephone lines, A.T.& T. could keep competitors out of telecommunications much more effectively than I.B.M. could keep them out of computers.
Also, despite A.T.& T.'s large size and impressive past, it is clear that no single company can tend the information infrastructure of a large high-tech economy, and do it well, across all hardware, software and services. Some economies of scale may have been lost by the divestiture, but this loss was more than offset by gains in innovation and customer responsiveness.
Today, policy makers face a different challenge: fitting the multiplying pieces of the telecommunications puzzle together. Their many tasks include establishing technical and legal inter-connectivity, assuring local phone competition, designing pricing policies that equitably distribute among carriers the cost of affordable rates, protecting privacy and encouraging the spread of new applications of telecommunications technology to aid economic growth.
For its part, industry is responding to these issues by reshaping itself at a dizzying pace through mergers and other reorganizations.
And how is the Clinton Administration responding? Earlier this month, after a year of high-sounding generalities from Washington, Vice President Al Gore added some specifics. In a forward-looking speech in Los Angeles that endorsed some pending Congressional efforts, he committed the Administration to local telephone and cable competition nationwide. The traditional companies, in return for new freedoms, must cooperate with the new competitors, offering them inter-connection and open access.
But if the established companies suppress competition, the future will bring calls for strict regulation and, yes, Divestiture II.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); T (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T) VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); AT&T INC (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; RATES ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); INFLATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); MONOPOLIZATION (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); 

PERSON: NOAM, ELI M (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



622 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 3; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Magnificent Obsession

BYLINE: By Nick Salvatore; Nick Salvatore is the author of "Eugene V. Debs: Citizen and Socialist" and the forthcoming "Amos Webber's World: The Making of a Nineteenth-Century African American."

 BODY:

RED HUNTING
IN THE PROMISED LAND
Anticommunism and the Making of America.
By Joel Kovel.
331 pp. New York:
Basic Books. $25. 
COLLECTIVE biography is a complex genre. An author must sketch portraits of individuals that remain credible against a broader biographical canvas, yet make them pointed enough to connect each with the common motif of the larger work. Joel Kovel, the Alger Hiss Professor of Social Studies at Bard College, has chosen this approach for his study of anti-Communism in American life, "Red Hunting in the Promised Land." His subjects range from Charles Coughlin, the "radio priest" of the 1930's, to the diplomat George F. Kennan, and include J. Edgar Hoover, John Foster Dulles, James Jesus Angleton and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy. One chapter, entitled "Liberal and Born-Again Anticommunism," offers slivered perspectives of Hubert H. Humphrey, Walter Reuther and Arthur Koestler.
For Mr. Kovel, the theme that ties these men together is their common obsession with an anti-Communism that "has lodged itself so deeply in the American psyche that it need not depend on the existence of Communism." In his view, each also contributed to the development of a political climate that stifled dissent, repressed labor's militancy and created "the phenomenon of the national security state," which transformed anti-Communism "into the freestanding demonology of a state religion." But, the author insists, anti-Communism is not at root about Communism at all. "It is, rather, a way of being American that proceeds from a deep historical wound." In short, "Red Hunting in the Promised Land" contains two tousled themes: a collective biography of anti-Communism interwoven with a meditation on the American character from Puritan New England to the 1990's. Neither is satisfactorily developed.

AS a biographical portrait, the book is a montage of stick figures that stand in for more complex people, and it lacks credibility. "The men are chosen," the author writes, "insofar as it is through them that the black hole of anti-Communism speaks, and their portraits are foreshortened accordingly to achieve the desired goal." Not surprisingly, then, Mr. Kovel's research is highly selective, reflecting largely secondary sources that support his views.
By design, no discussion of actual Soviet-American tensions in the post-1945 period is allowed. The result is a historical study in which a faddish, heated rhetoric stands for serious commentary. "It is speculative but not too farfetched to suggest," Mr. Kovel writes in his discussion of the effect of J. Edgar's Hoover's psychosexual politics, "that the orgasm of erotic release and the mushroom cloud of atomic explosion were subjectively associated."
Driving the country's pervasive anti-Communism, Mr. Kovel believes, was the need of the national security state to overcome traditional American resistance to centralized government -- a government dedicated to protecting the "naked economic interest beneath [America's] Puritan ideals." This need demanded, he argues, an "American inquisition," one that was not "too dissimilar" to Stalin's show trials and the gulag itself. To overemphasize "distinctions in culture, technology, timing or context," the author maintains, is to "miss the essential points of comparison." The moral and intellectual relativism evident here makes other arguments in the book appear learned in comparison.
Special pleading also influences the author's meditation on American life. Briefly put, Mr. Kovel states that "susceptibility to the black hole became fixed in the national experience and formed the matrix for anti-Communism" as early as the Puritans' rejection of the state of nature he maintains they found among indigenous people. Since anti-Communism in this interpretation has no concrete historical or political context, its only meaning is as a mirror on the American psyche, which is itself driven by a perverse attraction "to the notion of communism or to specific Communist movements." In this tortured logic, the Puritans' refusal to adopt Native American culture (or, more accurately, the author's hopelessly Edenic image of it) in favor of pursuing their "naked economic interest" resulted in the original "red scare," which was aimed at the Indian, "the primal communist of American history."

MR. KOVEL'S obsession with Puritanism, with "the remorseless Calvinist conscience which haunts the national soul," is tendentious. Nowhere in the volume is there recognition of how the moral vision embedded in that conscience propelled civic good. One need only recall 19th-century abolitionism or agitation for women's rights, to say nothing of the more recent civil rights movement, to question Mr. Kovel's assertions. Nor is his obsession original. D. H. Lawrence's "Studies in Classic American Literature" projected similar themes in 1923; two generations later, Charles Reich's "Greening of America," with all of its exuberant irrelevance, covered the ground again. If, as Karl Marx suggested, history is first tragedy and then repeats itself as farce, this third cycle is simply banality.
Anti-Communism, the actual historical event, wreaked havoc with the lives of many Americans caught in its vicious currents. But social criticism that would condemn the very essence of the American experience in a twisted torrent of pop psychology and vitriolic anger leaves little foundation for the "revitalization of an emancipatory vision" Mr. Kovel argues we need. To work toward that goal requires a criticism grounded in this country's complex history, one that also possesses the subtlety to recognize that the critical impulse itself emanates from America's moral and political traditions.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RED HUNTING IN THE PROMISED LAND (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); POLITICS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); HISTORY (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); RELIGION (70%); 

PERSON: SALVATORE, NICK; KOVEL, JOEL JOHN H FOSTER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994



623 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: New York Hospitals Fear Harm In Plan to Reduce Specialization

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23

 BODY:
For months, deans and doctors from New York's medical schools and hospitals have been making office visits to Ira C. Magaziner, President Clinton's top health care adviser, to take his temperature on the hottest topic in their lives. On a recent flight to New York, a member of the city's Congressional delegation plied Hillary Rodham Clinton with news clippings on the same subject.
The issue causing such concern is medical education, and the Clinton Administration's proposals for changing it. New York's huge research and teaching hospitals are particularly worried that the Administration's proposals would cut the number of residency positions for medical school graduates nationwide and limit the number of specialists.
 
Cutting 3,800 Residencies?
 The New York hospitals say they share the Administration's goal: to lower overall costs and train more of the nation's doctors in basic care. But because about 15 percent of the country's medical residents are now trained in New York State, the hospitals say any changes could affect New York disproportionately. They also say their expertise in specialized medicine is a major drawing card in attracting doctors and making research breakthroughs. 
 What is more, the residents at these hospitals provide a relatively cheap pool of skilled, round-the-clock labor, heavily subsidized by the Government. That is important in a city in which poor people go to emergency rooms in search of basic care, and in which public and private hospitals alike depend on their affiliation contracts with the teaching hospitals.
By 2007, the Clinton plan could reduce the number of residencies in the state by 3,800, nearly all of them in New York City, from 14,000 now, according to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's task force on the issue. That could cost the state's teaching hospitals $750 million a year from the more than $2.5 billion they now receive for medical education, the task force estimates.
Many of the city's premier hospitals worry that a reduction in the number of residents, or specialists, could fundamentally alter the quality of their programs. Moreover, city and state officials worry that reducing the city's role as a medical research center could harm economic development in one of the few fields in which employment has grown markedly in recent years.
"It's almost not comparable to any other city," said James R. Tallon Jr., former majority leader of the State Assembly and now president of the United Hospital Fund, a research and charitable group. "Maybe the only other place where you'd get a similar concentration of such institutions is Boston. We in New York would argue that the way in which you build a future system, quite apart from health care reform, has an economic development impact on the city, and this is a New York chit that needs to receive attention in the debate."
Last week, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan went to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center to hear medical deans from around the country and said he had left "shaken," while Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato called the potential effects "a horror."
The fears about residency programs are just one of many complex concerns about the effects of the President's health care proposals on New York. The concerns range from reductions in the Medicare and Medicaid subsidies -- payments that support basic care, training and research -- to proposed health insurance alliances along state lines.
New York institutions are concerned that the alliances could make it more difficult for suburban patients to seek treatment at one of the city's seven academic health centers or major private hospitals, like Sloan-Kettering, which draws more patients from northern New Jersey than from Manhattan.
 
'A Real Problem'
 Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, said, "New York becomes a real problem for the administration in many respects, because it doesn't quite fit the national profile."
Senator Moynihan, chairman of the Finance Committee, through which the health care legislation must pass, has made no secret of his qualms about many aspects of the Clinton proposals, and insists that he intends to protect New York's interests.
"Something there is in this plan that doesn't like a university health center," Mr. Moynihan said in an interview. "It's thought somehow to be elitist. Sloan-Kettering isn't Acapulco. We're all bodies to them, and they're trying to find out what cancers are."
Asked how the White House had responded to such concerns, Mr. Moynihan said: "The uniform answer of Mr. Magaziner is, 'We can fix that.' Well, if you can fix it, why did you do it in the first place?"
 
An Early Alarm
 As with most such debates, sorting out the hospitals' worst fears from what is likely to happen is difficult, and the hospitals are raising an alarm now to try to protect their turf. The administration argues that it would build flexibility into the plan, providing compensating payments for hospitals that lose residency positions and insuring that patients who needed access to specialized care could get it, and that providing insurance for poor patients who do not now have it would compensate for cuts in other programs like Medicare.
Dr. Philip R. Lee, assistant secretary for health in the Department of Health and Human Services, who did some of his medical training at Bellevue Hospital, said protecting the nation's premier medical centers was an important goal of the Clinton plan. He said the plan would assign resident slots based not only on the quality of programs, but also on historic patterns, both of which would help shield New York from losses. He also said the program would be phased in gradually enough so that the average hospital would probably lose only a handful of residents a year.
"The issue is certainly going to be debated, and people like Senator Moynihan are going to ask tough questions," Dr. Lee said. "There are some valid concerns."
A sticking point is the hospitals' assumption that the number of resident slots would be curtailed. A proposal by Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th of West Virginia calls explicitly for eventually capping the number of entering resident positions nationwide at 10 percent above the number of the country's medical graduates, though Dr. Lee said the Clinton plan had no concrete limit. Now the annual number of first-year residents is about 30 percent above the number of domestic medical school graduates, with the difference accounted for by foreign students, many of whom are trained in New York.
That shift alone would markedly cut the number of residents in New York, the teaching hospitals say, but they also fear that the Government would seek to redistribute residencies around the country more evenly. That might be a desirable national goal but would diminish a major New York industry.
"One of the ironies of the system is that the residents represent cheap labor, and if we have to replace them with clinician-nurses, you're talking about doubling the cost of each position," said Dr. Paul A. Marks, president of Sloan-Kettering. "It's a fact of the health care industry in this city that it's a large, well-trained labor force that's relatively low paid, in exchange for the privilege of being educated in these world-class institutions."
Jim O'Donnell, the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation's representative in Washington, said it strongly supported the Clinton plan's goal of universal health insurance coverage and better access to care.
"We very much support the concept of moving to more primary care and fewer specialties," he said. "However, we are very dependent on those specialists to staff our facilities through affiliation agreements with the teaching hospitals. If the teaching hospitals lost residents, they would hold on to the specialists, and we'd be left with a severe shortage."
 
A Threat to Research
 Dr. Herbert Pardes, the dean of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, which through its affiliation agreements with Presbyterian, St. Luke's-Roosevelt and Harlem Hospitals, helps care for thousands of indigent patients, said the medical centers worry that the new pools of money established to finance graduate medical education would not be adequate to provide care through the residents or to allow the universities to subsidize clinical research.
"If you ratchet the system down very tightly in an effort to cut costs, we have a problem," he said.
Dr. Robert Michels, dean of the Cornell University Medical College, which is linked to a group of hospitals on the East Side of Manhattan, said the debate reflects the jerry-built nature of the present health care and medical education system, and the complex financial and service links between them.
"We currently have an irrational system, which functions and which does support some great institutions," he said. "No one is against fixing it. But we're terrified that fixing it without making sure that we maintain those institutions and their valuable projects would be very destructive. Just simply doing away with the irrationality is not enough."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "New York's Role in Medical Education" shows percentage of nation's total medical residents and medical school graduates and shows medical residents per 100,000 in New York State and nationwide. (Sources: Greater New York Hospital Association; New York State Council on Graduate Medical Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAL SCHOOLS; HOSPITALS; DOCTORS PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); CHARITIES (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



624 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Tokyo Stocks Plunge After Reform Loss

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, Jan. 24

 BODY:
Fears that the political turmoil that struck on Friday could delay Japanese Government efforts to revive the recession-bound economy sent stock prices into a tailspin here today.
Trading was largely one-way -- in sell orders -- but calm, analysts said. The Nikkei index of 225 leading stocks plunged 954.19 points, or 4.94 percent, to close at 18,353.24. That is still up sharply from a month ago, when the Nikkei was trading at close to 17,000. 
 "The feeling is that the market is going to go much lower," said Robert Sasaki, a trader at Jardine Fleming Securities here. "The political worries are very strong."
 
Imbalances Prevent Trading
 The selling was so strong that for the first 30 minutes of trading only a tiny handful of the 225 issues that make up the Nikkei could even open.
The Nikkei futures contract for March maturity, the most actively traded of the contracts, also could not start trading because of the imbalance of sell orders.
The plunge in prices was largely expected, after Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa lost a crucial vote on electoral reform bills in the upper house of Parliament on Friday. The vote occurred after the Tokyo market had closed. Later that day in London and New York, the prices of Japanese securities fell sharply in reaction to the defeat for the coalition Government.
But the market plunge accentuated sharp differences in opinion between Japanese and foreign investors over the prospects for the Tokyo market, which for four years has struggled against a tide of negative economic news.
For weeks now, the market has been rising, largely on heavy buying from overseas. Foreign analysts have predicted that sooner or later, the Japanese Government would introduce a strong program of public works spending and tax cuts to jump-start the economy. The economy shrunk slightly last year and is expected to show little growth this year, economists say.
In addition, some of the foreign mutual fund money that had flowed to Southeast Asian stock markets -- notably Hong Kong, Thailand and Malaysia -- is now flowing into Tokyo as the emerging Asian markets experienced corrections.
 
Skeptics on Government Help
 By contrast, Japanese have been and remain pessimistic. Japanese investors, particularly large institutions, have been far less hopeful that the Government will assemble a credible stimulus package or that even if it does, it will work, given that Governments have already tried three times in the last two years with no success.
"There might be some naivete on the part of the foreigners," said Kathy Matsui, a market strategist here with Barclays de Zoete Wedd Securities. "But at this point I would say politically things could go very well, if we're lucky, or they could go very wrong. I would sit tight for awhile longer."
Tim Hayashida, an analyst here with Merrill Lynch Japan, said he remained cautiously optimistic, adding that foreigners were prepared to start buying if the market fell much further.
"Any delay in putting together a stimulus package is negative, but we don't think the process will stop completely," Mr. Hayashida said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (76%); UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: JARDINE FLEMING SECURITIES (57%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD SERVICES LTD (50%); MERRILL LYNCH JAPAN SECURITIES CO LTD (50%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD INV MAN (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (76%); UNITED STATES (74%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); RECESSION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BONDS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ELECTION LAW (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); TAX LAW (66%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



625 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
For companies from cruise lines to hotels, computer technology holds the promise of increasing their profits by allowing them to price their products much more efficiently than they ever could with just paper and pencil. The idea is to raise prices when demand is highest, and set prices low enough to draw customers when demand is slack. However, marketing experts warn that consumers may be irked by the change. [Page A1.] 
 The National Security Agency is trying to establish a standard for electronically scrambling computer communications, a move that would go far beyond the agency's usual military and intelligence domain to include civilian activities like electronic tax returns and computerized medical payments. The plan by the N.S.A., which may be announced as early as today, worries business executives and privacy advocates. Some Clinton Administration officials think the agency is overstepping its statutory bounds. [D1.]
A growing number of Federal regulators, as well as Congress and the White House, are concerned over the sales of depositor-owned mutual savings and loans in which top executives profit handsomely. New limits on such deals seem likely. [D1.]
Competition in the hotel business has roughed up even the high-styled hotels of Four Seasons. While on the surface the company's financial statements seem to portray an enterprise that's solidly in the black, a closer look suggests that accounting loopholes are being stretched to the breaking point. And the market is beginning to wonder; Four Seasons Hotel shares have dropped 35 percent. [D1.]
A former Macy executive may be named to replace Chaim Y. Edelstein, as head of Federated Department Stores' A.& S.-Jordan Marsh division. Mr. Edelstein resigned last week. [D2.]
Pacific Bell has agreed to buy four powerful computers from Hewlett-Packard to be used to deliver digital movies to thousands of homes in California. [D9.]
Wal-Mart has been welcomed with open arms across the Northeast by the unemployed and others who have jobs but see the chain as a springboard to an improved life. [B1.]
 
International
Japanese stocks plunged this morning as investors feared that political turmoil would delay efforts to revive the economy. The Nikkei 225-stock index lost nearly 5 percent on the first day of trading after the Government's defeat on campaign reform. [D1.]
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen warned Japan's leaders that if they did not begin making some concessions in trade talks, the United States would consider other measures for dealing with the huge trade imbalance between the two countries. [A3.]
The United States, in a pact with Japan, has agreed to change its patent law to prevent patent holders from seeking royalties long after they first made their inventions. [D2.]
 
The Media Business
In its first public discussion of plans for Macmillan, Paramount Publishing said it would reorganize divisions, reduce the number of imprints and published titles and lay off up to 10 percent of the two companies' combined work force of 10,000. [D8.]
Will the quake cause networks to think twice about new investments in Los Angeles? Bill Carter: Television. [D8.]
Time Inc. is looking into the possibility of starting a publication aimed at gay and lesbian readers. [D8.]
Wine Enthusiast is mounting a challenge to Wine Spectator, the nation's biggest periodical for wine consumers. [D8.]
Airlines are competing to woo passengers with some pretty offbeat promotions. Advertising. [D9.]
 
Today's Columns
In the battle for Paramount Communications, the winner could be the loser, when its stock is hit as a result. Market Place. [D1.]
A software-technology infringement case against Microsoft goes to trial in Federal court. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (83%); M (NYSE) (54%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (83%); MACY'S INC (54%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); PARAMOUNT PUBLISHING (50%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (83%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (83%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); PATENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); CRUISES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); RETAILERS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PATENT LAW (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); SAVINGS & LOANS (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (61%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (54%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



626 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: Islamic Guerrillas in Algeria Gain Against Military Rulers

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALGIERS, Jan. 21

 BODY:
The armed Islamic insurgency that has been fighting for two years is swiftly gaining ground against a military-backed Government whose authority seems to be deteriorating daily.
Many of the army generals who rule the country, along with their supporters, have retreated to tightly guarded seaside compounds outside Algiers, frequently using helicopters to travel to and from offices and meetings. 
 Thousands of foreign workers and diplomats, 26 of whom have been shot dead in the last four months, have fled Algeria. Police officers and troops withdraw at dusk from many villages and slums where the militants enjoy wide support, and the nightly curfew is punctuated with the sound of gunfire.
Hundreds, perhaps as many as 8,000 young men, have deserted from the army this year, diplomats say. And many have taken their weapons with them to the mountainous interior where Islamic militants are forming a formidable guerrilla army. Responding to the killing of Algerian officials and members of the security forces, paramilitary death squads have in recent months killed dozens of suspected militants, say Western diplomats and human rights officials. [Page A6.]
Foreign embassies, including the American Embassy, have reduced their staffs, warned their citizens to leave and relocated remaining diplomats to secure compounds. One Western embassy requires bulletproof vests for its diplomats, who like all foreigners in Algeria have been threatened with death by the militants if a deadline of Nov. 30 for leaving was not met.
"The biggest risk now is a convergence of the social and political problems," a European diplomat said. "If there is unrest on the streets because of the growing food shortages the troops may not want to shoot. At that point things would unravel. I could then see an alliance between junior officers and Islamic leaders that would lead to an Islamic state."
Algeria, a former French colony that had been governed by National Liberation Front since independence in 1962, felt the political power of Muslim militancy in 1991 when the Islamic Salvation Front soundly defeated the governing party in the first round of Parliamentary elections. Rather than allow the Islamic party to form a government, the military removed President Chadli Benjedid in January 1992 and canceled elections that would have given the Islamic Front control of Parliament.
The generals later named a five-man committee to rule the country. Although a national conference to choose a new president is scheduled this month, it is widely seen as window-dressing for continued military rule.
 
Fear of Exodus to France
 The creation of an Islamic state in Algeria could force 500,000 Algerians to flee to France, European diplomats said. With Islamic fundamentalists in control in the Sudan and with Egypt facing a violent campaign by militants, a Muslim takeover could further destabilize neighboring North African nations like Tunisia and Morocco.
Islamic groups, after being outlawed in 1992, began an armed insurrection, ambushing police and Government officials. In the last two years, the campaign has killed 2,000 people, including many intellectuals and writers who opposed the Islamic movement. But Islamic leaders say they have lost control of the insurrection as new groups, like the Islamic Armed Movement and the Armed Islamic Group, have emerged to supplant the traditional leadership of the Islamic Front.
"The best organization is no organization," the senior leader said. "You now get five or six kids with a few guns who want to help the revolution. Even we don't often know who they are."
 
Dialogue With Rebels
 The only tactic that might salvage some form of the widely unpopular military-run Government is a dialogue between the generals and the outlawed Islamic Salvation Front, say many critics of the Government. But with the generals and the militants showing little willingness to compromise, the two sides appear locked in a deadly contest that is plunging the country of 26 million into anarchy.
Islamic militants, who often own the streets after dusk, have already carved out small enclaves. In the militant stronghold of Blida, 30 miles south of Algiers, the militants run whole neighborhoods and battle the police.
After burning down establishments that sell alcohol and assassinating at least one bar owner, militants have dried up Blida, a city of 400,000 people. Beauty parlors, anathema to the fundamentalists, have been ransacked. Most of the women on the street are veiled. Several have closed and the two that remain now operate behind locked doors. Stores that sell music cassettes no longer carry recordings by Western groups or female singers. Satellite dishes, which bring in foreign broadcasts, have been dismantled. And kiosks and shops stopped selling newspapers a week ago.
Fear drives most Algerians home before dark, where they sit trapped in tiny, overcrowded apartments watching the censored Government-run television network or French channels.
"We voted for the Islamists and we abide by what they demand,"Mohammed Abdel Majid, a 35-year-old unemployed librarian said, alluding the elections that were canceled. "The Government closed down the Islamic newspapers two years ago. If we can't get the Islamic papers, why should we get the Government papers?"
In the muddy streets of the Kouba slum in Algiers, where the police and Islamic militants open fire on one another almost daily, the reach of the militants is widening. A dozen police officers, armed with automatic weapons and wearing bulletproof vests, nervously man a roadblock on the outskirts of Kouba. They scan embankments and check identification cards. But by nightfall this roadblock, and another down the street, is abandoned.
A few blocks away, in a small house, a senior leader of the Islamic Salvation Front and several lieutenants sat over cups of tea and a plate of chocolate cookies. All are in hiding and sleep at a different place each night.
 
'The Chiefs' Must Go
 "We have many supporters in the lower ranks of both the army and the police, but the chiefs, the ones who govern, must go." the senior leader said
In a country where oil and gas account for more than 90 percent of exports, the violence has also fueled an economic decline already driven by a mismanaged Government-controlled economy and falling oil prices. Foreign investors, with the exception of a few oil companies, are pulling out despite substantial losses.
"We have several hundred thousand dollars committed to a new pharmaceutical plant we were scheduled to build," a European businessman said, "but we just don't want to be here any more. We will have to write the Algerian operation off. It's time to leave."
The bleakness is mirrored in the gray, overcast skies that linger over this hilly, Mediterranean port city. Burdened by prices that have tripled in the last year, many people are forced to stand in lines outside shops for much of the day to buy what little there is of bread, flour, cooking oil and meat.
 
'There Will Be Chaos'
 "If the food shortages and bread lines continue to grow, people will take to the streets," said Ali Rachedi, the director of the newspaper El Haq.
The Government, negotiating a refinancing of payments on a $26 billion debt with the International Monetary Fund, is set to impose new austerity measures. But diplomats say the Government lacks the legitimacy to demand further sacrifices.
In the Government effort against the militants, there are signs that violence is spinning out of control on both sides as the daily death toll includes about a dozen members of the police and security forces and at least as many civilians, Western diplomats say.
On the afternoon of Jan. 14, troops and armored personnel carriers sealed off the town of Larba, the scene of frequent firefights with the guerrillas 30 miles southeast of Algiers.
On the morning of Jan. 15, the soldiers dragged five men from their homes and killed them in front of the town hall, witnesses said. At 3:30 that afternoon, while many townspeople were forming bread lines, the soldiers opened fire on the crowd.
"Four people were killed," said a 47-year-old airline employee, who was wounded along with a 60-year-old woman, Najat Naouhook and her 2-year-old granddaughter, Hayat.
Doctors at the hospital confirmed the account, and one surgeon added: "When bodies come in, they are often not only riddled with bullets but they have been run over by tanks or armored personnel carriers. They don't even resemble human beings."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Troops and police officers standing guard at the funeral of a television journalist who was killed by Islamic militants in Algeria last October. About 2,000 people have been killed in two years of civil strife. (Benito/Sygma)
 
Map of Algeria showing location of Blida.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: ALGERIA (99%); FRANCE (92%); MOROCCO (79%); EGYPT (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); SUDAN (79%); 

CITY: ALGIERS, ALGERIA (56%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE SICOME SA (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA; ALGERIA (99%); FRANCE (92%); MOROCCO (79%); EGYPT (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); SUDAN (79%); ALGIERS, ALGERIA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN SERVICE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); ARMIES (91%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (91%); RELIGION (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); FIREARMS (74%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (73%); FUNDAMENTALISM (73%); CURFEW (70%); HELICOPTERS (57%); HUMAN RIGHTS (52%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



627 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: Computers as Price Setters Complicate Travelers' Lives

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
For savvy consumers who pride themselves on knowing where the best buys are and how much to pay for them, life is becoming a great deal more complicated.
The same thinking that created airline fares that seem to change dizzily from one day to the next is spreading. Now other businesses from cruise lines to hotels are taking a page from the airlines' playbook and using powerful computer technology to set prices continually based on the up-to-the-minute demand for their products. 
 This digital upgrade of the law of supply and demand means that the cost of renting a truck from Ryder System Inc. could rise and fall by more than $200, or the price of a cruise on Royal Caribbean could change by $1,000 on the same ship for the same type of cabin. People who stay at Sheraton hotels can save from 5 to 30 percent on the cost of a room by booking 14 days in advance.
 
 
Promise of Profits
 For these companies and others, computer software holds the promise of increasing their profits by allowing them to price their products much more efficiently than they ever could with paper and pencil. The idea is to raise prices when demand is highest and set prices low enough to draw customers when demand is slack.
 But what companies may gain on the one hand they may lose on the other. "I don't like it at all," said Carol Christian of Katonah, N.Y., who flies frequently on her job as a training consultant. "It causes consumers a lot of unnecessary stress because you always have the sense that you didn't get the best deal, and it puts an awfully big burden on you to get the right information."
Al Ries, a marketing expert in Greenwich, Conn., said that whenever companies offered more than one price, customers typically assumed that everything above the lowest price was intended to gouge them. "You undermine your good will," Mr. Ries said.
That sense of unease is why Ms. Christian's mother often calls airlines back after receiving a fare quote. She has learned that the second call sometimes gets her a lower fare for the same flight. It is also one reason Ms. Christian bought a car three years ago from Saturn, a company whose dealers do not haggle. "I knew that everyone else was going to pay the same price," she said.
Airline executives reluctantly concede that many customers resent their pricing system, where a round-trip ticket from New York to Los Angeles can cost anywhere from $400 to $1,400, and acknowledge that legions of travelers scour the airlines' reservation systems for loopholes with a fervor they typically reserve for tax time.
Some companies that are buying the airlines' pricing technology have tried to avoid the carriers' mistakes by, among other things, limiting the size of price swings. "Fortunately, I think the airlines bore the brunt of having to re-educate consumers," said Andy Anderson, director of operations and support services for Ryder's consumer truck rental division.
Even so, putting the technology into practice still appears to present something of a public relations minefield.
When France's railroad system started using computers last year to set prices by demand rather than by distance, the complexity of the new fare structure and the additional time required to issue tickets prompted complaints from travelers and travel agents.
Elsewhere, however, AMR, the parent of American Airlines, which helped the French railroad, seems to be having better luck introducing the technology. The airline company helped pioneer the technology with its computer network, which it says is the world's largest privately owned system operating on a real-time basis, meaning that it is continually transmitting and processing data like flight bookings.
Its subsidiary, American Airlines Decision Technologies, has about 110 clients, with roughly 35 signed up since 1988 for help in managing capacity and prices. They include travel and tourism companies like Hilton Hotels, Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines, Avis and Amtrak. AMR has even had some discussions with theater and concert ticket sellers about the technology.
American competes with a number of other companies in this emerging field, which is estimated to generate $50 million a year over all in revenues. They include Behavheuristics Inc. of College Park, Md.; Arthur D. Little of Cambridge, Mass.; Andersen Consulting, based in New York, and Decision Focus Inc. in Mountain View, Calif.
Businesses that are potential customers for the technology typically have "perishable capacity," said Thomas M. Cook, president of American Airlines Decision Technologies.
When an airline seat or a hotel room or truck goes unrented, it represents a wasted opportunity to earn at least some revenue. And in businesses like airlines and hotels, the cost of serving every extra passenger or guest is minimal. So once costs are met, most of the money from additional customers flows directly to the bottom line.
Companies that use this technology typically accumulate historical sales data to predict demand and the likely number of no-shows and cancellations, all the while tinkering to set the most profitable combination of fares based on demand and, of course, competitors' prices.
 
Bargains, With Restrictions
 At the airlines, this results in low prices with plenty of restrictions, like a requirement that passengers stay over on Saturday night, to attract discretionary travelers and fill seats that would otherwise go empty. Business travelers, who often cannot take advantage of the lower fares because of the restrictions, pay more when they book at the last minute before a midweek flight.
At the Ryder truck rental company, which replaced five full-time pricers with the computer technology in 1992, the differences in prices are not so striking.
For example, the spread from its lowest to its highest rate is no more than 20 percent. The company limited the spread partly because it wanted to avoid the pitfalls of a wider range encountered by the airlines. But it also kept it narrow because, in the truck rental business, a price difference of just a few percentage points is often enough to swing demand.
So customers moving from New York to Los Angeles and leaving on a recent Friday or Saturday would be charged $1,564 for a 15-foot truck, the highest rate for that route. Customers who leave on any other day, and reserve the truck 30 days in advance, would pay the lowest rate of $1,336.
But those prices are subject to change, and change they do in comparison with the previous system. Before the switch, Ryder typically changed rates once a month and then mailed out a new rate sheet to dealers.
 
'A Huge Chess Game'
 "It was a huge chess game, and you learn whether you bet right or bet wrong four weeks later," said Gerry Riordan, president of Ryder's consumer truck rental division.
Now Ryder rejiggers its prices almost daily and keeps hundreds of millions of rates in its system based on trip originations and destinations and truck sizes as well as shifting demand during the year. Price changes are updated through the computers at every Ryder dealer.
Ryder typically charges its lowest rates for customers renting a truck on a weekday in the middle of the month, when demand is lowest and many trucks sit idle. Like the airlines, they also offer discounts for booking in advance. The highest rate is set for the weekend at the end of the month, when most people move. The company says the system has helped increase its revenue for each truck in 1993 by 7 percent from 1992. Similarly, American Airlines said the pricing technology added 7 percent a year to its revenues.
Ryder said that no customer had complained about the widened gap from the highest to the lowest prices. And Herb Comrov, a Chicago businessman who has rented a few Ryder trucks in recent years, said the company would hear no complaints from him about the technology. He said he applauded the change if the higher prices helped make more trucks available during peak times, when he has had trouble finding one.
"Supply and demand is classic economics," he said. "If demand is up during certain weekends, they have a right to do that as long as they are not socking it to customers."
If any Ryder customers balk at the higher prices that results from the technology, Ryder dealers are given leeway to shave rates.
"If the customer is so insistent that it puts our brand equity on edge, our dealers can discount the price," Mr. Anderson said.
Whether they like it or not, consumers are likely to encounter the new pricing technology more often, including in the home, where many people are already familiar with cheaper long-distance phone calls after certain hours and on the weekend.
This thinking may soon extend to setting the thermostat and using electricity if an experiment under way in Chenal Valley, Ark., is successful. There, dozens of families have agreed to hook up their electric service to a computer and telecommunications network that helps them cut costs by shifting energy consumption from peak times to off-peak.
Home computers give customers estimated monthly bills at any time, as well as show the cost of running each appliance. The change resulted in rates fluctuating to levels both higher and lower than before.
Whether such changes will sit well with consumers is unclear. But executives at American Airlines and its competitors have bet a big part of their companies on it, and there is a clear hint of salesmanship in the voice of Mr. Cook, president of American Airlines Decision Technologies, when he discusses the technology.
"When people think about it," he said, "it makes a lot of sense."

GRAPHIC: Diagram: "You Paid What?" shows fare distribution on American Airlines flight from Miami to La Guardia Airport on Monday, Nov 16. (Source American Airlines)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: R (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (70%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RYDER SYSTEM INC (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); PRICES; RATES; HOTELS AND MOTELS; CRUISES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; NYTRAVEL AIRLINES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (77%); CRUISES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (77%); TRAVEL TICKETS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); TRUCK & TRAILER RENTAL & LEASING (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



628 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

SILVER ASSURED OF APPROVAL AS SPEAKER
Assemblyman Sheldon Silver of Manhattan was assured of selection as interim speaker when his fellow Democrats decided that he should replace Saul Weprin, who was incapacitated last week by a severe stroke. A1.
 
HEALTH PLAN WORRIES HOSPITAL OFFICIALS
Medical education, and the Clinton Administration's proposals for changing it, are causing great concern among deans and doctors from New York's medical schools and hospitals. A1.
 
THE NEW HEALTH CARE CZAR
It is perhaps a logical career move for a political bungee jumper. After managing a New York Presidential primary campaign and a Democratic National Convention, followed by a relaxing foray into the wilds of last year's New York mayoral race, Harold M. Ickes has become the Clinton Administration's health care czar. A12.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
'FUNKY NEW YORK' AND OTHER EXPORTS
It turned out that what Hironobu Sekiguchi, a businessman from Tokyo, most wanted to buy on a shopping trip to New York was not even for sale until he mentioned it: the colorful uniforms -- made of Kente cloth and bearing the phrase "Harlem U.S.A." -- worn by the staff of the McDonald's on West 125th Street. Mr. Sekiguchi is the first real business contact corralled by New York State economic development officials to test a program to increase exports by black-owned businesses to Japan. B3.
 
INDIVIDUALS MAKE A DIFFERENCE
New York is a city of individual selflessness and collective resilience, of unsurpassed vitality and diversity, where if someone is singled out as one in a million, then statistically seven alternatives just as good are always available. Metro Matters by Sam Roberts. B3.
 
STABBINGS ATTRIBUTED TO 'RUDENESS'
After stabbing a man who was walking with his wife and son in Midtown Manhattan, a Brooklyn man confessed to the crime and two other stabbings, saying that he was moved to attack people because of their rudeness, the police said. B2.
 
REVERSAL URGED IN OUSTER OF ATHLETES
Threatening legal action, Public Advocate Mark Green urged the state's largest high school sports body to reconsider its decision to eliminate city athletes from statewide competitions in track and field and four other sports. C7.
 
REGION
 
A THAW, BUT A SHORT ONE
Weary from weeks of frigid temperatures, residents in the New York area huddling on street corners, scurrying down sidewalks and ducking into restaurants said they had one thing to look forward to -- the promise of warmer weather. But as thaws go, this one will be short. B5.
 
RENOVATION OF HOUSING IS ORDERED
Despite local opposition, a Federal judge has ordered the Town of Oyster Bay to allow the renovation of a small Bethpage apartment house so it can be used as a permanent home for the mentally ill, the first of its kind in Nassau County. B5.
 
A PLAN FOR SCHOOLS BRINGS COMPLAINTS
Teachers concerned about job security and parents who oppose the philosophy behind outcome-based education spoke out in force at hearings on a state commission's recommendations for remaking Connecticut's public schools. Some members of the panel were more concerned afterward by a lack of enthusiasm they sensed for the plan to overhaul Connecticut's schools, which they are to submit to the state legislature on Feb. 1 after 19 months of work. B5.
 
OIL LEAKS AT A NEW JERSEY COMPANY
Thousands of gallons of oil leaked from a holding tank at a Bayonne, N.J., oil storage operation owned by a company that has been cited for polluting local waters, the Federal Environmental Protection Agency reported. B5.
 
Neediest Cases B4
 
Chroncle B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (75%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (76%); TRACK & FIELD (75%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); STROKES (72%); EXTREME SPORTS (70%); LITIGATION (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (62%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (60%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (60%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



629 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Bentsen Warns Japan on Stalemate in Trade Talks

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 23

 BODY:
Secretary of the Treasury Lloyd Bentsen warned Tokyo today that if it did not make concessions in trade talks with Washington, the United States would consider other measures for dealing with the huge trade imbalance with Japan.
In a hastily arranged stopover in Tokyo at the close of his Asian tour, Mr. Bentsen met separately with Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa and Finance Minister Hirohisa Fujii to deliver a personal message from President Clinton -- that progress in the so-called Framework trade talks of the last six months has been insufficient. 
 Mr. Bentsen did not specify what alternatives the United States would consider, but he seemed to hint at some form of punitive trade measures.
"What we are looking for in the Framework is progress in Japan getting into step with the world economy," Mr. Bentsen said at a news conference after the meetings. "Japan is out of step right now. It has a continuing trade surplus. It has the lowest penetration of manufactured imports, and it has the lowest foreign investment levels among the major nations."
He added: "If we do not have credible agreements by the time of the summit, we would have to re-examine the basis of the framework."
 
Two Leaders to Meet
 President Clinton and Prime Minister Hosokawa are scheduled to meet on Feb. 11 in Washington to review the talks.
Mr. Bentsen came to Tokyo to try to get Japanese political leaders more involved in efforts to break the deadlock so that the meeting in Washington highlights progress rather than exposes a stalemate.
But with the unexpected defeat last week of Mr. Hosokawa's political reform bill, it is not clear that he has the will, the focus or the clout to make the concessions Washington wants.
Some American diplomats and analysts in Tokyo believe that Mr. Hosokawa, assuming he holds onto power, will try to give the Americans just enough concessions to enable the two leaders to legitimately claim on Feb. 11 that progress is being made. Senior negotiators for both sides return to the bargaining table on Monday in Washington, and Mr. Hosokawa assured Mr. Bentsen he would attend the summit meeting on schedule.
 
Minister Says 'Trust Us'
 Mr. Bentsen quoted Mr. Hosokawa as assuring him: "I am telling my people that we want to bring this to a successful conclusion."
Mr. Fujii, the Finance Minister, later told reporters that he and Mr. Hosokawa would make something happen. He said that Japan's response to Mr. Bentsen was: "Trust us."
The Administration's attitude toward Japan these days could best be described as: trust but quantify. It is ready to give the Japanese one last chance to show progress, officials say, but the concessions have to be concrete and measurable.
Some analysts believe the United States does not have a great deal of leverage to pressure Japan, otherwise, Washington would probably have already done so. Also, the Administration cannot push Mr. Hosokawa so hard that his enemies, such as the Liberal Democratic Party, would be able to say that the Prime Minister is selling out Japanese interests.
The Administration insists there is much Mr. Hosokawa can do without exacerbating his political problems.
The Framework talks were slapped together in two nights of marathon negotiations during Mr. Clinton's visit to Tokyo last July for a meeting of the leaders of the Group of Seven industrialized democracies. The idea was to produce a negotiating structure that Mr. Clinton could hold up before he left town and that Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa could point to before he left office.
 
Many Unanswered Questions
 That was the problem. In their haste, the two leaders left vague or unanswered some of the key questions defining their accord, most notably what indicators they would use to determine whether Japan was opening its markets in five key areas: insurance sales, automobiles and auto parts, telecommunications, medical technology sales and intellectual property rights.
As a result, the two sides have spent the last six months simply trying to agree on how to measure results, rather than how Japan would open these markets.
The original agreement also called on Japan to cut taxes and stimulate domestic spending so consumers would buy more foreign goods.
While the talks have languished, every economic indicator they were supposed to improve has gotten worse, American officials say. In July, the Americans projected Japan's growth rate for 1993 at 1.5 to 2 percent and for 1994 at 2 to 3 percent. But Japan's economy ended 1993 with about zero growth and is projected to expand at less than 1 percent in 1994.
Japan's trade surplus with the rest of the world was $120 billion in 1993, up from the previous record of $106 billion in 1992. Its trade surplus with the United States topped $50 billion by the end of 1993, up from $43 billion in 1992.
Under the Framework agreement, Mr. Bentsen said, "the United States agreed to cut its deficit. We have done that. Japan agreed to do what was necessary to achieve strong domestic demand, and if you look at the figures, that has not happened yet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, left, talking with Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa of Japan at his official residence in Tokyo yesterday. Mr. Bentsen called upon Japan to make concessions in trade talks. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO (PRIME MIN); FUJII, HIROHISA (MIN) BILL CLINTON (88%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



630 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Retail Giant Becomes a Job-Seeker's Oasis

SERIES: When Wall-Mart Comes to Town - Second article of a series

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GREENPORT, N.Y., Jan. 19

 BODY:
Robert Eggleston was ready to move out of his home state last November after losing his job on the pit crew of an auto-racing team and finding no other work here in the Hudson Valley, despite 20 years' experience as an Army mechanic.
Then something changed his mind: the prospect of a full-time job at the new Wal-Mart that is to open in the spring in this town across the river from the Catskills. 
 "I'll do anything to get a job right now," said Mr. Eggleston, 41, who has been told by the store's managers that he has a good chance of securing a $6-an-hour position as a maintenance worker. "At least it's going to mean I can pay my own rent without falling behind and without having to collect unemployment to do it."
Since Wal-Mart opened a makeshift hiring office on Jan. 5 in the Moose Lodge here, Mr. Eggleston and more than 1,600 other people have applied for the 245 jobs the store plans to begin filling next week. The ratio of applicants to available slots is comparable to that of some Ivy League colleges. The most coveted are the estimated 172 positions -- including stock clerks, sales clerks and department heads -- that will be full-time and include health and dental insurance.
 
Welcomed by the Jobless
 Often vilified by merchants for its tendency to flatten mom-and-pop businesses on Main Streets across the country, Wal-Mart has been welcomed with open arms here and across the Northeast by the unemployed, who represent 5 percent of the population here in Columbia County, and by untold others who already have jobs but who see the Arkansas-based chain as a springboard to an improved life.
Almost overnight, the nation's largest retailer has become one of Columbia County's 10 largest private employers. But not even Wal-Mart can solve all of this area's economic woes, which mainly stem from the loss of hundreds of manufacturing jobs over the last 20 years as more than a dozen factories closed.
Before being accepted onto the Wal-Mart payroll, applicants must be interviewed three times by several of the six store managers that the company has moved here from around the country. Finalists must pass a drug test and answer an array of sensitive questions, which frequently touch on the "family values" theme that permeates Wal-Mart's corporate philosophy.
Among those who hope to work in the cavernous new store is John Malek, 50, a struggling construction worker who has survived for the last year on the Social Security checks and the savings of his 82-year-old mother, with whom he lives.
"I'm trying to help Mom and meanwhile she's helping me right now," Mr. Malek explained over coffee at her kitchen table. "The wheel goes round. Sonny Boy came home."
One of 600 people who braved a chill wind to apply for work on the first day of interviews, Mr. Malek is being considered for a full-time job as a night-receiving clerk, a position that he said would restore his independence and give him health insurance.
 
Hoping for Jobs
 Rhoda Zukowski, a 34-year-old mother of two who has applied to sell jewelry or children's clothes, said a position at Wal-Mart would allow her to leave the factory job that she said has exposed her to "a lot of chemicals" over the last 16 years.
And David Slemp, 20, who works part-time cutting firewood, said he was counting on a full-time sales job in the store's sporting-goods department to help start a new life with his fiancee, Tanya Robinson, a 20-year-old waitress whom he plans to marry in July.
During a follow-up interview at the Moose Lodge this week, Patrick D. McCormick, a Wal-Mart assistant manager reassigned here from the store in North Adams, Mass., asked Mr. Slemp to respond to a series of hypothetical scenarios.
"Tom is an excellent employee," Mr. McCormick began, sitting at a long wooden table set under an illuminated bingo board. "One day at lunch he and a friend go out and smoke a marijuana cigarette. He comes back only a little high. Should we fire him?"
"Yes," said Mr. Slemp immediately, prompting Mr. McCormick to tell him enthusiastically, "That's right. At Wal-Mart, we don't put up with that."
If there is a downside to the new jobs Wal-Mart is offering, it is the salaries, which begin in many cases at $5.50 an hour, only $1.25 above minimum wage. The estimated $240 that Mr. Eggleston, the retired Army mechanic, would be paid from Wal-Mart before taxes each week is only $9 more than the weekly unemployment check he recently began drawing from the Government.
 
No Complaints
 But Mr. Eggleston is not complaining, saying that a Wal-Mart job would make a world of difference for his self-esteem and give him frequent opportunities to increase his salary. "I can see myself managing one of them one day," he said.
Ed Van Wagner, the manager of the State Department of Labor office in nearby Hudson, said that Wal-Mart was bringing "good jobs" to an area that has, in recent years, lost factories that once made products like matches, artificial Christmas trees, thermostats, computer cables and various textiles.
"Any time you have a company open up with that number of jobs, it just gives everyone so much encouragement," said Mr. Van Wagner, adding that nearly 2,300 people in Columbia County and neighboring Green County collected unemployment checks last week.
"You have to be careful you don't get hung up on salaries," Mr. Van Wagner said. "That's only a portion of the economic stability they're bringing with them."
Before its doors have even opened, Wal-Mart has become a presence here. It has provided 75 construction jobs lasting anywhere from one week to six months. It has tantalized residents with promises of rock-bottom prices. And it has prompted the merchants on Warren Street in Hudson, the closest shopping district to the new store, to rejuvenate their businesses in order to compete.
 
Waiting for the Call
 Similar dynamics have been observed across the New York region over the last two years as Wal-Mart has rapidly established a Northeastern foothold. By early next year, the chain estimates it will have at least 49 stores in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, all built since 1991.
Carol Moore, who is eager to rejoin the work force after five years spent raising her daughter, Heather, is among many here who have been heartened by Wal-Mart's arrival. Like hundreds of others who have completed the round of interviews, she is now awaiting word on whether the store has decided to hire her, in this case for a job selling women's clothes.
"I'm just waiting for the telephone call," Mrs. Moore, 37, said one morning this week, as her daughter stepped off the van that brings her home from preschool. "I hope I get it."
 
 
 
THE SERIES SO FAR
 The first article of this series on Wal-Mart's arrival in the Hudson, N.Y., area appeared on Nov. 28. It looked at the effect of Wal-Mart's presence on businesses along the city's main thoroughfare, Warren Street, including a 161-year-old hardware store.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Since the new Wal-Mart in Greenport, N.Y., opened a makeshift hiring office on Jan. 5 in the Moose Lodge, more than 1,600 people have applied for the 245 jobs the store plans to begin filling next week. Pat Bridget interviewed Ed van Nostrand. Among those who hope to work in the new store is John Malek, a struggling construction worker who has survived for the last year on the Social Security checks and the savings of his 82-year-old mother, with whom he lives. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B1); "I'll do anything to get a job right now," said Robert Eggleston, who applied for a job in maintenance at the new Wal-Mart in Greenport, N.Y. He checked job listings at the State Department of Labor in Hudson. "I'm just waiting for the telephone call," said Carol Moore, who applied for a job selling women's clothes at the new store. She is eager to rejoin the work force after spending five years raising her daughter, Heather. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 
Map of New York showing location of Greenport.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WAL-MART STORES INC COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENPORT (COLUMBIA COUNTY, NY); COLUMBIA COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SURVEYS AND SERIES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (90%); RETAILERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); AUTO RACING (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); MOUNTAINS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); DRUG TESTING (69%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); PLANT CLOSINGS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (51%); DENTAL INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



631 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Syrian Capital Is Still a Center Of Exiles, Rebels and Secrets

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria

 BODY:
For all the talk of peace with Israel and a new and more open relationship with the West, this ancient capital remains a city of shadows and secrets, not only for Palestinian guerrilla organizations but also for both exiled Arab leaders and rebellious Kurds.
They work from offices in dusty apartment buildings on the sidestreets of Damascus, where silent men keep constant watch. The Syrian capital is home to 10 hard-line Palestinian groups, most of them driven from Beirut about a decade ago, as well as to Kurdish nationalists and Baghdad intellectuals who are bitterly opposed to President Saddam Hussein of Iraq, and Shiite Muslims who are foes of the Government in Saudi Arabia. 
 For the last seven years, the capital has also provided refuge for Ali Nasser Mohammed al-Hassani, the former President of Southern Yemen, who fled here after he was deposed in a violent coup by hard-line Marxists in 1986, and who now often holds court at a restaurant in the city's fashionable Shaalan neighborhood.
To some in the West, tolerance by Damascus for guerrilla groups and political plotters with whom it is sympathetic is prima facie evidence that Syria is still supporting organizations that export violence. It is this relationship that persuades Washington to keep Syria on its list of nations considered participants in state-supported terrorism and to enforce economic sanctions against the country.
But while those ties loom as a major obstacle to improved relations with Washington, diplomats here say President Hafez al-Assad is only doing what any shrewd Middle Eastern politician would do, given the constantly shifting sands of Arab politics: offering refuge, and succor to the enemies of his enemies, if only because it allows him to keep a closer eye on them.
Syria's internal security forces closely monitor the activities of the array of resistance groups and guerrillas based here, from the Popular Union of Kurdistan to the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.
In September, for instance, when Palestinian groups staged protests and rallies in Damascus to oppose the agreement between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization, hundreds of uniformed Syrian police officers lined the sidewalks, and armed plainclothes security men watched from windows overlooking the route.
 
Military Activity Barred
 "In recent months, the Syrians have effectively restrained these groups," a European diplomat here said, adding that Syria was restricting their activities to distributing information, including radio broadcasts, and organizing political discussions. They are not allowed to undertake any military activity on Syrian soil.
"But just by having them here, it also gives President Assad a strong card," the diplomat continued. "It gives him the ability to undermine anything he doesn't like."
But Syria's future relationships with some of these groups may be on the line as Washington presses Damascus to cut its ties with the hard-liners, especially groups like the Islamic Party of God or the radical Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, General Command. Both of them are continuing to carry out military operations against Israel in southern Lebanon and the occupied territories.
At the offices of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a basement warren of small rooms alongside a hairdressers' salon, Daoud Talhamy, the group's urbane spokesman, said it was wrong for the West to blame Syria because there are Palestinian groups at war with Israel.
"The Palestinian opposition in Damascus, and other places, is part of the political map of the Palestinian people," Mr. Talhamy said. "To force Syria to close us down will have no effect on the struggle, because the real opposition comes from inside the territories themselves, not from an office in Damascus."
Rather than foment intrigues and plot the overthrow of their home governments, some of the Arab political exiles taking refuge here have recently engaged in what Syrian officials describe as constructive activities. Sheik Hassan al-Saghar, the exiled leader of a group of Saudi Arabian Shiite Muslims opposed to the Riyadh Government, has used his base here to try to reach an accommodation with the Government of Prince Fahd.
In November, Mr. Hassani, the former leader of Southern Yemen, became involved, at the request of officials back home, in efforts to mediate growing political tension and violence in his former country, which unified with Yemen, its northern neighbor, in 1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SYRIA (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (96%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; DAMASCUS (SYRIA); SYRIA; SYRIA (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); IRAQ (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (96%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SYRIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); COUPS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); POLITICS (75%); RELIGION (75%); DEPOSITIONS (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); EVIDENCE (67%); TERRORISM (66%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E; ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



632 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Governors' '94 Message: Crime, Crime and Crime

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23

 BODY:
The issue of crime is sweeping the nation's statehouses, with governors sounding like tough-talking sheriffs as they declare that fighting violence is at the top of their legislative agendas.
A review of dozens of State of the State addresses delivered this month by Democrats and Republicans, in large states and small, finds similar if not identical themes. The emphasis was more on locking up prisoners than on rehabilitation. Again and again, the governors talked about cracking down on juvenile criminals. 
 And in what may foreshadow President Clinton's State of the Union Message on Tuesday, many governors -- from Pete Wilson of California, a Republican, to Mario M. Cuomo of New York, a Democrat -- called for mandatory life sentences for offenders convicted three times of violent crimes. Mr. Clinton is considering endorsing a Federal "three-time loser" law in his address, White House officials said.
 
Guns to Make a Point
 To drive home the law-and-order point in his address, Gov. Evan Bayh of Indiana, a Democrat, stunned the audience when he brandished three handguns at the lectern. Saying they had been confiscated from juveniles, he declared, "We must get guns out of the hands of children."
The new focus on crime is driven at least in part by recent polls showing that although violence is not on the rise, the issue now rivals the economy as the leading domestic concern among Americans.
The notion that governors see the issue as important politically is particularly obvious because the oratory from those seeking re-election this year is particularly strong.
Few governors, however, spoke of new resources to match their new emphasis. With little money available to build new prisons or put many new police officers on the street, many of the efforts are intended to redirect resources.
 
The Message Is Sent
 Though several speeches touched on education, health care, welfare reform and the economy, the governors were so united in seizing on crime that some tossed off the same applause lines.
Gov. Bruce King of New Mexico, a Democrat: "I want to send a message to the violent criminal, that if you commit the crime you do the time."
Gov. Ben Nelson of Nebraska, a Democrat: "We're sending a message -- if you commit a crime, you will do time."
Gov. Mel Carnahan of Missouri, a Democrat: "If you've done the crime in this state, you will do the time."
Many of the speeches were filled with frightening talk of criminals and warnings that their behavior would not be tolerated. "I was not hired to be Arizona's chief social theorist," said Gov. Fife Symington of Arizona, a Republican. "I was not sent here to sit meditating on Freud or on the latest 'root causes' of criminal behavior. The criminal law deals not with theories but with thugs."
 
'Hand Me a Shovel'
 Another Republican, Gov. Kirk Fordice of Mississippi, called for $12 million for new prison space in the state. Ridiculing the idea that he could open up prison space by shortening sentences, he said: "It will be over my dead body before that ever happens. I will fight with every breath in my body to see that the criminals we take off the streets serve their time. And if that means we have to build a bigger jail house, then hand me a shovel, stand back and we'll get it built."
In most of the speeches, it was impossible to distinguish the Republican phrasing from the Democratic. Haley Barbour, the Republican Party chairman, accused Mr. Cuomo of mimicking a former Republican Attorney General in his State of the State address, saying he "sounded like Ed Meese."
One Democrat who talked especially tough was Gov. Zell Miller of Georgia. Saying he would not stand still while "thugs take charge of the streets," Mr. Miller proposed mandatory 10-year sentences for violent crimes and life without parole for second-time violent offenders. He also endorsed a requirement that young people between the age of 13 and 17 who commit violent crimes be tried and prosecuted as adults.
"These are not the Cleaver kids soaping up some windows," said Mr. Miller, who is seeking re-election this year. "These are middle school kids conspiring to hurt their teacher, teen-agers shooting people and committing rapes, young thugs running gangs and terrorizing neighborhoods and showing no remorse when they get caught."
Some governors illustrated their points by citing crimes in their own states, or others. Mr. Wilson, who is seeking re-election this year, called the man accused of kidnapping and murdering 12-year-old Polly Klaas an "animal." He added: "Our streets are being stained with the blood of our children, and it's going to stop. Damn it, it has got to stop."
Mr. Symington also cited the Klaas case, saying he had just read an article that concluded that money spent on prisons is wasted. "The author's cause suffered in my case from bad timing," he said. "I had just finished reading an article about Polly Klaas."
 
Seeing Larger Picture
 Gov. Barbara Roberts of Oregon, a Democrat, recalled how she and the local police had stopped by a house in Portland on a recent Saturday night that was filled with gang members and some young teen-age girls. "The gang members come and go," she said, "trashing the place, crashing on mattresses in the filthy upstairs bedrooms, dealing drugs, slamming the girls around. The girls treated our arrival, between constant phone calls, with apathy, as if it were nothing unusual."
Alex Castellanos, a Republican political strategist, said the governors' attention to crime was not simply playing politics. States, he said, had responsibility for shaping the bulk of the penal code as well as prosecuting and jailing most prisoners.
"I don't think it's a quick-fix thing," Mr. Castellanos said. "I don't think it's responding to poll numbers. There is an increasing randomness to violence that threatens people, there is vulnerability that wasn't there before. These governors are the front-line guys."
Even so, there seemed to be a rush to mention crime, even in states like New Hampshire, which Gov. Stephen Merrill said was "comparatively free from violence." After citing the state's mandatory minimum-sentencing law as a model, Mr. Merrill, a Republican, said, "We will spend more time in 1994 talking about crime, and we should."
 
ILS>Photo: "We must get guns out of the hands of children," said Gov. Evan Bayh of Indiana. At his State of the State address earlier this month, he held up a gun that he said had been confiscated rom juveniles. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; STATES (US); GOVERNORS (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); PRISONS AND PRISONERS US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); PRISONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); SENTENCING (78%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CHILDREN (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (79%); BEN NELSON (58%); EVAN BAYH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



633 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: President's Address Will Emphasize Crime and Health

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23

 BODY:
In his State of the Union Message on Tuesday, President Clinton will try to defuse criticism of his health care plan and make a new bid for middle-class support by emphasizing themes like the need for more individual responsibility and issues like Federal action against crime, aides said today.
Mr. Clinton spent the weekend at Camp David going over the details of a speech that is not expected to include major new initiatives. But aides consider this address pivotal and said that the President would move beyond the economic security issues he concentrated on last year in his first major speech to Congress. 
 This year's address, which will be Mr. Clinton's first official State of the Union Message, will instead focus on the fight for universal health coverage, crime control, worker retraining and, to a lesser degree, restructuring of the welfare system.
And in an effort to demonstrate that he can be as tough on crime as any Republican, Mr. Clinton is expected to endorse a provision of the Senate's crime bill that would require those who are convicted of three violent felonies to be sentenced to prison for life.
That measure, sponsored by Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, applies only to convicts who commit the final crime on Federal property, meaning its application would be narrow. Its significance is primarily symbolic, as governors in several states are proposing similar provisions.
 
Public's Crime Fears
 In endorsing that idea, Mr. Clinton will join many Senate Democrats who approved it in November, but at the same time he will place himself in opposition to Democrats in the House who oppose it. The President has praised some provisions in the Senate bill, like a proposed ban on assault weapons, but has not taken a position on the entire package.
Crime initiatives are not the most significant elements of Mr. Clinton's domestic agenda or of the speech the President will deliver. Health care remains the Administration's priority, but aides said the references to crime have expanded in the text in response to the polls showing it outpacing even health care as a matter of public concern.
The pattern that is emerging for Mr. Clinton's televised, prime-time speech draws heavily on one of his favorite themes: that the United States can prosper only if its citizens rely less on Government and more on themselves.
Mr. Clinton's advisers hope that such an approach will deflect Republican criticism that his health care plan would give Government too big a role in personal choices. They also hope it will calm Congressional liberals who worry how a Government run by a self-described progressive Democrat can be more active when it has less money to spend.
"This is a moment when he will have an audience," said Stanley B. Greenberg, the President's pollster. "The public is very focused on him. He is very much at the center of their contradictory feelings about where the country is going. As a result, they watch him very closely."
At least five drafts of the speech have been assembled since Christmas, and Mr. Clinton is working on yet another this weekend. Aides who have read versions said the core of the address is drawn from four previous speeches delivered in Washington, New Haven, Memphis and Raleigh, N.C. In those appearances, the President spoke to audiences of academics and members of the clergy about crime, violence and moral responsibility.
 
Rhetorical Safety Net
 For several months, Mr. Clinton has sought to weave a rhetorical safety net by combining his major domestic priorities. This way, gun control and health care cost control can be linked. Welfare change, Administration officials reason, becomes a component of health care revision, even though health care is clearly taking precedence.
The whole package, unwieldy as it may seem, is aimed at middle-class voters, the constituency Mr. Clinton has long considered the spine of his support. And those voters, Mr. Clinton's advisers assert, are perfectly content with the President's crammed agenda.
"They're not assessing whether it's fast or slow or messy or neat," said Mark D. Gearan, the White House communications director. "They're making evaluations based on results."
With his relatively high poll ratings and the benefits of a revived economy, Mr. Clinton is now prepared for the demands of a pitched battle on health care that even his most optimistic aides predict will be messy, partisan and filled with compromises.
"The program for this year is making more changes that people have been waiting to have Washington make for 10 or 20 or 30 or 60 years," said one White House official. "We have health care reform within our hands, but it's going to be hard. It's going to be eight months of a ground war."
The White House's own report card on Mr. Clinton's first year puts the various setbacks to one side and instead emphasizes what aides say the President has achieved. "If anything, in the past year, we've suffered from very bad timing," Mr. Gearan said.
While the public's attention was being diverted by incidents like repeated stumbles over high-level appointments, Mr. Clinton has overturned anti-abortion regulations, signed a family leave law, overseen the enactment of an earned-income tax credit for the poor, won Congressional approval for the North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico, signed a handgun control measure known as the Brady Bill into law and created a national service program for young volunteers.
Moreover, Mr. Clinton won passage of an economic plan that reordered some Government priorities and suggested that he was serious about reducing the Federal budget deficit. This helps him claim credit for the improved economy.
 
Seeing a Lull Ahead
 If Mr. Clinton and his advisers have learned anything in their first year in office, it has been to take advantage of blue sky whenever it presents itself. And as a newly appointed special prosecutor moves the investigation of Mr. Clinton's involvement in an Arkansas real estate deal to Little Rock, Ark., and away from Washington, Mr. Clinton fully intends to capitalize on the lull.
The President, his advisers say, is now in the best political position he has been in since his term began.
"He's not Teflon," said one senior official, "but he was much more vulnerable to the ups and downs and battering of the early months before he got anything done on Nafta, the budget and the Brady bill. They made a difference in how people see him.
"Now, " the official said, "things bounce off a little better than they did before."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; WELFARE (US); STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); HEALTH INSURANCE; VOCATIONAL TRAINING; LABOR; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); SENTENCING (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); FELONIES (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); PRISONS (75%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); LIBERALISM (69%); GUN CONTROL (68%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); IFILL, GWEN BILL CLINTON (92%); TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



634 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: A Test Case for Nuclear Disposal

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEEDLES, Calif.

 BODY:
There is probably no more useless tract of land in the United States than an arid 1,000-acre parcel of Federal land in the Mojave Desert 22 miles west of here.
About the only person who has ever made anything from it is Milton Blair, who leases this expanse of sand and creosote bushes from the Bureau of Land Management to run a few head of cattle. Those who know him also say Mr. Blair picks up litter along nearby Interstate 40 to make ends meet. 
 Yet this Godforsaken tract in Ward Valley in California has emerged as the leading national proving ground for whether the United States can find a suitable place to dispose of radioactive waste, and for President Clinton's stated environmental philosophy of finding economically feasible solutions to environmental problems.
The State of California has licensed a company to build a disposal site here for what is defined as low-level nuclear waste, but the Clinton Administration has yet to decide whether it will transfer the land to the state for that purpose.
 
A Serious Setback
 If the dump is built, it would be first such site opened in this country since 1971. But if it is not built, it would be a serious setback for years of effort by Congress to force the states to cooperate in finding places to dump the less-potent wastes from their nuclear power plants, hospitals and pharmaceutical makers. These wastes, which can variously retain substantial levels of radioactivity for just a few months up to millions of years, include things like like tools and gloves used near nuclear reactors, isotopes used in making drugs, and radioactive film and chemicals used in hospital diagnostic machines and procedures.
In 1985 Congress set a date for states to find a way to dispose of their own low-level nuclear waste by joining in compacts with other states, but more than a year has passed since that deadline, and in almost every state the process has stalled in a tangle of protests, lawsuits and fiscal problems.
Only one existing low-level disposal site, in Barnwell, S.C., is still accepting waste from California and other states outside Barnwell's Southeastern Compact, whose member are Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia. And that practice will end on June 30, if no progress is made toward opening the Needles site.
Apart from Barnwell, only one other low-level disposal site is operating in the United States, the Hanford Reservation in Richland, Wash. But Hanford accepts low-level waste only from the 11 members of the Northwest and Rocky Mountain regional compacts.
 
Waste Is Piling Up
 This situation was not what Congress envisioned in 1980 when it passed the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act and amended it in 1985. Since then, 42 states have joined in nine regional compacts; but eight other states, including New York, have neither formed nor joined any compacts, and their low-level wastes are either being stored where they are generated or are being shipped by rail and truck under contract to Barnwell while they search for long-term sites and disposal methods.
In California, by contrast, the process seemed to be on track. The state formed the Southwestern Compact with Arizona, North Dakota and South Dakota and moved steadily toward developing the Ward Valley site. But now that, too, is in limbo, caught up in scientific debate, considerable political opposition within California and uncertainty over whether the Federal Government will turn over the land.
On a recent visit here, Stephen A. Romano gazed out over the bleak valley between the Sacramento and Paiute Mountains and pronounced it ideal for radioactive refuse -- remote, geologically stable and hydrologically isolated. Mr. Romano, who is the manager of California operations for U.S. Ecology, the company that California licensed to build and operate the dump, was reflecting his company's conclusions that the site was suitably distant from rivers and lakes and more than 600 feet above the water table.
"From a national perspective, if we cannot put a disposal site here, you cannot put one anywhere," said Mr. Romano, whose company is a subsidiary of a Houston concern, American Ecology, that has invested $47 million in the project since 1986.
 
Buried 24 Feet Down
 Under the company's plan, the low-level waste would be buried in sealed and shielded containers in five unlined trenches at least 24 feet deep. (High-level wastes, like spent fuel from nuclear power plants, are scheduled to go to another repository planned by the Federal Government under Yucca Mountain in Nevada.)
For a time, it seemed like Ward Valley was on a fast track to approval, with strong backing from Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican. In an 11th-hour act before the Bush Administration expired early last year, Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan agreed to transfer the federally owned land in Ward Valley to California.
At first, it seemed the Clinton Administration would go along. Both President Clinton and his Interior Secretary, Bruce Babbitt, had been involved as governors in original compact legislation, and they seemed content to let the states proceed without hindrance. Mr. Babbitt, as Interior Secretary, accepted the environmental-impact report compiled by U.S. Ecology. Governor Wilson issued the company's license on Sept. 16, before holding a hearing to discuss the environmental issues.
But over the last several months, political pressures have steadily built against the project in an effort led by two Los Angeles groups, the Committee to Bridge the Gap and Americans for a Safe Future.
 
A Senator's Opposition
 Probably the largest political factor was the opposition of Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California. On Oct. 11, she issued a report from the United States Geological Survey that said there was a significant danger that the site could contaminate the Colorado River, 25 miles away, a major source of drinking water for Southern California. Scientists hired by the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California raised similar fears. U.S. Ecology disputed the findings.
Opposition also came from the powerful President pro tem of the state Senate, David A. Roberti, a Democrat.
A White House official said these pressures, reinforced by editorials in California newspapers critical of the project, registered in Washington.
On Nov. 24, Secretary Babbitt brought the whole process to a halt by postponing further action until two lawsuits in state court against the project were resolved.
 
Past Leaks and Violations
 "They don't like having this on their plate," said Carl Pope, executive director of the Sierra Club in San Francisco, discussing Mr. Babbitt's decision. "They had hoped initially they could leave it to the state. But the state made such a hash of it that they could not."
Complicating matters is the record of U.S. Ecology, which had numerous leaks and procedural violations at three other nuclear disposal sites it operated, at Maxey Flats, Ky.; Sheffield, Ill., and Beatty, Nev. All are now closed to nuclear waste.
Mr. Romano acknowledged that there had been problems in the past, but he said the contamination had been cleaned up and that the site here was quite different, particularly because rainfall here is minimal, only five inches a year.
The issue is further confused by a welter of competing claims by each side. Opponents of the dump insist that, as more nuclear power plants are taken out of service in the next 20 years, as much as 97 percent of the nuclear waste disposed of here will come from nuclear power plants. Although this material will have to meet the criteria for low-level waste, opponents contend that it nonetheless will be very long-lived and potentially dangerous. U.S. Ecology disputes this assertion, saying that only 12 percent of the waste dumped here will come from electric utilities.
The issue of the dump seems inexorably headed for California's next campaign for governor.
If the site is opened, observant motorists along Interstate 40 will notice low-level bunkers just south of the freeway. If not, Milton Blair's cows will probably continue to roam this forbidding range for as long as the old rancher lives.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "From a national perspective, if we cannot put a disposal site here, you cannot put one anywhere," Stephen A. Romano, manager of California operations for U.S. Ecology, said of the proposed nuclear waste disposal site in Ward Valley, 22 miles west of Needles, Calif. He stood recently near a collector to measure rainfall at the site. On Nov. 24, Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt brought the process to a halt by postponing further action until two lawsuits in state court against the project are resolved. The Fort Mojave Indians, who paid for the sign, above, are included in the lawsuit. (Photographs by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)
 
Map of California showing location of Ward Valley.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); MOJAVE DESERT (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DIRECTV (92%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (57%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (57%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; MOJAVE DESERT; UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); MOJAVE DESERT (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; NUCLEAR WASTES NUCLEAR WASTE (92%); DESERTS (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (88%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (88%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (76%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); POWER PLANTS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



635 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: THE EARTHQUAKE;
2 Angelenos Who Took a Second Hit

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 23

 BODY:
Piero Selvaggio had barely finished clearing the charred rubble of his Big Rock Canyon home, which burned to the ground in November's brush fires, when last week's earthquake tore through one of the restaurants he owns here, sending a red river of wine worth a million dollars coursing down Pico Boulevard toward the sea.
On the other side of town, Hung Lee was also a two-time loser. His furniture store, stripped bare by looters in the 1992 riots, took a hard hit in Monday's predawn tremor. Chunks of plaster fell from the ceiling, deep cracks laced the walls, and Mr. Lee, already so deeply in debt that he had just leased his building to a tenant, wondered where he would find the money for repairs. 
 Mr. Selvaggio, a Sicilian immigrant who made his fortune on these golden shores, and Mr. Lee, who fled Vietnam in a rickety boat for the land of freedom, are two of the untallied Angelenos who took a second or even a third blow last week when a deadly earthquake battered this already battered city.
 
Windows Into the Soul
 In apocalyptic succession, Los Angeles has been ravaged, first by riots in the inner city, then by fires in the enclaves of the privileged and now by an earthquake that has spread suffering among rich and poor alike.
It will be months before people like Mr. Selvaggio and Mr. Lee tally the latest round of damage to their businesses and homes and take the measure of their accumulated loss, material and emotional. But their stories, while incomplete, are windows into the soul of this region, which has borne a world of misery in the last few years.
"We go through bad things here," said Mr. Lee, clutching a bulging folder marked "insurance" as he talked in his Koreatown store, where plaster litters the carpets and lamp shades sit askew. "It happens again and again. But what can we do?"
Mr. Selvaggio made jokes about living through "first the bake and then the shake." But he has also had moments of wondering, "Why me? Why me again?"
But he, too, sees his own troubles in the context of a stricken place. "This city has gone through so much that rebounding is becoming a way of life," Mr. Selvaggio said, offering cappuccino and apologizing for the stench of wine in his Santa Monica restaurant.
His wife, Stacy Dalgleish, a part-time psychologist and mother of three, spoke of the double dose of trauma in the language of her profession. "I was just getting through the shock so I could get to the depression," she said. "Now I'm back to the shock."
 
Success in America
 Mr. Selvaggio's restaurants are among the most renowned in the area, and are the pride of a 47-year-old immigrant who came to the United States as a teen-ager with a few dollars in his pocket and no knowledge of English. Mr. Selvaggio worked in a cafeteria in Brooklyn and later made his way to Los Angeles, where he joined an uncle who was waiting tables at Chasen's in Beverly Hills.
Mr. Selvaggio opened his first restaurant, Valentino, more than 20 years ago at the eastern fringe of Santa Monica, serving chicken cacciatore in dowdy surroundings. But today Valentino is a stylish palace of haute cuisine, one of the first restaurants in the country to import fine olive oil and white truffles and the home of a prized wine collection, which numbered 90,000 bottles before last week's quake.
Mr. Selvaggio also owns two other restaurants, and they were largely undamaged. They are Primi, in the West Los Angeles section, a virtual commissary to 20th Century Fox Studios, and Posto, in the city's Sherman Oaks section, just miles from the earthquake's epicenter. Posto was the only building on its block of Ventura Boulevard to go unharmed.
Not so Valentino, where 13,000 bottles of wine flew from their racks in a second-floor storage area, sending a cascade of wine down a narrow staircase, toward the dining rooms and kitchen and out onto the street. Dozens of employees rushed to the restaurant before dawn and helped clean up the mess. Two days later, decked with fresh flowers and sweet with the smell of warm bread, Valentino reopened.
 
Loss Put at $1 Million
 Mr. Selvaggio estimates the retail cost of the lost wine to be $1 million, although most of it is irreplaceable and none of it was insured.
As he grieved for the wine, his wife had earlier grieved for their home on the cliffs of Malibu, destroyed in the fires that swept through the canyons last fall. It was a relatively modest ranch-style home, but lushly appointed with Art Nouveau antiques, Persian rugs and a library of first editions.
All that is left on the lot overlooking the Pacific Ocean is a stone barbecue pit, a children's playhouse, a garden where the couple grew rosemary, tomatoes, lemons and figs for the restaurants and a cat that refuses to relocate.
After the fire, Mr. Selvaggio and Ms. Dalgleish rented a house in the hills of Santa Monica. That house, a stilted aerie of redwood and glass, is no longer habitable because the quake shattered its huge windows, just yards from where 6-year-old Girogio was sleeping.
 
School and Church Destroyed
 The family is now staying with an elderly friend, godmother to 4-year-old Gianpiero, and looking for yet another place to rent. And their dislocation does not end with housing: the Malibu school that the children attended was destroyed in the fire, and the family's church in Santa Monica tumbled in the quake.
By contrast, Mr. Lee and his family were spared damage at their home in Arcadia, a suburb east of Los Angeles, both during the earthquake and the earlier fires and riots. But their business, the Elegant Lifestyle furniture store at the edge of downtown Los Angeles, was ravaged in the riots that erupted in late April and early May 1992 after a jury acquitted four white police officers on all but one count in the beating of Rodney G. King, a black man.
While many other Koreatown merchants stood armed on the roofs of their stores to ward off looters on the second day of the riots, Mr. Lee 42, huddled at home in the San Gabriel Valley, far from the violence.
In his absence, rioters smashed the windows of his corner store, burned rugs and sofas and stole the rest of the furniture, hundreds of huge pieces in all. Mr. Lee said the property damage amounted to about $20,000 and the furniture was worth $120,000.
 
A Refugee With Dreams
 It was a terrible blow to Mr. Lee, a self-made merchant who fled Vietnam in 1977, making the treacherous passage across the South China Sea to Hong Kong in a 36-foot boat with his wife, infant son and 60 other people. One of his brothers, also with a wife and child, tried the same escape in another boat and were lost at sea.
In the United States, Mr. Lee and his wife, Tina, found jobs within months, he at the loading dock in a warehouse and she behind a sewing machine in a garment factory. At night they went to a community college to learn English.
A few years ago, he bought the furniture store and a manicure parlor for his wife. Then the riots shattered Mr. Lee's dreams.
For weeks afterward, he was too traumatized to work. Then he began repairing the damage, replacing the merchandise and applying for Federal assistance.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency gave Mr. Lee $1,000 to pay one month's rent at his suburban town house, but only after a long siege of haggling because the building was in probate and proving ownership and tenancy was difficult.
"If I need more money, I have to submit more papers," Mr. Lee said, "so I forget it."
 
'How Do I Fight Them?'
 He also applied to the Small Business Administration for a loan. But his request was denied because he had accumulated $40,000 in debts to replace his merchandise and pay his family's day-to-day bills, and the agency doubted his ability to repay a loan.
"They are the Government," Mr. Lee said. "How do I fight them?"
In those days, he said, the Good Samaritan in his life was the Bank of America, which waived his $10,000-a-month mortgage payments for the six months it took him to reopen the store.
Amid a stubborn recession here, and with business down more than a third since the riots, Mr. Lee was buried in debt. Earlier this month, seeing no other recourse, he rented his 8,000-square-foot store to his longtime manager, Jesse Kim, who asked Mr. Lee to stay on as an employee.
Then came the earthquake. "I thought when Mr. Kim took over my responsibilities would end," Mr. Lee said. "But I own the property. Now I don't know where to find the money to repair."
 
Father's Death Recalled
 His voice broke for the first time in a long conversation. Softly, he recounted his father's death from a heart attack in 1975, shortly after the Communists seized his plastics factory near Cam Ranh Bay.
"Now I know how my father felt at that time," Mr. Lee said. "You work for how many years, and you lose everything."
But Mr. Lee and Mr. Selvaggio have mostly resisted self-pity.
"It hurts, sure," Mr. Selvaggio said. "There are moments of tears, of feeling everything's unfair. But life is not supposed to be easy. It's been mostly a smooth ride for us. So now there are bumps, but we'll continue."
Mr. Lee said essentially the same thing. "Even though I lost everything, I will be working hard again," he said. "This country, if you work hard, you really get somewhere. I am still young. There is time to go."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Piero Selvaggio and his wife, Stacy Dalgleish, looking at a broken bottle of rare wine, which was one of 13,000 bottles damaged in his restaurant during the earthquake. Hung Lee, right, whose furniture store was stripped by looters in the 1992 riots, took a hard hit in last week's predawn tremor. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SANTA MONICA PLACE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; LOOT AND LOOTING RIOTS (90%); FIRES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); CITY LIFE (71%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



636 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: 'Funky New York,' and Other Exports

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Ordinarily it would have been no big deal that Hironobu Sekiguchi chose to go shopping in New York City on Saturday afternoon. He even made it clear he didn't have unlimited money to spend.
But on his trip, Mr. Sekiguchi, a businessman from Tokyo, was driven about in a chauffeured car, attended by New York State officials and assorted publicly financed consultants and greeted by merchants like a long-lost friend. He was in New York to find things to sell in his new boutique in Harajuku, a popular Tokyo shopping area, especially among teen-agers. It is called See the Scene and specializes in what he calls "funky New York" merchandise. 
 "We're looking for something great that isn't yet in Japan that has the potential to be hot," he said in Japanese translated by Meggie Yamazaki, a business associate.
 
Feeling It Firsthand
 The shopping trip was the result. "He's interested in funky New York," said Kathryn D. Leary, a consultant whose expertise is bringing black-owned and Japanese businesses together. "We're letting him touch it and feel it firsthand."
By the end of the day Mr. Sekiguchi had visited an artist's loft in the Fort Greene section of Brooklyn and had been pleased with some chopstick holders shaped like New York taxicabs. In Harlem, he politely turned thumbs down to a mink crown like the one worn by Queen Latifah, the rap artist. It appeared not to matter that the crown was cleverly designed to convert to a collar for a jacket or sweater.
What he most wanted to buy, it turned out, was not even for sale until he mentioned it: the colorful uniforms -- made of Kente cloth and bearing the phrase "Harlem U.S.A." -- worn by the staff of the McDonald's on West 125th Street, a few doors east of the Apollo Theater. "A refreshing surprise," he said, as a hip-hop group hired for his benefit, GQ and the Funky Republic, performed in the restaurant.
Mr. Sekiguchi is the first real business contact corralled by New York State economic development officials to test a plan to increase exports by black-owned businesses to Japan. Tomorrow he will meet with all 10 companies selected for the program's first stage, and possibly make some selections and sign a check or two.
The National Minority Business Council, a private educational and training group in New York, chose the program's participants, looking for companies whose products had promise as exports to Japan and whose owners were willing to adapt them to meet Japanese demands. The council then hired consultants to work with the business owners.
They have been attending weekly classes, learning such useful tidbits as the proper way to give and receive a business card in Japan. Products have already been shipped to Japan for inspection. Among other lessons, the Americans have learned that many Japanese prefer lighter jewelry made from precious metals, not heavier pieces done in metals like brass.
 
Justifying State Help
 Nina Liebman, chief of international programs for the New York State Department of Economic Development, said the state help was justified because exports created jobs. Also, she said, all the companies taking part would have had great difficulty exporting on their own, particularly to a market as difficult as Japan's.
"It seems so abstract," she said. "If you're a small business, the last thing you're going to think about is how to expand into Japan."
But the economic official suggested that if small companies could learn to export to Japan, especially given the economic downturn there, they could probably succeed anywhere.
Chey Backuswalcott, whose W. W. Chey New York Company makes jewelry, umbrellas and T-shirts, among other products, wholeheartedly agreed. She said that just as she learned to modify her products for Japan, she could now do the same for other markets.
"The Japanese market is very fertile today," she said, "but another market may be more fertile later on."
The shopping trip to Brooklyn was intended to give Mr. Sekiguchi some idea of the places where the products -- including tailored capes that convert to miniskirts and sculptured pins of African masks -- come from.
He was not overwhelmed by the sights. "Wherever you go in New York, it looks the same," he said, even as the car crawled down 125th Street past a visual explosion of street peddlers and swarming shoppers.
But he could hardly forget that many Japanese are beginning to discover American black culture. Ms. Leary, the consultant, who regularly travels to Japan, said that rap music was a favorite among young Japanese and that Spike Lee had three shops in Tokyo selling memorabilia from his movies. She said some Japanese had even made a weeklong tour of important sites in the life of Malcolm X.
 
Seeking Positive Images
 Japanese politicians have sometimes been criticized for insensitive comments about blacks in the United States, and Ms. Leary, who is black, said one of her goals was to introduce the Japanese to successful blacks. "Part of what I try to do is show them positive models of African-Americans who made it in business," she said.
At MoNoCo Design, which features colorful ceramics reflecting the Jamaican roots of Noel Copeland, a street artist in Fort Greene, Mr. Sekiguchi seemed pleased with the company's newest product: sushi plates. But he said that a teapot needed little teacups to go with it, rather than the large mugs on display.
Mr. Copeland said that would be no problem, and said he could also whip up a dandy rice bowl if desired. He said he was very conscious of the Japanese reputation for high-quality products. "It's forced me to bring up my standard," he said.
At STIX Place, a furrier in Mart 125 in Harlem, Mr. Sekiguchi looked at all manner of things made from mink: baseball caps, bomber jackets, ponytail holders, a hat modeled after the big-billed sort favored by Janet Jackson, the singer. Halter tops and bikinis made of fur were also available. "Unbelievable," the Japanese businessman said in English.
But he didn't see anything he wanted to buy. "A tough sell in Japan," he later said through an interpreter.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hironobu Sekiguchi, right, a businessman from Tokyo, examined items for sale at Steven Cottman's store in Harlem. Mr. Sekiguchi toured New York recently as part of a program set up by state economic development officials to increase exports by black-owned businesses to Japan. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO (JAPAN); JAPAN; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BLACKS (IN US); RETAIL STORES AND TRADE EXPORT TRADE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (87%); HIP HOP CULTURE (87%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); RAP MUSIC (69%); RESTAURANTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: SEKIGUCHI, HIRONOBU; MARTIN, DOUGLAS MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



637 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani and the Eternal Diva Debate;
Can a True Opera Fan Admire Both Callas and Tebaldi? Absolutely, the Mayor Says

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
On Saturday night, Rudolph W. Giuliani entered a realm that can easily match the New York City streets in animosity and extravagance. It is a realm where most politicians are reluctant to tread, where fistfights have broken out and lifelong friendships broken up, a realm of high passion and low opinions -- the realm of the opera fan.
The Mayor was interviewed on "Opera Fanatic," a radio program on WKCR-FM. He was prepared to take tough positions, answering questions on pressing issues: How good is the Metropolitan Opera? Who was a better tenor, Jussi Bjoerling or Franco Corelli in his prime? Should there be booing in the opera house? And what about young Andrew Giuliani -- does he have a future in opera? 
 This is not the first time Mr. Giuliani has ventured into the world of vocal registers and devoted claques. His host, Stefan Zucker, who bills himself as "the world's highest tenor" (the Guinness Book of World Records gave him that title after he held an A above high C for 3.8 seconds in a Town Hall recital), began the interview by recalling that the Mayor's first appearance on his show in October "almost cost him the election."
At that time, the candidate, whose resume included the leadership of his high-school opera club, asserted that his two favorite sopranos of the century were Maria Callas and Renata Tebaldi. The judgment caused a scandal among "Fanatic" listeners. "Everyone knows," Mr. Zucker declared, "you can't be a fan of both." Mr. Zucker was finally convinced of the candidate's integrity when he expressed dissatisfaction with the Metropolitan Opera.
This time, speaking for a half-hour on the telephone, Mr. Giuliani was ready to defend his positions while tempting listeners with the prospect of a mayor who might take an active interest in the arts.
He called for "preserving New York City's role as cultural capital" of the United States and the world. He argued for the economic importance of the arts to New York. He declined to enforce his tastes on any institution because of his belief in the "free marketplace." He sought to dispel any impression that he might advocate cutting back on city money given to small arts organizations in favor of more established "tourist attractions." And he acknowledged that yes, Andrew "has a flair for drama" and might "take naturally to the operatic stage."
 
Corelli vs. Bjoerling
 But back to the scandal, which Mr. Giuliani handled with the skill of one used to political battle. Despite the rivalry between fans of Callas and Tebaldi, he argued, "It's very easy to like both." Callas, after all, had an extraordinary instrument and was an unparalleled dramatic actress; her voice was not beautiful, but her performances could be superb. Tebaldi did not have as great an instrument, but her voice was "lyrical, lovely, luscious."
When he was pressed to give a verdict in the case of Corelli vs. Bjoerling, Mr. Giuliani was equally judicious. Mr. Corelli was a master of the heroic tenor roles, he said, noting that he had been present at Mr. Corelli's 1961 Metropolitan Opera debut in Verdi's "Trovatore" and called it "one of the most exciting experiences I have ever had."
"Bjoerling had different strengths," the Mayor said, evident in more lyrical roles because he had such an "unusual quality to his voice."
 
What About the Met?
 As for the Met, Mr. Giuliani felt that the orchestra had improved, that there were some "daring productions," but that sometimes there were disappointing casts. The size of the house, he said, requires "both a gigantic voice and a beautiful voice" -- a rare combination.
"Have you ever booed?" Mr. Zucker asked the Mayor.
"No, I never have," he replied, though he thought there were times when it might be appropriate, just to keep up standards.
"Have you ever wept?"
"Sure," Mr. Giuliani said, mentioning Marcello's murmur of "Coraggio!" ("Courage!") to Rodolfo in Puccini's "Boheme."
"Have you ever fallen asleep at the opera?"
"Sure," admitted the Mayor again, "several times during the 'Ring' operas." The Mayor promised to return to Mr. Zucker's show to compare recordings of Verdi's "Otello" and converse with Mr. Corelli. And though he may find that he is too busy, he hoped he would get to the opera "quite a bit" during the spring. One listener was already offering him a pair of seats.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Callas gets high marks from the Mayor for her power and her presence . . . (The New York Times, 1965); . . . but Tebaldi's voice, he says, was "lyrical, lovely, luscious." (Bob Ganley, 1969)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: OPERA FANATIC (RADIO PROGRAM); METROPOLITAN OPERA

ORGANIZATION: OPERA FANATIC (RADIO PROGRAM); METROPOLITAN OPERA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA; RADIO POLITICS (90%); OPERA (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); CITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); SCANDALS (69%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (61%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (60%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CALLAS, MARIA (1923-77); TEBALDI, RENATA; ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



638 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Proposal to Overhaul Schools Brings Opposition From Parents and Teachers

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Jan. 22

 BODY:
Teachers concerned about job security and parents who oppose the philosophy behind outcome-based education spoke out in force this month at hearings on a state commission's recommendations for remaking Connecticut's public schools.
Some members of the panel, the Commission on Educational Excellence for Connecticut, were more concerned afterward by a lack of enthusiasm they sensed for the plan to overhaul Connecticut's schools, which they are to submit to the state legislature on Feb. 1 after 19 months of work.
 
'If It Isn't Broken. . . .'
 Barbara Toman, who represents the Parent-Teacher Association on the commission, said: "People are saying, 'The schools aren't broken in my community. They're not broken, therefore they don't need to get fixed.' " 
 The legislature created the commission in 1992 to develop a plan "to promote an outcome-based, world-class educational system" for Connecticut that would prepare students to compete in a global economy.
Its proposal, following a model endorsed by national groups like the Business Round Table and the National Governors' Association, focuses on the educational outcomes -- like knowledge and skills gained in schools -- rather than the money spent on schools or the time students are in class.
The idea is that once schools decide what their graduates need to know, they can redesign their curriculums to help nearly all students reach that goal. The role of teachers will be to help all students learn the lesson, at their own pace according to their ability, rather to sort them into winners and losers after each test. But the final standard will be high for everyone, supporters of the idea say.
After more than a year of immersion in this educational philosophy, some commission members said they were troubled by what they learned at the hearings, not only by comments that showed that speakers did not understand what they were trying to do, but also by their own inability to explain their proposals clearly and concisely.
 
A Social Experiment?
 Several speakers from a group called the Committee to Save Our Schools, for example, assailed the philosophy of outcome-based education, saying it was, in reality, a social experiment to shape the values of children and to achieve social equality by holding all children to one level.
"The commission is not looking for excellence in education," a founder of the group, Kenneth Von Kohorn of Weston, told the commission at a hearing in Stamford this week. "Through its recommendation of universal standards or results, it is seeking, even demanding, mediocrity. Wherever universal outcomes have been attempted, standards have always been set low."
In reply, commission members accused Mr. Von Kohorn's group of being interested in winning public financing for private schools. The group does advocate school choice as a way of improving schools, and Mr. Von Kohorn acknowledges that he has four children in private schools.
Some panel members said the commission's draft recommendations and summaries did not provide research that refute his charges, or give examples of how outcome-based education, as the panel defines it, would actually change a classroom, so that parents could picture how it might affect their children.
"Because we have not stood up and said what we mean, we have been defined by others, who have no good will and have no interest in what this commission is about," said State Senator Kevin Sullivan, a commission member and Senate chairman of the legislature's Education Committee.
 
Some Teachers in Opposition
 While public hearings are often a forum for critics rather than supporters, the criticism heard by commission members during the last two weeks was disconcerting because it was evidence of sharply focused opposition from two directions, not only some parents, but also teachers, as the panel sought a consensus among its own members.
That conflict threatened to create an impasse last Thursday as the commission considered a recommendation to allow school districts to extend the school year without negotiating higher salaries for teachers.
To the two teacher representatives on the 43-member commission, the proposal, along with a proposed change to the state's tenure law, was more evidence that the panel was blaming teachers for everything wrong with public education. Why should teachers finance reform by donating their time, they asked.
Other members disagreed, saying a longer year was not much to expect in return for the pay raises Connecticut teachers received in the 1980's, as part of another wave of education reform. The public would not support a reform plan now that raised salaries even more, they said.
In the end, the commission sidestepped the issue. But it raised the larger one of how much anyone was willing to spend to improve the state's schools, as the recession lingers and corporations continue to announce layoffs.
The commission's mandate was to think big. Yet the cost, to finance programs like preschooling for all children and extensive retraining for all teachers, is estimated at $600 million a year, nearly half again what the state now spends on education.
Senator Sullivan and other legislators warned that the legislature would not take the commission seriously if it recommended that price tag. Others warned that they were going through "a hollow exercise" if they did not call for enough money, especially to provide enough to give poor children in rundown city schools equal opportunities.
But the commission defeated a motion to state the full estimated cost. Instead, it is recommending a combination of grants, incentives and programs totaling $200 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CURRICULA (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); SCHOOL CHOICE (72%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



639 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Paramount Publishing to Cut Jobs and Books

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

 BODY:
In their first public discussion of plans for the soon-to-be-acquired Macmillan Inc., officials at Paramount Publishing said last week that they would reorganize divisions, reduce the number of imprints and published titles and lay off up to 10 percent of the two companies' combined work force of 10,000.
Barring any last-minute glitches, Paramount's $553 million purchase of Macmillan is to be completed by the end of February. The result would give Paramount Publishing, the parent company of Simon & Schuster, about $2 billion in annual revenues, comfortably assuring its position as the largest publisher in the United States and the second largest in the world behind Bertelsmann A.G. of Germany. 
 The merger comes at a time of rapid consolidation in the industry. To improve their economic efficiency, many companies are pruning titles from their lists, dismissing long-time editors and shutting down imprints deemed unprofitable.
 
Other Publishers' Moves
 In the last few weeks, for instance, Harcourt Brace, a venerable name in publishing, announced plans to slash its adult trade list in half and to lay off the top echelon of its management in New York, and Houghton Mifflin said it would dissolve the Ticknor & Fields imprint into the rest of its list and part company with the imprint's top editor. In addition, the Hearst Corporation is entertaining bids for its book properties -- William Morrow and Avon Books -- although it is unclear if a sale will go through.
At the same time, employees at many of the largest publishers have been informally instructed to produce fewer titles a year and to find other ways to save money. And there are the usual rumors of other mergers and shutdowns in the industry.
"It's happening not just in publishing but in corporate America," said Richard E. Snyder, the chairman of Paramount Publishing, who predicted 20 years ago that publishing would become concentrated in fewer companies. "Under the old system, there wasn't enough profitability or efficiency. The law of economics always prevails, and it finally prevailed in publishing."
Even as the publishing company's owner, Paramount Communications, has been the subject of a bidding war between QVC Network Inc. and Viacom Inc., Mr. Snyder has embarked on an expansion plan. Paramount Publishing has bought not just Macmillan but also the computer publishing operations of Markt & Technik, a German publisher.
At the newly configured Paramount, a visible initial change will be the consolidation under the Scribner's name of many of Macmillan's adult trade imprints -- including Scribner's, Collier, Lisa Drew Books, Atheneum, Otto Penzler Books and the adult books that appear under the Macmillan name. The new division will publish a reduced list of 60 to 75 books a year, officials said, and will compete directly with Simon & Schuster, Paramount's adult trade imprint.
The Free Press, Macmillan's highly successful publisher of political books including "The Real Anita Hill" by David Brock, will continue as a separate imprint, Paramount officials said.
The dissolving of imprints may not mean much to readers who seldom glance at publishers' names on the books they buy. But each imprint carries a certain tradition and style of the editor or editors who run it, and adherents of the old-style, more personal school of publishing said they were saddened and worried about the future.
One high-ranking Macmillan editor, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said small imprints attracted creative editors. "It's like having your own small company that's yours, and that you feel proud of and want your name associated with," the editor said. "I think it's really quite important but it isn't a philosophy that seems to be shared at Simon & Schuster."
Jack Romanos, the president of the consumer group of Paramount Publishing, said the new Scribner's imprint would be more competitive in today's market. "Macmillan was struggling under a publishing philosophy that was really out of sync with the times, focusing on low-risk inexpensive-to-acquire titles," he said.
Since the deal was announced in November, Paramount executives have held scores of meetings with their counterparts at Macmillan. While no one offered specifics about layoffs, people in both companies said that with the possible exception of several division heads and big-name editors, most of the cuts were likely to come from technical and support services, not from the editorial departments.
"It's my impression that a surprisingly large number of people are being kept," a Macmillan official said. "From my point of view, it hasn't been the massacre that everyone thought it would be."
Paramount officials have been holding one-on-one meetings with top managers and acquiring editors at Macmillan, but have not met with many lower-level editors and assistants. This week, Paramount and Macmillan employees will receive "Dear Colleague" letters from Mr. Snyder and Mr. Romanos, describing the structure of the new company.
 
A Treasury of Titles
 Macmillan, which was founded in London in 1843 by two Scottish brothers, was bought in 1988 by Robert Maxwell, the British media entrepreneur. Its rich backlist -- already-published titles to which it controls the copyrights -- includes books by Edith Wharton, Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald. Among the most famous perennial titles are "The Elements of Style" by William Strunk Jr. and E. B. White; "Jonathan Livingston Seagull" by Richard Bach, and "The Call of the Wild" by Jack London.
After Mr. Maxwell died at sea in 1991, the company declared bankruptcy and was put up for sale.
In addition to its trade division, which is to account for about one-quarter to one-third of the company's annual revenues, the reorganized Paramount Publishing will include a formidable reference division with annual revenues of $250 million. The new department will be called Macmillan Publishing, officials said, and will be divided into three sections: a popular reference group, a computer publishing group under the Prentice Hall name, and an academic and library reference group.
In the lucrative area of children's publishing, Paramount officials said the number of titles would be reduced to about 550 a year, from 650. The children's list is to be consolidated into a division under the Simon & Schuster name. It will have 7 imprints, down from a combined 18 at the two companies today, Mr. Romanos said.
While many employees were unsure about their futures with the combined company, some Macmillan workers said they feared a change in corporate style.
"They're upset because they're saying goodbye to something they love," one employee said of others. "It was a very nice place to work, with nice management. Paramount is more aggressive in every single way, from when the door is opened on Monday morning to when the heat is turned off on Friday nights."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jack Romanos, President of the consumer book group of Paramount Publishing -- "Macmillan was struggling under a publishing philosophy that was really out of sync with the times." (Jim Kalett); Richard E. Snyder, Chairman of Paramount Publishing -- "There wasn't enough profitability or efficiency. The law of economics always prevails, and it finally prevailed in publishing." (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MACMILLAN INC; PARAMOUNT PUBLISHING HEARST CORP (91%); MACMILLAN INC (91%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (91%); BERTELSMANN AG (70%); VIACOM INC (63%); QVC INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: MACMILLAN INC; PARAMOUNT PUBLISHING

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOK TRADE LAYOFFS (92%); PUBLISHING (90%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); MERGERS (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); 

PERSON: LYALL, SARAH

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



640 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: Spielberg Gets Golden Globes in Two Categories

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Jan. 23

 BODY:
Five days after a devastating earthquake struck Los Angeles, the folks in Hollywood did exactly what was expected of them: they put on their best clothes and went to an awards party.
The 51st annual Golden Globes presentations on Saturday night, an annual rite that is often predictive of the Academy Awards, was gripped this year by the impact of last Monday morning's earthquake. Some expected guests, like Kirstie Alley and Arsenio Hall, canceled because their homes were severely damaged. Others, like Debra Winger and Tim Robbins, chose not to fly in from New York. Many people seemed nervous. 
 "No, no, no, I'm not nervous about living in L.A.," insisted Tom Hanks, who won the best-actor award for his performance in "Philadelphia" as a lawyer stricken with AIDS. Standing near the swarming red-carpeted entry of the Beverly Hilton Hotel, Mr. Hanks summed up the eerie show-must-go-on quality not only of the evening but, perhaps, of life here.
"I don't think there'll be another earthquake, but if there is we'll be O.K.," he said quickly. "I don't think there'll be another fire, but if there is, we'll be O.K. I don't think there'll be another riot, but if there is we'll be O.K."
Nearby, Steven Spielberg, who won as best director for "Schindler's List," which was named best picture, took a little flashlight from the pocket of his jacket. "Just in case," he said.
Liam Neeson, the star of the film, lit a cigarette. "I'm told the chandeliers are all strapped up," he said, half-smiling. Natasha Richardson, who accompanied him, said, "I thought of wearing a hard hat but it wouldn't go with the clothes."
 
'No Earthquakes in Brooklyn'
 As they spoke, the actress Rosie Perez, who still keeps her apartment in Brooklyn, rushed past. "The morning after the earthquake I went straight to the airport, but there were no flights to New York," she said. "I wanted to go back immediately. I'd rather freeze than have the earth move. Believe me, no earthquakes in Brooklyn. Hoodlums, yeah. I know most of them, so I'm fine."
It was that kind of evening at a yearly Hollywood ritual that is the oddest, biggest and most charming party in town. The Golden Globes are given by the 84 members of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, which is composed of some journalists and some hangers-on.
Over the years, the Golden Globes ceremony -- which was broadcast this time on the TBS cable network -- has endeared itself to the movie industry with its informal cocktail party, dinner, large amounts of wine, table-hopping and numerous awards for movies and television shows. (Years ago, before the show was televised, it was not uncommon for movie stars and executives to get a little drunk; but those days are long gone.) The Globes are not only a marked contrast to the formality, tensions and enormously high stakes of the Academy Awards (which are to be presented on March 21), but are also sometimes a bellwether for the Oscars.
This year, the only surprise was the selection of Winona Ryder as best supporting actress for "The Age of Innocence." She was selected over Ms. Perez, who was nominated for the drama "Fearless"; Anna Paquin, the child in "The Piano"; Penelope Ann Miller in "Carlito's Way," and Emma Thompson for "In the Name of the Father."
The other winners were expected. There was Mr. Spielberg, whose drama about the Holocaust is favored to win numerous Academy Awards. It appeared in the same year that his dinosaur fantasy, "Jurassic Park," emerged as one of the top-grossing films of all time.
"All the letters I'm getting on 'Schindler's List'; the reaction to it," he said, shaking his head after winning the award. "I mean I wouldn't trade three 'Jurassic Parks' for 'Schindler's List.' " He was asked about a story, widely published here, that high school students laughed during a screening of the movie in Oakland.
"It's fascinating that in certain cultures within America, certain socio-economic circles, a lot of our kids are so desensitized to violence," he said. "So many high school kids don't know what the word 'Holocaust' means."
One of the more emotional comments was given by Branko Lustig, a producer of "Schindler's List," who was born in Yugoslavia and spent three years in German labor camps in World War II. "I remember," he told reporters haltingly, "anytime somebody died, anytime somebody was hanged, the last words these people had was, 'Do not forget us.' Those were the words." The movie, he said, helps fulfill the wishes of those who perished.
 
Wide Range of Responses
 Mr. Hanks delivered one of the more elegant speeches of the evening in accepting the best-actor award, paying tribute to AIDS victims and then citing the role that his wife, the actress Rita Wilson, plays in his life. "I'm a lucky man," he said.
The best performance by an actress in a drama was attributed to Holly Hunter for her role in "The Piano" as a mute who has an illicit affair in colonial New Zealand. Tommy Lee Jones was named best supporting actor for "The Fugitive."
The award for best actress in a musical or comedy was given to Angela Bassett for her portrayal as the singer Tina Turner in "What's Love Got to Do With It." Robin Williams, who masquerades as a British nanny in "Mrs. Doubtfire," won as best actor in a musical or comedy.
Of course Mr. Williams had a field day with the earthquake. "I'm not nervous about the awards, I'm nervous about the buildings," he said, entering the hotel. "What'll I do if another one hits? Look for exits. Hide under solid tables. Stand near a lady who's had a face lift because it won't fall." Mr. Williams's wife, Marcia, standing beside him, rolled her eyes.
Top winners among television shows included "Seinfeld," which won as best comedy series, "N.Y.P.D. Blue," best drama, and "Barbarians at the Gate," about Wall Street in the 1980's, which was honored as best mini-series or movie made for television. David Caruso was named best actor in a dramatic show for playing a policeman on "N.Y.P.D. Blue," and Kathy Baker best actress in a dramatic series, for "Picket Fences."
Perhaps the strangest comment of the strange evening was given by Mr. Seinfeld, who spoke glibly about the earthquake and said it was probably "sensationalized" by the press.
In some ways the most unsparingly honest comment was offered by Chen Kaige, the director of "Farewell My Concubine," the Chinese-made epic that won as best foreign film.
"First of all, I must say I deserve it," he said. "I can't tell you how difficult it is to make a film."
As usual, the sometimes curious dependency between movie stars and the press was evident. Stars lined up like customers at a supermarket to be interviewed by Juliette Hohnen, the cheerful MTV news reporter.
"What was the earthquake like?" Ms. Hohnen asked Juliette Lewis, the actress, who was in a glittery headdress.
"I was at my house with my sister and we had to calm her boyfriend down," said Ms. Lewis. "Here, I have fantasies of everyone all dressed up crawling under a table. That's when people's true colors come out."
As she spoke, Dennis Quaid and his wife, Meg Ryan, moved past.
"I'm sort of surprised they didn't cancel this or put it off for a week," Mr. Quaid said.
Ms. Ryan said, "Our son's at home and knows exactly what to do and where to go, just in case something happens." Ms. Ryan turned to Mr. Quaid and said: "We should have brought a cellular phone here. That would have been cool."
 
The 1994 Golden Globe Winners
 BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Jan. 23 (AP) --
 These are the winners of the 51st Golden Globe Awards, which were presented on Saturday:
 
FILM
Drama
"Schindler's List"
 
Musical or Comedy
"Mrs. Doubtfire"
 
Actress, drama
Holly Hunter, "The Piano"
 
Actor, drama
Tom Hanks, "Philadelphia"
 
Actress, musical or comedy
Angela Bassett, "What's Love Got To Do With It"
 
Actor, musical or comedy
Robin Williams, "Mrs. Doubtfire"
 
Supporting Actress
Winona Ryder, "The Age of Innocence"
 
Supporting Actor
Tommy Lee Jones, "The Fugitive"
 
Director
Steven Spielberg, "Schindler's List"
 
Screenplay
Steven Zaillian, "Schindler's List"
 
Foreign-Language Film
"Farewell My Concubine"
 
Original Score
Kitaro, "Heaven and Earth"
 
Original Song
"Streets of Philadelphia" from "Philadelphia," Bruce Springsteen
 
Cecil B. De Mille Award for Lifetime Achievement
Robert Redford
 
Special Achievement Award
"Short Cuts"
 
TELEVISION
 
Series, drama
"N.Y.P.D. Blue"
 
Actress, drama
Kathy Baker, "Picket Fences"
 
Actor, drama
David Caruso, "N.Y.P.D. Blue"
 
Series, musical or comedy
"Seinfeld"
 
Actress, musical or comedy
Helen Hunt, "Mad About You"
 
Actor, musical or comedy
Jerry Seinfeld, "Seinfeld"
 
Mini-series or movie made for television
"Barbarians at the Gate"
 
Actress, mini-series or movie made for television
Bette Midler, "Gypsy"
 
Actor, mini-series or movie made for television
James Garner, "Barbarians at the Gate"
 
Supporting actress, mini-series or movie made for television
Julia Louis-Dreyfus, "Seinfeld"
 
Supporting actor, mini-series or movie made for television
Beau Bridges, "The Positively True Adventures of the Alleged Texas Cheerleader-Murdering Mom"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Hanks and Holly Hunter on Saturday after they won the Golden Globe Awards for best actor and best actress in a drama. (Reuters) (pg. C15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PRESS ASSOCIATION LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; GOLDEN GLOBES (AWARDS) EARTHQUAKES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); FILM (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); RIOTS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); LAWYERS (67%); CABLE TELEVISION (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (61%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD TOM HANKS (88%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



641 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: Needle Exchanges Can Work

 BODY:
The case for distributing clean needles to drug addicts in an effort to slow the spread of the AIDS virus is growing stronger. The rationale for such programs is simple. The AIDS epidemic is ravaging addicts who inject drugs. The virus is spread through the sharing of contaminated needles and syringes. Therefore, even without curing addicts of their addiction, one can slow the epidemic by giving addicts clean needles in exchange for used ones.
But needle-exchange programs have met fierce opposition from critics who object to any program that implies acceptance of drug abuse and worry that distribution of needles will actually encourage illicit drug injection. 
 Proof that needle exchange programs can work without dire consequences has been slowly accumulating, mostly from a smattering of studies conducted abroad. Now, in the Jan. 12 issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association, comes additional evidence that needle exchanges have worked in two American cities hit hard by AIDS.
In San Francisco, an exchange program replaced the black market as the chief source of injection equipment; by 1992 45 percent of addicts questioned usually got syringes from the program. There was no evidence it increased drug abuse.
In New York City, surveys at a hospital-based drug abuse program showed a sharp drop in the use of dirty syringes -- from 51 percent of all injections in 1984 to only 7 percent of all injections in the 1990-92 period. Underground syringe exchanges were a factor in the decline in the most recent years.
A three-year demonstration program is now testing the effect of legal needle exchanges in New York. Although Mayor Rudolph Giuliani expressed doubts about such programs during the campaign, he will let the demonstration continue and evaluate the results. That makes sense when a growing body of data now suggests needle exchanges offer more promise than risk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); EDITORIALS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; HYPODERMIC NEEDLES AND SYRINGES AIDS & HIV (95%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); VIRUSES (90%); DRUG POLICY (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



642 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Get Yer State o' U. Scorecard

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
You cannot watch a State of the Union address without a scorecard. Here is a handy-dandy sheet of favorite plays and intricate defenses to paste in your hat as the President and Congress put on their annual pre-game pageant.
1. Watch for the keyword themesetter. Presidents say "The State of the Union is --" and then add "good" or "sound," or as one did in an unprecedented fit of candor, "not good." If Mr. Clinton says something like "getting better," keep your eye out for: 
 2. The climbing-economy credit grab. Ordinarily the results of the first year are blamed on the previous Administration; new policies take a year to take effect. This year, however (thanks to the defeat of the benighted Clinton stimulus package, and to the drop in oil prices bequeathed by Mr. Bush), the economy continues to grow without inflation. Listen to credit being snatched by Democrats, culminating in :
3. We've all but licked the budget deficit, so come home, Perot voters. Remember those dire $300 billion red-ink projections? Thanks to spending reductions (forced on the Administration, but now welcomed) and the aforementioned Clinton climbing economy, we're projecting a piddling $180 billion next year. Do not expect to hear anyone blamed for egregiously wrong projections, or credit given skinflints for suggesting that growth, not taxation, is the way out of deficits.
4. Centerpiece time, as he waxes rhapsodic about Health Reform, letting cameras linger on the lady in the gallery, who will not be holding hands with the Fed's Alan Greenspan. (Unemployed Kremlinologists, skilled in measuring proximity to power of bureaucrats atop Lenin's tomb on May Day, will watch for Hillary's seatmate this year, which may be the clue to this year's Pentagon boss, unless it is skater Nancy Kerrigan.)
5. Listen for Ewawki -- acronym for "ending welfare as we know it" -- the continued abandonment of which would strangle health reform in its universal crib. Watch for cameras to swing to Pat Moynihan's smile of floccinaucinihilipilification, as he listens to this surrender to his demand that health and welfare reform be remarried.
6. Observe the frustration on Republican faces as Democrats wildly applaud his brazen kidnapping of the crime issue. Liberal root-casuisty is dead; in the politics of personal security, it is no crime to steal the opposition's clothes.
7. Catch the List of Popular Accomplishments from national service to the signing of family leave, from happy talk of information superhighways to reinvention of government (watch him turn, shake hands with Al Gore, properly calling him "Mr. President" -- of the Senate) but note how little is said about controversial actions, from the compromise on gays in the military to support of abortion rights.
8. Listen for the strain in his voice as he tries to claim foreign-policy success in the holding of meetings. He's been practicing the line "From meetings in Moscow to promote democracy to meetings in Tokyo to revive the world economy, our seriousness of purpose is winning respect around the world and getting results"; if he tries this lollapalooza of a non-applause line in the State o' the U., observe the embarrassed silence on the left and unseemly guffaws on the right.
9. Bully that pulpit; stand by for uplift. The adept politician presses his oratorical strength. Because Clinton's strongest speech of the year was delivered at Memphis to a black audience, calling for individual moral responsibility and a rebirth of family values, look for a return to this theme -- this time, aimed at Americans of all ilks. Park your cynicism with the House doorkeeper; this is what Presidents should do, and what Clinton has shown he can do well.
10. Ask not why the speech is running close to an hour; ask why the assembled solons, Supremes and secretaries are interrupting so often with applause. Because when they are clapping, the camera pans their faces. They seldom clap for the President, no matter who he is; they clap for the camera to give them face time with the American people, whose Union is free and prosperous -- and though testy and self-absorbed, in a fairly good state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); FAMILY (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (57%); ALAN GREENSPAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



643 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Tough but Smart

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif.

 BODY:
Kathleen Brown wants to be the third California governor in the Brown family. But she comes across as very different from her father Pat, an old-fashioned liberal, and her brother Jerry, a cold futurist.
She is the essence of the New Democrat, pro-business, tough on crime and other problems: "Tough but smart," she says repeatedly as we talk in her State Treasurer's office. 
 "Contrary to some in my party," she says, "I support 'three strikes and you're out.' " That is a proposal, likely to go to the voters here next fall, to put anyone convicted of three violent felonies in prison for life without parole.
"What distinguishes me from Pete Wilson [the Republican Governor] is that he plays on fears. I have affirmative plans: a 33-point plan on crime.
"We've had 12 years of tough talk on crime, 12 long years. And we've had a rising tide of random violence that is different from anything I can remember. I want to break the cycle of violence.
"I would not allow conjugal visits for prisoners, another position that is upsetting to some of my friends. I have a pragmatic, tough outlook that reflects my origins: Catholic, German, immigrant.
"We also have to do some smart things. For example, stop 'tagging' by gangs -- marking out their turf by spray-painted graffiti. It's a little like [Mayor] Giuliani going after the squeegee guys: You get control of the small things.
"Your first offense, I say you do time. I want boot camps for first offenders, 90 days, so they learn there are consequences. We've got to move back to order and accountability.
"I think this Governor is going to be vulnerable. My question is: Do you feel safer today than you did four years ago?"
Ms. Brown is not as stern in manner as her words may sound. There are lots of jokes in her conversation. She is 48 years old and the grandmother of twins, a young-looking grandmother.
I asked her about immigration, the hot issue here after crime. Governor Wilson has proposed a constitutional amendment to deny citizenship to American-born children of illegal immigrants and keep them out of public schools.
"It's penny-wise and pound-foolish," she said: "Throw children out on the street, deny emergency medical care. I have a tough position on immigration, too, but you don't visit on children the sins of the parents.
"If we're serious about stopping illegal immigration, let's get serious on employer sanctions. I want tamper-proof Social Security cards: for all of us, not just immigrants, so we can enforce the law."
California used to have the sense of limitless possibilities. Even before the earthquake, one felt a sourness, a pessimism about the low economy and social problems. Could the optimism come back? I asked.
"Oh you bet it can," she said. "East Coast journalists wrote us off after the Gold Rush, again after the 1906 earthquake, after World War II, Korea, Vietnam.
"In each of those we had devastating economic times and social upheavals. But in each the spirit of California reasserted itself. I believe there is something special about California. It attracts risk-takers. It's still the West. It's not for the faintdhearted."
In an economic speech this week she will propose a tax moratorium for new businesses. "As a signal that we want you here," she explained, "you'll pay no income or corporate franchise tax in the first year, 50 percent the second, 75 percent the third."
Ms. Brown beat an incumbent to become Treasurer four years ago. The latest poll shows her well ahead of her prospective opponent in the Democratic primary, Insurance Commissioner John Garamendi. She leads Governor Wilson 46 percent to 38, down a few points from October.
Pete Wilson is famous for skillful and mean campaigns. Could she stand personal attacks? I asked.
"You don't grow up in the Brown family without developing a thick skin fast," she said.
"Will I like it? Will it be fun?" Leaning forward, with a grin, she said: "At times, yes. I love a good fight. I prefer fair fights, but I take them as they come and I like to win.
"It will be very close. I never expected otherwise."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CHILDREN (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); GRAFFITI (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); REFERENDUMS (75%); TRENDS (75%); PRISONS (74%); FELONIES (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (60%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (56%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; BROWN, KATHLEEN; WILSON, PETE (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



644 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Rebuilding L.A.'s Transportation

 BODY:
The secret is out. Los Angeles does have a mass-transit system, and it works. The earthquake has now driven tens of thousands of commuters to give it a try. It is hard to think now of any good that might rise from the rubble, while the city is still in shock. But if the San Francisco-Oakland earthquake in 1989 is any guide, thousands of Angelenos will never again commute by car. Their switch to mass transit will make Southern California a better place to live and work.
In this tragedy there is opportunity. BART, the Bay Area Rapid Transit rail system, says 20 percent of the daily riders it gained when the Bay Bridge was out are still riding its trains. 
 Most of the broken freeways in and around Los Angeles must be rebuilt. The Santa Monica Freeway is the busiest stretch of highway in America. Reconstruction is a must. But fixing all the area's damage will take years; even now, four years after the San Francisco-Oakland quake, none of the four freeways that were knocked out are fully back.
Now, as Los Angeles recoups, local, state and Federal authorities must resist rebuilding everything as it was before, only stronger. Rather, they must seize every chance they get to advance mass transit instead of pouring more concrete.
The Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority has already doubled the length of Metrolink commuter trains and added buses to existing lines. Metrolink trains that carried a total of 500 passengers a day from Santa Clarita to downtown Los Angeles before the quake are now carrying 4,000 passengers per train. (A bemused headline in The Los Angeles Times last week lamented "The Metrolink Will Never Be the Same" -- meaning the same comfortable ride with plenty of room.)
The M.T.A. will also spend $100 million for four new commuter rail stations, extending Metrolink farther north, and for still more buses within the next three weeks. Old freight tracks may also be resurrected for passenger trains.
Los Angeles is already embarked on a multibillion-dollar 30-year transit expansion plan, but the languishing Southern California economy has threatened to slow it down. The earthquake's impact says it should be speeded up -- with more Federal aid, as well as local effort.
Los Angeles did not have its last earthquake on Monday, only its latest. Improved mass transit would help it cope with the next one.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 28, 1994, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An editorial on Monday incorrectly identified the Metrolink commuter rail system as part of the Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority; it is an independent agency. A Topic of the Times the same day misquoted lines from a poem by Robert Frost. The lines should read: "Some say the world will end in fire,/ Some say in ice."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%); OAKLAND A'S (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND A'S (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); ; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; EDITORIALS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (94%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (75%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (75%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (74%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1994



645 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Market Gets Lift From Overseas Investors

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Tuesday, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Strong buying from foreign investors gave the stock market a lift today after a plunge on Monday caused by Japan's political crisis.
Concerns that Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa's defeat in a crucial parliamentary vote would delay efforts to revive the faltering economy were behind Monday's steep decline. 
 But today, as on Monday, strong support from foreign investors tempered selling by the Japanese.
The closely watched Nikkei index of 225 issues rose sharply, despite some intraday slippage, to post a 295.12-point gain, to 18,648.36, at the close of trading.
On Monday, the Nikkei closed down 954.19 points, or 4.9 percent, to 18,353.24.
 
 
Earlier Gains
 Those losses erased about half of the big gains the market had scored over the past month, which was also due largely to purchasing by foreigners, particularly American mutual funds.
"Lots of overseas buying this morning gave the Japanese a sigh of relief," Robert Sasaki, a trader at Jardine Fleming Securities here, said. "But the overall direction still seems to be down. I don't expect a big recovery."
The fear in the markets has been that as politicians focus on internecine power struggles rather than the recession, the Government will be paralyzed. For more than a month Mr. Hosokawa has vowed to take strong measures to jump-start the economy, including possible tax reductions and a big increase in public-works spending. The steps have been consistently delayed by his mounting political problems, undermining confidence.
There was more grim economic news on Monday, which only underscored the pessimism. Bank of Japan Governor Yasushi Mieno described the economy as "stagnant" and indicated that conditions were getting worse.
Still, some had expected the stock market to fall much further, particularly after Japanese stocks suffered heavy losses in the London and New York markets on Friday after Tokyo had closed.
Analysts said one reason the decline was not worse was that foreign investors, who have been heavy buyers of Japanese shares for the past several months, stepped in to do some bargain hunting on the market's dips.
Richard Koo, a senior economist at the Nomura Research Institute, said that large amounts of money were flowing into Japan from institutions that were not necessarily enthusiastic about the market's prospects, but that were becoming more cautious about investing in other Asian markets, such as Hong Kong and Bangkok.
"There's a balancing act going on," he said. "Other Asian markets have lost some of their momentum, so people are shifting some of their capital to Tokyo. It's a matter of balance, not optimism actually."
By contrast, the Japanese have been and remain pessimistic. Japanese investors, particularly large institutions, have been far less hopeful that the Government will assemble a credible stimulus package, Even if the Government is finally able to act, many here doubt the plan will work, given that the Government has tried three times over the past two years with no success.
 
 
'Sit Tight'
 "There might be some naivete on the part of the foreigners," said Kathy Matsui, market strategist here with Barclays de Zoette Wedd Securities. "But at this point I would say politically things could go very well, if we're lucky, or they could go very wrong. I would sit tight for a while longer."
Tim Hayashida, an analyst here with Merrill Lynch Japan, said he remained cautiously optimistic, adding that foreigners were prepared to start buying if the market plummets much further.
"Any delay in putting together a stimulus package is negative, but we don't think the process will stop completely," Mr. Hayashida said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 4307 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE JARDINE FLEMING SECURITIES (55%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%); NOMURA RESEARCH INSTITUTE LTD (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE FOREIGN INVESTMENT (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); BONDS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX RELIEF (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



646 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

FARRAKHAN SPEAKS AGAINST VIOLENCE
Addressing more than 10,000 black and Hispanic men in Harlem, Louis Farrakhan, the minister of the Nation of Islam, urged his audience to take steps to end black-on-black crime. A12.
 
A number of prominent blacks are urging Mr. Farrakhan to distance himself from anti-Semitic comments made by a senior aide in a speech at Kean College in Union, N.J. A12. 

 PAYOUT BARRED FOR GREEN POINT OFFICIALS
The New York State Banking Department said that executives and trustees of the Green Point Savings Bank, based in Flushing, Queens, may not receive the multimillion-dollar compensation packages that they had arranged for themselves. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
MINORITY CONTRACT PROGRAM IS ALTERED
Mayor Giuliani said that the city had eliminated a critical element of a Dinkins administration affirmative action program that directs a fifth of city contracts to companies owned by minorities and women. A1.
 
NEW FOCUS IS URGED FOR POLICE PROGRAM
Mayor Giuliani said that the community policing program must be redefined toward fighting crime and away from putting neighborhoods in touch with social services. A1.
 
MEMOS FAULT COMMUNITY POLICING
The community policing program has done little to improve police relations with the neighborhoods the units serve, according to a series of internal police memos. B2.
 
FIRE DESTROYS A FAMILY'S DREAM
The fire engines had left, the scent of smoke was fading and Sonia Bishop stood on the sidewalk on Staten Island, looking up at the charred window frames of the apartment building and trying to remember the sound of her son's voice. B3.
 
A floor in a building under renovation in Brooklyn collapsed, sending a construction worker falling two stories to his death and injuring two other workers, the police said. B3.
 
An F.B.I. chemist continued to testify in the World Trade Center bombing trial. B3.
 
A reputed former acting boss of the Bonanno organized crime family and 14 associates were charged in a Federal indictment with crimes ranging from murder to extortion. B3.
 
Mayor Giuliani named a former manager of the Metropolitan Opera and dean of Columbia University's School of the Arts to be the city's Cultural Affairs Commissioner. B2.
 
REGION
 
THE POLITICS OF ROCK SALT
In this incorrigible winter, the most precious mineral in the communities ringing New York City has been neither gold nor diamonds but simple salt, to thaw the ice-slicked roadways. B5.
 
Fourteen of the 40 finalists announced in the 53d Westinghouse Science Talent Search are from New York State. B4.
 
A 29-year-old Long Island man was shot and killed in a struggle with an off-duty New York City police officer. B6.
 
Our Towns by Evelyn Nieves B5
 
Chronicle B6

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Unemployment Claims" shows number of people filing their first claims for unemployment compensation for New Jersey, New York and Connecticut. (Source: State Labor Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GREEN POINT SAVINGS BANK (57%); NATION OF ISLAM (84%); NATION OF ISLAM (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATION OF ISLAM (84%); NATION OF ISLAM (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MINORITY BUSINESSES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MEN (89%); MAYORS (88%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); MURDER (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); RELIGION (73%); EXTORTION (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (69%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (68%); BOMBINGS (63%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (55%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



647 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Issues a Warning to Russia To Keep Economic Reform Going

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24

 BODY:
In a sharp change of tone, the Clinton Administration's top specialist on Russia, testifying on Capitol Hill, sternly warned today that the Government of President Boris N. Yeltsin must press full speed ahead with economic reforms or risk an inflation rate high enough to "topple governments, sometimes with the ugliest and most dangerous of results."
Applying undisguised pressure on Russia after a Cabinet shuffle in Moscow that left foes of swift economic change in charge, Strobe Talbott, the Deputy Secretary of State-designate, told a Senate subcommittee that "gradual reform is a prescription for hyperinflation and economic collapse." 
 The Clinton Administration has been struggling for more than a month to decide how best to reshape its Russia policy in light of the December elections there in which the forces favoring rapid reform suffered a stunning setback.
 
Changed His Stance
 Mr. Talbott today all but renounced his initial response to the elections, a call for "less shock and more therapy." He asserted that the Clinton Administration has always favored rapid reform, but wanted it done with less pain, especially by strengthening the social safety net.
Mr. Talbott, the Ambassador at Large for Russia and other former republics of the Soviet Union, said the Administration's new credo was, in effect, "more reform and more support" from abroad to underwrite the painful reform efforts.
The search for a Russian Finance Minister took on bizarre proportions today as Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin met with the recalcitrant reformer Boris G. Fyodorov and said his resignation as Finance Minister still had not been not accepted, even though he has refused the job twice. [Page A6.]
Mr. Talbott said that the Group of Seven industrialized democracies was working on an aid package for next year, but he offered no specifics about possible increases. Last month he said the United States could not afford to send more money to Moscow.
Mr. Talbott suggested last month that international lending agencies could become more accommodating. But he made clear today that if the Yeltsin Government did not move aggressively to reduce inflation, it would face continued delays in receiving a $1.5 billion International Monetary Fund loan that the Russian Government eagerly wants to shore up its nearly depleted hard-currency reserves.
But Mr. Talbott said humanitarian aid and funds for privatization would go through even if Russia failed to rein in inflation.
"Slowing the pace of reform will not ease the social pain of economic transition," he said in a hearing before the Senate Appropriations Committee's subcommittee on foreign operations. "In fact, quite the contrary: slowing down is likely to prolong and worsen the pain and increase the threat of even more alarming political developments."
In some ways, Mr. Talbott appeared to be responding to Mr. Fyodorov, who asserted that Mr. Talbott has stabbed Russia's reformers in the back by calling for "less shock," a statement that former Communists seized upon in their fight to block reforms.
 
Criticism for Yeltsin
 Today's testimony came on top of a wave of international criticism centering on Mr. Fyodorov's resignation, which followed the departure of the Cabinet's other prominent reformer, First Deputy Prime Minister Yegor T. Gaidar. Mr. Yeltsin's Government, said to be taken aback by the uproar, has not accepted Mr. Fyodorov's resignation, however.
Some Russia specialists interpreted Mr. Talbott's testimony as a message urging Mr. Yeltsin to ask Mr. Fyodorov back and to accept his conditions, including taking a tougher anti-inflation stance.
In the Administration's most detailed comments to date on the Cabinet reshuffling, Mr. Talbott was forthright about Washington's concern that Mr. Fyodorov and Mr. Gaidar resigned because they were convinced that Mr. Chernomyrdin favored a go-slow approach to reform.
Mr. Talbott said the departure of these two reformers "calls into question whether the ministers who remain will be willing or able to carry out President Yeltsin's vow," made to President Clinton at the recent Moscow summit, to push ahead with reform.
In today's remarks, Mr. Talbott made no attempt to put an optimistic gloss on last week's shuffle, reflecting the Administration's growing fear that the new Cabinet will do too little to combat inflation and that as a result the political situation could spin out of control.
Going against the advice of the Administration and the International Monetary Fund, ministers in Russia's new Cabinet have suggested that it is possible to slash inflation without having the Central Bank stop printing billions of new rubles. Unlike the reformers, the new Cabinet is predisposed to have the Central Bank provide huge new subsidized credits to inefficient factories and farms to keep them afloat and to keep the unemployment rate low.
Mr. Talbott made clear that the Administration fears this approach would only pump up inflation and drag out Russia's efforts to create an efficient market-oriented economy.
Borrowing an analogy often made by Under Secretary of the Treasury Lawrence H. Summers, he said: "If you're going to keep a bicycle going, if you're going to stay in the seat, you can't slow down too much because if you do it loses its stability and topples over. The same is true with Russian reform."
Mr. Chernomyrdin talks of only gradually lowering the inflation rate, which is expected to reach more than 15 percent a month this month. Some officials worry that the approach he favors is so gradual that it could mushroom into inflation of more than 1,000 percent a year.
Mr. Talbott said President Clinton promised at the Moscow summit meeting to push the monetary fund and World Bank to provide quick aid if Mr. Yeltsin made good on his reform pledges.
"President Yeltsin needs to have the confidence that if he continues to press forward on a strong economic reform program, Western support will be swift and substantial," Mr. Talbott said.
At the hearing, several senators criticized the Administration's Russia policy, saying, among other things, that the Government has allied itself too closely with Mr. Yeltsin and has not put enough emphasis on improving living standards for the average Russian.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat, said, "Perhaps we might want to sponsor some different initiatives to see that standard of living improves on a wide basis rather than diminishes and decreases on a wide basis."
J. Brian Atwood, administrator of the Agency for International Development, responded, "Senator, I couldn't agree with you more." He said living standards were declining not just from reforms, but also from high inflation and the decay of the Communist system. The ultimate purpose of reform, Mr. Talbott and Mr. Atwood said, is to increase living standards.
Mr. Talbott said the principal challenges facing the Yeltsin Government were to continue reforms and control budget deficits and inflation, while doing more to cushion the effects.
He recommended that the Russian Government sharply cut back on subsidies to large industries and use the billions of rubles saved to expand the safety net for the unemployed, the poor and the elderly.
"There is a titanic struggle under way in Russia over the future of that country," he said. "We have a huge stake in the outcome."
Assessing the situation, he said "the forces of reform are down but not out," noting that this was a long-term process that would take decades.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Strobe Talbott, the Deputy Secretary of State-designate, testifying yesterday. (Paul Hosefros for The New York Times) (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INFLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); FOREIGN LENDING (66%); CURRENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); TALBOTT, STROBE; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



648 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: GIULIANI REVAMPS MINORITY PROGRAM ON CITY CONTRACTS

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that the city had eliminated a significant element of a Dinkins administration affirmative action program that has directed a fifth of city contracts to companies owned by minorities and women.
Mr. Giuliani said that since his inauguration, he had effectively terminated a provision of the program under which companies owned by women or by members of minorities could be awarded city contracts, even if their bids were 10 percent higher than the lowest bid. Calling that aspect of the program "indefensible," Mr. Giuliani said he would take steps to officially terminate the provision. 
 At the same time the new Mayor said he would maintain, at least for now, the practice of encouraging city agencies to steer as much as 20 percent of their contracts to minority- and female-owned companies.
 
More Changes Planned
 But he made it clear he will ultimately make changes in the overall program, too. "That program, over a period of time, has to become an ethnic-, race-, religious-, gender- and sexual-orientation-neutral program," Mr. Giuliani said during a news conference in City Hall.
"The theory of it is to remedy past discrimination," he said. "Now you can agree or disagree with whether that is necessary. But the city has to present a program that is leading us to a remedy that is going to get us back to the day when we will no longer have set-asides and goals."
The decision drew strong criticism from organizations representing businesses owned by women or members of minorities. They said the 10 percent bidding allowance did not cost the city a significant amount of money and that they viewed the action as being an insensitive, first step in dismantling the entire program.
Rudy Washington, the Commissioner of business services, said that the difference between the low bid and the cost of the contracts awarded under the set-asides was $2.7 million in the last fiscal year. Over all, the contracts awarded under the affirmative action program totaled $270 million.
The set-aside program was created two years ago by former Mayor David N. Dinkins. In a report issued during the mayoral campaign, Mr. Dinkins said that in its first year in operation, the program had increased the percentage of city contracts awarded to female- and minority-owned companies from 9 percent in 1990 to 17.5 percent last year.
The program, which Mr. Dinkins highlighted as one of his major achievements, became a highly contentious issue in the mayoral race when Mr. Giuliani criticized the program as "bad social policy" and vowed to make significant changes. That drew vehement criticism from Mr. Dinkins as well as from some female, black and Hispanic voters.
But a few days after the election, Mr. Giuliani traveled to Harlem to meet with Representative Charles B. Rangel and said he was reconsidering some of his objections to the program.
Mr. Giuliani yesterday said that by offering any advantage in bidding to some companies, the city encouraged not only a practice that was unfair but one that would lead to mountainous litigation. Also, he said such a practice was unsound at a time when the city is facing a $2.3 billion deficit in the budget for the next fiscal year.
"The city is paying 10 percent more for a contract and it's going to have to pay damages to a company that should have gotten the contract in the first place," he said. "If you continue this for four, five or six years, you're now talking about another serious fiscal jeopardy for this city."
The Mayor said that rather than set aside a percentage of contracts or establish numerical goals the city should "try to create and have a lot more assets in community development banks." He added that the city should encourage banks to lend money to minority- and female-owned businesses. Also, he said that the city should provide "training and help, particularly in how you develop small businesses."
 
'Trying to Compete'
 Roy A. Hastick, president of the Caribbean American Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said that the Mayor's remarks were disappointing. The 10 percent allowance on contracts, he said, created the impression "that the city was serious about helping minority-owned businesses."
"Our members, and minority businesses throughout the city, are only trying to compete and that was a way to help," he added.
Harriet R. Michel, president of the National Minority Supplier Development Council, an organization that helps corporations identify minority contractors said, "I'm incensed because it shows he doesn't understand economic development.
"In the real world, no small business can compete against the giants of the world," said Ms. Michel, who also served on the advisory board of the Dinkins administration program.
She and other supporters of the program said that the price preference affected fewer than 5 percent of the companies and that often the company chosen was within 5 percent of the lowest bid.
"The 10 percent component of the program simply means that the city has some latitude," Ms. Michel said. She added that the Mayor's action signaled that Mr. Giuliani is "playing to his core constituents who believe that any attempt to reach out to minorities is reverse discrimination."
At a town hall meeting in Queens last night, Mr. Giuliani hinted at some of the other government reorganization plans he is considering. He said he would reveal in the next week and a half a plan to create competition between city agencies and private businesses in the collection of parking fines.
He also said he was looking at moving the taxi and limousine commission under the jurisdiction of the Police Department and would consider giving guns to the taxi inspectors.
And he said that his preliminary budget plan, which is due out next week, would contain a proposal to put two to four of the city's municipal hospitals under the control of private voluntary boards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL MINORITY SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MINORITY SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CONTRACTS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS (IN US); WOMEN; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (92%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); MAYORS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); WOMEN (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); CITIES (79%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



649 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

 BODY:

Companies
Executives and trustees of Green Point Savings Bank will not be allowed to receive compensation estimated to be worth more than $85 million in connection with its proposed initial public stock offering. The decision by the New York State Banking Department to bar the profits is an unusual one. [Page A1.] 
 American Express plans to spin off Lehman Brothers, its investment firm, as it continues to retreat from Wall Street. [D1.]
Nynex said it would cut 22 percent of its payroll in New York and New England, and took a fourth-quarter charge of $1.6 billion against earnings. BellSouth reconfirmed that it would cut 12 percent of its work force. [D1.]
Business has been good on Wall Street, and both Merrill Lynch and Paine Webber posted strong quarter earnings. The reports did not impress investors, and both stocks fell modestly. [D1.]
Gitano, the jeans company, put itself up for sale. The move puzzled analysts and industry experts, who wondered why the company did not file for bankruptcy protection. [D1.]
Mastercard said its chief executive, Alex W. Hart, would leave to join Advanta. Mr. Hart has been credited with reversing Mastercard's declining share of the credit card market. [D3.]
Flagstar will write off $1.5 billion in good will and take a restructuring charge of $225 million to close or sell 14 percent of its restaurants. Half the restaurants affected are Denny's. [D3.]
Ziff-Davis Publishing, a leader in computer magazines, plans to offer an electronic publishing service. [D3.]
Apple Computer will offer the Newton hand-held computer with a paging service under a lease program with a BellSouth unit. [D3.]
The decline in oil prices helped earnings at Texaco, Amoco and Ashland Oil because the price of the gasoline and home heating oil they sold did not fall as fast as crude oil prices. [D4.]
The chairman of Blockbuster Entertainment, H. Wayne Huizenga, agreed to buy the Miami Dolphins football team. [B11.]
 
The Economy
The Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department, feuding over plans to change the way banks and savings and loans will be regulated, have been lobbying banks to win their political support in the dispute. Some bankers are alarmed. [D1.]
 
International
Spain's leading banks will hear an outline today of a Government-sponsored plan to bail out the Banco Espanol de Credito. [D3.]
Japanese stocks recovered a bit in trading this morning. On Monday, the Nikkei index plunged on fears that a political crisis in Tokyo would delay efforts to rescue the economy. [D6.]
Markets Blue-chip stocks closed slightly lower, ending a run of five new highs in the previous six trading days. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 1.69 points, to 3,912.79. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury securities fell. Many investors stayed on the sidelines ahead of President Clinton's State of the Union address tonight and Government note auctions. [D14.]
The dollar gained against the yen on worries about the political turmoil in Japan. Gold prices declined. [D16.]
Heating oil prices jumped after fires shut down a refinery near Chicago. Prices of natural gas rose. [D16.]
Today's Columns After Los Angeles's earthquake, fears about potential losses drove down the shares of Unico American. But the insurer's potential liability is very small. Market Place. [D6.]
Visa has been praised for having one of the most effective marketing campaigns in the last decade. But competition and shifts in consumer attitudes have prompted Visa to try something something new. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BTO (MCE) (85%); MA (NYSE) (85%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (76%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BANCO ESPANOL DE CREDITO SA (85%); MASTERCARD INC (85%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); GREEN POINT SAVINGS BANK (58%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (57%); ZIFF-DAVIS PUBLISHING CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (76%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (77%); HEATING OIL (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); LABOR FORCE (70%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); PUBLISHING (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (68%); HEATING OIL PRICES (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (63%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (61%); SPORTS (61%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



650 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Man in the News;
Groomed for Leadership in Assembly: Sheldon Silver

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 24

 BODY:
To his colleagues, there was a sense of inevitability about Sheldon Silver's ascendancy today to Assembly Speaker, one of the most powerful positions in state government.
The previous two Speakers had named him as chairman of the powerful committees they had just vacated, a sure sign he was being groomed for leadership. He was popular among new members, whom he cultivated assiduously. And for the last year, few other potential heirs emerged from the pack, proving the truth of an Albany maxim: the front-runner usually remains in front. 
 But this was not simply a case of the most studious boy graduating as valedictorian. It took an unusually turbulent year in which the Assembly lost its Speaker to a dire illness and three of its most respected members to new jobs to clear the path for Mr. Silver's rise.
Today, that process was consummated as Mr. Silver, a Democrat from Manhattan's Lower East Side, was elected interim Speaker to replace Saul Weprin, who suffered a severe stroke last Tuesday. If he recovers, Mr. Weprin would return as Speaker, but senior Assembly members consider that unlikely.
 
Clear Choice
 To his peers, the soft-spoken Mr. Silver, 49, seemed the clear choice to replace Mr. Weprin. An Assemblyman since 1977, he is among the most senior of New York City legislators, important because it is virtually impossible for a Democrat from outside the city to win enough support to be Speaker. They said he has also been successful at building consensus on two particularly contentious issues: the budget and crime.
And they described him as something of a happy medium between the last two Speakers, both his allies: unflappable like the ever-polite Mr. Weprin, but as strong-willed as Mel Miller, the temperamental former Assemblyman from Brooklyn who served as Speaker.
"He's shrewd in politics as he is in basketball," said the New York City Comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, a former Assemblyman who is a friend and occasion basketball rival of Mr. Silver. "He resists the opportunity to hit somebody with his elbows, but when necessary he isn't so kind."
 
Difficult Tasks
 Mr. Silver faces several difficult tasks in the coming weeks as he settles into his new job. He must forge a consensus among the diverse and sometimes unwieldy Democratic majority on sensitive election-year issues, including welfare reform, gun control and a raft of tough sentencing proposals for repeat offenders. He must lead negotiations with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and the Republican-led State Senate over the Governor's proposed $33.4 billion budget.
And he must do all that with a respectful nod to Mr. Weprin, leading his party without appearing usurp a popular leader's mantle. "Shelly will be cognizant of the word interim before his title," said Assemblyman Steven Sanders, a Manhattan Democrat. "He'll move forward, but in a way Saul would have wanted to go."
Mr. Silver did just that today in his first address to the Assembly as interim Speaker. Recalling Mr. Weprin, he said he would seek "a timely, balanced and fair budget, one that protects the neediest while preparing this great state for the ever-changing challenges of a global economy."
Today's vote was along strict party lines. Mr. Silver received votes from the 95 Democrats while the Assembly minority leader, Clarence D. Rappleyea, a Norwich Republican, was selected by all 47 Republicans.
Mr. Weprin, 66, is only the latest Democratic stalwart to have departed the Assembly in the last year. In 1993, the majority leader, James R. Tallon Jr., resigned to take a job with a hospital organization, Mr. Hevesi was elected the City Comptroller and G. Oliver Koppell was elected by the Assembly to replace Attorney General Robert Abrams, who resigned. All three had at one time been considered strong candidates for Speaker.
 
Some Deadpan Humor
 Like Mr. Weprin, a liberal on most issues, Mr. Silver supports placing more nonviolent drug offenders in drug rehabilitation instead of prison. He is skeptical about mandatory life sentences without parole for criminals convicted of a third violent felony, an idea backed by Mr. Cuomo and the Republicans. And he is a proponent of banning assault weapons.
"I think there are sportsmen who need to recognize that even animals are entitled to a fair chance," Mr. Silver said, showing a bit of the deadpan humor he is known for.
But he has cut a tougher position on crime than his predecessors. He was a sponsor of legislation in the 1980's to toughen penalties for crack-cocaine possession. And he is the first Democratic Speaker in recent memory to support the death penalty.
 
Captain of Basketball Team
 Sheldon Silver, who has no middle name, was born on Feb. 13, 1944, the youngest of four children of Russian immigrants who owned a wholesale hardware store on Ludlow Street in Manhattan. Today he lives with his wife, Rosa, a substitute city school teacher, and his four children on Grand Street, about two blocks from the Henry Street tenement that was his first home.
He graduated from Joseph Golding High School in Manhattan, where he was captain of the basketball team, received a bachelor's degree from Yeshiva University and a law degree from Brooklyn Law School.
Two years after losing his first run for office -- he finished second to Miriam Friedlander for the City Council in 1974 -- he won his first term in the Assembly and has not faced a strong challenge since.
His first important break in the Assembly came when Mr. Miller named him chairman of the Codes Committee, which handles most criminal-justice bills. In 1991, Mr. Weprin made him chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, giving him much influence over legislation involving state spending.
Among his colleagues, he is famous for working late into the night learning the arcana of budget proposals. To relax, he plays basketball or watches sports on television, preferably ice hockey.
Mr. Silver, an Orthodox Jew, searches out kosher pizza and Chinese restaurants in most every district he visits. But his strict observance of the Sabbath has raised questions about how he will lead the Democrats during the seven-day-a-week negotiations that close every session.
"The hurry up and wait of Albany can just have a different time frame," he said, suggesting that he will try to adapt Albany's rhythms to his schedule, and not vice versa.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new interim Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, left, was congratulated by Assemblyman Arnold Proskin on the chamber's floor after his selection to replace Saul Weprin. Preparing to add their greetings were Assemblymen Michael J. Bragman, left rear, and Clarence D. Rappleyea. (Alan E. Solomon for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: MAN IN THE NEWS (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); SENTENCING (64%); BASKETBALL (62%); GUN CONTROL (50%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; SILVER, SHELDON (ASSEMBLYMAN) (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); WEPRIN, SAUL (SPEAKER); SILVER, SHELDON (ASSEMBLYMAN)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



651 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: King's Wrath: Morocco Family Tale of 2 Decades

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RABAT, Morocco

 BODY:
Morocco is a country where human rights violations have been commonplace and speaking against the King is a risk few dare to take. But after two decades in secret prisons in Morocco, Maria-Inan Oufkir feels that she has little to lose.
Her family's name is one that people in Morocco will pronounce only in a whisper. For almost 20 years, the family was imprisoned by King Hassan II, said Miss Oufkir, a slight 32-year-old woman, who recounted their story in two interviews. 
 Today she is free to move about Morocco, "but the regime's repeated promises of a passport always come to nothing," she said as she walked the teeming streets of Rabat, glancing furtively over her shoulder, a habit born of life under constant surveillance.
Her caution is not the only scar that remains. She cannot, for instance, bear to be in a closed room. "I scream, I beat on the door, I am uncontrollable," she said, her eyes burning with sudden anguish. "I cannot sleep if my bedroom windows or door are shut. I would rather be outside."
 
Imprisoned at Age 11
 Her nightmare began at the age of 11 when she was whisked into a windowless vehicle and driven into Morocco's southern desert to a prison created especially for the wife and six children of Gen. Mohammed Oufkir. Their crime? Being part of the wrong family.
General Oufkir, a former Defense Minister and long the King's closest associate, ordered the strafing of the royal Boeing by air force fighter jets on Aug. 16, 1972. The King survived. By that evening, General Oufkir was dead. By the official account, he committed suicide after accepting responsibility for the assassination plot.
"But the bullets," said a Western diplomat who has followed the case, "were in General Oufkir's back and the back of his head."
In all, Western officials estimate that at least 300 and perhaps as many as 700 political opponents of the King have vanished. While no such cases were recorded over the last year, the older ones remain impenetrable. "There has been an improvement in the past couple of years, but many questions remain unanswered," a diplomat said.
 
A Problem for U.S.
 King Hassan's treatment of the Oufkir family, and others seen as inimical to the Government, now pose a delicate problem for the United States and other Western countries. The King's diplomatic importance has increased since the Israeli-Palestinian agreement in September, and so has the pressure to overlook the intermittent violations of human rights that have characterized his 33-year-old reign.
Western diplomats say King Hassan continues to work quietly to coax Arab countries, particularly Saudi Arabia, into closer ties with Israel. Morocco, while refraining from diplomatic recognition of Israel, is extending business ties, opening telephone lines and starting flights between the two countries.
Moreover, with Algeria plunged into an undeclared civil war between the military-backed Government and Islamic fundamentalists, Morocco stands as a bastion of stability for European governments anxious about a huge exodus to Europe from North Africa.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel have paid calls, and the King is expected to visit Washington this year. The European Union has opened negotiations on according favorable trade status to Morocco, which has requested eventual membership in the 12-nation bloc, formerly known as the European Community.
"The Oufkir case is one where amnesia rather suits the West," a European diplomat said. "There are diplomatic priorities, after all. Morocco is playing a key role in Middle East peace efforts. The country is stable and a bastion against Algerian-style fundamentalism. One must be practical."
 
Some Response Seen
 Nonetheless, the United States does try to prod Morocco on its human-rights practices. Questions are posed at the Interior Ministry; a report on abuses is prepared annually. In response, the King recently created a new post, Deputy Minister for Human Rights, albeit one widely viewed as having no budget, staff or mandate. The Taznamart prison in the Atlas mountains, long known as a center for torture, was razed last year, the Government said.
The Government will not comment formally on the Oufkir case. But a senior official close to the King who insisted on anonymity said the affair was one in which King Hassan would not be swayed. "It is inexplicable even to those who are close to him," he said.
Gilles Perrault, a French journalist, has said the Oufkir family has been pursued with "an inextinguishable desire for vengeance that is beyond any logic."
The persecution began on Dec. 23, 1972, when, after a few months under house arrest in Rabat, they were loaded into trucks and taken to Akka in the south. There, in a former barracks, they were held in isolation for a year.
They were moved to Agdz and then Tazenakhte, near the southern town of Ouarzazate. At the second of these prisons, the family was held blindfolded for a year.
"For 15 years," Miss Oufkir said, "we never saw anyone except guards with machine guns."
In 1977, they were moved to a farm converted into a prison at Bir Jdid, about 30 miles south of Casablanca, where conditions grew worse.
Miss Oufkir and her three sisters shared one tiny windowless cell. They were beaten and made to clean up their own excrement. There was little food and no exercise. Both Miss Oufkir's mother, Fatima, and her brother, Raouf, attempted suicide.
"Three of us would sit in the middle of the cell and the others walk circles around them," Miss Oufkir said. "We walked kilometers that way. We were close to starving, and hunger reduces you to something lower than the ground. It is a vicious state in which no human relation is possible."
Finally, in April 1987, with her weight down to 60 pounds, Miss Oufkir and three of her siblings escaped through a tunnel they had painstakingly dug. Five days later, they were arrested in Tangier. But they were able, during their brief flight, to make contact with a Paris-based lawyer, Bernard Dartevelle.
"I saw them briefly in Tangier, in a pitiable state, but was then arrested myself and thrown out of Morocco," Mr. Dartevelle recalled. He said he and a colleague began negotiations with the King for the family to leave to Canada.
 
The King Reneges
 By October 1987, the Canadian authorities had agreed to receive the Oufkirs, money had been deposited in a Canadian bank, and a flight was prepared for Oct. 27. At the last minute, however, the King, whose power is absolute, reneged without explanation.
Instead, the Oufkirs were placed under house arrest in Marrakesh, where they lived in relative comfort, until 1991, when they were released. No official declaration was made at the time of their release, just as no explanation was ever given for their captivity.
Miss Oufkir's younger sister, Yasmina Soukaina, writes songs, but nobody in Morocco will sing them. Her younger brother, Abdallah, has had drug problems. Raouf, the older brother, is unemployed. Myriam, an older sister, still fights epilepsy that began in captivity. Only Malika, another older sister, has a job. All have been pressing for passports to leave.
"After 20 years of imprisonment, I cannot make my life here, let alone raise a child," said Mara-Inan Oufkir, who is unmarried and has adopted a two-year-old boy.
 
Refusal Unexplained
 The King's refusal to let them leave remains a mystery.
Mr. Dartevelle, who represents the Oufkirs, said he believes that the King is worried that the Oufkir family might know Moroccan Government secrets. Among the sensitive subjects about which Western officials believe the Oufkirs may know something are the unsolved 1965 murder in France of the Moroccan opposition leader Mehdi Ben Barka, whose body was never found, and presumed contacts between King Hassan's entourage and the Israeli secret service, the Mossad.
Miss Oufkir said: "The King is afraid we would not keep quiet. But our only desire is to lead normal lives. He has a biblical hatred for us."
As for the King, he has little to say on the case. He told French television last March that the Oufkirs were free to leave, but nothing happened. Another of his few comments, made in the 1970's, was less cryptic: "I know what would have happened to my own children if General Oufkir had succeeded in taking my place."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maria-Inan Oufkir, shown in Rabat with her adopted son, Michael, has recounted the suffering of her family since her father died leading an unsuccessful plot to assassinate King Hassan II in 1972. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Map of Morocco showing location of Rabat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); 

COUNTRY: MOROCCO (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

CITY: RABAT, MOROCCO (88%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOROCCO; MOROCCO (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); RABAT, MOROCCO (88%); 

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICAL PRISONERS ASSASSINATION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (69%); AIR FORCES (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; HASSAN II (KING OF MOROCCO); OUFKIR, MARIA-INAN TZIPORA LIVNI (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



652 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Bonn Journal;
What's an Asia Hand Doing in Germany? Plenty!

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BONN, Jan. 24

 BODY:
When President Clinton nominated Richard C. Holbrooke to be Ambassador to Germany last summer on the same day he named former Vice President Walter F. Mondale Ambassador to Japan, some German officials who knew that Mr. Holbrooke was an Asia expert wondered whether they had won second prize.
They wonder no longer. Mr. Holbrooke, 52, has been an instant success in this crucial American diplomatic post. 
 "I have never seen such an excellent relationship with an ambassador develop in such a short time as with Richard Holbrooke," said Joachim Bitterlich, foreign policy adviser to Chancellor Helmut Kohl, who will be in Washington this weekend. Mr. Holbrooke will be in Washington this week to help the White House and the State Department prepare for the visit.
What Mr. Bitterlich and other Germans say they like best is the new Ambassador's informal and frank style. "We can talk openly with each other about the way we see things -- we don't have to play diplomatic games with him," Mr. Bitterlich said.
 
'The Unvarnished Truth'

"Tell me what's wrong with the relationship," the new Ambassador would tell him and other German officials at dinner parties, not even pretending to make small talk. "Tell me what you'd like to see fixed."
Dr. Beate Lindemann, an officer of an organization called the Atlantic Bridge, which cultivates German-American cultural and political ties, said: "At this point in our history, we needed somebody we could talk the unvarnished truth with. Dick Holbrooke was exactly the right man at the right time."
On a table in the parlor of the big official American residence on the Rhine is a picture of Mr. Holbrooke's grandfather, a Jewish businessman in Hamburg, wearing the Prussian spiked helmet and the Iron Cross he won as a German soldier in World War I. "I show it to German visitors as a symbol of what they lost," the Ambassador said.
His grandfather left Germany with Mr. Holbrooke's mother in 1933. Today his mother, Trudi Moos Kearl, lives in New York City.
Mr. Holbrooke was a Foreign Service Officer until 1972 -- in Vietnam, Washington, Paris and Morocco. And he was Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs from 1977 to 1981; before he came here, he was a managing director of the Lehman Brothers investment bank in New York.
The ambassadorial residence in Bonn has ample evidence of his interests in other parts of the world. It is filled with Thai, Cambodian and Vietnamese antique sculptures.
Bonn, a small university town that will cease to be the seat of government at the end of the century, is a place with few of the distractions and none of the glamour of Paris or London. For a divorced man like Mr. Holbrooke, there was not a lot else to do after he got here last September but talk politics, cultivate contacts, and help shape American policy toward such an important European ally.
Getting close to movers and shakers is something Mr. Holbrooke does very well, and his barely rudimentary German was no handicap. He brought in an old friend and mentor, Fritz Stern, Seth Low Professor of History at Columbia University, as an adviser to help him through his first few months, and was soon entertaining Mr. Kohl at home. Mr. Stern returned to Columbia on Jan. 15 but is continuing to work as a consultant to the embassy.
After his frank talks with German officials, one thing Mr. Holbrooke thought needed to be fixed was the impression some Germans and other Europeans had that the Clinton Administration did not think relations with Europe were as important as they were in the cold war.
"Europe has lost none -- repeat none -- of its importance to the United States," he said in a speech in Potsdam soon after presenting his credentials in October.
Mr. Clinton made that clear himself during his trip to Europe this month. But he will not make his first official visit to Germany until July. Mr. Holbrooke pointed out to old friends in Washington like Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, Anthony Lake, and his chief adviser on Russia, Deputy Secretary of State-designate Strobe Talbott, that an earlier idea of having the President come here in June, right after attending the 50th anniversary of the Allied landings in Normandy, would not be such a good idea.
Since World War II, the bedrock of the American relationship with Germany has been security, with more than 250,000 American troops here at the end of the cold war. Now, Mr. Holbrooke believes, his task is to make sure that the relationship remains strong on a new basis of commercial and cultural ties.
"The overarching goal," he said in an interview one recent weekend, "is to use 1994 to create the foundations for a bilateral relationship which is no longer so dependent on the American military presence."
To do that, in Frankfurt, Ambassador Holbrooke persuaded the United States Information Agency and the Commerce Department to open a business information center on Jan. 18.
 
Partners, Yes, and Rivals Too

Mr. Holbrooke said he would also like to reopen the closed American consulate in Dusseldorf, an important German business center, as a commercial office under a Commerce Department officer.
Not all his subordinates appreciated his insistence on forcing the far-flung bureaucracies to cooperate more closely. Nor, Mr. Holbrooke concedes, are German-American relations without frictions. The United States remains irritated by the extensive trade and political ties between Germany and Iran despite what Washington sees as Iranian support for international terrorism.
"In Asia, we have common human-rights and political views, but we are destined to be political and economic rivals," he said. "We accept this."
It also seems clear that this old Asia hand has no regrets about having taken on a new challenge in Europe. "Germany is the key player in moving the cold-war alliance into a new post-cold-war phase," he said, "and Clinton and Kohl are at the heart of it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard C. Holbrooke in his office in Bonn, where he is Washington's newest Ambassador. Until now, his strong specialty has been Asia. (Oliver Ruther for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); ASIA (92%); MOROCCO (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); VIET NAM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); ASIA (92%); MOROCCO (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); VIET NAM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); WORLD WAR I (62%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C (AMB) RICHARD HOLBROOKE (93%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



653 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1574 words

HEADLINE: Banishing the Busy Signal;
The Telephone Revolution Refuses to Wait for the Beep

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
Rod Granger has banished the busy signal. If you call him at his Manhattan office and he is on the phone, you get his voice mail. If the line at home is busy, your call jumps the track to call waiting, and if he and his wife are out, there is an answering machine.
"We're busy-signal free," he said.
Mr. Granger, a reporter for a cable-industry magazine, is a foot soldier on one front of the telecommunications revolution: the taming of the busy signal. While not likely to be mourned in the same way as, say, the soda jerk or the downtown movie palace, the old beep-beep-beep, frustratingly familiar since the early days of the medium, is under siege -- a fact that communications experts and sociologists say is loaded with implications about everything from call-waiting etiquette to corporate espionage. 
 Forces in the busy signal's decline range from the technology of call routing, which can toss an incoming call onto another open line -- in the next room or across the continent -- to the economics of corporate cutbacks, which have led to a sharp expansion in automated answering systems like voice mail, which makes busy signals obsolete.
The telephone companies have piled on as well, trying to stretch profits by increasing the percentage of completed calls. But telecommunications experts and sociologists say the real issues are time and the demands of a frenetic society that increasingly sees the busy signal as a symbol of failure and lost opportunity, a vestige of the past that is no longer tolerable.
"Our whole attitude toward the telephone has changed," said Dr. James Katz, a sociologist at Bellcore, a research and engineering company in Livingston, N.J., jointly owned by phone companies around the nation. "In our grandparents' day, they would think nothing of waiting five minutes for a coast-to-coast call to go through. Now if we have to wait three seconds, it's like some form of archaic torture," he said.
That is not to say that more calls are hitting their targets with crackling alacrity. Critics of the new technology of voice messaging, with its labyrinth of options and mailboxes, say that all the end runs around a busy signal are simply a new wasteland where callers and messages can drift and get lost more easily than ever. And certainly, the assertive beep of an occupied line still thrives in some local niches, including most residential telephones and at many government agencies and small businesses.
 
Overwhelming Evidence
 But accumulated anecdotal evidence is overwhelming that busy is just not as busy as it used to be:
*Three out of four of the nation's largest 2,000 companies now have automated call-routing or answering systems, according to the Voice Messaging Educational Committee, a trade group for voice-mail providers and equipment makers. Voice-mail systems, which were perfected only in the mid-1980's, make a busy signal essentially irrelevant, just another programmable function that can be bypassed.
*In New York City and other areas served by Nynex, and in much of the rest of the nation, about 40 percent of private telephone lines now have at least one extra feature, like call waiting, that bypasses a busy signal, according to company officials and industry estimates. (Bell Atlantic, which serves New Jersey, and Southern New England Telecommunications, in Connecticut, both declined to give figures on sales of such services, citing competitive reasons.)
*The percentage of completed calls -- an inverse measure of a declining busy rate -- has also shown a pronounced climb. At A.T. & T., the nation's largest long-distance carrier, the percentage of calls completed with at least some sort of answer was flat for decades at 70 percent. Since just 1990, that rate has jumped to 75 percent. With an average daily volume of 150 million calls, that is a lot fewer beeps, and a lot more revenue.
 
Detours Around Busy
 Of the busy-signal detours offered by phone companies, call waiting is the most popular among residential customers. But many homes also have a second phone line or call answering, a relatively new feature that works like residential voice mail: calls that do not go through are routed to the telephone company's computer, where the customer has a voice-mail box. (Nynex charges its New York State customers $5.19 a month for call waiting and $6.23 a month for call answering.)
Where the busy signal still exists, there are more ways than ever to circumvent it: multiline fax machines that can accept an incoming fax even though the line is occupied, or call repeat, a telephone-company service that lets a computer do the work of fighting the busy signal. The caller simply punches in a code, and when the line clears, the computer rings back and puts the call through. (In New York, where the feature is called repeat dialing, Nynex charges $3 a month or 75 cents a call.)
At a pay phone and can't wait around? In many places you can now call your telephone company's computers to relay a delayed message. "I'm on my way, be home at 6," you say, and hang up. The computer waits for the line to clear, redials the number you had been trying, and you don't miss your flight.
Even those who do happen to get a busy signal can no longer assume it means what it used to. At large catalogue companies like L. L. Bean, the busy signal may be imposed deliberately by a computer even though a customer's call could have gone through. A spokeswoman for L. L. Bean said that a new telephone system, introduced last year, juggles and judges each of the 20,000 calls received in a typical day, calculating the estimated waiting time for each call based on how many operators are on duty and how many callers are waiting. If the wait is expected to be longer than a minute -- that happens on about 1 percent of calls, or perhaps 200 times a day -- the computer gives a busy signal. Under the old system, a busy signal could be taken literally: the lines really were full. Now it is just another ambiguous tone requiring interpretation.
"At some point, believe it or not, it is better to return a busy signal than keep someone on endless hold," said Margaret Curren, the company's manager of telecommunications.
Sociologists say that the dethroning of the busy signal is changing the way people communicate, and that the rules of the road in a post-busy society are in some ways taking shape before our very ears.
Take, for just one example, the soft click of the call-waiting signal, which can now be heard in about one-third of the nation's homes. Beyond simply eliminating a busy signal, call-waiting is becoming a means of communication in its own right, since how callers react to it conveys an unspoken message: Do you interrupt the call and come back? Or take the incoming call and promise to call the first caller back? Or do you ignore the click entirely and communicate deep respect for the current caller?
 
Choices Within Choices
 And there are choices within those choices as well, each of which communicates even finer subtleties. Do you wait 10 seconds before coming back, or 5? Do you ignore an incoming click after several interruptions, or keep jumping off no matter how many times it happens?
A new service, which local telephone companies expect to introduce later this year, will further compound the call-waiting conundrum with caller ID for the incoming, interrupting calls. Thus, if you recognize the number that has clicked your current call, you can judge whether to ignore it, or push a button that potentially sends a recording, or possibly even a regular, old-fashioned busy signal.
"Traditionally, if I called you, you were either there or you weren't," said Gary T. Marx, a professor of sociology at the University of Colorado in Boulder. "Now there are all these new meanings."
Professor Marx also worries that anti-busy services offered by telephone companies, which typically add to the monthly bill (about $3 to $5 on average for call waiting), could eventually create class distinctions between those who can afford them and those who cannot.
 
New Ways to Cheat
 And there are new ways to cheat as well. Dr. Katz, the industry sociologist, said that voice-mail hacking and espionage have become common new methods of ferreting out gossip and promising leads from competing companies. And with call-forwarding systems that can bounce calls anywhere and then elbow out a busy signal, people can be anywhere, being productive or doing nothing, and the caller -- whether the boss or a spouse -- won't know.
"I have a cousin -- when you call him, you never know where he is," said Dr. Marx. "He takes great pride in that."
Bill Price, the director of enhanced voice services for MCI Communications, said his goal was that customers "never hear a busy, ever," but that in his own personal network, he kept one line old-fashioned. Mr. Price -- who gave an interview from his car in Maryland to a reporter in Connecticut while on a conference call with a third MCI executive in Washington, -- carries a beeper and a cellular phone whenever he travels.
But Mr. Price said that only a few people know both his cellular number and his beeper number, and that if the cellular line is busy they should beep him. The two numbers together amount to a sort of personal code, and callers who do not do both parts might not get through.
"I prefer for them to get a busy signal and call back," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (64%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (64%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (64%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (64%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (64%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; AUTOMATION; VOICE MAIL TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); ENGINEERING (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); EVIDENCE (60%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (53%); ESPIONAGE (53%); GRANDPARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



654 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Four Dead, and Family's Charred Dream as Well

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY

 BODY:
The fire engines had left, the scent of smoke was fading and Sonia Bishop stood on the sidewalk on Staten Island yesterday, looking up at the charred window frames of the apartment building across the street and trying to remember the sound of her son's voice.
"I miss him -- 'Mommy, Mommy, Mommy" -- said Ms. Bishop, 22, her round, youthful face tight with grief. "That's it: 'Mommy, Mommy, Mommy.' " Quivering with tears, she hugged the man next to her, and the two rocked back and forth on the slushy sidewalk. 
 In addition to killing her 8-year-old son, Jeremiah, a fire that rapidly engulfed a three-story apartment building shortly before midnight Sunday cut a jagged swath through Ms. Bishop's family, killing three others: a brother, Deray Bishop, 6; a sister, LaToya Myrick, 16, and Ms. Myrick's daughter, Keysiana, 3.
Ms. Bishop's mother and another sister escaped by jumping from third-floor windows. Ms. Bishop was not in the apartment when the fire started.
 
Flammable Finding
 Fire officials said yesterday that they found evidence of a flammable liquid on the second floor of the building, at 500 Bay Street in the Stapleton section, where they determined the fire started, and are investigating whether the fire was set. Fire officials are also investigating whether the fire had any connection to what neighbors said was frequent crack-smoking in the second-floor apartment.
Firefighter Steve King, of Ladder Company 77, said his company arrived minutes after the fire was reported at 11:47 P.M., but by then, fire and heavy smoke were shooting out of all six windows of the third-floor apartment. Firefighters who tried to make it up the stairs to rescue the children were repelled by the fire, he said. Six firefighters were injured fighting the blaze, none seriously.
Mr. King said he was fighting the fire on the roof when the firefighters reached the apartment and he heard their conversation on his radio. "I heard them say, 'We have a 1045, that's our code for a victim,' " Mr. King said. "Then they said, 'We have a second one.' It turned out that three of them were huddled on the floor and they were so badly burned that it was hard to tell it was three of them."
Jeremiah Bishop was found alone on the floor in the bathroom.
The extended family of mothers and children lived in the rundown neighborhood near the Navy's Homeport installation, which arrived in the early 1980's spreading hope of economic revitalization, but is now shutting down in a Federal budget-cutting move.
The family lived on the third floor, paying $650 for three bedrooms. The first floor once housed the Narrows Tavern, but is now vacant.
The family was headed by Ms. Bishop's mother, whose name is also Sonia Bishop.
Michael Williams, 17, who said he was a former boyfriend of LaToya Myrick, said Ms. Bishop moved her family from the Stapleton Homes housing project just over a year ago because drug dealers were threatening to use her apartment as a place of business.
"People were trying to take over her house," Mr. Williams said. "They wanted to sell drugs."
Fire officals said that when the fire started, Ms. Bishop, 46, jumped out of the front window of the apartment. She was hospitalized and was reported in stable condition yesterday with multiple cuts. Another daughter, Essence Myrick, jumped from a back window, officials said, and was in stable condition with a broken pelvis.
The younger Ms. Bishop said that her mother had complained about one of the tenants on the second floor leaving food on the stove and falling asleep. Ms. Bishop also said that her mother had had an argument with one of the tenants Sunday night about $5 the man said he wanted from her. She said the man had earlier fixed the family's heating system.
Along with trying to determine the origin of the fire, fire officials are also investigating whether the building was overcrowded. Witnesses said between 30 and 40 people left three buildings along Bay Street when the fire started.
The fire gutted the building at 500 Bay Street, and residents in the buildings on either side of it were left homeless, at least temporarily. Mary Lee Montalvo, the director of the Staten Island chapter of the Red Cross, said her agency was trying to find emergency housing for 31 people who were living in those buildings.
The building at 500 Bay Street had previously been cited for fire code violations but there was no indication of outstanding violations at the time of the fire. In July 1991 the building was ordered vacated because it was being operated as a single-room occupancy building but had no sprinkler system and did not have two exits, according to a copy of the violation notice.
Guy V. Molinari, the Staten Island Borough President, who visited the fire scene yesterday, said city records indicated the building was vacated at city expense and that the violations notice was rescinded in December 1992 when the building was re-registered as a single-family residence. Such a residence does not require the same level of fire safety as an SRO.
In January 1992, the city filed a lien against the property in an attempt to collect $20,869 in relocation expenses. The lien is outstanding, according to Mr. Molinari's office.
Jacob Perlmutter, who is listed as the owner of the building, was reached yesterday in Malibu, Calif., where officials said he lives, but he refused to comment.
"Listen, I have no comment for you," he said. "Have a good day."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Firefighters were still at the three-story building on Staten Island yesterday after the Sunday night blaze that killed a mother and three children. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)
 
Map of Staten Island showing site of the fire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; ARSON; CRACK (COCAINE) RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); ARSON (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FIRES (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (89%); COCAINE (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); SMOKING (73%); FAMILY (73%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (64%); 

PERSON: PURDY, MATTHEW

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



655 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Suburban Towns And Politics of Salt

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Jan. 24

 BODY:
In this incorrigible winter, the most precious mineral in the communities ringing New York City has been neither gold nor diamonds but simple salt.
There was so little rock salt last week to thaw the ice-slicked roadways of New York State and New Jersey that cars skated into one another like novices at Rockefeller Center's rink. More than a few drivers were left icebound, including Paul J. Feiner, supervisor of the Westchester County town of Greenburgh, who could not get his car out of its parking space for 40 minutes so he could run the town. 
 Even today, with temperatures reaching the 40's, officials were fuming that they had too little salt to fully exploit the thaw.
"I've called Canada, I called all over and at this point I'm on a first-name basis with all the shipping clerks around the country," said Jesse D'Amore, the Hackensack, N.J., superintendent of public works.
 
Losing Out to Others
 There are a batch of reasons for the shortage, including one that qualifies as a cosmological Catch-22: trucks bringing salt from a major salt mine near Rochester cannot get to their distribution points because of unsalted roadways.
But Mr. Feiner and a number of other town officials said they have learned of another reason by talking to workers at the companies that supply them: New York State has been, well, salting away the substance for itself.
"At the storage depot, they're saying that the state takes precedence over all other local jurisdictions," said Elaine Price, the Mamaroneck supervisor.
State officials reject the charge, saying they, too are having trouble getting enough salt.
But the town officials say the state wants to make sure there is enough salt for major highways like the New York State Thruway and Route 287 in Westchester. Some note that New York City, with 40 percent of the state's population -- and voters -- has also been kept well-stocked. Indeed, Kathy Dawkins, a spokeswoman for the city's Sanitation Department, confirmed that New York City is "able to get all the salt we need" and has 40,000 tons on hand.
In short, the town officials say, suburban towns have been losing out to bigger competitors in the politics of salt.
 
Trying to Buy or Borrow
 "I don't know who's getting it, but somebody's got what there was," said Richard R. Blessing, Pelham Manor's administrator. "I didn't."
David Murray, a spokesman for New York's Department of Transportation, insisted, "We certainly are not hoarding salt."
While major highways have been kept clear, he said, some of the secondary two-lane roads throughout the state are still icy. Besides, he said, during the most bitterly cold days, when temperatures plunged below zero, salt was ineffective anyway.
"It's not political," he said.
Whatever the reasons, municipal officials like Mr. D'Amore of Hackensack and John A. Lombardi of North Castle in Westchester County were scrambling today to buy or borrow salt wherever they could find it and complaining that some suppliers were tagging on large fees for prompt delivery. At the same time, homeowners are finding few hardware stores have stocks of rock salt or any other deicers.
The city of White Plains, which typically uses 750 tons of coarse rock salt for every winter storm, has only 150 tons for the next storm, enough for major roads but not enough to assure clear side streets.
"We've been using sand for traction, but sand just creates a mess and it does nothing much for thawing," said Joseph J. Nicoletti Jr., the city's public works commissioner.
 
Distribution a Problem
 Rock salt, a coarser version of kitchen salt that lowers the freezing temperature of water, comes to New York State from three major suppliers, with most downstate localities relying on Akzo Salt Inc. Akzo, an international company with headquarters in Clarks Summit, Pa., with $10 billion in sales in 1992, also supplies much of New Jersey. State officials in Connecticut, which uses four suppliers including Akzo, said its supplies appear to be adequate for now.
In New York, 598 towns, villages, cities and school districts buy their salt through the state's contract, which allows them to make their purchases at an economical $30 a ton. Akzo's salt is mined in its Restof, N.Y., mine. Officials say the mine, 1,100 feet below ground, is the size of Manhattan and is producing enough salt even for this winter.
But, they say, distribution has been the problem. Akzo uses rail, barge and trucks to deliver the salt to depots, like the one in the Fordham section of the Bronx that most New York City suburbs tap. But the subzero temperatures, said Catherine Bolton, a spokeswoman for the company, has frozen crucial rail equipment and trucks carrying salt cannot get through on icy roads.
Moreover, she said, the demands of recent weeks have been unprecedented. All the company has been able to do, she said, is "to give it a little bit to everybody," rationing it by the amounts the various jurisdictions historically use.
She blames the towns and cities, spoiled by 10 years of mild winters, for storing enough only for two or three storms. But Mr. Lombardi, North Castle's supervisor, said large mountains of salt can create a hazardous runoff into the town's aquifers.
So drastic has the shortage become that Akzo has dispatched an armada from the Caribbean island of Bonaire, where the company harvests "solar salt," sea salt that is dehydrated in the sun.
Meanwhile, Mr. Feiner of Greenburgh has his own political way of dealing with the problem. Last Tuesday, he faxed a letter to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who is seeking re-election in November, complaining that because the state was demanding priority, his town was being left with "an inadequate supply of material to guarantee the public safety."
Two days later, his town received a delivery of 100 tons of salt.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In this winter of frigid temperatures and icy roads, a shortage of salt has plagued the region around New York. Kevin Blanding, a worker at the Greenburgh Department of Public Works in Westchester County, shoveled the last bits of salt into a front loader yesterday as he tried to fill a 2,000-ton order. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "TEMPERATURE: A WARMING TREND" shows New York City's high and low temperatures from Jan. 12 to 24. (Source: Pennsylvania State University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2899 OTHER CHEMICALS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (85%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (85%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (85%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; ROCK SALT; SHORTAGES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); SUBURBS (84%); CITY LIFE (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



656 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Opera Manager Named To Cultural Post by Giuliani

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
Calling the arts an economic engine vital to New York City's recovery, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani yesterday named a former manager of the Metropolitan Opera and dean of Columbia University's School of the Arts to be the city's Cultural Affairs Commissioner.
The Mayor appointed Schuyler G. Chapin, 71, who most recently served as a vice president of Steinway & Sons, to run the $85.3 million-a-year Cultural Affairs Department, which finances and oversees 31 cultural institutions on city property, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Museum of Natural History. The department also administers grants to 400 other private groups, running from large organizations like the Museum of Modern Art to smaller operations like the Boys Choir of Harlem. 
 In announcing his choice, Mr. Giuliani said advances in technology and communications had given many businesses the option of moving out of the city and thus increased the importance of the arts in attracting and holding people and companies.
"It really is the core of a great city to maintain and preserve the arts, certainly as part of the spiritual identity of the city but also because this is an important industry," Mr. Giuliani said. "This is vital to our economic renewal."
 
Subsidies and Donations
 Mr. Giuliani, who is grappling with a $2.3 billion deficit in next year's budget, said he had yet to decide whether to cut city subsidies for the arts. But he said he had asked Mr. Chapin and the Deputy Mayor for Economic Development, John S. Dyson, to find ways to increase private donations to cultural institutions.
The Mayor also denied that his administration had plans to cut funds for smaller, less established theaters and museums in favor of the big institutions in Manhattan that traditionally attract tourists. Mr. Dyson drew fire from some in the art world last month when he suggested that the current roster of 431 groups getting part of the $87.3 million in city aid could be pared to offer more support to the premier institutions.
"There is no plan to cut small institutions in favor of large institutions," Mr. Giuliani said yesterday, but he added that he would scrutinize all city subsidies to see whether they were used in a way that bolsters the economy and fosters excellence in the arts.
"I have to look at the entire arts budget from the point of view of how accountable is it, how effective is it, how much is it returning in terms of jobs and dollars to this city," he said.
 
Main Strategy
 For his part, Mr. Chapin said he was committed to spurring groups as diverse as the city's population. But while he said he favored city financing for smaller institutions as well as the 31 large institutions, he also warned that the city's fiscal hardships meant there would be little new money available. He said his main strategy would be to help the less established groups tap into private donations.
"Our concern is going to make certain that the quality of the small is as great and as promising and as exciting as the quality of the big, and then it will be my intention to try to help them find private funding," he said.
Several heads of cultural groups greeted Mr. Chapin's appointment with enthusiasm, saying he was regarded as an "eminence grise" in the art world, an effective spokesman for their needs.
"Schuyler Chapin is a pro," said Kent L. Barwick, president of the Municipal Art Society. "He's passionate about the arts and he starts with an enormous reservoir of good will from organizations in the performing and visual arts."
 
'A Real Coup'
 Nathan Leventhal, president of Lincoln Center, said Mr. Chapin, a former vice president of the center and still chairman of the center's artistic affairs committee, was internationally known and could be expected to be a strong advocate for arts groups.
"This is a guy who has entree around the world," Mr. Leventhal said. "It's a real coup for Giuliani that he got him to take the job."
Mr. Chapin, whose family has been in New York for 10 generations, was a vice president in charge of programming at Lincoln Center in the 1960's and went on to become general manager of the Metropolitan Opera from 1972 to 1975. He then took over the School of Arts at Columbia, and in his 10 years as a dean he was credited with doubling enrollment, strengthening the fine-arts curriculum and attracting more than $7 million in private donations to the school.
He is a trustee of Carnegie Hall, the Lenox Art Center and the Museum of the City of New York. Mr. Chapin has written two books, "Musical Chairs" and "Leonard Bernstein: Notes From a Friend."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Schuyler G. Chapin after being appointed yesterday to be the Cultural Affairs Commissioner. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS339992 MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CULTURAL AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (NYC) STEINWAY & SONS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CULTURAL AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (NYC) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CULTURE CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); OPERA (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); HISTORY (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CHAPIN, SCHUYLER G RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



657 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Health Plan's Foes Tap Well of Public Fear

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 21

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton passed through town two months ago campaigning on behalf of health care reform, but "Libby" and "Louise" are on the airwaves now, courtesy of the latest advertising campaign of the Health Insurance Association of America.
Interested in health care reform but worried about the Clinton plan, the two appealing actresses share their fears again and again with the television viewers of Georgia. 
 As the interest groups in the struggle over health care recognize, it is not hard to find -- or to stoke -- hesitation and doubt on the issue these days. Four months after President Clinton outlined his vision of "health care that's always there," and as he prepares to try to rally the nation once again with his State of the Union Message on Tuesday night, the debate has moved into the confused and worrisome realm of programs and mandates and vast structural changes.
Atlanta, the capital of a region that so often tilts the balance of power on Capitol Hill, is a microcosm of the difficulties now facing the Clintons.
Like many lawmakers, Representative John Lewis, a liberal Democrat who represents Atlanta, spent much of the Congressional recess meeting with representatives of hospitals, various health provider groups and a wide swath of the public. And, he said, he will return to Washington convinced that "the great majority of people want us to do something." But Mr. Lewis, who is a co-sponsor in the House of both the President's bill and a Canadian-style, single-payer plan, adds that there is another undercurrent: "People are concerned. They don't want to lose what they have."
That fear is at the heart of many of the warnings being directed toward the public and their elected representatives here these days by hospitals and doctors, insurance companies and drug companies and a host of other interests.
The Health Insurance Association of America, a trade group representing 270 companies that provide coverage for 55 million people, is financing a commercial in Georgia and 13 other states in which "Libby" worries about "these mandatory government health alliances" that would serve as middlemen between consumers and health plans. Her friend "Louise" tells her the alliances would restrict the choice of health plans available to people (an assertion that Administration officials reject).
Dr. Roy W. Vandiver, president of the Medical Association of Georgia, which is aggressively presenting its views on a health care overhaul, worries that the Clinton plan would inevitably restrict the patient's choice of doctor (another assertion the Administration rejects). A pamphlet by the state medical association lists as "things that could hurt our patients" both a single-payer system and "any plan that would restrict Georgians' freedom of choice of doctors, place of treatment or type of insurance."
The political counterbalance to all these accusations and all these fears, of course, is the promise of universal health care. Mr. Clinton's strategists are counting on that promise to be so appealing and so desirable that it sweeps away everything in its path.
But Mr. Lewis, who was in the forefront of the 1960's struggle for the right to vote and the right to public accommodations, said he worried that the Clintons and their allies have yet to galvanize a majority of Americans around the notion of health care as a right. "A lot of convincing remains," he says. "They've got to spend a lot of time during the spring educating people, mobilizing the country, getting people to buy into the the idea that in order to have a healthy nation, a productive work force, we've got to have healthy people."
Moreover, universal coverage carries a political catch of its own, particularly in this region. In the Clinton plan, it is achieved by requiring employers to contribute to the cost of their workers' insurance -- the so-called employer mandate. This raises alarms among conservative Southern Democrats like Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia.
 
Rival Proposals
 "I'm dubious about it," Mr. Nunn says, "for the jobs we're trying to create, and particularly because it's going to squeeze out the marginal worker." Administration official sassert that their plan would cushion the economic impact of the employer mandate with a system of subsidies to small companies. But Mr. Nunn is a co-sponsor of a rival plan in the Senate, a version of the more conservative managed-competition plan advanced in the House by Representative Jim Cooper of Tennessee. The Cooper plan, like the Clinton version, would blend regulation with market forces but would stop short of promising universal coverage and would not require an employer mandate.
"I think more and more people are saying it's got be done a step at a time," Mr. Nunn argued. "It's too big, too complicated. Cost projections are too uncertain to roll the dice and bet on estimates when you're really betting about one-sixth of the gross national product."
 
Resistance in South
 Merle Black, an expert on Southern politics at Emory University, said Southern Democrats may particularly resist an employer mandate. "One of the reasons that the Southern Democratic party has survived as long as it has is that many small business people continue to do business with the Democratic Party," Mr. Black said. "All that makes Southern democrats particularly susceptible to looking for an alternative" to the Clinton plan.
Robert Blendon, a specialist in public opinion and health at Harvard University, also notes that the South has some of the higher percentages of uninsured.
Mr. Nunn predicts that the Clinton plan "will have to be scaled back" and ultimately blended with rival plans, including Mr. Cooper's.
That leads to another important dynamic of the current health care debate: it is turning into a remarkably complicated discussion of rival proposals that, some analysts suggest, leaves the public behind.
Beverly Tyler, executive director of Georgia Health Decisions, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that has spent two years talking to 6,000 Georgians about the health care system, worries that the public here is simply not prepared for a deeply politicized debate on this issue.
"It's a difficult issue for people to get their arms around when you talk to them about specific reform proposals," Ms. Tyler said. "They are so overwhelmed by them and so confused by them that the fear factor sets in."
She added: "We know from talking to people that they are angry about prices, that they want something to be done. But now they're reacting to, 'omigod, someone's going to tell us what we have to have.' "
 
Support Expected to Grow
 Former Gov. Richard F. Celeste of Ohio, who is heading the Clinton campaign's outreach effort, predicted in a telephone interview that the grass-roots campaign on behalf of the President's plan would escalate in the weeks to come as it becomes more organized. "It's a big effort," Mr. Celeste said. "It's so much easier to do a brief mischaracterization of the program."
Moreover, a Georgia coalition of health care professionals, business, labor, civic and other groups will announce its formation next week to push for a "comprehensive" overhaul of the health care system. The group, loosely affiliated with the National Health Care Reform Project, a nonpartisan coalition in Washington, is dedicated to a set of broad principles, like universal coverage, said Pat Ford-Roegner, one of its organizers.
"What we were talking about the other day at our meeting is the fact that there is this growing feeling that those who oppose change or want to slow it down want people to say I'm fine, I'm happy, everything's O.K. for me," said Ms. Ford-Roegner, a consultant and a nurse. "And this group, particularly the health care professionals, sees what happens when people are undercovered or one step away from being uncovered."
Mr. Lewis, meanwhile, says he continues to worry. Describing the "Libby" and "Louise" commercial this week, he said with a short laugh, "To me it's a very effective piece, very convincing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Roy W. Vandiver, president of the Medical Association of Georgia, which is aggressively presenting its views on a health care overhaul, said he worried that the Clinton plan would inevitably restrict the patient's choice of doctor. The Administration rejects that assertion. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times) (pg. D21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HOSPITALS; PUBLIC OPINION; DOCTORS HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (69%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN LEWIS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



658 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Farrakhan Is Warned Over Aide's Invective

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24

 BODY:
Four months after warily embracing Louis Farrakhan, the minister of the Nation of Islam, a number of prominent blacks are now urging him to distance himself from anti-Semitic comments made by a senior aide.
In recent days, Benjamin Chavis, executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and William H. Gray 3d, president of the United Negro College Fund, have condemned comments made two months ago by Khalid Abdul Muhammad, an aide to Mr. Farrakhan, in a speech at Kean College in Union, N.J. 
Last Friday, Representative Kweisi Mfume, the Maryland Democrat who heads the Congressional Black Caucus, wrote Mr. Farrakhan to ask if Mr. Muhammad's remarks reflected the official position of the black Muslim group. "It was extremely agonizing for me to even read what I read," Mr. Mfume said of excerpts of Mr. Muhammad's remarks.
Taken with comments made in an interview on Sunday by the Rev. Jesse Jackson, the criticism of the anti-Semitic statements represents a forceful denunciation by established leaders of prominent black groups.
 
Harsh Criticism
 Some prominent blacks have said the sharp tone of the recent denunciations stems in part from the outrageousness of Mr. Muhammad's remarks. But some say they also stem from a need to distance themselves from the Nation of Islam.
The criticism from Mr. Mfume is particularly significant because he has been trying to forge a partnership between the Black Caucus and the Nation of Islam, which advocates economic power and discipline for blacks.
In a Nov. 29 speech full of invective and coarse language, Mr. Muhammad lashed out at Jews, calling them the "blood suckers of the black nation" who "crucified Jesus in a kangaroo court" and who control the financial system, including the Federal Reserve.
Last week, after the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith ran what it said were excerpts from the speech in a full-page advertisement in The New York Times, Mr. Chavis condemned Mr. Muhammad's remarks. In an address at the National Museum of Natural History in Washington, he said anti-Semitism was a "virulent strand of racism that must not go unchallenged."
Referring directly to Mr. Muhammad's comments, Mr. Chavis said he "was appalled that any human being would stoop so low to make such violence-prone anti-Semitic comments."
In a speech in Philadelphia on Jan. 16 to commemorate the birthday of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Mr. Gray was equally strong in denouncing Mr. Muhammad's comments.
"We must be clear that at no time can we tolerate racism and anti-Semitism, nor can it be justified as a response to repression," the former Pennsylvania Congressman said. "Martin taught us better than that. I am talking specifically about the tragic and anti-Semitic comments that occurred at Kean College a few weeks ago."
In denouncing Mr. Muhammad, several black leaders today said they were hopeful that Mr. Farrakhan would distance himself from the comments of his subordinate. Some commentators have suggested in recent weeks that Mr. Farrakhan, who a decade ago called Judaism a "gutter religion," has moderated his views. In a speech in New York last month, Mr. Farrakhan reiterated his message of black pride but denied being racist or anti-Semitic.
In a telephone interview today, Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Harlem Democrat, said that from reading the transcripts of Mr. Muhammad's remark, "clearly, we're dealing with a person who is very dangerous, bitter and, in my opinion, very sick."
In September, Mr. Mfume announced that the caucus would enter into a "covenant" to work with Mr. Farrakhan on legislative concerns and would work with the Nation of Islam just as it would work with other black groups. Saying he wanted to bring about a more formalized working relationship with the Nation of Islam, Mr. Mfume said he was motivated by the idea of unifying the disparate parts of the black political spectrum.
Today, Mr. Mfume said he wrote Mr. Farrakhan because he worried about the effect Mr. Muhammad's comments would have on efforts to begin working with the Nation of Islam.
Mr. Mfume said he had yet to receive a response from Mr. Farrakhan, and he would not speculate on what he would do if the answer was that Mr. Muhammad's views accurately reflected Mr. Farrakhan's.
The affiliation with the Nation of Islam has caused the caucus some embarrassment. Soon after the announcement of a covenant with the organization was announced it was denounced by Jewish groups.
Tensions between Jewish groups and the caucus were eased after Mr. Mfume met with officials from Jewish organizations and told them of the caucus's need to form partnership with groups representing diverse opinions.
Still, a number of senior members of the Black Caucus stressed today that the 40-member group of black lawmakers had never officially ratified the partnership with the Nation of Islam. "I don't think it was ever an official position of the caucus," said Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia. "It was a statement made during a town meeting last September during the black caucus meeting. I don't think a great majority of the caucus ever saw ourselves engaged in any type of partnership or covenant with Minister Farrakhan."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NATION OF ISLAM; KEAN COLLEGE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); NATION OF ISLAM (94%); NATION OF ISLAM (94%); UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND (57%); UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATION OF ISLAM; KEAN COLLEGE NATION OF ISLAM (94%); NATION OF ISLAM (94%); UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND (57%); UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; JEWS; ANTI-SEMITISM MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); RELIGION (92%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CAUCUSES (75%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; FARRAKHAN, LOUIS; MUHAMMAD, KHALID ABDUL; CHAVIS, BENJAMIN F JR (REV); MFUME, KWEISI (REPR); GRAY, WILLIAM H 3D JESSE JACKSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



659 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Anti-Abortion Protests To Continue, Groups Say

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Anti-abortion groups say they will not be stopped by a Supreme Court decision yesterday allowing the Federal racketeering law to be used against protesters who block access to abortion clinics.
"We will continue our activities that save lives," said Wendy Wright, communications director of Operation Rescue National. "For us, this is the same old thing. For years, we've faced massive lawsuits and horrendous jail sentences. But we're accountable to God, not to the Government, and as long as people believe it's right to save unborn children, they'll be willing to pay the price." 
 That price may be much higher now, though. Under the racketeering law, the Racketeering-Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, groups that conspire to break the law can be found liable for triple damages. The Court ruled that RICO could be applied to ideologically motivated crimes as well as economically motivated crimes.
"To be honest, now that RICO can be used against us, anyone who gets a newsletter can be culpable," Ms. Wright said in a telephone interview from Melbourne, Fla. "At one point, a judge in Washington ordered that anyone who donated to Operation Rescue could be liable for fines. But even people who oppose Operation Rescue realized that was going too far."
 
Concern Over Peaceful Protests
 Ms. Wright expressed concern that the High Court's ruling would be used even against peaceful protesters. Of the 200 defendants named in the RICO case, she said, most had done nothing more than pray peacefully on the sidewalk in front of clinics.
"It's blatantly false that this is only against violent activities," she asserted. Referring to a demonstration at an abortion clinic in Melbourne, Ms. Wright said: "There were 150 people arrested for kneeling and praying. I was praying on a grassy public area, with one other person. I weigh 100 pounds and I couldn't block anyone if I wanted to. But I was arrested for that."
Now that the Supreme Court has ruled that the racketeering law can be used in cases involving political demonstrations, the National Organization for Women, which brought the case, will have to go back to the Federal court in Chicago and prove that illegal acts occurred.
Joseph Scheidler, executive director of the Pro-Life Action League who was the first named defendant in the case, said he welcomed that chance to go to court and prove his innocence.
"I think this is a step toward the downfall of RICO," Mr. Scheidler said in a statement issued in Chicago yesterday. "We are not racketeers and we are not going to back down from our pro-life activities. If anything, we'll step it up. Social protest is at the heart of what America stands for, and has been since the Boston Tea Party."
Mr. Scheidler and other anti-abortion leaders said they had not yet begun to think about the possible impact of RICO damages.
"That's the furthest thing from my mind right now," Mr. Scheidler said. "We haven't been found guilty of anything yet. I don't know what damages they could show or what they could take. We don't own the office, I don't own my home, and if they want the fax machine, they're welcome to it."
The National Right to Life Committee stressed in a prepared statement that it does not endorse any illegal acts, but those at the group's headquarters said yesterday that they would not discuss how the Court's decision might affect its members.
Many anti-abortion leaders said yesterday that the Court's decision would probably lead to the use of the anti-racketeering law against other kinds of groups that used civil disobedience to force social change.
 
Warning to Other Protesters
 "Under this decision, Martin Luther King Jr. would have been a racketeer," said Randall Terry, the founder of Operation Rescue, who now has a daily radio show that is broadcast from Binghamton, N.Y., on 31 Christian-oriented stations. "What I'd say to the AIDS activists, the anti-nuclear groups, the animal-rights people, is get your affairs in order and line up, because you're next."
Mr. Terry, who like Mr. Scheidler is a defendant in the RICO case, vowed to continue his anti-abortion work but conceded that yesterday's ruling might scare off those who were less committed to stopping abortions.
"We're going to go on doing what we do," he said. "The leaders aren't going to change. This is an effort to intimidate the rank and file so they won't associate with us. And for some people, that may work. But we're going to see who's brave and who listens to God, not to man."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; OPERATION RESCUE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS ABORTION (93%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); CORRUPTION (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SENTENCING (73%); ARRESTS (73%); JUDGES (73%); WOMEN (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RIOTS (68%); 

PERSON: LEWIN, TAMAR MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



660 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Court Rules Abortion Clinics Can Use Rackets Law to Sue

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24

 BODY:
The Supreme Court ruled unanimously today that abortion clinics can invoke the Federal racketeering law to sue violent anti-abortion protest groups for damages.
The opinion, written by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, gives abortion clinics a potentially powerful legal weapon -- including the prospect of triple damages -- to combat and possibly to deter the violence that has made it increasingly risky and expensive for the clinics to stay in business. 
 The issue in the case decided today did not concern abortion itself, but rather was about how broadly to interpret the Federal racketeering law.
Abortion-rights groups hailed the ruling as a significant victory, although it leaves abortion clinics with the task of proving the allegations in an eight-year-old lawsuit that the decision reinstated.
In the suit, the National Organization for Women is accusing Operation Rescue and several other groups and individuals of running a nationwide conspiracy to drive abortion clinics from business through a campaign of intimidation, bombings and other violent acts.
While there is no doubt that bombings, vandalism, harassment of staff members and other acts have occurred, the plaintiffs have to prove in court that the acts were part of a "pattern of racketeering activity" undertaken by the groups and individuals named in the lawsuit.
Anti-abortion groups condemned the Court, branding its ruling "a vulgar betrayal of over 200 years of tolerance toward protest and civil disobedience," as Randall A. Terry, the founder of Operation Rescue and a defendant in the suit, said today.
Two lower Federal courts in Chicago had dismissed the suit on the ground that the Racketeer-Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, the Federal law known as RICO, applied only to activities motivated by a desire for economic gain. In dismissing the suit in 1992, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, in Chicago, said the defendants' actions as described in the suit had been "reprehensible" but had a political and ideological motive rather than an economic goal.
 
No Economic Motive Required
 But Chief Justice Rehnquist said Congress had not included an economic motive requirement when it passed the racketeering law in 1970. Noting that an economic motive requirement was "neither expressed nor, we think, fairly implied" in the law, the Chief Justice said, "We believe the statutory language is unambiguous."
The decision, National Organization for Women v. Scheidler, No. 92-780, was the latest in a long list of Supreme Court rulings to give a broad interpretation to the RICO law, which Congress had passed to combat the infiltration of legitimate businesses by organized crime. The law quickly became popular as a useful tool in business disputes and other contexts far removed from organized crime.
The Court has expressed discomfort with this development but has frequently declared that any limitations in the vaguely written law had to be placed there by Congress, not by Federal judges. It was evident when the Court heard arguments in the case last month that a majority of the Justices was prepared to let this suit proceed.
The racketeering law makes it illegal to conduct the "affairs" of an "enterprise" through a "pattern of racketeering activity." A pattern is established by proof of at least two actions that violate any of a number of state and Federal crimes; an actual criminal conviction is not necessary.
In this case, the Seventh Circuit found that the allegations, if proved, would show that the defendants' pattern of intimidation, threats, trespassing and vandalism had violated the Hobbs Act, the Federal extortion law.
But the appellate court then went on to conclude that the anti-abortion groups did not constitute the required "enterprise" because, as used in the law, that word meant an association with a profit motive. Chief Justice Rehnquist said today that the word "enterprise" meant nothing more than an "association in fact," regardless of motive.
In addition to Operation Rescue and Mr. Terry, the lawsuit also named the Pro-Life Action League Inc. and its leader, Joseph Scheidler; the Pro-Life Direct Action League, Project Life and several other individuals.
 
Class-Action Status Sought
 The National Organization for Women filed the lawsuit on behalf of two abortion clinics, the Delaware Women's Health Organization in Wilmington and the Summit Women's Health Organization in Milwaukee. NOW is seeking to have the case certified as a class-action lawsuit representing clinics across the country. The Federal District Court in Chicago had not ruled on that request when it dismissed the lawsuit in 1991.
In their briefs, the defendants warned the Supreme Court that the effect of permitting RICO suits would be to curb legitimate political protest and the free speech rights of peaceful demonstrators. Briefs filed for the clinics contended that because of the requirement of two criminal acts, lawsuits based on RICO would have no effect on peaceful protests.
"When they picket, when they pray, when they leaflet, when they petition Congress," anti-abortion groups are protected by the First Amendment, Fay Clayton, the lawyer representing the National Organization for Women, told the Court during arguments last month.
Noting this dispute today, Chief Justice Rehnquist said the case at this stage did not raise a First Amendment question for the Court to decide. But Justice David H. Souter, in a concurring opinion also signed by Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, addressed the free-speech issue more directly.
The ruling today "does not bar First Amendment challenges to RICO's application in particular cases," Justice Souter wrote. He said he agreed that the case at this stage did not raise such an issue, but added, "I think it prudent to notice that RICO actions could deter protected advocacy and to caution courts applying RICO to bear in mind the First Amendment interests that could be at stake."
Last week the Court agreed to hear another abortion protest case that directly poses the First Amendment question. That case, Madsen v. Women's Health Center, No. 93-880, to be argued in April, is a free-speech challenge by anti-abortion demonstrators to an injunction that a judge issued to create a protest-free buffer zone at an abortion clinic in Melbourne, Fla.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Supreme Court's ruling yesterday that abortion clinics can invoke Federal racketeering laws to sue anti-abortion protest groups for damages gives the clinics a new weapon to combat violent demonstrations at clinics. An anti-abortion protester was carried into a police car by officers in Wichita, Kan., during a demonstration in 1991. (Associated Press); Anti-abortion groups condemned the ruling yesterday, speaking to crowds gathered outside the Supreme Court building. (David Scull/The New York Times) (pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: WICHITA, KS, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (56%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (56%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%); WICHITA, KS, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (94%); ABORTION (94%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (92%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (92%); LITIGATION (92%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); VERDICTS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RIOTS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); WOMEN (78%); BOMBINGS (76%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); VANDALISM (73%); JUDGES (73%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; REHNQUIST, WILLIAM H (CHIEF JUSTICE)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



661 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Lower in Slow Trading

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were mostly lower yesterday as traders and investors said they were leery of trading ahead of President Clinton's State of the Union address tonight and Government note auctions today and Wednesday.
Charles E. Rhoden, a managing director and head of fixed-income investing for Josephthal, Lyon & Ross described yesteray's market as "dull, dull and duller." 
 "Presently there is a tremendous difference of views in the market," he said. "Some investors are of the opinion that interest rates are going higher, others say they are going lower with traders waiting on day-to-day events."
 
Concern on Tokyo Stocks
 In the morning, traders were concerned that the overnight plunge in the Tokyo stock market would prompt a Japanese selloff of Treasury securities to raise cash. But the selling never materialized, traders said. The Nikkei index fell 954.19 points, or 4.9 percent, to 18,353.24.
Given the lack of new economic reports, the market focused on the Commodity Research Bureau index. The index, a closely watched but not always reliable barometer of inflationary pressure, rose 0.85 point, to 226.13. The price of the March contract for light crude oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange rose 23 cents a barrel, to $15.17, and the February gold contract on the Commodity Exchange fell 30 cents, to $381.40 an ounce.
By late in the day the price of the 30-year bond fell 1/3, to 9911/32 for a yield of 6.30 percent, up from 6.27 percent on Friday.
A Federal Reserve governor, Edward W. Kelly Jr., said in a Knight-Ridder interview that he saw only a moderate slowdown in first quarter growth compared with the strong fourth- quarter pace at the end of last year.
 
Change in Calculations
 However, for the year as a whole, growth should be slightly better than 1993, because the "headwinds" are diminishing, he said. He warned that the change in the Labor Department's method of calculating the unemployment rate would keep the Fed from getting a good reading on the jobless conditions over the near term.
Some analysts think this week's market is being partly shaped by the expectation of two economic reports toward the end of the week -- December's durable goods orders and the fourth-quarter gross domestic product -- both expected to register strong gains.
Economists are forecasting that the durable goods orders report on Thursday will show a 1.5 percent gain for December, its fourth consecutive monthly gain, while gross domestic product is expected to be about 5.4 or 5.5 percent. One analyst said that if the number turned out to be the 6 percent that Vice President Al Gore had mentioned, it could provoke some heavy selling.
But all agree that the issue in the market now is not how strong the fourth quarter was, but how much growth will slow in the first quarter.
 
Budget Report Delayed
 The report on the December budget deficit that was scheduled yesterday was postponed a day by the Treasury because the Government was shut down last Thursday in Washington as a result of the cold weather.
There was little trading in two-year notes ahead of today's auction. In when issued-trading, the two-year note showed a yield of 4.10 percent, while the five-year notes to be auctioned on Wednesday had a yield of 5.06 percent.
The Treasury's auction of bills yesterday was well received, traders said. The average rate for a three-month bill was 2.96 percent, down from 2.99 percent last week, while the rate for a six-month bill was 3.14 percent, down from 3.15 percent.
Following are the results of the three-and six-month bill auctions:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.252	98.413	Discounted Rate	2.96%	3.14%	Coupon Yield	3.02%	3.23%	High Price	99.254	98.418	Discounted Rate	2.95%	3.13%	Coupon Yield	3.01%	3.22%	Low Price	99.252	98.413	Discounted Rate	2.96%	3.14%	Coupon Yield	3.02%	3.23%	Accepted at low price	93%	15%	Total applied for	$67,868,148	$60,437,498	Accepted	$12,683,119	$12,675,989	Noncompetitive	$1,006,978	$901,281	
 
Both issues are dated Jan. 27, 1994. The three-month bills mature on April 28, 1994, and the six-month billsmature on July 28, 1994.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from Oct. 1993 to Jan. 1994. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); MCCLATCHY CO (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; JAPAN (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); AUCTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BONDS (89%); METALS MARKETS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); INFLATION (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



662 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: A Tug-of-War on Bank Regulation

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24

 BODY:
Companies lobby the Government all the time, but in recent weeks the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department have turned the tables by lobbying the banks they regulate.
The Fed and the Administration are at war over Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen's plans to change the way banks and savings and loans are regulated. Both sides are actively seeking the political support of financial institutions whose regulatory fortunes and futures they control. 
 The dispute has produced the surprising spectacle of officials of the Fed and the Treasury condemning one another's ideas in speeches, news conferences and talks with bankers.
 
'When the Elephants Dance'
 The dispute has alarmed some in the banking community and sent bankers and trade groups scurrying to the sidelines. "I have a very strong aversion to being a daisy when the elephants dance," said Karen D. Shaw, a bank consultant here.
Treasury officials are waging an aggressive campaign. Eugene Ludwig, a Treasury official who is the Clinton Administration's top bank regulator, helped present the Treasury's case this month to a group that included top executives from some banks he oversees.
The Fed has also been active. Thomas M. Hoenig, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, condemned the Treasury's position in a speech to the Kansas Bankers Association earlier this month. He gently reminded his audience of the Fed's help in recent years in keeping some of them financially afloat, while refraining from actually suggesting that bankers owed the Fed a favor or that more help might be forthcoming.
 
Showing Its Strength
 Few modern institutions can match the raw political muscles of the Fed, although its fist is seldom seen. The Fed is now flexing its muscles as they have not been flexed in years, and appears so far to be winning its battle with the Treasury.
The Fed is making its first broad appeal to commercial bankers for political support since 1977, when it successfully fought an effort by the Carter Administration and some Congressional Democrats to reduce the influence of the Fed's regional banks. The next year, the Fed also blocked a proposal by Senate Democrats for a single bank regulatory agency, a proposal strikingly similar to the Clinton Administration's current proposal.
Under the Treasury's proposal, the bank supervisory powers of the Fed and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation would be taken over by a single Federal Banking Commission. The commission would also take over the Treasury's two bank monitoring arms, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision. The Treasury and the Fed would each supply one director to the commission's five-member board, while the President would appoint the three remaining directors.
Treasury officials describe this as a way to eliminate wasteful multiple regulatory reviews of the same banks. But they have offered no estimates of cost savings and the Congressional Budget Office says any savings would be quite small.
Under the Treasury plan, the F.D.I.C. would continue to handle deposit insurance and the Fed would continue to handle monetary policy as well as emergency loans to distressed banks and money transfers between institutions.
Mr. Greenspan and the other six Fed governors have rejected the Treasury's plan as a threat not only to their turf but also to their ability to run monetary policy and prevent financial crises.
The Fed offered its own proposal early this month for a system that would give it the bank supervisory powers of the F.D.I.C., while combining the Treasury's two agencies in a separate office. By keeping at least two regulators in place, the Fed plan would allow banks to continue their practice of choosing their regulators based on which one will give the most lenient treatment.
The fight is also complicated by controversy over President Clinton's involvement in an Arkansas real estate company, Whitewater Development, and his possible ties to an Arkansas savings and loan that failed while he was governor of the state.
 
Alarm on Wall Street
 The quarrel between the Fed and the Treasury has begun to alarm some Wall Street economists who are trying to figure out if it will engulf monetary policy and affect the economy. For example, if the battle continues, the Fed, seeking to maintain cordial relations with Congress, might be tempted to delay any inflation-fighting move to raise interest rates this spring, said David M. Jones, a longtime Fed watcher at Aubrey G. Lanston & Company in New York.
But Fed and Treasury officials say they can contain the damage and keep their differences about bank regulation from interfering with consultations on monetary policy. "We have a lot of different levels on which we work with the Administration," said Susan M. Phillips, a governor on the Fed's seven-member board.
Secretary Bentsen said the fight had not affected his overall relations with Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve. "I have a great deal of respect for Chairman Greenspan; we are longtime friends -- it has not interfered with our tennis games or our breakfasts," he said.
John P. LaWare, a Fed governor and former commercial banker who is directing the Fed's battle, said the Fed was not asking banks to lobby Congress, which would be illegal. Instead, it is presenting its side of the case to decision makers.
The Fed has already given its views to the chairman and vice chairman of each of the Fed's 12 regional banks and will soon present its case to all other members of each nine-member board, Mr. LaWare said.
 
Influential Backers
 These board members have long been the Fed's most influential backers, including the chairmen of many of the biggest financial and industrial companies. "By law, we cannot ask anyone else to lobby on our behalf," Mr. LaWare said. "We can brief the boards. What they do as individuals is entirely up to them."
Mr. LaWare said that Fed governors would also be ready to present their views to the boards of banks if asked about the fight. "We often sit in on board meetings, and I'm sure that will be a topic of discussion," he said.
Fed officials make no attempt to disguise their effort to appeal to commercial bankers, who have historically wielded considerable influence over the fate of banking legislation. Mr. LaWare, for example, said that he chose to disclose the Fed's plans early this month in an opinion column in The American Banker, a daily industry newspaper, because he thought more bankers would see it there than elsewhere.
 
One Complaint
 When asked about the Fed's appeals to bankers, Mr. Bentsen complained that "they're in a position to have a lot of influence over bankers."
The Fed and the Treasury have been lobbying Congress aggressively for weeks. Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat on the House Banking Committee, said Mr. Bentsen called him earlier this month and Mr. Greenspan visited him the next day. "When he's coming here, you know it's important to the Fed," Mr. Schumer said.
The Treasury has also sought to enlist support from financial institutions, including some that it regulates. Mr. Ludwig said he and Frank Newman, the Under Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance, presented the Treasury's case recently to a group from the Independent Bankers Association of America, a trade group of small banks.
Mr. Ludwig said that it was the trade group's decision to send to the meeting a delegation that included several bankers whom he regulates, and that he had avoided calling bankers individually for support.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, above left (Associated Press), wants to change the regulation of banks and savings and loans, pitting the Federal Reserve against the Treasury Department. Thomas M. Hoenig, above right (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times), president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, criticizes the Treasury's position. Eugene Ludwig, right (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times), the Clinton Administration's top bank regulator, backs the proposed changes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (68%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (68%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (62%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC); FEDERAL BANKING COMMISSION (PROPOSED); COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY; OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (68%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (62%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC); FEDERAL BANKING COMMISSION (PROPOSED); COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY; OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS ; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); BANKING LAW (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LOBBYING (91%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; BRADSHER, KEITH; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



663 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Ziff to Offer A Computer Data Service

BYLINE: By PETER H. LEWIS

 BODY:
The Ziff-Davis Publishing Company, seeking to take advantage of its strength in computer publications, said yesterday that it would create an electronic information service that it hoped would become a model for publishing in the electronic age.
Ziff-Davis will provide the contents of its magazines -- including PC Magazine, PC Computing, PC Week, Mac User, Mac Week, Computer Shopper and Computer Gaming World -- in the new publishing service, the Interchange Online Network. 
 "There's no reason we can't expand outside the computer industry in time," said Rob Lippincott, vice president of Ziff-Davis Interactive, the Cambridge, Mass., company that is developing the system. He said tests of the service would begin within six weeks and would gradually expand to include "tens of thousands" of testers by midsummer.
The company plans to offer nationwide commercial service in the fall. Prices have not been set but probably will be $10 to $15 a month for basic services, plus an hourly fee for extended use, Mr. Lippincott said.
Ziff-Davis is one of several companies trying to establish beachheads in the emerging consumer market for electronic data.
 
'Piling Into the Market'
 "People are absolutely piling into the market right now," said Mary Modahl, who analyzes interactive information services for Forrester Research Inc. of Cambridge, Mass. She noted that both A.T.& T. and Apple Computer Inc. recently announced plans for networks. She suggested that more companies, including the Microsoft Corporation and Ziff-Davis's rival the International Data Group of Framingham, Mass., were also preparing to enter the fray.
The market is now dominated by Compuserve Information Services of Columbus, Ohio, a division of H & R Block of Kansas City, Mo., and Prodigy Services Inc. of White Plains, jointly owned by I.B.M.Sears, Roebuck. Compuserve and Prodigy have more than a million subscribers each.
Ziff-Davis already offers much of the content of its computer magazines and periodicals over an information service called Ziffnet, which is carried by Compuserve, Prodigy and Applelink, an electronic information service operated by Apple Computer.
A spokeswoman for Compuserve said Ziffnet had nearly 200,000 subscribers on Compuserve alone, with most paying a surcharge for access to the Ziff-Davis data base.
Mr. Lippincott said there were no plans to alter Ziff-Davis's agreements to sell Ziffnet to rival services. But he said the technical superiority of the Interchange software, coupled with the full complement of Ziff's data bases, would be very attractive to the computer-savvy audience Interchange was seeking.
"I think it's war," said Joshua M. Harris, president of the Jupiter Communications Company, a market research company in New York. "While Ziff is happy to take money from Prodigy and Compuserve, at every turn they are going to try to get Ziffnet customers and potential customers to switch over."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%); FORR (NASDAQ) (67%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (66%); HRB (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (67%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (66%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (53%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (72%); MISSOURI, USA (53%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (53%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: ZIFF-DAVIS PUBLISHING CO ZIFF-DAVIS PUBLISHING CO (96%); APPLE INC (85%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (67%); MICROSOFT CORP (66%); ZIFF-DAVIS INTERACTIVE (58%); COMPUTER SHOPPER (57%); INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (54%); H & R BLOCK INC (53%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZIFF-DAVIS PUBLISHING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (72%); MISSOURI, USA (53%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (53%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); MAGAZINES PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (71%); PUBLISHING (58%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H ANN LIVERMORE (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



664 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Political Turmoil in Japan Strengthens Dollar vs. Yen

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The dollar ended firmer against the Japanese yen yesterday as fears about Japan's political future temporarily eclipsed worries over chilly trade relations between the United States and Japan.
In late New York trading, the dollar rose to 111.80 yen, from 111.55 yen on Friday. 
 Meanwhile, gold prices slipped. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for February delivery fell 30 cents, to $381.40 an ounce.
 
 
Reaction to Parliament Vote
 Traders dumped yen for dollars overnight after Japanese stock prices dropped sharply in response to Friday's parliamentary vote against an electoral-reform bill backed by Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa.
Mr. Hosokawa had staked much on passage of the bill, and many analysts now wonder if Japan's fragile governing coalition can survive. With the Japanese Government in disarray, they fear Japanese leaders will be unable to pass a stimulus plan to spur the nation's listless economy.
With the focus on Japan's political problems, there was little immediate reaction to news that Sunday's meeting by Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, Mr. Hosokawa and the Japanese Finance Minister, Hirohisa Fujii, ended with neither progress on trade nor overt confrontation.
Usually, a stalemate on trade favors the yen on speculation that Washington will push for a stronger Japanese currency to trim Tokyo's trade surplus if other methods fail.
"Everyone is cognizant of trade issues. But Hosokawa's problems and worries over the stimulus package are all fresh factors in the market," John Nelson of Barclays Bank said.
But dealers said that could change if the White House started talking tougher on trade.
The dollar drifted against European currencies in listless trade. Dealers said they were awaiting United States economic data and further clues on Germany's inflation outlook later this week before taking new positions. Inflation data from one major West German region showed price increases moderating in early January.
 
Dollar at 1.7495 Marks
 The dollar fell to 1.7495 marks in late New York trading from 1.7524 marks late Friday. And the British pound closed in New York at $1.4945, up from $1.4917 late Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Friday's quotes, included: 1.4660 Swiss francs, down from 1.4674 francs; 5.9325 French francs, down from 5.9470 francs, $1.3115 (Canadian), up from $1.3113 (Canadian), and 1,706 Italian lire, unchanged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BARC (LSE) (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (96%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS BANK PLC (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (96%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOLD; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CURRENCIES (92%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INFLATION (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); BRITISH POUND (65%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (57%); 

PERSON: MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (92%); LLOYD MILLARD BENTSEN JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



665 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1817 words

HEADLINE: Oliver Smith, Set Designer, Dead at 75

BYLINE: By JACK ANDERSON

 BODY:
Oliver Smith, one of the most prolific and imaginative designers in the history of the American theater and a former co-director of American Ballet Theater, died on Sunday at his home in Brooklyn Heights. He was 75.
The cause was emphysema, said Richard D'Arcy, a friend. 
 Mr. Smith's theatrical activities were dazzlingly protean. He designed such Broadway hits as "Brigadoon," "West Side Story," "My Fair Lady," "Camelot" and "Hello, Dolly!" and major ballets by such choreographers as Jerome Robbins, Agnes de Mille and Eliot Feld. He was equally at home in operas and films. By his own estimation in an interview, he had designed more than 250 productions by 1966.
Mr. Smith also taught scenic design at the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University for 22 years, until last Thursday. Mary Schmidt Campbell, dean of the arts school, said yesterday that he was regarded as "a cornerstone of the design department."
Over the last 50 years Mr. Smith was a co-producer of shows ranging from lighthearted musicals to serious intellectual dramas. He became co-director of Ballet Theater with Lucia Chase in 1945 and helped the troupe -- now known as American Ballet Theater -- to attain international eminence. When Miss Chase retired in 1980, he stepped down, too, but served again as co-director with Jane Hermann from 1990 to 1992, when he was named director emeritus.
Mr. Smith knew a great deal about architecture and was an accomplished painter. He studied architecture at Pennsylvania State University, where he received a bachelor's degree in 1939. His paintings have been shown in exhibitions at the Museum of Modern Art, the Brooklyn Museum, the Chicago Art Institute and other institutions.
 
'You Can Get Smith For Anything'
 His versatility as a designer led the producer David Merrick to say of him in 1965: "Most designers are masters of a single color. So if the basic color of your show is red, you get so-and-so; if it's green, you get somebody else. You can get Smith for anything."
Mr. Smith was a master of styles as well as colors. His sets for "West Side Story" (1957) were somber cityscapes that had some of the austerity of paintings by Ben Shahn. In contrast, several scenes of "Flower Drum Song" (1958) looked as exquisite as classic Chinese prints. For "Les Noces," choreographed for Ballet Theater in 1965 by Mr. Robbins to the monumental choral score by Stravinsky, Mr. Smith designed a backdrop dominated by stern ascetic figures resembling sacred icons. For "Camelot," the 1960 musical about King Arthur, which Mr. Smith considered his most elaborate production, he conjured up a fairy-tale vision of the Middle Ages with parks, terraces, jousting fields and castles in colors that ranged from soft pastels to sumptuous gold.
Perhaps Mr. Smith's most visually striking, theatrically resourceful and symbolically meaningful balletic setting is the one he devised in 1948 for "Fall River Legend," Miss de Mille's dance drama about Lizzie Borden. From a few architectural shapes and a staircase, Mr. Smith suggested both a New England house and a family atmosphere of smug and stifling rectitude. When the house swung around in one scene, it was instantly transformed into a church. But in the ballet's grim finale the set split and vanished, leaving only a gallows onstage.
Mr. Smith was born in Waupun, Wis., on Feb. 13, 1918. His family moved to Niagara Falls, N.Y.; when he was 3 and later settled in Wellsboro, Pa. Shortly after his graduation from college, and armed with a portfolio of paintings, drawings and architectural sketches, Mr. Smith moved to New York City.
He shared a house in Brooklyn Heights with other talented young artists, including the composer Benjamin Britten and the writers W. H. Auden, Carson McCullers and Richard Wright. In their division of chores, he served as dishwasher and furnace man.
He later bought and restored a four-story Federal-style house in Brooklyn Heights and used its attic as his studio. Over the years, several of its rooms served as the residence of illustrious house guests, including the theatrical director Sir Tyrone Guthrie and Truman Capote, who wrote "In Cold Blood" there.
Sheer gumption led to Mr. Smith's first theatrical commission. One day in 1941, he read in a newspaper that Leonide Massine, the Russian-born choreographer who was then associated with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, was in need of a scenic designer for a work in progress, "Saratoga." In an outburst of bravado, Mr. Smith, a total unknown, rushed to the Ballet Russe offices with his portfolio and managed to get an interview with Massine. The choreographer liked his work and hired him.
"Saratoga," a comedy about love and horse racing, was a failure. But Mr. Smith's bright sets were admired and Ballet Russe soon hired him again, for what became one of the smash hits of 20th-century ballet, "Rodeo." In 1942, Mr. Smith designed the corral, ranch house and sun-baked prairie for Miss de Mille's western ballet to a memorable score by Aaron Copland. Companies still dance it, always with Mr. Smith's decor.
Mr. Smith began his long association with Ballet Theater in 1944, and once again made history. He designed a waterfront bar for "Fancy Free," a ballet about sailors on shore leave, which catapulted Mr. Robbins, its choreographer, and its composer, Leonard Bernstein, to fame.
 
Other de Mille And Robbins Projects
 In addition to "Fall River Legend" and "Les Noces," Mr. Smith collaborated on other ballets with Miss de Mille and Mr. Robbins, among them Miss de Mille's "Rib of Eve" and "The Four Marys" and Mr. Robbins's "Facsimile," "Interplay" and "Age of Anxiety."
Among the other dance productions he designed were "Harbinger," Eliot Feld's much-praised first ballet, which received its premiere in 1967; Michael Kidd's "On Stage!" and Martha Graham's "Gospel of Eve."
As a co-director of Ballet Theater, Mr. Smith left the day-to-day running of the company to Miss Chase and, later, to Mrs. Hermann. Yet his presence was felt. In "Lizzie Borden: A Dance of Death" (1968), Miss de Mille's account of the creation of "Fall River Legend," she wrote that Mr. Smith's chief function was that of catalyst. "He brings talents together, fusing them, providing the atmosphere in which they can ignite," she wrote. "He is a master of dynamics, which is the reason he has served well as co-director of Ballet Theater."
Although the company was often in financial peril, Mr. Smith always encouraged choreographers. In 1957, he helped supervise the Ballet Theater Workshop, which produced new ballets on shoestring budgets. In 1981 he administered, with Richard Englund, a comparable project called the Emerging Artists Laboratory.
But no matter how deeply involved he was in ballet, Mr. Smith always found time to return to the theater. The long list of major Broadway productions he designed includes "High-Button Shoes," "Miss Liberty," "Paint Your Wagon," "Candide," "Auntie Mame," "Jamaica," "Destry Rides Again," Flower Drum Song," "A Taste of Honey," "Luv," "Cactus Flower" and "Plaza Suite."
Mr. Smith also designed productions of "La Traviata" and "Martha" for the Metropolitan Opera" and "Naughty Marietta," "The Tender Land" and "The Most Important Man," a 1971 work by Gian Carlo Menotti, for the New York City Opera.
Mr. Smith's Hollywood credits include designs for "The Band Wagon" and the screen adaptations of "Oklahoma!," "Guys and Dolls," "Porgy and Bess," "The Sound of Music" and "The Unsinkable Molly Brown." He also served as artistic consultant for "The Turning Point," a film about life in a large ballet company that some viewers thought resembled Ballet Theater.
In addition to designing productions, Mr. Smith was occasionally a co-producer of plays and musicals. His first venture in this field was "On the Town," a successful musical inspired by "Fancy Free," which he and Paul Feigay produced in 1944. He worked with several other producers in the decades that followed. Asked why, Mr. Smith told The New York Times in 1957: "There are only two reasons that make a man seek out the agony of economics, hurly-burly and temperament of producing in the theater. First, to make money. Second, the love of ideas. I've done both. 'Gentlemen Prefer Blondes' was for money. 'Clearing' I liked for idealistic reasons."
The first of the two shows he mentioned was the 1949 musical about the Roaring Twenties that made a star of Carol Channing. The second was "A Clearing in the Woods," Arthur Laurents's moody 1957 drama about an emotionally troubled woman's attempt to make peace with her past. Although it failed at the box office, Mr. Smith remained convinced of its artistic worth.
 
Designed Works By Sartre and Joyce
 Among the other serious works he co-produced were Jean-Paul Sartre's "No Exit" (1946), Jane Bowles's "In the Summer House" (1957) and "Stephen D." (1968), which was based on the writings of James Joyce. Mr. Smith's intellectually challenging productions also included Peter S. Feiblman's "Tiger, Tiger Burning Bright" (1962), a drama about a black family in New Orleans in which the choreographer Alvin Ailey took an acting role as one of the sons, and Arthur Kopit's "Indians" (1969), which sharply criticized the treatment of American Indians by whites.
Mr. Smith was never content with commercial success alone. Typically, in 1971, he was a co-founder with Lyn Austin of the Lenox Arts Center, an organization in the Berkshire Hills dedicated to unusual new productions. Gazing with alarm upon the Broadway scene, he told The Times in 1957: "New York is becoming a kind of vast merchandise mart. People go to the theater for escapist entertainment. They don't want a theater of ideas any more. And I don't want a theater of 'Auntie Mames.' "
A tall, lanky man with closely cropped white hair, Mr. Smith was always impeccably groomed. Even in his impoverished youthful days, he managed to give the impression of a man of the world who lived in a grand style. Well read and artistically knowledgeable, he was a slow, thoughtful speaker who conveyed a sense of languid sophistication.
But this veneer concealed his dynamism and helped make him a welcome and even soothing presence in the often hysterical atmosphere of Broadway and ballet. As the playwright Jean Kerr once said of him, he served as "an island of calm in the sea of temperament."
His many honors include several Tony Awards, Donaldson and Critics' Circle Awards, the Sam S. Shubert Foundation Gold Medal of 1961, the Pennsylvania State University Distinguished Alumni Award of 1962, a Handel Medallion of 1975 and a Great Teacher Award from New York University in 1981. Mr. Smith was a member of the National Arts Council from 1965 to 1970, and was inducted into the Theater Hall of Fame in 1981.
He is survived by two brothers, Larue and Kincaid.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Oliver Smith began his long association with Ballet Theater in 1944 with the set design for "Fancy Free." (Maurice Seymour/American Ballet Theater); Oliver Smith (The New York Times, 1991)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (96%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (96%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; THEATER; DANCING DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); BALLET (91%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); THEATER (90%); VISUAL ARTS (90%); DANCE (90%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); PAINTING (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); FILM SCHOOLS (74%); OPERA (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (57%); 

PERSON: SMITH, OLIVER; ANDERSON, JACK OLIVER SMITH (97%); LUCIA CHASE (68%); JEROME ROBBINS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



666 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1992 words

HEADLINE: Japan Set to Launch Rocket to Match West

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: TANEGISHIMA, Japan

 BODY:
IN 1543, a Portuguese ship bound for Macao was blown off course and landed on this island, exposing the isolated Japanese people for the first time to the gun. In a few years, Japanese craftsmen were making muskets superior to the Portuguese ones.
Four and a half centuries later, this island in southern Japan will again be the scene of an effort to match the West. On Feb. 1, Japan plans to launch its first major rocket built without reliance on American technology, marking, in some sense, its arrival in the top tier of space-faring nations. 
 The technologically sophisticated H-II rocket is the first Japanese rocket that will be able to hoist large communication and earth observation satellites into orbit, and it will allow Japan to enter the commercial launching business in competition with American companies, Russia, China and the European consortium Arianespace. The H-II rocket will also serve as the mainstay of Japan's space program for the next two decades, paving the way for the possible development of the nation's own space shuttle.
"With the completion of the H-II rocket, we have built the foundation for our space activities," said Dr. Tomifumi Godai, executive director in charge of launching vehicles at the National Space Development Agency of Japan, or Nasda.
The rocket could also help Japan develop as a military power. Freed of restrictions that came with reliance on American rocket technology, Japan will be able to launch any satellites it wants to, including military ones. There has been some desire for the nation to have its own reconnaissance satellite, though there are no concrete plans for this yet.
But even as the gleaming new rocket sits on the launching pad here, there are still many doubts about whether the rocket will fulfill its purpose and about Japan's future in space.
The H-II program, which cost about $2.4 billion, has been bedeviled by problems, including an explosion that killed a worker, putting the initial launching at least two years behind schedule and raising questions about whether Japan will be able to maintain its record of never having failed in a satellite launching.
The H-II is technically ambitious: it weighs about half as much as an Ariane 4 rocket but can hoist the same 4,400-pound satellite into geostationary orbit. But it is also expensive. It will cost about twice as much to launch a satellite with the H-II as with a rocket from Arianespace, making it difficult or even impossible for Japan to compete successfully in the commercial launching business.
As for Japan's role in space, one of the main functions of the H-II is expected to be to launch the Hope, a small, unmanned space shuttle that would deliver supplies to a space station and then return to Earth and land automatically.
The maiden flight of the H-II rocket will be used to launch the Orbital Re-entry Experiment Vehicle, or Orex, a flying-saucer-shaped device that is essentially the nose cone of the envisioned shuttle. Orex will circle the earth once and then land in the Pacific Ocean 285 miles south of Christmas Island, testing the technology that will be used to protect the Hope from the heat of re-entry. It will become the first object to be retrieved by Japan after orbiting the Earth.
But while spending on the Hope is expected to begin in the next fiscal year, Japan is having second thoughts about the shuttle. This is in part because, much to Tokyo's annoyance, the American space station project, in which Japan is participating, has been continually revised, raising doubts about its future.
 
Recommendation of Panel
 An advisory panel to the space development agency last year recommended doing only preparatory research on Hope until the year 2000 and then deciding whether to build an operating vehicle. That means the shuttle won't be ready to fly until 2010, said Dr. Shigebumi Saito, an emeritus professor at Tokyo University and a former high commissioner of Japan's Space Activities Commission. Moreover, to be useful in transporting supplies to a space station, the weight of the shuttle would have to be twice the lifting capacity of the H-II, meaning the rocket will have to be improved, he said.
There are some other plans for space development as well. The Ministry of International Trade and Industry wants to do mining on the Moon. But that is considered even more of a long shot than the shuttle.
Still, even if some of the future uses for the H-II seem doubtful, to Japan, the important thing seems to be the development of indigenous technology. "This is fundamental to the way Japanese feel about national security and technology," said Richard J. Samuels, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Mass., who is writing a book about the development of Japan's aerospace industry.
Numerous Japanese companies have been involved in the rocket's development and will take part in the launching. The people manning the control room during a recent test were not wearing Nasda uniforms but their own company jackets -- Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Nissan and so on.
Japan had a late start in space and suffers some disadvantages. It did not put its first satellite into orbit until 1970, a year after the United States landed on the Moon. With restrictions on military technology development, Japan did not have missile technology to help in the development of rocketry.
 
A $1.4 Billion Budget
 The space development agency's budget of 160 billion yen, or about $1.4 billion, this yearis growing by 8 and 10 percent a year but is only one-tenth the budget of the United States National Aeronautics and Space Administration. (Japan also has a much smaller space agency, the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science, which operates on a shoestring and specializes in scientific missions.)
Previous generations of Japanese rockets used technology bought or licensed from the United States. But that technology came with restrictions, including one that prohibited Japan from entering the commercial launching business.
Dr. Godai of Nasda said that Japan became interested in developing independent technology about a decade ago, when some Japanese satellites failed because of faulty American equipment. Because the inner workings of the American technology was shielded from Japan, the space development agency could not find out in detail what went wrong, which both annoyed and humiliated Japanese scientists. At the same time, the United States was growing concerned about the industrial threat from Japan, prompting Tokyo to worry that Washington would not be so free in licensing technology in the future.
But Dr. Godai said that the situation has now changed. The United States views the European rockets as more of a threat than the H-II. And space exploration is becoming so expensive that all nations have to cooperate. "We have shown that we have the capability of developing this rocket and we will work toward international cooperation from now on," he said.
 
Tricky Combustion Technique
 The key to the H-II rocket is the first stage LE-7 rocket, which uses what is known as staged combustion, a technique that is efficient but tricky. This kind of combustion has been used only in the United States space shuttle and in the Russian Energia engine.
To get high propulsive force in a liquid fuel engine, the liquid hydrogen fuel and liquid oxygen that allow it to burn must be pumped into the combustion chamber under high pressure. The question is how to provide power to the pumps.
In one relatively simple approach, part of the liquid hydrogen and oxygen are burned to power a turbine to drive the pumps. The products of this combustion are vented. But the drawback of this approach is that some of the precious liquid fuel is not being used directly to provide thrust.
In staged combustion, the fuel that is burned to power the pumps then continues into the combustion chamber to power the rocket, increasing the efficiency. But in order for this fuel to enter the combustion chamber, it must be under extremely high pressure during the first burning stage. And what happens in the first stage, known as a preburner, can affect the combustion chamber downstream.
It was such high pressures and tricky technology that contributed to a series of fires and explosions, including one during a pressure test in 1991 that blew out an eight-inch-thick door and killed an engineer. In 1992, a fuel leak set off another fire and explosion that forced a delay of another year in the maiden launching. But Nasda officials say those problems have now been solved by better heat treatment of materials and improved welds.
The choice of the staged combustion resulted in a rocket that needs less fuel and is very light relative to the size of the satellite it can lift into orbit. In theory at least, "light weight means lower cost," said Keiichiro Noda, associate senior engineer in Nasda's propulsion systems division.
But it is not clear that fuel efficiency matters as much as rockets as it does in Toyotas. In fact, the cost of the sophisticated engine might outweigh the savings from the fuel efficiency.
Dieter Brand, deputy manager of the Tokyo office of Arianespace, said the H-II rocket "is not only more sophisticated than Ariane 4 but also more than Ariane 5," a rocket that is under development and scheduled for its first launching in 1995. But Mr. Brand added: "We are not a research institute, we are a commerical company. We want something reliable and easy to use."
Other factors besides the technology will add to the cost of the H-II and possibly price it out of the market. One is the rise of the Japanese yen against other currencies. About a decade ago, when the project was started, a dollar was worth 240 yen and the contemplated price of the rocket, 16 billion yen, translated into $66 million. But at today's exchange rate of 111 yen to the dollar, the same rocket cost in yen translates to $144 million, roughly twice the price charged by Arianespace.
 
Limits on Launchings
 Yet another problem is that Japan will not be able to do more than two launchings a year. That is because Nasda is allowed to launch only during 45 days in summer and 45 days in winter as a concession to local fishermen, who fear the blastoffs scare away the fish.
So far, no other nations or companies have signed up to use the H-II to launch a satellite. "All our offers are neglected," said Hiroshi Imamura, a managing director of Rocket System Corporation, a venture owned by 75 Japanese companies that was formed to offer launching services using the H-II. The company hopes to do its first commercial launching in 1997. Until then, the launchings are booked with Government satellites.
Mr. Imamura said he hopes the cost can be pared between 30 and 50 percent, in part by reducing the inordinate amount of inspections performed on the first rocket. He said the biggest problem in attracting customers so far has been that the H-II rocket has not yet been proved.
"After the maiden launch, the biggest barrier will be gone," he said.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
European Rocket Fails
 KOUROU, French Guiana (Reuters), Jan. 24 -- Europe's 63d Ariane rocket, carrying two French-made satellites worth more than $250 million, failed to reach orbit after being launched today, space officials said.
"The third stage stopped working in flight," said Charles Bigot, the president of Arianespace. The failure ended a string of 27 straight successful rocket launchings by the European consortium.
The rocket was carrying Turkey's first national satellite, Turksat 1, and Eutelsat 2 F-5 for the European Telecommunications Satellite Organization. Third-stage failures plagued early Ariane launches but had not been responsible for an failure since 1986. The third stage uses a mixture of liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Japanese H-II rocket, shown at its launching site in Tanegishima, is the first built by Japan to hoist large payloads into orbit. At right is the OREX vehicle that the H-II will carry to test re-entry technology. (Nasda) (pg. C12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS336415 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE PROPULSION UNIT & PROPULSION UNIT PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3764 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE PROPULSION UNITS & PROPULSION UNIT PARTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (93%); MACAO (92%); CHINA (76%); 

STATE: EARTH (79%); 

COMPANY: ARIANESPACE SA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (93%); MACAO (92%); CHINA (76%); EARTH (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; ASTRONAUTICS; H-II (JAPANESE ROCKET); COMMUNICATIONS SATELLITES; SPACE SHUTTLE SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (75%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); SPACE STATIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW JOHN MAJOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



667 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Rooting Against 4 Monkeys

BYLINE: By DAVE ANDERSON

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
SOME people call it the Super Bowl rematch "nobody wanted," but the Bills wanted it and so did everybody wearing a red-white-and-blue parka in Buffalo.
Some people still call the Dallas Cowboys "America's team," but in a nation crumbled by an earthquake, frozen by Arctic blasts, flooded by Midwestern rivers, wearied by the economy and terrorized by crime, the Bills are really America's team. 
 Not rooting for the Bills to get those three Super Bowl monkeys off their backs is like not rooting for yourself to win the lottery.
When the Bills line up for the Super Bowl XXVIII kickoff against the Cowboys in Atlanta on Sunday, they will be representing much more than the American Conference and the chapped citizens behind all those snowbanks on Lake Erie's shores. To the real world, the Bills will represent:
*All the salespeople who couldn't close their last three deals.
*All the unemployed who never heard back from their last three job interviews.
*All the waiters and waitresses who got stiffed by their last three customers.
*All the schoolchildren who flunked their last three tests.
*All the slot-machine players who tapped out the last three times they went to Las Vegas or Atlantic City.
*All the cops who couldn't make their last three collars stick.
But mostly, the Bills will represent themselves, all those players and coaches whose 57-19 record over the last four National Football League campaigns is forgotten, whose talent is tarnished by an 0-3 record in the Super Bowl, whose resolve is ignored because they haven't won "the big one."
Sadder still, the Bills aren't supposed to win "the big one" on Sunday either.
Even though the Bills dominated the Chiefs, 30-13, as soon as the Cowboys shattered the 49ers, 38-21, the point spread out of Las Vegas, Nev., had the Cowboys by 10, a rare double-digit line.
But remember that because bettors invariably are more attracted to the Cowboys, that line reflects the need for a price that would balance the money wagered, thereby assuring the vigorish.
Whatever the line, for the Bills to have a chance to win, Thurman Thomas must run free. As he did against the Giants three years ago with 135 yards in only 15 carries when the Bills would have won if Scott Norwood's 42-yard field goal kick had not been wide right. As he didn't do against the Redskins two years ago with only 13 yards in 10 carries after not being able to find his helmet on the sideline. As he didn't do against the Cowboys a year ago with only 19 yards in 11 carries.
But for Thomas to gallop, the Bills' offensive line must create the holes it did Sunday against the Chiefs as he rushed for 186 yards and 3 touchdowns on 33 carries.
"The difference was those five guys," quarterback Jim Kelly said of left tackles John Fina and Howard Ballard, guards Glenn Parker and John Davis and center Kent Hull. "They were opening holes you wouldn't believe."
In pro football's theory of relativity, where the coefficient of the foe changes with every game, those holes might not open so easily against the Cowboys' defensive line.
Another difference for the Bills might be the Georgia Dome itself. The roofed noise there might muffle Kelly's audible play-calling that was so effective against the Chiefs in the misty chill of Rich Stadium.
"When you're on the road, especially in a loud stadium," Hull said, "it's really hard to use our audible system. It's hard to communicate in the time you're allotted. When we're home, it's much easier to do that."
Three years ago Kelly's audibles in Tampa Stadium had the Giants holding their breath until Norwood's miss created a 20-19 loss.
But two years ago in the Metrodome the Bills never got rolling against the Redskins in a 37-24 loss. And in the Bills' biggest embarrassment, a year ago in the Rose Bowl, they were victimized by 9 turnovers (4 interceptions and 5 lost fumbles) as the Cowboys romped, 52-17.
Ever since, the Bills have been ridiculed for the three Super Bowls they lost instead of being respected for what they have accomplished in getting to those three Super Bowls and now a record fourth. In Buffalo, some people try to ease the pain by laughing at themselves.
"Do you know what BILLS stands for?" they joke. "Boy, I Love Losing Superbowls."
I seldom root. But because nobody deserves a fourth monkey on their back, I'm rooting for the Bills to win. Wouldn't 53-17 be nice?

GRAPHIC: Photo: A familiar logo (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); LAKE ERIE (71%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (93%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BUFFALO BILLS; DALLAS COWBOYS NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (54%); BUFFALO BILLS (94%); DALLAS COWBOYS (91%); DALLAS COWBOYS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS; DALLAS COWBOYS BUFFALO BILLS (94%); DALLAS COWBOYS (91%); DALLAS COWBOYS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); LAKE ERIE (71%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (93%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; SUPER BOWL AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); LOTTERIES (55%); EMPLOYMENT (53%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (52%); CHILDREN (52%); 

PERSON: ANDERSON, DAVE JIM KELLY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



668 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-8
 
U.S. SHIFTS POLICY ON RUSSIA
President Clinton's top expert on Russia told Moscow that it must rapidly pursue economic reforms or risk a disastrous inflation rate. A1
 

Saber rattling in Russia is provoking cause for concern. A6
 
The Russian Finance Minister's resignation has not been accepted. A6
 
U.S.-FRENCH DISPUTE ON BOSNIA
The United States and France clashed over a French request that Washington pressure the Government of Bosnia to accept a European plan to divide it on ethnic lines. A1
 
A U.N. general seeks a quick response for air strikes in Bosnia. A8
 
Belgrade issued the "super dinar" to increase savings. A8
 
LESOTHO STRIFE WORRIES PRETORIA
A mutiny by the army in the African kingdom of Lesotho is creating worry for its neighbor, South Africa, because Lesotho is completely surrounded by South Africa. A2
 
LONG MEMORY FOR MOROCCAN KING
Morocco's human rights record could be symbolized in King Hassan's 20-year campaign against the family of a general who ordered the strafing of the King's plane. A3
 
Bonn Journal: An old Asia hand wins praise in Germany. A4
 
National A12-17, D21
 
A PENTAGON NOMINEE
Choosing a man who initially expressed reluctance, President Clinton nominated William J. Perry to be the Secretary of Defense. A1
Man in the News: A skilled manager with broad experience. D21
 
SETBACK FOR ABORTION FOES
The Supreme Court ruled that abortion clinics can invoke the racketeering law to sue violent anti-abortion protest groups, giving clinics a potentially powerful weapon. A1
 
Anti-abortion groups vowed that the ruling would not stop them. A17
 
Supreme Court Roundup. Airport landing fees and other cases. A17
 
THE HEALTH CARE DEBATE
Atlanta, the capital of a region that often tilts the balance of power on Capitol Hill, is a microcosm of the difficulties the Clintons face as they try to build support for their health care plan. A1
 
An insurance lobbyist meets the White House. D21
 
SAFE PLACE NO MORE
The neighborhood roller rink where seven teen-agers were shot on Sunday night had a reputation as a haven where young people to spend time without fear. A12
 
FUROR AROUND FARRAKHAN
Four months after warily embracing the Rev. Louis Farrakhan, a number of black leaders are now urging him to distance himself from anti-Semitic comments by one of his top aides. A12
 
Anti-Semitic acts rose 8 percent nationwide, a survey says. A12
 
RULING ON SENATOR'S DIARIES
A Federal judge ruled that the Senate ethics committee has the right to examine five years of Senator Bob Packwood's personal diaries. A13
 
MOST EXPENSIVE DISASTER
Although the tally is far from complete, the experts agree that the Los Angeles earthquake is likely to be the most expensive natural disaster in American history. A16
 
Life in the tent cities: tension among the quake-shocked residents. A16
 
Remembering the motorcycle cop who plunged to his death. A16
 
A solution to plutonium peril: a very, very deep hole? A13
 
Metro Digest B1
 
MINORITY CONTRACTING CHANGED
New York City has ended a key element of a Dinkins administration affirmative action program that directs a fifth of city contracts to companies owned by minorities and women, Mayor Giuliani said. A1
 
A SHIFT IN COMMUNITY POLICING
Faced with a series of internal police department memos criticizing community policing, Mayor Giuliani said the program must be redefined toward fighting crime and away from social services. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
PAYOFF CUT AT SAVINGS BANK
Executives and trustees of the Green Point Savings Bank cannot receive compensation estimated to be worth more than $85 million in connection with its proposed initial public stock offering, New York State banking regulators ruled. A1
 
Science Times C1-12
 
A barrage of meteoroids from space goes unnoticed. C1
 
Aggressive canaries: the molecular basis of animal behavior. C1
 
Japan gets its own rocket ready as a matter of pride. C1
 
The persistent puzzle of whether sun causes melanoma. C3
 
Peripherals C9
 
Personal Computers C11
 
Q&A C11
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-20
 
Beverly Sills to be chairwoman of Lincoln Center. C15
 
New Yorker admits errors. C20
 
Theater: "Wifey." C15
 
Film: Sundance and success. C15
 
Music: Robert Shaw gives a lesson in humanity. C16
 
Sufi songs of devotion. C17
Dance: Flooding forces Hawkins
troupe to cancel revival. C16
 
Debuts at City Ballet. C18
 
Books: Updike's new novel. C20
Fashion Page B7
 
In Paris, Italians are the heroes.
 
Belgian dares Paris runways.
 
Return of high heels.
 
Patterns
 
By Design
 
Sports B10-15
 
Basketball: Smith back, but Knicks are not. B14
 
Columns: Anderson on the Bills B11
 
On Pro Football B11
 
On College Basketball B14
 
TV Sports B12
 
Figure Skating: Kwan, first alternate, is ready. B11
 
Football: Huizenga buys Dolphins. B11
 
Cowboys' Lett looks back. B13
 
Kelly at top of his game. B13
 
Notre Dame's unlikely recruit. B15
 
Hockey: Rangers hit road. B12
 
Olympics: Atlanta's surplus shrinking. B15
 
Sports People: B15
 
Tennis: Americans advance in Australia. B12
 
Obituaries B8-9
 
Abraham J. Gellinoff, a New York justice. B8
 
Irving B. Kahn, pioneer in cable television. B8
 
Lee Alvin DuBridge, ex-president of Caltech. B8
 
Oliver Smith, set designer. B9
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
 
Bill Clinton's vital signs.
 
A Pentagon promotion for Perry.
 
Making schools help themselves.
 
Japan: the old order fights back.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Going for eternity.
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Rabin and Sharon.
 
Leonard A. Cole: The worry: germ warfare. The target: us.
 
Mark H. Moore and David M. Kennedy: N.Y.P.D. clean.
 
Chronicle B6
 
Bridge C18
 
Chess C19
 
Crossword C19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); LESOTHO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); MOROCCO (92%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (69%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); LESOTHO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); MOROCCO (92%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ABORTION (86%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); ETHICS (78%); INFLATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); JUDGES (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); AIRPORT OPERATION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



669 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Japan: The Old Order Fights Back

 BODY:
It was high-order treachery when 17 old-line Socialists sabotaged Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa's do-or-die political reform bill. But those who staged the ambush could yet turn out to be among its victims. The Japanese public is tired of corrupt money politics and is deeply angry at politicians who stand in the way of reform.
Meanwhile the Clinton Administration has not helped Mr. Hosokawa as he tries desperately to pass some version of reform. On Sunday, at the height of the crisis, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen suddenly showed up in Tokyo to press Washington's dubious demands for import quotas and immediate economic stimulus. 
 The legislation that lost an upper-house vote last Friday goes to the heart of Japan's political system and its U.S. relations. By giving more weight to urban consumers than to producer-oriented special interests, this electoral reform could open the way to a more democratic, less import-resistant Japan. It could also strengthen a new generation of more outward-looking, less bureaucracy-bound politicians, like Mr. Hosokawa himself.
The coalition still has a chance to win over enough votes to pass a reform bill this month. It will not be easy; and by urging Mr. Hosokawa to press ahead at once on divisive tax issues and fulfill arbitrary import quotas, Mr. Bentsen makes life much more difficult for him.
Right now, Mr. Hosokawa needs to focus all his political capital on keeping reform alive. That is the surest way to complete the destruction of the old, obstructive party system. The Socialists are already breaking up over ancient ideological quarrels. The Liberal Democrats, tarred with corruption, are not in much better shape. If he wins this battle, he could hasten the passage toward cleaner, more competitive politics.
The Japanese people have finally rebelled against a system that offends their ethical sensibilities and fails to serve their most basic needs. Their hopes for something better are embodied in the Hosokawa Government, as are America's hopes for a more open Japan.
The Clinton Administration should now be doing all it can to help a reformist Government survive in Tokyo, not burdening it with demands it cannot realistically meet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLITICS (91%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); ELECTION LAW (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



670 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Bill Clinton's Vital Signs

 BODY:
Presidents who pay too much attention to public opinion polls run the same risk as ballplayers who dwell on their batting averages: they waste time they should be spending on hitting and fielding. Still, President Clinton can be forgiven a peek at the most recent surveys marking the end of his first year. They suggest that his vital signs are stable. They also offer timely lessons as Mr. Clinton prepares for a State of the Union address tonight that will define his second year and possibly the rest of his Presidency.
The most powerful lesson is this: Bill Clinton stands highest when he trains his attention on a tightly focused agenda; he suffers most when he allows his staff to behave sloppily and self-servingly and when he indulges his natural inclination to move in a thousand policy directions at once. 
 That argues strongly for a legislative agenda addressing a few issues of broad concern: health care, of course, and also crime and welfare. Mr. Clinton has already laid political purchase to the crime issue, most memorably in his November speech to a black audience in Memphis. He must also reassert an interest in welfare reform, a campaign pledge he has done little to redeem.
He will not be speaking from weakness. Last week's New York Times/CBS News Poll gave Mr. Clinton a 54 percent approval rating. That compares favorably with his post-Watergate predecessors on their first anniversaries. Ronald Reagan had a 49 percent rating at this stage, Jimmy Carter had 51 percent. George Bush's 76 percent was an aberration arising from the invasion of Panama.
Mr. Clinton has yet to experience what polling professionals call "rally events" like the Persian Gulf war, which drove Mr. Bush's favorable rating to an astounding (and evanescent) 89 percent. Nor has he suffered calamitous declines, like the time in 1986 when Mr. Reagan's Teflon cracked to the tune of 20 points after people learned that he had tried to trade arms for hostages.
He has, however, endured bad moments. Six months ago he qualified as the most unpopular first-year President in 60 years. His 38 percent rating followed the bungled search for a suitable Attorney General, the putsch at the White House travel office, the haircut by Cristophe and Mr. Clinton's own acknowledgment of drift and disarray that reminded people of the more lachrymose moments of the Carter Administration. But starting in August with the passage of his budget bill, Mr. Clinton seemed to find his footing. He also found that when he took a strong stand, good things happened, like the North American Free Trade Agreement.
His surge in the polls coincides with a rise in the number of Americans expressing confidence in the economy. it is impossible to say how much he had to do with that; still, he should enjoy the moment and find ways to build on it, perhaps by reaching out with retraining programs to those who have been blindsided by the recession.
Yet his task tonight is as much psychological as it is programmatic: to show that he has finally learned what Mr. Bush never did, that a President's popularity is a sometime thing, best spent in a disciplined way on things that matter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (72%); DESERT STORM (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); JIMMY CARTER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994



671 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: THE EARTHQUAKE;
President Seeking $6.6 Billion For California Quake Victims

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
President Clinton will ask Congress for at least $6.6 billion in emergency financing to help the victims of last week's California earthquake.
The White House request would add the full Federal bill for earthquake relief to the budget deficit, while the State of California would be asked to match just 10 percent of the total contribution, rather than the 25 percent that is usually required of states receiving Federal aid. 
 The speedy request for disaster relief and the willingness to relax the matching-contribution requirement offer new evidence of the White House's determination to be seen as sensitive to California's economic plight, which even before the earthquake had made the politically critical state the focus of special Administration attention.
 
Fiscal Battle Possible
 An initial request for the $6.6 billion will be sent to Capitol Hill on Wednesday, and Leon E. Panetta, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, said the figure was likely to grow. Mr. Panetta and other senior White House officials said they would oppose fiscal conservatives in Congress who had said that they would seek spending cuts to offset the disaster relief.
"We do not think victims of this kind of tragedy ought to be held hostage," Mr. Panetta told reporters at the White House today, warning that a battle over the issue would only delay getting the aid to those who need it most.
Together with the $897 million in emergency aid that was already budgeted and is being spent, the new request would put total Federal assistance for the California quake at more than $7.5 billion.
By comparison, the total Federal bill for last summer's Midwest floods now stands at just $4.6 billion. In 1991, the cost to Federal taxpayers for hurricane damage surpassed $8 billion, but that figure included both Hurricane Andrew, which struck South Florida and Louisiana, and Hurricane Iniki, which struck the Hawaiian island of Kuaui and led to Federal aid approaching $2 billion.
For the earthquake that damaged the San Francisco Bay area in 1989, the total Federal cost has now reached $2.9 billion; for Hurricane Hugo, which struck South Carolina earlier the same year, it was $2.8 billion. None of the figures were adjusted for the effects of inflation.
Rough estimates of the damage caused by the California quake, which measured 6.6 on the Richter scale of ground motion, killed 56 people and left up to 25,000 homeless, now range from $15 billion to $30 billion. White House officials held out no hope today that the Federal Government could cover anywhere near the total cost.
But they said the extensive damage inflicted by the earthquake on highways, water systems and uninsured buildings, all of which qualify for Federal assistance, would mean that Washington's share of the total cost would be proportionally higher than in the previous disasters.
 
Store of Electoral Votes
 After the 1989 earthquake in the San Francisco area, the Bush Administration chose not to exempt California from the requirement that a state contribute one dollar for every four in assistance provided by the Federal Government. That only added to ill feelings in the state toward the Bush White House, which went on to lose California in the 1992 election and with it the state's 54 electoral votes, or a fifth of the 270 needed to elect a president.
Today, Clinton Administration officials justified their decision to approve the waiver by pointing to the higher cost of the Los Angeles earthquake in comparison to the 1989 quake. But they acknowledged that the decision would add to an already high Federal bill.
In an interview, Christopher B. Edley, an associate director of the Office of Management and Budget, said: "We believe that the cost of the earthquake will be the single biggest in history in terms of Federal fiscal response."
By far the largest portion of the new aid requested by the White House would provide $3.5 billion in disaster relief through the Federal Emergency Management Agency for individuals' emergencies and the repair of public schools, roads, water systems and buildings.
 
Help for Schools
 Other disaster relief would include $1.35 billion for highways; $500 million for housing, including rent subsidies for low-income citizens left without a home, and $245 million for education, including money to help the schools cover the costs of transportation, food service and to keep after-hours care programs open longer.
Since Congress imposed rigid budget controls on itself in 1990, it has often waived requirements to offset new spending with cuts for natural disasters. That is the course the White House wants it to follow again in approving the new earthquake assistance.
But White House officials conceded today that doing so would add as much as $3 billion to the budget deficit this year alone. They said they expected be opposed by lawmakers, including Senator Dave Durenberger, Republican of Minnesota, and Timothy J. Penny, Democrat of Minnesota, both of whom urged Mr. Clinton to insure that the relief measure had no additional cost for taxpayers.
Mr. Panetta, who is from the Monterey area, which was affected by the 1989 quake but not the one last week, insisted that it would be wrong to hold the latest earthquake and its victims to a new standard. That sentiment was echoed by Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, and Administration officials and Congressional Democrats alike expressed confidence that the request would be approved.
In California, Gov. Pete Wilson welcomed the announcement of relief aid, but said he was concerned that the cost estimates are too low.
"If they have the wrong number based on a low-ball estimate, the state of California and the people of this state would be seriously shortchanged," Mr. Wilson said.
Other California politicians nevertheless expressed satisfaction with the size of the aid request, although Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat, described it as "a beginning, strictly a beginning."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); HAWAII, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY GUARDIAN (52%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); HAWAII, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; FEDERAL AID (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING EARTHQUAKES (91%); DISASTER RELIEF (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HURRICANES (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (88%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); CONSERVATISM (69%); HOSTAGE TAKING (66%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PANETTA, LEON E (DIR) LEON E PANETTA (89%); BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



672 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2072 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: The Overview;
Clinton Vows Fight for His Health Plan

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
President Clinton offered a broad new defense of his health care plan tonight and vowed to veto any health insurance proposal that did not provide coverage for all citizens.
In a State of the Union Message that outlined Mr. Clinton's vision for domestic renewal without offering new legislative proposals or policy initiatives, Mr. Clinton said that the nation must now build upon the economic successes attained during his first year in office and that "our work has just begun." 
 "I want to make this very clear," Mr. Clinton said in a voice strained from many rehearsals. "If you send me legislation that does not guarantee every American private health insurance that can never be taken away, you will force me to take this pen, veto the legislation, and we'll come right back here and start all over again."
Mr. Clinton brandished a pen as he spoke.
 
Rousing Applause
 Mr. Clinton entered the House chamber to rousing applause at 9:10 P.M., grabbing hands and patting backs as he made his way to the lectern. In the hourlong speech, his first official State of the Union Message, the President also summed his goals for this year and reviewed the accomplishments of his first year in office.
He vowed to "guarantee health security for all, to reward work over welfare, to promote democracy abroad and to begin to reclaim our streets from violent crime and drugs and gangs, to renew our own American community."
He spent little time getting to the prime thrust of his remarks, stepping up his assault on the critics who say that only gradual change is needed from any health care plan.
 
Danger in Future
 "If we let the health care system continue to drift in its present direction, Americans will have less care, fewer choices and higher bills," Mr. Clinton said. "Our approach doesn't take care and choices away from people. It builds on what works today in the private sector."
Mr. Clinton has proposed an overhaul that would provide coverage for hospital, doctor and prescription drug bills, and require employers to pay 80 percent of the average insurance premium. The plan would be administered by regional purchasing alliances and financed in part by taxes on tobacco and large corporations.
In the months since Mr. Clinton unveiled the proposal, in another prime-time speech to a joint session of Congress, some of the initial public enthusiasm for the plan has faded as critics have attacked it. It has also been criticized by several influential members of Congress who have been lobbying for approaches ranging from a Government takeover of the system to an expansion of the tax deduction for medical expenses. Mr. Clinton seemed intent on restoring support for his plan.
After the speech tonight, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, assailed Mr. Clinton's health plan.
"Our country has health care problems, but no health care crisis," Mr. Dole said. He described the President's plan as "a massive overdose of government control."
Mr. Clinton, maintained, however, that the nation had been allowed to drift for too long.
 
Demand for Change
 "In 1992, the American people demanded that we change," he said. "We replaced drift and deadlock with renewal and reform."
He began the speech by evoking the memory of the former Speaker of the House, Tip O'Neill, who died just a few weeks ago and was revered by many of the lawmakers in the room. "In his honor, may we always remember who we are, where we come from and who sent us here," Mr. Clinton said.
Citing the passage of a the Brady bill, a measure that imposes a five-day waiting period on handgun purchases, Mr. Clinton then turned to the man who gave that bill its name, James S. Brady, the former press secretary who was seriously injured in an assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan. Mr. Brady shook his cane as the members of Congress gave him a standing ovation.
The most emotional moments of the speech came when Mr. Clinton spoke of taking steps to combat a crime wave that he said is rooted "in the loss of values, the disappearance of work, and the breakdown of our families and communities."
"We cannot renew this country when 13-year-old boys get semiautomatic weapons to shoot 9-year-olds for kicks," he said.
 
One Family's Story
 Before listing his goals on welfare, information technology and deficit reduction, Mr. Clinton paused for one of the personal stories with which Presidents have long sought to bring the questions of public policy closer to home.
Praising those in Congress and "the people who hold our feet to the fire," President Clinton said the work of Government was shared work.
He said his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton had received more than one million pieces of mail about health care, and he spoke of one letter, from Richard and Judy Anderson, a couple from Reno.
The Andersons, he said, ran up hospital bills of $120,000 after the husband lost his job. The couple, eventually filed for bankruptcy. Mr. Anderson wrote that no American should have to undergo such a crisis.
Mr. Clinton the said, "So if any of you believe there is no health care crisis, you tell it to those people." Pausing, he added: "Because I can't."
As he had done in September during his speech on health care, Mr. Clinton publicly thanked his wife for her help in preparing his proposal. She was sitting in the House gallery and rose to accept applause from the members.
 
Attacking Welfare, Too
 Setting a rough target for the beginning of another complicated legislative battle, the President said he would send a proposal to Congress this spring for a comprehensive revamping of the nation's welfare system. The proposal will try to reduce the incentives for teen-age mothers to set up their own households, he said.
He asked for welfare to become a "simple contract," and said that the Government would provide help in jobs, child care and welfare for up to two years but that welfare should be "a second chance, not a way of life."
He added: "If we value strong families, we can't perpetuate a system that actually penalizes those families that stay together. That's not just bad policy, it's wrong, and we ought to change it."
It is "inevitable and imperative," he said, to tackle both welfare reform and health care reform simultaneously. Linking the two, he said the nation must solve the welfare problem to pay for full health care coverage.
As he appealed to Americans to take more responsibility for what is ailing the country, Mr. Clinton's voice grew subdued for a moment as he made passing reference to his mother, who died earlier this month.
 
Issue Draw Applause
 "We can't renew our country until we realize that governments don't raise children; parents do," Mr. Clinton said. "Parents who know their children's teachers and turn off the television and help with the homework and teach their kids right from wrong -- those kind of parents can make all the difference. I know. I had one.
"And I'm telling you we have got to stop pointing our fingers at these kids who have no future and reach our hands out to them. Our country needs it. We need it. And they deserve it."
Indicative of the political power of the issue, Mr. Clinton was repeatedly interrupted by applause as he pledged a renewed focus on welfare. He said: "The people who most want to change this system are the people who are dependent on it. They want to get off welfare; they want to go back to work; they want to do right by their kids."
In another part of the speech that garnered prolonged applause, he said: "I know it will be difficult to tackle welfare reform in 1994 at the same time as we tackle health care. But let me point out at the same time that it is inevitable and imperative."
Earlier today, Mr. Clinton met with Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, who had alarmed the White House in recent weeks by suggesting on national television that the health care crisis the Administration has described does not compare to the welfare crisis.
Aides said that Mr. Clinton briefed Mr. Moynihan in the private Oval Office meeting about the contents of his speech but that he did not specifically address the critical comments Mr. Moynihan has directed at the White House. As chairman of the Senate Finance committee, Mr. Moynihan is important to the White House plans for health care and welfare.
During the speech, the President cited a list of promises kept, noting his Administration had begun to reduce the budget deficit and the size of the Federal Government, to make the Government more efficient and to redress the economic imbalances that he said had resulted from Republican Administrations, by raising taxes on the wealthiest Americans.
 
About Income Taxes
 "Let me repeat, only the wealthiest 1.2 percent of Americans will face higher income tax rates, and no one else will and that is the truth," he said to mixed cheers and boos and a partisan standing ovation.
Continuing a vigorous defense of his economic program, Mr. Clinton asserted that the deficit was now running 40 percent below previous predictions. He touted the low inflation rate, the low interest rate, all part of an economy that, he asserted, was coming back as a result of his policies.
Mr. Clinton edited the text by hand up until the final hours before its delivery tonight. Standing in front of aides, stenographers and political advisers this morning and again this afternoon, he worked from the 10th draft his speech writers had prepared.
Mr. Clinton voiced strong support for a Federal role in crime control, including an endorsement of portions of the crime bill that is now awaiting final passage in Congress. Tonight, for the first time, he endorsed a provision in the Senate-passed anti-crime bill that would mandate life without parole for criminals convicted of a third violent felony.
That proposal, which was attached to the Senate measure by Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, would apply only to crimes committed on Government property. But it offered the President an opportunity to highlight his commitment to crime control.
"Now, those who commit crimes must be punished," Mr. Clinton said. "And those who commit repeated violent crimes should be told: when you commit a third violent crime, you'll be put away and put away for good. Three strikes and you are out."
 
Labor and Management
 Mrs. Clinton was also accompanied by Lane Kirkland, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and John F. Smith Jr., the president and chief executive of the General Motors Corporation, flanked the First Lady. Both are strong supporters of the Administration's health care proposal. In Mr. Kirkland's case, his proximity to Mrs. Clinton suggested the healing of a rift between organized labor and the White House that opened up after organized labor waged a bitter fight against the North American Free Trade Agreement.
White House officials said Mr. Clinton's goal tonight was not to be "adversarial or combative" toward members of Congress who have criticized elements of his domestic agenda but to state his goals clearly and forcefully.
But it is still clear that welfare will take a back seat to health care as the Administration outlines a series of what aides call building blocks that began with the enactment of an earned income tax credit for the working poor last year and will end with the introduction of a comprehensive welfare revision that would cut off benefits for recipients who have not obtained work within two years.
"If you try to pass welfare reform without health care reform, it's like trying to fill up a bucket with a hole in it," Vice President Al Gore said earlier today.
 
Welfare in the Spring
 But even on the most optimistic schedule, the welfare bill will probably not be introduced until late spring or early summer. Meanwhile, Mr. Clinton is concentrating on outlining the stakes for health care revision in the starkest terms possible.
On foreign policy, Mr. Clinton summarized the accomplishments of his recent trip to Europe and said the United States remained committed to supporting democracy movements abroad and curbing nuclear weapons, specially in Korea.
He referred only in passing to the role of the United States in the shaky peacekeeping efforts in Bosnia-Herzegovina and in other nations that, in the words of one senior White House official, are "ripping themselves apart."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton saying last night that he would veto health legislation if it did not guarantee private insurance to all Americans. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); Vice President Al Gore and Speaker Thomas S. Foley applauding the President during his speech. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WELFARE (US); CHILDREN AND YOUTH ; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); VETO (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); GUN CONTROL (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); FIREARMS (72%); JUVENILE CRIME (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (64%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); O'NEILL, THOMAS P JR; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; BRADY, JAMES S ; IFILL, GWEN BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



673 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9
 
U.S. MAY SEND MISSILES TO SEOUL
The United States is planning to send Patriot antimissile batteries to South Korea, since North Korea has responded to pressure for nuclear site inspection by threatening to end the Korean peninsula armistice. A1
 
A NEW POWER IN RUSSIA
Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, a former Communist who was chosen as Russia's Prime Minister during a revolt against reformers, has become increasingly influential in the Yeltsin administration. A6 

U.N. PRESSED TO ACT ON BOSNIA
The United States, Britain and France urged the United Nations to open a Bosnia airport needed for mercy flights, and they said that the agency already had the authority to seek air attacks if needed. A2
 
C.I.A. CHIEF SEES FLASHPOINTS
The Director of Central Intelligence, testifying on Capitol Hill, said his greatest security concerns are inflation in Russia, political and ethnic tensions in Ukraine and North Korea's military buildup. A5
 
HARSH WORDS FOR MEXICAN LEADER
Mexico's President met with Indian and agrarian leaders who did not take part in the uprising in the southern state of Chiapas, but they had harsh words for him about the needs of the area's poor peasants. A3
 
LOVE TRIANGLE SHAKES AUSTRIA
A public scandal over the Austrian President's wife, who announced that she is leaving him, and his lover, whom he may give up, has embarrassed his country and is threatening to destroy his career. A6
 
CONFUSION OVER JAPAN REFORM
As the Japanese Prime Minister struggles to save his reform movement, it is unclear whether the measures that have been proposed would actually end corruption in the country's political system. A8
 
NO PROGRESS ON TRADE TALKS
The latest round of trade talks between the United States and Japan ended with no tangible progress, despite a warning by Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen that Japan had to make more concessions. D1
 
Fighting on Capitol Hill over whether to end the Vietnam embargo. A9
 
The Senate voted to establish a new service: Radio Free Asia. A8
 
Nicaragua's factions tried to end a political deadlock. A3
 
Oka Journal: In Canada, Indian protests' aftermath. A4
 
National A10-18
 
CLINTON ASSESSES STATE OF UNION
President Clinton delivered his first State of the Union Message, challenging Congress to tackle the issues of health care and changes in the welfare system. A1
 
G.O.P. ATTACKS HEALTH PROPOSAL
Republicans called the President's health care plan "a massive overdose of Government control." A15
 
MORE U.S. AID SOUGHT FOR QUAKE
The President will seek at least $6.6 billion in emergency aid for the victims of the California quake, making it likely that the disaster will be the costliest ever for taxpayers. A1
 
LOS ANGELES SCHOOLS REOPEN
The Los Angeles public school system limped back into session, but many schools remained without water and others were too damaged to open at all. A12
 
GETTING AROUND THE COMMUTING
Employees and businesses throughout the Los Angeles area are using a variety of tactics to get their work done.A12
 
JACKSON SETTLES LAWSUIT
Michael Jackson, the superstar who was accused of molestation by an adolescent boy, agreed to pay the youngster an undisclosed amount to settle a civil lawsuit. A1
 
NEW PATH FOR PENTAGON
News analysis: The different personal interests of Defense Secretary Les Aspin and William Perry, the man chosen to replace him, foreshadow how priorities at the Pentagon may shift. A10
 
2 LIBERALS TO LEAVE CONGRESS
Two leading liberals in the House, Don Edwards of California and William Ford of Michigan, both Democrats, said they would retire. A13
 
EFFORT TO HALT CHILDREN'S DRUG
Doctors asked the Government to block final approval of a narcotic lollipop intended to calm children before surgery. A10
 
SPACECRAFT HEADS FOR MOON
In a joint military-scientific undertaking, an unmanned spacecraft was launched on the first American lunar mission in 32 years. A13
 
In a comic reminder of the times, Dick Tracy will face divorce. A10
 
The jury in Lyle Menendez's case said it was deadlocked. A13
 
Education Page A19
 
Does including students with special needs in regular classrooms work?
 
In Harlem, a public school that welcomes the family and is one.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
U.S. INQUIRY ON CROWN HTS.
Yielding to strong political pressure, Attorney General Janet Reno agreed to take over the investigation of the murder of a rabbinical student during the unrest in Crown Heights in 1991 and to seek Federal civil rights charges against those who had killed him. A1
 
POLICE REORGANIZATION
Mayor Giuliani and his new Police Commissioner began a top-to-bottom reorganization of the New York City Police Department intended to give borough and precinct commanders more authority to concentrate on quality-of-life offenses. A1
 
Neediest Cases B5
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-8
 
For every ingredient there is a season. C1
At lunch with Ed Koch: How's he doing? Fine. Just ask him. C1
Channel surfers get a snack bar. C1
 
Health Page C12
 
A new exercise therapy for dizziness owing to inner-ear problems.
Personal Health: Ending sleep deprivation.
Milk drinking may fight osteoporosis in women who drink coffee.
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-20
 
The Don Scardino era at Playwrights Horizons. C15
Theater: "Day Standing on Its Head." C13
Film: "Blink." C15
Music: "Nozze di Figaro" at Met. C15
 
Sports B7-13
 
Basketball: Knicks edge Phoenix. B7
Column: Rhoden on New York City schools. B7
Football: Concussions becoming a problem in N.F.L. B7
 
Obituaries B5-6
 
Dr. William M. Hewlett, pioneering black physician. B5
George K. Hirst, scientist. B6
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A20-21
 
Editorials
 
"Health reform -- Now!"
Confronting a hate speech.
The "rescue" racket.
A big step for seafood safety.
 
Letters
 
Bob Herbert: Are we awake yet?
Anna Quindlen: A tale of two women.
David Reid: Where apocalypse is never far away.
Harvey Cox: The Bishop and the rebels.
 
Bridge C13
 
Chronicle A18
 
Crossword C19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); MEXICO (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UKRAINE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); AUSTRIA (72%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); MEXICO (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UKRAINE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); AUSTRIA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); INSPECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); SCANDALS (70%); FARM LABOR (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (63%); DISASTER RELIEF (62%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



674 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Said to Plan Patriot Missiles for South Korea

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration is planning to ship Patriot antimissile batteries to South Korea, senior Administration officials said today.
The antimissile batteries were requested by Gen. Gary E. Luck, the senior American commander in Korea, and the move is supported by the Pentagon. President Clinton has not yet formally approved the request, but senior officials said he likely will. On Monday, the White House began consulting members of Congress about the move. 
 "I think there will be a positive decision," a senior official said.
 
Responding to a Threat
 In military terms, the case for sending the Patriots is straightforward. North Korea has threatened to suspend the armistice on the Korean Peninsula if the United States pushes for economic sanctions to put pressure on Pyongyang to end its nuclear weapons program. American military officers say the North Korean threat is probably a bluff, but it is one the United States cannot ignore.
If North Korea attacked South Korea, American intelligence officers said, it would launch its arsenal of Scud missiles at airfields and ports in South Korea to try to blunt air attacks and slow the pace of reinforcements. The Patriot antimissile batteries would improve the protection of those airfields and ports and reduce North Korea's ability to make a successful pre-emptive attack, the officials said.
 
Designed to Destroy Missiles
 The Patriot system is designed to protect airfields and other military bases by knocking the incoming missiles off course or destroying them in the air. The Patriots deployed in Saudi Arabia during the Persian Gulf war performed this narrow task reasonably well but were not effective in shielding large populated areas from attack.
One official said that "about three dozen" Patriot launchers would be sent to South Korea.
"It would make some sense to pre-position Patriots" in South Korea, said Brig. Gen. Robert G. Jenkins, the commander of the 51st Fighter Wing Command, which is based on Osan Air Base in South Korea.
Some former Bush Administration officials had been urging such a move. And before the crisis, American military planners had seen a need to place Patriots in South Korea as part of a general upgrading of American defenses there. The new tensions, however, while making the military need far more urgent, have made the diplomatic ramifications much more sensitive.
One senior American military official said some State Department officials had been wary of sending the Patriots to South Korea, apparently fearing the move could upset the talks with the North Koreans on ending Pyongyang's nuclear weapons program.
As a result, Administration officials had been discussing a plan under which the Patriots would be shipped to Japan. From there they could be quickly moved into South Korea in a crisis. But that idea was determined to be impractical and was dropped, Administration officials said.
 
Political Considerations
 Reflecting White House worry about how the delivery of the Patriots might be perceived at home and abroad, a senior official declined to say precisely when President Clinton is expected to formally approve the request for the Patriots or exactly when they would be sent.
On the one hand, the Clinton Administration does not wish to be seen as ignoring a request from military commanders for a weapon needed to defend American troops. The United States has 36,000 troops in Korea. The Administration's decision not to send additional armor requested by American commanders in Somalia exposed the White House to criticism and contributed to its decision to replace Defense Secretary Les Aspin.
Nor does the Administration want to create the impression that it is moving slowly to strengthen its military forces in South Korea, for fear of antagonizing North Korea.
On the other hand, the Clinton Administration appears apprehensive about taking an action that could be interpreted as reflecting pessimism about the talks on inspections of the North's nuclear sites. The Administration is also concerned that its action may create unease among Asian allies who have been urging a nonconfrontational approach. North Korea, which has issued a steady stream of bellicose statements, is also all but certain to denounce the deployment of Patriots as a provocation.
 
Nuclear Talks Stalled
 The talks over North Korea's nuclear program have made little headway in recent weeks, as Pyongyang has rebuffed some of the demands by the International Atomic Energy Agency for detailed inspections at seven officially disclosed nuclear sites. The Administration has said it will seek economic sanctions if the talks fail.
Worried that sanctions against North Korea could increase the risk of conflict, General Luck prepared a list of steps to strengthen American forces in South Korea. The steps included the delivery of Patriots.
The United States has already stepped up intelligence gathering over North Korea, as General Luck had requested. In addition, Administration officials say that any decision to impose sanctions will almost certainly be accompanied by other military measures the general has requested.
The United States still has Patriot systems in Saudi Arabia because American intelligence concluded that Iraq was hiding Scud missiles left over from the gulf war. But most of the Army's 44 Patriot batteries are in the United States and Germany.
The shipment of the Patriots is unlikely in itself to end the debate over whether the Clinton Administration is making adequate military preparations in case the talks fail.
In addition to sending the Patriots, some former Bush Administration officials say that Washington should also be taking other steps, such as sending an aircraft carrier to the region, stepping up military exercises and deploying additional aircraft.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (54%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (54%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSILES; PATRIOT (MISSILE) MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); DESERT STORM (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LUCK, GARY E (GEN); GORDON, MICHAEL R BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



675 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Stocks Post Solid Gains

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Wednesday, Jan. 26

 BODY:
About the only question left unanswered on the Tokyo Stock Exchange was: what political crisis?
After plummeting on Monday in response to the Government's defeat in a critical vote in Parliament and concerns over the deepening recession, the stock market shrugged off the worries on both Tuesday and today to post solid gains. The greatest source of support is coming from foreign investors. 
 On Tuesday, the Nikkei 225-stock index rose 295.12 points, or 1.6 percent, to 18,648.36 -- a smart rebound after Monday's punishing 954.19-point loss. And then again today, the Nikkei soared 489.85 points, or 2.63 percent, to 19,138.21. About 360 million shares were traded.
Brokers said that in trading today, stocks surged on foreign investor purchases and late dealer buying, pushing the Nikkei average above the psychological barrier of 19,000. Growing hopes that the Government may soon pass its political reform bills buoyed investors' sentiment, brokers said.
The market is still up by more than a thousand points since early last month, when overseas investors began pushing prices steadily higher.
 
 
Fears Appear Overblown
 Most analysts agreed that investors were likely to remain nervous, especially if it appeared that the Government of Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa would be forced to resign or to call a snap election, one possible outcome of the political upheaval. But they said the initial fears about sustained financial turmoil now appeared to have been overblown.
The market is anxious but not downhearted.
"What we saw today was a combination of steadying nerves and foreign buying," Geoffrey Barker, head of research here for Baring Securities, said of Tuesday's activity. "We're seeing orders coming in from London, the Continent and America.
"The essential question is whether you think there will be a cyclical turning point in the Japanese economy, even with the political questions. I do."
On the political front, there was some moderately hopeful news on Tuesday. Mr. Hosokawa's coalition Government and the largest opposition party, the Liberal Democrats, agreed to set up a joint committee to consider a compromise on the electoral reform bills that were defeated last Friday.
If there is a compromise, it is likely to be a heavily watered-down version of the bills, which are intended to clean up Japan's scandal-plagued electoral and campaign financing systems.
For several months those bills have held up action to revive the economy, so the sign of movement, even if the legislation is weakened, cheered investors.
The Government has promised to enact a large increase in public works spending and consider a large tax cut to stimulate fresh economic growth as soon as political reform is out of the way.
 
 
Foreign Investors
 But analysts say that the biggest boon to the stock market still appears to be foreign investors, not Japanese institutions, which remain concerned about the country's current economic plight.
Big mutual funds and other large institutions have invested heavily in Asian stock markets over the last two years, but most of that money has flowed into the emerging markets in Hong Kong, Bangkok and elsewhere. Japan, which is entering the fifth year of a strong bear market, has largely been bypassed.
Toward the end of last year foreigners decided that the pessimism in Japan was exaggerated, and that the run in other East Asian markets was running out of steam. The result has been a broad-based decision to reallocate some capital from those other markets to Tokyo, analysts say. That has been the chief source of firepower for the recent rally, and the recovery during the last two days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE BARING SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ELECTION LAW (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); BONDS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (51%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



676 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
 In a sign of a possible turnaround, I.B.M. posted its first quarterly profit in more than a year. But company executives and analysts cautioned that any recovery would be gradual. [Page D1.] I.B.M.'s chief executive has a big incentive to improve the company's stock price: options for 500,000 I.B.M. shares. [D2.] 
 Alexander Liberman will step down from one of the most powerful jobs in American magazines: editorial director of Conde Nast Publications. Mr. Liberman, 81, will be succeeded by James Truman, 35, the editor in chief of Details magazine. [D1.]
Roland W. (Tiny) Rowland, who ran Lonrho P.L.C. like a kingdom for decades, lost control of the conglomerate. [D1.]
MCI Communications and Mexico's largest banking company are teaming up to build a fiber optic network in Mexico. [D3.]
KPMG Peat Marwick of Australia will pay $97 million in one of the largest settlements agreed to by an accounting firm. [D3.]
Merck and Warner-Lambert reported mixed results for the quarter as price pressures continued to slow earnings growth. [D3.]
Exxon increased its fourth-quarter earnings, while Mobil's quarterly profit declined from a year earlier. [D3.]
MTV plans to test a home-shopping service this spring. [D16.]
A group of doctors asked the F.D.A. to block final approval of a narcotic lollipop made by Abbott Laboratories. [A10.]
 
Business Technology
 The 20-year-old test used by the Environmental Protection Agency for auto emissions bears about as much similarity to the real world of driving a car as the computer game Flight Simulator does to flying a plane. The Federal agency is now trying to find a better way to test the emissions of new engines. [D1.]
 A "technology-forcing" bureaucrat, Karl Hellman, is the kind of environmental regulator that auto makers fear most. [D5.]
The Economy Employers held wage and benefit increases to 3.5 percent last year, matching 1992's record low advance. In other reports, the National Association of Realtors said home resales rose in December, and the Conference Board said its consumer confidence index increased in January, the third consecutive monthly gain. [D2.]
 Businesses in the Los Angeles area, trying to get employees back to work after last week's earthquake, are staggering work schedules, paying employees to take mass transit, encouraging four-day workweeks and allowing telecommuting. [A12.]
 
International
 The latest round of trade talks between Japan and the United States ended with no apparent progress. [D1.]
The Tokyo stock market shrugged off Monday's plunge in stock prices, with the Nikkei posting gains. Analysts said initial fears about sustained financial turmoil were overblown. [D6.]
 
Markets
 I.B.M. helped drag down blue-chip stocks. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 17.45 points, to 3,895.34. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury securities sagged after an auction of two-year notes that disappointed some investors. [D14.]
The dollar weakened against the yen after the Japanese Government made some progress on a political reform bill. [D13.]
Lumber prices fell, including a new plywood contract. [D13.]
 
Today's Columns
 Siemens's earnings prospects are bleak this year. But some analysts say the German electronics company is taking important cost-cutting steps toward a brighter future. Market Place. [D6.]
Kellogg has a response to complaints that brand-name cereals are overpriced. In a series of folksy commercials, the company is trying to convince consumers that its flagship product, Kellogg's Corn Flakes, is a good value. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ABT (SWX) (82%); ABT (NYSE) (82%); ABT (LSE) (82%); ABL (FRA) (82%); LOLAF (JSE) (70%); VZC (LSE) (70%); VZ (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (70%); NAICS115111 COTTON GINNING (70%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (70%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (70%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (75%); 

COMPANY: KPMG LLP (83%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (82%); LONRHO PLC (70%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (70%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (86%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (76%); TELECOMMUTING (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); ACCOUNTING (73%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (72%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); EMISSIONS (69%); FIBER OPTICS (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (68%); WORK WEEK (66%); EXISTING HOME SALES (66%); APPROVALS (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); FLIGHT SIMULATORS (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: ALEXANDER SEMEONOVITCH LIBERMAN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



677 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: The Republicans;
Excerpts From the Republicans' Response to the President's Message

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the Republican response to President Clinton's State of the Union Message, as delivered by Senator Bob Dole, the minority leader:
We know that America has the best health care system in the world, that people from every corner of the globe come here when they need the very best treatment, and that our goal should be to insure that every American has access to this system. 
 Of course, there are many Americans with a sick child or sick parent in real need, both in rural and urban America. Our country has health care problems, but not a health care crisis. But we will have a crisis if we take the President's medicine -- a massive overdose of government control.
How massive? My colleague Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, has prepared a chart of what the health care bureaucracy would look like under the President's plan, and I'd like to show you this chart. It's a great, big chart. It contains 207 boxes. It would take a long time to fully explain it, and frankly, I have difficulty understanding it myself.
Let me point out of some of the new bureaucracies that the President's plan will create. Way up here is the National Health Board. Over here is the Advisory Commission on Regional Variations of Health Expenditures. And here's the National Institute for Health Care Workforce Development.
Now, you and I are way down here, way at the bottom. I don't know why we're not at the top, but we're at the bottom.
Now, the President's idea is to put a mountain of bureaucrats between you and your doctor. For example, if you are a family member and want to receive care from a specialist or a clinic outside your own state -- let's say you live in Kansas and you want to go to Minnesota -- then you probably can't do it without asking for approval. And under his plan, information about your health and your treatment can be sent to a national databank without your approval. And that's a compromise of privacy none of us should accept.
Now, these just are two examples, but there are many, many more. Clearly, the President is asking you to trust the Government more than you trust your doctor and yourselves with your lives and the lives of your loved ones. More cost, less choice, more taxes, less quality, more government control and less control for you and your family -- that's what the President's Government-run plan is likely to give you.
Now, we can fix our most pressing problems without performing a triple bypass operation on our health care system. We can do it without the estimated $1 trillion gap -- yes, $1 trillion gap -- between the administration's own projections, their projections, of spending under the plan and the funds available to pay for it, and we can do it now.

 	 	 		. . .	 	The President promised a middle-class tax cut, yet he and his party imposed the largest tax increase in American history. This $255 billion tax increase was opposed by every Republican in the House and in the Senate. We hope his higher taxes will not cut short the economic recovery and declining interest rates that he inherited. . . .
Now instead of stifling growth and expansion through higher taxes and increased government regulations, Republicans would take America in a different direction, and we can do that through alternatives that reward risk-taking and the creation of new jobs, and they give our small business men and women relief from the heavy hand of government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text 

INDUSTRY: SIC8249 VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS, NEC (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY INSTITUTE FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNICATION INC (54%); INSTITUTE FOR HEALTHCARE QUALITY INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; ELECTION ISSUES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (69%); 

PERSON: DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



678 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: The Republicans;
In G.O.P. Response to Clinton, Dole Denies There Is 'Crisis' in Health Care

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, tonight assailed President Clinton's health care plan as "a massive overdose of Government control."
"Our country has health care problems, but no health care crisis," Mr. Dole said in a nationally televised response to the President's State of the Union Message. Mr. Dole called for more modest steps toward universal health insurance than he has supported in the past. 
 In particular, he called for quick action on a plan that would include neither Mr. Clinton's call for employers to pay most of their workers' insurance costs, nor a measure backed by Republicans in the Senate -- one that he helped draft -- that would impose a requirement on people that they insure themselves.
He attacked Mr. Clinton's plan as too bureaucratic, saying "The President's idea is to put a mountain of bureaucrats between you and your doctor."
Mr. Dole criticized the President in other areas as well, from taxes to military spending. "The President and his Democrat majority" are wrong "on their entire approach to government," he said.
 
All-Out Assault
 On the best platform Republicans are likely to have all year, Mr. Dole made an all-out assault on the President. He mentioned cooperation only once, when he recalled that many Republicans had supported Mr. Clinton when he won passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which had been negotiated under the leadership of his predecessor, President George Bush.
Gone, at least for tonight, was the legislative Senator Dole, who often seeks compromise. Instead he was the combative, partisan leader who ran for Vice President unsuccessfully in 1976 and lost bids for his party's Presidential nomination in 1980 and 1988.
He was sounding an electoral trumpet for November, reflecting what Republicans had discussed at lunch today. They reminded themselves that their best moment in public opinion polls came last year when they defeated Mr. Clinton's economic stimulus program with a Senate filibuster, and gave the President not a single vote in either chamber for his deficit-reduction and tax measure.
Mr. Dole contended that the President's claims of a reduced Federal deficit were true only because "the largest tax increase in American history would decrease any deficit temporarily."
 
Security Cuts Criticized
 He said Mr. Clinton's plans did not involve serious spending cuts, except in one area. "The one place the President has cut drastically is precisely the wrong place -- national security -- slashed to the lowest levels since before Pearl Harbor," Mr. Dole said.
He said the nation "cannot afford to have a hollow military." And he added that the nation cannot "afford to let the United Nations dictate what is in America's national interest."
On crime, he did not so much challenge the President's record or his arguments, since he had not heard them when he prepared the speech. Instead he criticized "liberal Democrats" who he said had weakened previous Senate crime bills passed by the Senate. He demanded rhetorically to know whether Mr. Clinton would press the House to accept the toughest elements of the bill the Senate passed last November.
And he complained of "talk in the Administration of legalized drugs," a notion suggested by Dr. Joycelyn Elders, the Surgeon General, and promptly disavowed by Mr. Clinton.
On welfare, Mr. Dole again did not attack the President's specific proposals, which had not yet been put forward. Instead, he simply told the nation that "Republicans here in Congress and Republican Governors across the nation are fighting for changes that make work, self-sufficiency and reducing illegitimacy top priorities."
 
Pericles's Position Is Safe
 While Mr. Dole concentrated on substance, Representative Henry J. Hyde of Illinois, the chairman of the House Republican caucus dwelt on its literary quality. "It was a workmanlike speech, but it was interminable," Mr. Hyde said. "The law of diminishing returns sets in after 45 minutes. Clinton will not push Pericles out of first place."
But another Republican leader, Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, praised the speech, saying, "It had a kinship to how Ronald Reagan used to do it, introducing people in the gallery." But Mr. Simpson, the Senate's Republican whip, said the President failed to explain how he would pay for his proposals, although he said the President's welfare comments were "very appropriate."
Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island, the author of the Republican plan for universal health care, said he disagreed with the President's putting equal emphasis on health care and welfare. "Health care is more important than welfare," he said. "I think health care reform has to go first." But he added, "I don't think now is the time to talk vetoes."
Looking for a local connection, Representative Susan Molinari, Republican of Staten Island, said: "It was a wonderful speech. It's good to have the whole Congress applauding a member of the New York City Police Department," referring to Kevin Jett, a detective whose story Mr. Clinton told.
Mr. Clinton's only Republican backer on health care, Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont, said the speech would "turn back a real slide in enthusiasm" for the President's plan. He said he agreed with Mr. Clinton's assertion that Congress could pass major health care and welfare legislation this year.
Mr. Clinton's appeal for national health insurance also won predictable support. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who first pushed the concept in 1970, praised Mr. Clinton and said: "This is the year to finally make this long overdue reform a reality for every citizen in this land. I urge Congress to resist the temptation to blink and water down this essential change."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Senate minority leader, Bob Dole, rehearsing his response to the State of the Union Message yesterday. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); KANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (87%); FILIBUSTER (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE LAW (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); TAX INCREASES (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); HISTORY (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); DEFENSE SPENDING (67%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN); CLYMER, ADAM BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



679 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Appoints a New Head Of New York Power Authority

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
Seeking to put the foundering New York Power Authority on a sharply different course, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo named S. David Freeman, who has brought radical innovations to several public power agencies, to head the authority yesterday.
Mr. Freeman, 68, is a former chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority, at which he abandoned or shut eight nuclear reactors, writing off billions in capital investment, to concentrate resources on several others and push them into operation. 
 He is now the general manager of the Sacramento Municipal Utility District, which he took over in a crisis after voters had decided to shut its Rancho Seco nuclear reactor. He is widely credited with rescuing the district, through such steps as auctioning off the furniture in executive offices, buying up thousands of old and inefficient refrigerators and planting half a million trees near houses to reduce the need for air-conditioning and to cut the demand for power.
 
Record Fines Paid
 The New York Power Authority has recently paid record fines to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for violations at its two nuclear plants, both of which are on the commission's "watch list" of the worst-run plants in America. They are Indian Point 3 in Buchanan, near Peekskill, which has been closed for nearly a year, and James A. FitzPatrick, in Scriba, near Syracuse.
The authority, which provides a quarter of the electricity used in the state, fears that it will face tough competition in the wholesale electricity markets from independent power producers.
The power authority has also been criticized by outsiders for doing relatively little about energy conservation. The Sacramento Municipal Utility District, by contrast, has one of the most aggressive conservation programs in the country.
"David Freeman is vision incarnate," said Peter Bradford, the chairman of the New York Public Service Commission. "His vision in the 1970's is the conventional wisdom of the 1990's." A large part of that wisdom is that rather than producing more power, utilities should help customers use electricity more efficiently.
Mr. Freeman will replace Richard M. Flynn as chief executive officer of the power authority. Mr. Flynn, 62, whose resignation takes effect Feb. 1, has been criticized not only for the authority's business problems, but also for using the authority's airplane to fly between a summer home in Rhode Island and authority meetings or plants.
Mr. Flynn plans to head a private group, the Northeast Corridor Initiative, that will seek improvements in rail transportation in New York, New England and Canada.
As a White House official, Mr. Freeman advised President Richard M. Nixon that electricity consumption, which was doubling every 10 years, could not continue on that path, and as the head of a research group at the Ford Foundation he predicted in the early 1970's that all energy use would have to reach a plateau. He was bitterly denounced by energy companies for his prediction, but was proved right. In fact, after the 1973 oil shock, energy use stabilized at a level 15 percent lower than he had predicted.
His views were never universally popular. Yesterday Carl Goldstein, a spokesman for the United States Council for Energy Awareness, the nuclear industry's public relations arm, said: "I wish him luck. I hope he felt comfortable in that scenario last week." Mr. Goldstein was referring to a series of blackouts in the Middle Atlantic states, brought on by electricity shortages. The utilities traced the shortages to frozen coal piles, fuel barges stuck in icy rivers, and roads over which fuel trucks could not travel.
 
Avant-Garde Views
 Mr. Freeman's current views are still outside the mainstream. He is an aggressive supporter of electric vehicles, and is trying to incubate a new industry in Sacramento to manufacture them. He is also a backer of renewable energy sources, like windmills and photovoltaic cells. As head of the Tennessee Valley Authority, Mr. Freeman directed his efforts at projects that were environmentally benign and economically advantageous.
In choosing Mr. Freeman, Governor Cuomo also reorganized the authority. Since 1985, Mr. Flynn has been the chairman and chief executive officer of the authority. Mr. Freeman will be the president and chief executive officer. Mr. Cuomo has nominated Thomas G. Young, a former Mayor of Syracuse, to replace Mr. Flynn as chairman.
The power authority provides electricity to municipalities and government agencies, like the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Under direction from the State Legislature, it provides large blocks of very cheap power to upstate municipal utilities.
Mr. Freeman said in a telephone interview yesterday that one of the challenges would be to induce customers upstate to conserve electricity that costs them less than 2 cents a kilowatt-hour. Fostering conservation is easier in New York City or on Long Island, say experts, because power there costs seven or eight times as much.
He said he was "motivated to accept this job more by the opportunities than the problems," adding, "If all the job entailed was fixing the nuclear plants, I think there are a number of people in the country who they could have recruited for that."
In Albany yesterday, Senator James L. Seward, the chairman of the Senate Energy Committee, complained that Mr. Freeman had been selected with "only nominal participation and little input by the trustees of the power authority" and said that his committee would hold hearings on the selection process.
The Senate, which is Republican-controlled, does not have to confirm the president of the authority. That was done today by the trustees, at the behest of the Governor.
That vote was delayed today while Mr. Freeman and the authority worked out details of his contract. It is for three years, beginning March 1, and he will be paid $197,000 a year, a housing bonus of up to $3,000 a month and moving expenses.
Mr. Freeman said yesterday that his appointment was "almost poetic," coming after his last few jobs. He had been chairman of the T.V.A., which was established by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, and the Lower Colorado River Authority in Austin, Tex., which is known as the "little T.V.A.," and was now coming to manage what he called "the grandfather," the New York Power Authority, which was founded by Franklin D. Roosevelt when he was Governor of New York, and was the model for the T.V.A.

GRAPHIC: Photo: S. David Freeman (Matthew L. Wald/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK POWER AUTHORITY TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (58%); SACRAMENTO MUNICIPAL UTILITY DISTRICT (57%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK POWER AUTHORITY NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (92%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); ENERGY REGULATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONSUMPTION (65%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (65%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); RESIGNATIONS (50%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; FLYNN, RICHARD M; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); FREEMAN, S DAVID RICHARD NIXON (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



680 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: C.I.A. HEAD SURVEYS WORLD'S HOT SPOTS

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
In a tour of the world's horizons from his perspective as Director of Central Intelligence, R. James Woolsey said today that his major concerns include the possibility of destructive hyperinflation in Russia, political and ethnic tensions that could fragment Ukraine and a military buildup in North Korea.
While none of these events pose an immediate danger to the United States, "the end of the cold war does not mean the end of conflict, nor the end to threats to our security and to that of our friends and allies," Mr. Woolsey said during testimony at a public session of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. 
 Mr. Woolsey said the C.I.A. is trying to sort out confusing and conflicting data on the Russian economy. He said the agency worries that "looser fiscal and monetary policies aimed at easing the pain of reform will unleash forces that could bring Russia again to the brink of destructive hyperinflation."
If that brink is crossed and inflation destroys Russian citizens' savings, he said, "it would be a very heavy blow at democracy and the political structure" that President Boris N. Yeltsin is trying to achieve.
 
Disillusionment in Ukraine
 In Ukraine, Mr. Woolsey said, independence celebrations have "given way to disillusionment as a result of economic mismanagement and political drift."
"Reform has been nonexistent," the C.I.A. chief said. "Energy shortages have become a way of life, the inflation rate for December was 90 percent, and nearly half of Ukraine's citizens are living below the poverty level."
Mr. Woolsey said a potential political crisis lies in a rising secession movement in Crimea, the only region of Ukraine where ethnic Russians are in the majority. Their clamor for reunification with Russia threatens to fragment the fledgling republic, he said.
North Korea, which has built one or two nuclear weapons, according to the C.I.A.'s most recent classified estimate, has vaulted to the top of the agency's agenda in recent months. Mr. Woolsey said the politically isolated Communist nation is likely to continue to produce, process and stockpile significant amounts of plutonium for use in building nuclear weapons.
 
North Korean Rockets at DMZ
 Mr. Woolsey also warned of "what North Korea calls its war preparations program, including improvements in military capabilities and continuing efforts to bring their economy and society to a heightened state of military readiness" at the expense of its people's social and economic needs. He said North Korea has deployed rocket launchers and artillery to sites close to the demilitarized zone that borders South Korea.
The appearance of the Director of Central Intelligence has become a new tradition in Washington, a practice peculiar to the post-cold-war atmosphere of openness, in which he testifies publicly, albeit circumspectly, and takes questions before his Congressional overseers. In exchange, his concerns about national security matters, including the threat of deeper intelligence budget cuts, become the subject of public debate.
Appearing with Mr. Woolsey, the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, Lieut. Gen. James R. Clapper Jr. of the Air Force called North Korea "the critical major military threat for the next few years." The general said North Korea was only one among several post-cold-war nations where military intelligence officers are confronted with "mysteries -- things that are not predictable, not even knowable."
Sounding a grim note on the subject of the spread of weaponry, Mr. Woolsey said that in the 21st century chemical and biological weapons may pose the kind of threat that nuclear weapons once did. An estimated 25 countries, some hostile to the United States, are trying to build nuclear, chemical or biological weapons, he said.
Iran, Mr. Woolsey said, continues its "ambitious multibillion-dollar military modernization program" and seeks to buy nuclear material and ballistic missiles. North Korea continues to export missiles with a range of 625 miles or more, posing a potential threat to the Middle East. Tracking the intricate underground networks of buyers and suppliers of weapons materiel is a daunting task, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UKRAINE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UKRAINE; NORTH KOREA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UKRAINE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INFLATION (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); TRENDS (68%); MONETARY POLICY (54%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: WOOLSEY, R JAMES (DIR); WEINER, TIM

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



681 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Pondering Its Options As Japan Trade Talks Falter

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Despite last week's warning by Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen that Japan had to make more concessions on opening its markets, the latest round of trade negotiations between the two sides ended today with no tangible progress, American officials said.
"We are still very far apart; there is no real progress," said a senior American official who took part in meetings on Monday and today in Washington between the top Japanese and American trade negotiators. 
 Some American officials acknowledge that there are considerable risks in pressing the Japanese too hard because of current political turmoil in Tokyo. The Government of Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa came close to a collapse last week when its program for political change was defeated in Parliament.
The Japanese side, led by Deputy Foreign Minister Koichiro Matsuura, and the American side, led by a White House trade adviser, W. Bowman Cutter, are expected to resume negotiations in Tokyo next week after they consult with Government leaders.
American officials concede that they are now in a quandary, since it is becoming increasing questionable whether these "framework" trade negotiations will produce any significant results by Feb. 11, when President Clinton and Mr. Hosokawa are scheduled to review the talks at a meeting in Washington.
On the one hand, American officials say, the United States could intensify the trade dispute with Japan by introducing punitive trade measures -- as Secretary Bentsen hinted on Sunday in his meetings with Japan's leaders in Tokyo. The risk, however, is that in doing so, the officials may further undercut the already shaky Government of Mr. Hosokawa, whom American officials believe is ready to open Japanese markets if he can get his political house in order.
On the other hand, these officials say, they could try to paper over the differences some more, hoping that Mr. Hosokawa's Government stabilizes and, in the long run, will be able to make concessions. But such a move, they say, may play into the hands of those Japanese officials who oppose making concessions to Washington and are looking for ways to buy time.
Such a delay could be politically embarrassing to President Clinton, who promoted the framework talks six months ago at an economic summit meeting in Tokyo as a breakthrough and the vehicle through which his Administration would do what no other has done: broadly open Japanese markets, with quantifiable proof that results are being achieved.
For now, the mood in the Administration is to hang tough and not accept a face-saving compromise, even if it creates some problems for Mr. Hosokawa. "We have had several meetings in the last couple of weeks, with all the top people in the Administration," a senior American negotiator said, "and everyone is resolute on doing what it takes to get real change out of Japan -- no matter how long it takes. If they continue to come up with a disappointing package, we are not going to disguise that. We like Mr. Hosokawa, and we think he is the future in Japan, but not to the degree that we are ready to describe something that is a mouse as a lion."
 
Accord May Come Yet
 Based on past actions, American officials say, any Japanese concessions will probably come only on the eve of the President's meeting with Mr. Hosokawa. Still, these officials say, it is hard to see at this point how enough progress can be made before Feb. 11 to produce anything beyond a cosmetic agreement, which, they insist, Washington will not abide.
The American negotiators have demanded that Japan open its market in Government procurement -- particularly its purchases of telecommunications and medical equipment -- as well as those involving insurance, autos and auto parts. They also demand that Japan agree to some kind of measure of progress in opening these markets. The Japanese have resisted such indicators, saying such an approach would be managed trade.
In addition, the United States wants Tokyo to stimulate its domestic economy, possibly with a large tax cut, so there will be more money to import goods from the United States, and help reduce Japan's trade surplus, which could reach $60 billion this year. But the Japanese Finance Ministry is resisting any large economic-stimulus program that might involve substantial deficit spending.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); TRADE DISPUTES (71%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEC) BILL CLINTON (72%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



682 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: The Scene;
Looking for Rhapsody? Try a Different Address

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Thomas Jefferson helped compose the Declaration of Independence, designed Monticello, invented countless useful devices and refused outright to deliver a State of the Union speech. He was perhaps our wisest President.
William Jefferson Clinton did not heed his example. And so tonight, the Republic's most beloved lawmakers, jurists, Cabinet members, diplomats, television news stars, political advisers, advance men and makeup artists trooped to the Capitol under leaden skies, mostly because they had to. 
 They neutered the President's Teleprompter so that it could no longer conjure up texts of old budget speeches, as it did in Mr. Clinton's health care address to Congress last September.
 
Handshake and Prime Time
 They skipped dinner to get dibs on the main aisle seats in the House chamber, insuring a handshake and prime television face time when Mr. Clinton made his way -- Presidents always "make their way" -- to the lectern.
A few actually came to hear what Mr. Clinton had to say in this, his first official State of the Union Message -- a lectern-pounding, raspy, whispered performance that fairly rang with passion over crime, health care, welfare reform and job security, but whose core theme was no big secret.
"The President will proclaim that the state of the Union is basically good," Dee Dee Myers, the White House spokeswoman, said today.
"Surprise!" she added.
Ms. Myers hit on the frog-ugly truth about these status reports that the Constitution requires Presidents to make to Congress from time to time, a truth that persuaded a century of Presidents, starting with Jefferson, to submit them in writing.
State of the Union addresses, even good ones, are almost never significant speeches, a reality that a blitz of klieg lights and a hopper car of pancake makeup cannot conceal. They are among the most predigested rituals in politics, and they often send the assembled Congress into bipartisan rigor mortis.
 
Short Ones Are Memorable
 Asked today to recall the most memorable State of the Union Message of his 25-year career, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the minority leader, replied: "I can't remember any short ones. But they would have been memorable."
Understand, this is not to take anything away from Mr. Clinton's address. The Constitution envisioned these speeches as personal reports to Congress, but in a teledemocracy their principal function is to move voters, not lawmakers, and Mr. Clinton did that about as well as anyone could.
The lawmakers who crowded the House chamber -- in truth, many of the seats were filled with foreign diplomats, functionaries and other officials -- serve as a pleasant foreground in modern speeches, and had reacted to Mr. Clinton's address even before he gave it.
"Although I do not agree with everything the President said tonight, I believe that he mentioned a number of issues on which the Congress should take action," Senator Strom Thurmond, Republican of South Carolina, stated at about 5 P.M.
About an hour later, Representative James A. Traficant Jr., Democrat of Ohio, said, "Tonight, President Clinton made an impassioned plea for Congressional action on several key issues."
 
Wilsonian Revival in 1913
 Rather, lawmakers can safely pre-reply to State of the Union Messages because they, and all involved in them, follow the same well-rutted rules that have been in use roughly since Woodrow Wilson revived the idea of a speech in 1913.
"Your chances to wax rhapsodic are inaugural addresses and farewell addresses," said Stephen Hess, a Brookings Institution scholar who helped write State of the Union Messages for President Dwight D. Eisenhower. The speeches, he said, are more like aircraft flight charts -- a map showing where the pilot wants the passengers to think he is going.
Thus, every President asks his Cabinet to submit lists of accomplishments and new ideas as grist for the speech, Mr. Hess said, and speechwriters try to string them together along one or two themes, like foreign and domestic policy, and to insure that every department gets at least a brief public backpat for a job well done.
Then there are the other moss-encrusted traditions of State-of-the-Uniondom. This year, as in the past, the President took the draft of his speech home to "put his mark on it," the White House said, although some Presidents choose to put their stamp on it.
Shortly before making his way to the Capitol, the President rehearses the speech in the White House theater, and press secretaries make bold predictions about its content.
"He'll begin by saying that together with the American people and with the Congress, we made good progress last year," Ms. Myers told reporters this morning, "but that much remains to be done."
Ms. Myers also said that Mr. Clinton would outline "a plan of action" and that that plan's first priority would be "economic renewal."
This does not surprise the press. By the count of Congressional Quarterly, the Washington political magazine, plans of action for economic renewal have loomed large in roughly half of the last 32 State of the Union Messages, with calls to stand fast during wars or foreign crises consuming most of the rest.
And so reporters, with little else to do, spend the evening counting the number of times the audience applauds (21 when President Ronald Reagan issued a plan of action for economic renewal in the recession year of 1982; 40 for President George Bush when he stood fast during the Persian Gulf crisis in 1991).
Occasionally, of course, Presidents slip in surprises, but seldom ones that stir much dust. President Lyndon B. Johnson called in one State of the Union address to lengthen the terms of House members to four years from two, to no avail. Wilson pledged in 1914 that he "will not ask our young men to spend the best years of their lives making soldiers of themselves," just a few years before he did just that.
One exception is Theodore Roosevelt, who used a State of the Union Message to launch the trust-busting campaign that earned him much of his place in American history. But exceptions only prove the rule -- that even States of the Union by the most theatrical of Presidents and their understudies can be as predictable as, well, as the most theatrical of Presidents:
"God bless our beloved country" -- George Bush, January 1992
"May God bless the United States of America" -- George Bush, January 1991.
"And may God bless this great nation, the United States of America." -- George Bush, January 1990.
"Thank you and God bless you." -- George Bush, January 1989.
"God bless you and God bless America." -- Ronald Reagan, January 1987.
God bless you and God bless America." -- Ronald Reagan, January 1984.
"Thank you, and God bless you." -- Ronald Reagan, January 1983.
"Thank you, and may God bless America." -- Bill Clinton, January 1994.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton speaking with Lane Kirkland, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. At left was Jack Smith, chief executive of General Motors. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRIME TIME FREEWARE (56%); AFL-CIO (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WINES, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



683 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 6853 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION;
Excerpts From President Clinton's Message on the State of the Union

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Clinton's State of the Union Message tonight, as recorded by The New York Times.
Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, members of the 103d Congress, my fellow Americans: I'm not at all sure what speech is in the Teleprompter tonight, but I hope we can talk about the state of the Union. 
 I ask you to begin by recalling the memory of the giant who presided over this chamber with such force and grace. Tip O'Neill liked to call himself a man of the House, and he surely was that. But even more, he was a man of the people, a bricklayer's son who helped to build the great American middle class. Tip O'Neill never forgot who he was, where he came from or who sent him here. Tonight he's smiling down on us for the first time from the Lord's gallery. But in his honor may we, too, always remember who we are, where we come from and who sent us here.
If we do that, we will return over and over again to the principle that if we simply give ordinary people equal opportunity, quality education and a fair shot at the American dream, they will do extraordinary things.
We gather tonight in a world of changes so profound and rapid that all nations are tested. Our American heritage has always been to master such change, to use it to expand opportunity at home and our leadership abroad. But for too long and in too many ways, that heritage was abandoned, and our country drifted.
For 30 years, family life in America has been breaking down. For 20 years, the wages of working people have been stagnant or declining. For the 12 years of trickle-down economics, we built a false prosperity on a hollow basis. Our national debt quadrupled. From 1989 to 1992 we experienced the slowest growth in a half-century.
For too many families, even when both parents were working, the American dream has been slipping away.
 
Hearing Calls for Change

 In 1992, the American people demanded that we change.
A year ago, I asked all of you to join me in accepting responsibility for the future of our country. Well, we did. We replaced drift and deadlock with renewal and reform.
And I want to thank every one of you here who heard the American people, who broke gridlock, who gave them the most successful teamwork between a President and a Congress in 30 years.
This Congress produced a budget that cut the deficit by half a trillion dollars, cut spending and raised income taxes on only the wealthiest Americans. This Congress produced tax relief for millions of low-income workers to reward work over welfare. It produces Nafta. It produced the Brady Bill, now the Brady Law.
And thank you, Jim Brady, for being here, and God bless you, sir.
This Congress produced tax cuts to reduce the taxes of 9 out of 10 small businesses, who used the money to invest more and create more jobs. It produced more research and treatment for AIDS, more childhood immunizations, more support for women's health research, more affordable college loans for the middle class, a new national service program for those who want to give something back to their country and their communities for higher education, a dramatic increase in high-tech investments to move us from a defense to a domestic high-tech economy.
This Congress produced a new law, the motor voter bill, to help millions of people register to vote. It produced family and medical leave.
All passed, all signed into law with not one single veto.
These accomplishments were all commitments I made when I sought this office, and in fairness they all had to be passed by you and this Congress. But I am persuaded that the real credit belongs to the people who sent us here, who pay our salaries, who hold our feet to the fire.
 
'Work Has Just Begun'
 But what we do here is really beginning to change lives. Let me just give you one example. I will never forget what the family and medical leave law meant to just one father I met early one Sunday morning in the White House.
It was unusual to see a family there touring early Sunday morning, but he had his wife and his three children there, one of them in a wheelchair. I came up, and after we had our picture taken and had a little visit, I was walking off, and that man grabbed me by the arm and he said, "Mr. President, let me tell you something. My little girl here is desperately ill. She's probably not going to make it. But because of the family leave law I was able to take time off to spend with her, the most important time I ever spent in my life without losing my job and hurting the rest of my family. It means more to me than I will ever be able to say. Don't you people up here ever think what you do doesn't make a difference. It does."
Though we are making a difference, our work has just begun. Many Americans still haven't felt the impact of what we've done. The recovery still hasn't touched every community or created enough jobs. Incomes are still stagnant. There's still too much violence and not enough hope in too many places. Abroad, the young democracies we are strongly supporting still face very difficult times and look to us for leadership.
And so tonight, let us resolve to continue the journey of renewal, to create more and better jobs, to guarantee health security for all, to reward welfare work over welfare, to promote democracy abroad and to begin to reclaim our streets from violent crime and drugs and gangs, to renew our own American community.
Last year, we began to put our house in order by tackling the budget deficit that was driving us toward bankruptcy. We cut $255 billion in spending including entitlements and over 340 separate budget items. We froze domestic spending and used honest budget numbers.
Led by the Vice President, we launched a campaign to reinvent government. We cut staff, cut perks, even trimmed the fleet of Federal limousines. After years of leaders whose rhetoric attacked bureaucracy but whose actions expanded it, we will actually reduce it by 252,000 people over the next five years. By the time we have finished, the Federal bureaucracy will be at its lowest point in 30 years.
Because the deficit was so large and because they benefited from tax cuts in the 1980's, we did ask the wealthiest Americans to pay more to reduce the deficit. So on April the 15th, the American people will discover the truth about what we did last year on taxes. Only the top -- yeah, listen -- the top 1.2 percent of Americans, as I said all along, will pay higher income tax rates. Let me repeat, only the wealthiest 1.2 percent of Americans will face higher income tax rates and no one else will and that is the truth.
 
Export Strategy
 Of course, there were, as there always are in politics, naysayers who said this plan wouldn't work, but they were wrong.
In one year, with Nafta, with GATT, with our efforts in Asia and the national export strategy, we did more to open world markets to American products that at any time in the last two generations. That means more jobs and rising living standards for the American people, low deficits, low inflation, low interest rates, low trade barriers and high investments. These are the building blocks of our recovery.
But if we want to take full advantage of the opportunities before us in the global economy, you all know we must do more.
As we reduce defense spending, I ask Congress to invest more in the technologies of tomorrow. Defense conversion will keep us strong militarily and create jobs for our people here at home.
As we protect our environment, we must invest in the environmental technologies of the future, which will create jobs. This year, we will fight for a revitalized Clean Water Act and a Safe Drinking Water Act and a reformed Superfund program.
And the Vice President is right. We must also work with the private sector to connect every classroom, every clinic, every library, every hospital in America into a national information superhighway by the year 2000.
Think of it, instant access. The information will increase productivity, will help to educate our children. It will provide better medical care. It will create jobs. And I call on the Congress to pass legislation to establish that information superhighway this year.
As we expand opportunity and create jobs, no one can be left out. We must continue to enforce fair lending and fair housing and all civil rights law because America will never be complete in its renewal until everyone shares in its bounty.
But we all know, too, we can do all these things, put our economic house in order, expand world trade, target the jobs of the future, guarantee equal opportunity. But if we're honest, we'll all admit that this strategy still cannot work unless we also give our people the education, training and skills they need to seize the opportunities of tomorrow.
 
Educational Standards
 We must set tough world-class academic and occupational standards for all our children. And give our teachers and students the tools they need to meet them. Our Goals 2000 proposal will empower individual school districts to experiment with ideas like chartering their schools to be run by private corporations or having more public school choice, to do whatever they wish to do as long as we measure every school by one high standard: Are our children learning what they need to know to compete and win in the global economy?
Goals 2000 links world-class standards to grass-roots reforms, and I hope Congress will pass it without delay.
Our school-to-work initiative will for the first time link school to the world of work, providing at least one year of apprenticeship beyond high school. After all, most of the people we're counting on to build our economic future won't graduate from college. It's time to stop ignoring them and start empowering them.
We must literally transform our outdated unemployment system into a new re-employment system. The old unemployment system just sort of kept you going while you waited for your old job to come back. We've got to have a new system to move people into new and better jobs because most of those old jobs just don't come back, and we know that the only way to have real job security in the future, to get a good job with a growing income, is to have real skills and the ability to learn new ones.
So we've got to streamline today's patchwork of training programs and make them a source of new skill for our people who lose their jobs. Re-employment, not unemployment, must become the centerpiece of our economic renewal. I urge you to pass it in this session of Congress.
 
Changes for Welfare
 And just as we must transform our unemployment system so must we also revolutionize our welfare system. It doesn't work; it defies our values as a nation.
If we value work, we can't justify a system that makes welfare more attractive than work if people are worried about losing their health care. If we value responsibility, we can't ignore the $34 billion in child support absent parents ought to be paying to millions of parents who are taking care of their children. If we value strong families, we can't perpetuate a system that actually penalizes those who stay together.
Can you believe that a child who has a child gets more money from the Government for leaving home than for staying home with a parent or a grandparent? That's not just bad policy, it's wrong, and we ought to change it.
I worked on this problem for years before I became President -- with other governors and with members of Congress of both parties, and with the previous Administration of another party. I worked on it with people who were on welfare, lots of them.
And I want to say something to everybody here who cares about this issue: The people who most want to change this system are the people who are dependent on it. They want to get off welfare, they want to go back to work, they want to do right by their kids.
I once had a hearing when I was a Governor and I brought in people on welfare from all over America who had found their way to work. And the woman from my state who testified was asked this question: "What's the best thing about being off welfare and in a job?"
And without blinking an eye, she looked at the 40 governors, and she said, "When my boy goes to school and they say what does your mother do for a living, he can give an answer."
These people want a better system, and we ought to give it to them.
Last year, we began this. We gave the states more power to innovate because we know that a lot of great ideas come from outside Washington, and many states are already using it.
Then this Congress took a dramatic step: Instead of taxing people with modest incomes into poverty, we helped them to work their way out of poverty by dramatically increasing the earned-income tax credit. It will lift 15 million working families out of poverty, rewarding work over welfare, making it possible for people to be successful workers and successful parents. Now that's real welfare reform.
But there is more to be done.
This spring, I will send you a comprehensive welfare reform bill that builds on the Family Support Act of 1988 and restores the basic values of work and responsibility.
We'll say to teen-agers: If you have a child out of wedlock, we'll no longer give you a check to set up a separate household. We want families to stay together.
Say to absent parents who aren't paying their child support: If you're not providing for your children, we'll garnish your wages, suspend your license, track you across state lines and, if necessary, make some of you work off what you owe.
People who bring children into this world cannot and must not walk away from them.
 
'Anyone Who Can Work Must'
 But to all those who depend on welfare, we should offer ultimately a simple compact: We'll provide the support, the job training, the child care you need for up to two years; but after that, anyone who can work must -- in the private sector wherever possible, in community service if necessary. That's the only way we'll ever make welfare what it ought to be: a second chance, not a way of life.
Well -- thank you, thank you.
I know it will be difficult to tackle welfare reform in 1994 at the same time we tackle health care. But let me point out I think it is inevitable and imperative.
It is estimated that one million people are on welfare today, because it's the only way they can get health care coverage for their children. Those who choose to leave welfare for jobs without health benefits -- and many entry-level jobs don't have health benefits -- find themselves in the incredible position of paying taxes that help to pay for health care coverage for those who made the other choice to stay on welfare. No wonder people leave work and go back to welfare -- to get health care coverage.
We've got to solve the health care problem to have real welfare reform.
So this year, we will make history by reforming the health care system. And I would say to you -- all of you, my fellow public servants -- this is another issue where the people are way ahead of the politicians. That may not be popular with either party, but it happens to be the truth.
You know the First Lady has received now almost a million letters from people all across America and from all walks of life. I'd like to share just one of them with you.
Richard Anderson of Reno, Nev., lost his job and with it his health insurance. Two weeks later, his wife, Judy, suffered a cerebral aneurysm. He rushed her to the hospital where she stayed in intensive care for 21 days.
The Andersons' bills were over $120,000. Although Judy recovered and Richard went back to work at $8 an hour, the bills were too much for them and they were literally forced into bankruptcy.
"Mrs. Clinton," he wrote to Hillary, "no one in the United States of America should have to lose everything they've worked for all their lives because they were unfortunate enough to become ill."
It was to help the Richard and Judy Andersons of America that the First Lady and so many others have worked so hard and so long on this health care reform issue. We owe them our thanks and our action.
 
Yes, a Health Care Crisis
 I know there are people here who say there's no health care crisis. Tell it to Richard and Judy Anderson. Tell it to the 58 million Americans who have no coverage at all for some time each year. Tell it to the 81 million Americans with those pre-existing conditions. Those folks are paying more or they can't get insurance at all, or they can't ever change their jobs because they or someone in their family has one of those pre-existing conditions.
Tell it to the small businesses burdened by skyrocketing costs of insurance. Most small businesses cover their employees and they pay on average 35 percent more in premiums than big businesses or government.
Or tell it to the 76 percent of insured Americans, three out of four whose policies have lifetime limits, that means they can find themselves without any coverage at all just when they need it the most.
So if any of you believe there's no crisis, you tell it to those people because I can't.
There are some people who literally do not understand the impact of this problem on people's lives. And all you have to do is go out and listen to them. Just go talk to them anywhere in any Congressional district in this country. They're Republicans and Democrats and independents; it doesn't have a lick to do with party. They think we don't get it, and it's time we show them that we do get it.
From the day we began, our health care initiative has been designed to strengthen what is good about our health care system: the world's best health care professionals, cutting-edge research and wonderful research institutions, Medicare for older Americans. None of this, none of it should be put at risk.
But we're paying more and more money for less and less care. Every year fewer and fewer Americans even get to choose their doctors. Every year doctors and nurses spend more time on paperwork and less time with patients because of the absolute bureaucratic nightmare the present system has become. This system is riddled with inefficiency, with abuse, with fraud and everybody knows it.
In today's health care system, insurance companies call the shots. They pick whom they cover and how they cover them. They can cut off your benefits when you need your coverage the most. They are in charge.
 
Drift in Health Care System
 What does it mean? It means every night millions of well-insured Americans go to bed just an illness, and accident or a pink slip away from having no coverage or financial ruin. It means every morning millions of Americans go to work without any health insurance at all, something the workers in no other advanced country in the world do. It means that every year more and more hard-working people are told to pick a new doctor because their boss has had to pick a new plan and countless others turn down better jobs because they know if they take the better job they'll lose their health insurance.
If we just let the health care system continue to drift, our country will have people with less care, fewer choices and higher bills. Now, our approach protects the quality of care and people's choices.
It builds on what works today in the private sector to expand employer-based coverage, to guarantee private insurance for every American. And I might say, employer-based private insurance for every American was proposed 20 years ago by President Richard Nixon to the United States Congress. It was a good idea then, and it's a better idea today.
Why do we want guaranteed private insurance? Because right now, 9 out of 10 people who have insurance get it through their employers. And that should continue. And if your employer is providing good benefits at reasonable prices, that should continue, too. That ought to make the Congress and the President feel better.
Our goal is health insurance everybody can depend on, comprehensive benefits that cover preventive care and prescription drugs, health premiums that don't just explode when you get sick or you get older; the power no matter how small your business is to choose dependable insurance at the same competitive rates governments and big business get today; one simple form for people who are sick, and most of all, the freedom to choose a plan and the right to choose your own doctor.
 
Preserving Medicare
 Our approach protects older Americans. Every plan before the Congress proposes to slow the growth of Medicare. The difference is this: We believe those savings should be used to improve health care for senior citizens. Medicare must be protected, and it should cover prescription drugs, and we should take the first steps in covering long-term care.
To those who would cut Medicare without protecting seniors, I say the solution to today's squeeze on middle-class working people's health care is not to put the squeeze on middle-class retired people's health care. We can do better than that.
When it's all said and done, it's pretty simple to me. Insurance ought to mean what it used to mean: You pay a fair price for security, and when you get sick, health care is always there, no matter what.
Along with the guarantee of health security, we all have to admit, too, there must be more responsibility on the part of all of us in how we use this system. People have to take their kids to get immunized. We should all take advantage of preventive care. We must all work together to stop the violence that explodes our emergency rooms. We have to practice better health habits, and we can't abuse the system.
And those who don't have insurance under our approach will get coverage, but they'll have to pay something for it, too. The minority of businesses that provide no insurance at all and in so doing shift the cost of the care of their employees to others should contribute something. People who smoke should pay more for a pack of cigarettes.
Everybody can contribute something if we want to solve the health care crisis. There can't be any more something for nothing. It will not be easy, but it can be done.
Now in the coming months, I hope very much to work with both Democrats and Republicans to reform a health care system by using the market to bring down costs and to achieve lasting health security. But if you look at history, we see that for 60 years this country's tried to reform health care. President Roosevelt tried. President Truman tried. President Nixon tried. President Carter tried.
Every time the special interests were powerful enough to defeat them. But not this time.
I know that facing up to these interests will require courage; it will raise critical questions about the way we finance our campaigns and how lobbyists yield their influence.
 
'Think We're Ready to Act Now'
 The work of change, frankly, will never get any easier until we limit the influence of well-financed interests who profit from this current system. So I also must now call on you to finish the job both houses began last year by passing tough and meaningful campaign finance reform and lobbying reform legislation this year.
Thank you.
You know, my fellow Americans, this is really a test for all of us. The American people provide those of us in government service with terrific health care benefits at reasonable cost. We have health care; it's always there. I think we need to give every hard-working, tax-paying American the same health care security they have already given to us.
I want to make this very clear. I am open -- as I have said repeatedly -- to the best ideas of concerned members of both parties. I have no special brief for any specific approach even in our own bill except this: If you send me legislation that does not guarantee every American private health insurance that can never be taken away, you will force me to take this pen, veto the legislation and we'll come right back here and start all over again.
But I don't think that's going to happen. I think we're ready to act now. I believe that you're ready to act now. And if you're ready to guarantee every American the same health care that you have, health care that can never be taken away, now -- not next year or the year after -- now is the time to stand with the people who sent us here. Now.
Thank you. Thank you.
 
Foreign Affairs
 As we take these steps together to renew our strength at home, we cannot turn away from our obligation to renew our leadership abroad. This is a promising moment. Because of the agreements we have reached this year -- last year -- Russia's strategic nuclear missiles soon will no longer be pointed at the United States nor will we point ours at them.
Instead of building weapons in space, Russian scientists will help us to build the international space station.
Of course, there are still dangers in the world: rampant arms proliferation, bitter regional conflicts, ethnic and nationalist tensions in many new democracies, severe environmental degradation the world over and fanatics to seek to cripple the world's cities with terror.
As the world's greatest power, we must, therefore, maintain our defenses and our responsibilities. This year we secured indictments against terrorists and sanctions against those who harbor them. We worked to promote environmentally sustainable economic growth. We achieved agreements with Ukraine, with Belarus, with Kazakhstan to eliminate completely their nuclear arsenals. We're working to achieve a Korean peninsula free of nuclear weapons. We will seek early ratification of a treaty to ban chemical weapons worldwide. And earlier today we joined with over 30 nations to begin negotiations on a comprehensive ban to stop all nuclear testing.
But nothing, nothing, is more important to our security than our nation's armed forces. We honor their contributions, including those who are carrying out the longest humanitarian airlift in history in Bosnia, those who will complete their mission in Somalia this year and their brave comrades who gave their lives there.
Our forces are the finest military our nation has ever had. And I have pledged that as long as I am President they will remain the best-equipped, the best-trained and the best-prepared fighting force on the face of the earth.
Drawing Line on Military Cuts
 Last year, I proposed a defense plan that maintains our post-cold-war security at a lower cost. This year, many people urged us to cut our defense spending further to pay for other government programs. I said no.
The budget I sent to Congress draws the line against further defense cuts. It protects the readiness and quality of our forces. Ultimately, the best strategy is to do that. We must not cut defense further. I hope the Congress without regard to party will support that position.
Ultimately ---- ultimately the best strategy to insure our security and to build a durable peace is to support the advance of democracy elsewhere. Democracies don't attack each other; they make better trading partners and partners in diplomacy. That is why we have supported, you and I, the democratic reformers in Russia and in the other states of the former Soviet bloc. I applaud the bipartisan support this Congress provided last year for our initiatives to help Russia, Ukraine and the other states through their epic transformations.
Our support of reform must combine patience for the enormity of the task and vigilance for our fundamental interests and values. We will continue to urge Russia and the other states to press ahead with economic reforms, and we will seek to cooperate with Russia to solve regional problems while insisting that if Russian troops operate in neighboring states, they do so only when those states agree to their presence and in strict accord with international standards.
But we must also remember as these nations chart their own futures -- and they must chart their own futures -- how much more secure and more prosperous our own people will be if democratic and market reforms succeed all across the former Communist bloc.
Our policy has been to support that move, and that has been the policy of the Congress. We should continue it.
That is why I went to Europe earlier this month -- to work with our European partners, to help to integrate all the former Communist countries into a Europe that has the possibility of becoming unified for the first time in its entire history -- its entire history -- based on the simple commitments of all nations in Europe to democracy, to free markets and to respect for existing borders.
 
A Partnership for Peace
 With our allies, we have created a partnership for peace that invites states from the former Soviet bloc and other non-NATO members to work with NATO in military cooperation. When I met with Central Europe's leaders, including Lech Walesa and Vaclav Havel, men who put their lives on the line for freedom, I told them that the security of their region is important to our country's security.
This year we must also do more to support democratic renewal and human rights and sustainable development all around the world. We will ask Congress to ratify the new GATT accord. We will continue standing by South Africa as it works its way through its bold and hopeful and difficult transition to democracy.
We will convene a summit of the Western Hemisphere's democratic leaders from Canada to the tip of South America, and we will continue to press for the restoration of true democracy in Haiti.
And as we build a more constructive relationship with China, we must continue to insist on clear signs of improvement in that nation's human rights record.
We will also work for new progress toward the Middle East peace. Last year, the world watched Yitzhak Rabin and Yasir Arafat at the White House when they had their historic handshake of reconciliation. But there is a long, hard road ahead, and on that road I am determined that I and our Administration will do all we can to achieve a comprehensive and lasting peace for all the people of the region.
Now there are some in our country who argue that with the cold war America should turn its back on the rest of the world. Many around the world were afraid we would do just that.
But I took this office on a pledge that had no partisan tinge to keep our nation secure by remaining engaged in the rest of the world, and this year because of our work together -- enacting Nafta, keeping our military strong and prepared, supporting democracy abroad -- we have reaffirmed America's leadership, America's engagement, and as a result, the American people are more secure that they were before.
 
The Threats at Home
 But while Americans are more secure from threats abroad, I think we all know that in many ways we are less secure from threats here at home. Every day the national peace is shattered by crime. In Petaluma, Calif., an innocent slumber party gives way to agonizing tragedy for the family of Polly Klaas. An ordinary train ride on Long Island ends in a hail of 9-millimeter rounds. A tourist in Florida is nearly burned alive by bigots simply because he is black. Right here in our nation's capital a brave young man named Jason White, a policeman, the son and grandson of policemen, is ruthlessly gunned down.
Violent crime and the fear it provokes are crippling our society, limiting personal freedom and fraying the ties that bind us. The crime bill before Congress gives you a chance to do something about it, a chance to be tough and smart.
What does that mean? Let me begin by saying I care a lot about this issue. Many years ago when I started out in public life I was the Attorney General of my state. I served as the Governor for a dozen years. I know what it's like to sign laws increasing penalities, to build more prison cells, to carry out the death penalty. I understand this issue. And it is not a simple thing.
First, we must recognize that most violent crimes are committed by a small percentage of criminals, who too often break the laws even when they're on parole. Now those who commit crimes should be punished. And those who commit repeated violent crimes should be told when you commit a third violent crime you will be put away and put away for good. Three strikes, and you are out.
 
Hailing a Beat Cop
 Second, we must take serious steps to reduce violence and prevent crime beginning with more police officers and more community policing. We know ---- we know right now that police who work the streets, know the folks, have the respect of the neighborhood kids, focus on high crime areas -- we know that they are more likely to prevent crime as well as catch criminals. Look at the experience of Houston, where the crime rate dropped 17 percent in one year when that approach was taken.
Here tonight is one of those community policemen, a brave young detective, Kevin Jett, whose beat is eight square blocks in one of the toughest neighborhoods in New York. Every day he restores some sanity and safety, and a sense of values and connection to the people whose lives he protects. I'd like to ask him to stand up and be recognized tonight. Thank you, sir.
You will be given a chance to give the children of this country, the law-abiding working people of this country -- and don't forget, in the toughest neighborhoods in this country, in the highest-crime neighborhoods in this country, the vast majority of people get up every day and obey the law, pay their taxes, do their best to raise their kids -- they deserve people like Kevin Jett. And you're going to be given a chance to give the American people another 100,000 of them, well-trained, and I urge you to do it.
You have before you crime legislation which also establishes a police corps to encourage young people to get an education, pay it off by serving as police officers, which encourages retiring military personnel to move into police forces, an inordinate resource for our country. One which has a safe-schools provision which will give our young people the chance to walk to school in safety and to be in school in safety instead of dodging bullets. These are important things.
The third thing we have to do is to build on the Brady Bill, the Brady Law. To take further steps ---- to take further steps to keep guns out of the hands of criminals.
I want to say something about this issue. Hunters must always be free to hunt. Law-abiding adults should always be free to own guns and protect their homes. I respect that part of our culture; I grew up in it.
But I want to ask the sportsmen and others who lawfully own guns to join us in this campaign to reduce gun violence. I say to you: I know you didn't create this problem, but we need your help to solve it. There is no sporting purpose on earth that should stop the United States Congress from banishing assault weapons that out-gun police and cut down children.
 
Reviving War on Drugs
 Fourth, we must remember that drugs are a factor in an enormous percentage of crimes. Recent studies indicate, sadly, that drug use is on the rise again among our young people. The crime bill contains ---- all the crime bills contain more money for drug treatment for criminal addicts and boot camps for youthful offenders, that include incentives to get off drugs and to stay off drugs.
Our Administration's budget, with all its cuts, contains a large increase in funding for drug treatment and drug education. You must pass them both; we need them desperately.
My fellow Americans, the problem of violence is an American problem. It has no partisan or philosophical element. Therefore, I urge you to find ways as quickly as possible to set aside partisan differences and pass a strong, smart, tough crime bill.
But further, I urge you to consider this: As you demand tougher penalties for those who choose violence, let us also remember how we came to this sad point. In our toughest neighborhoods, on our meanest streets, in our poorest rural areas, we have seen a stunning and simultaneous breakdown of community, family and work -- the heart and soul of civilized society.
This has created a vast vacuum which has been filled by violence and drugs and gangs. So I ask you to remember that even as we say no to crime, we must give people, especially our young people, something to say yes to.
Many of our initiatives from job training, to welfare reform, to health care, to national service will help to rebuild distressed communities, to strengthen families, to provide work. But more needs to be done. That's what our community empowerment agenda is all about, challenging businesses to provide more investment through empowerment zones; insuring banks will make loans in the same communities their deposits come from; passing legislation to unleash the power of capital through community development banks to create jobs; opportunity and hope where they're needed most.
But I think you know that to really solve this problem we'll all have to put our heads together, leave our ideological armor aside and find some new ideas to do even more. And let's be honest, we all know something else, too. Our problems go way beyond the reach of government. They're rooted in the loss of values, in the disappearance of work and the breakdown of our families and our communities.
 
Renewing Fundamental Values
 My fellow Americans, we can cut the deficit, create jobs, promote democracy around the world, pass welfare reform and health care, pass the toughest crime bill in history and still leave too many of our people behind. The American people have got to want to change from within if we're going to bring back work and family and community.
We cannot renew our country when within a decade more than half of the children will be born into families where there has been no marriage. We cannot renew this country when 13-year-old boys get semiautomatic weapons to shoot 9-year-olds for kicks. We can't renew our country when children are having children and the fathers walk away as if the kids don't amount to anything. We can't renew the country when our businesses eagerly look for new investments and new customers abroad but ignore those people right here at home who would give anything to have their jobs and would gladly buy their products if they had the money to do it.
We can't renew our country unless more of us, I mean all of us, are willing to join churches and the other good citizens, people like all the ---- like ministers I've worked with over the years or the priests and the nuns I met at Our Lady of Help in East Los Angeles or my good friend Tony Campolo in Philadelphia. Unless we're willing to work with people like that, people who are saving kids, adopting schools, making streets safer. All of us can do that. We can't renew our country until we realize that governments don't raise children, parents do.
Parents who know their children's teachers and turn off the television and help with the homework and teach their kids right from wrong. Those kind of parents can make all the difference. I know, I had one.
And I'm telling you we have got to stop pointing our fingers at these kids who have no future and reach our hands out to them. Our country needs it, we need it, and they deserve it.
 
'Give Our Children a Future'
 And so I say to you tonight, let's give our children a future. Let us take away their guns and give them books. Let us overcome their despair and replace it with hope. Let us by our example teach them to obey the law, respect our neighbors and cherish our values.
Let us weave these sturdy threads into a new American community that can once more stand strong against the forces of despair and evil, because everybody has a chance to walk into a better tomorrow.
Oh, there will be naysayers who fear that we won't be equal to the challenges of this time. But this misreads our history, our heritage, even today's headlines. All of those things tell us we can and we will overcome any challenge.
When the earth shook and fires raged in California, when I saw the Mississippi deluge the farmlands of the Midwest in a 500-year flood, when the century's bitterest cold swept from North Dakota to Newport News, it seemed as though the world itself was coming apart at the seams. But the American people? They just came together. They rose to the occasion, neighbor helping neighbor, strangers risking life and limb to save total strangers, showing the better angels of our nature.
Let us not reserve the better angels only for natural disasters, leaving our deepest and most profound problems to petty political fighting.
Let us instead be true to our spirit, facing facts, coming together, bringing hope and moving forward.
Tonight, my fellow Americans, we are summoned to answer a question as old as the Republic itself: What is the state of our union? It is growing stronger, but it must be stronger still. With your help and God's help it will be.
Thank you, and God bless America.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton working on his State of the Union Message yesterday afternoon in the Oval Office. (pg. A16); Defense Secretary Les Aspin, left, entering the chambers, with Attorney General Janet Reno. Justices David H. Souter and Clarence Thomas waited for the speech to begin. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) (pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HERITAGE HOMES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WELFARE (US); CRIME AND CRIMINALS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US PRESIDENTS (90%); FAMILY (86%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); INCOME TAX (68%); TRENDS (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); BUDGETS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); GUN CONTROL (61%); TAX RELIEF (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); DAVID SOUTER (59%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



684 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Oka Journal;
In Canada, Too, the Indians Look Back in Anger

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: OKA, Quebec

 BODY:
Teharahkoken Cree, whose first name means "in between two moons," was describing the peace tree at the Mohawk-immersion elementary school a few hundred yards from the spot where a barricade made Oka a symbol of Indian rights in the summer of 1990.
The 6-year-old boy pointed to the "life sustainers" on the lower branches (corn, beans and squash), and then to the symbols for thunder ("our grandfather"), the moon ("our grandmother"), the sun ("our elder brother"), and finally, at the very top of the tree, to "the seat of the creator." 
 His teacher, Mary Nicholas of the Kanesatake community of Mohawks, smiled proudly. "The voice of the land is in the language," she said, adding that a "new awareness of our language, our culture, who we are" all flowed from the 1990 crisis.
There is no better illustration of this new search for Mohawk identity than the school itself, called Rotiwennenkehte (roughly translated as people have the responsibility for carrying on the language), with its Mohawk study books and bright drawings of hunting scenes on the walls. A sign at the entrance reads, "Watkwanonwe:ron," or "We Welcome You" (the colon represents an accent).
 
Police Officer Killed
 The Oka crisis began on July 11, 1990, when the police tried to dismantle a roadblock Mohawks had put up to prevent the municipal authorities of the resort town on the Ottawa River 20 miles west of Montreal from expanding a golf course on land the 1,500 Kanesatake Indians regard as their own. In the confrontation, a police corporal, Marcel Lemay, was killed.
The 78-day standoff that followed gripped the country and galvanized Indian politics. The current confrontation between the Mexican authorities and Indian peasants in the southern state of Chiapas has brought back vivid memories of that period.
"Their treaties, like our treaties, are being broken time and time again," said Deborah Etienne, who was at the barricade in 1990. Mrs. Etienne, whose Mohawk name, Karonhianoron, means precious cloud, is a craftswoman whose specialty is beadwork.
"There is still great anger here," she said in an interview in her modest frame home about a mile from the school. "The land is our identity, our life, and they wanted to take it away from us. Now they treat us like criminals. They call us murderers and thieves. Our land claims are not settled. Nothing is resolved."
 
Daughter at the Barricade
 Her daughter Shawna, 13 at the time, was also at the barricade. At one point, Shawna said, she found herself looking into the barrel of an M-16 rifle.
Shawna Etienne is now completing her last year in high school and hopes to be admitted to the University of Massachusetts as a pre-med student. She is bused every day to what is officially known as the Mohawk Survival School, a high school offering Mohawk language and culture as well as traditional subjects, in the Mohawk reserve at Kahnawake, about 20 miles away.
Like the Indians in Mexico, the Mohawks and other native peoples in Canada want more programs for economic development, better housing grants, speedier progress on their land claims.
Negotiations with the Canadian authorities continue in all these areas, but as Robert Gabriel, a 28-year-old chief on the Mohawk Council of Kanesatake, put it, "I believe their mandate is never to settle with us; it's always to keep us up in the air."
Also like the Indians of Mexico, many of Canada's 400,000 tribal people as well as those of mixed ancestry who identify as Indians live on the fringes of society. Testimony taken by the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples, a group created in reaction to Oka, show high rates of suicide and crime, alcoholism and drug addition and economic despair.
Although no complete agreement exists even among Indian leaders about remedial action, the commission's report, to be published next winter, is expected to call for self-government similar to that on American reservations as a way of increasing self-esteem and economic self-reliance.
While the Mohawks still hotly condemn the police intervention, the authorities responsible for the raid on the roadblock insist they were fully justified.
 
'A Criminal Situation'
 "We had a criminal situation going on," said Robert Lavigne, director general of the Quebec provincial police. "There was the fact the injunctions" -- to dismantle the barricade -- "weren't being obeyed, there was the increasing crime and there was the possibility of a confrontation between whites and Mohawks."
In the end the authorities had to back down. The barricade was dismantled only after the troops withdrew. No one was ever arrested for the death of Corporal Lemay. The golf course was never built.
In fact, young Mohawk warriors have built wooden huts and wigwams where they might be watching golfers putt if they had not built the barricades. They are doing a land office business there, openly selling cheap smuggled cigarettes.
But in the sitting room of Deborah Etienne, the anger still resonates. "The whole point of government is to keep the natives down," said John Cree, 48, who drives the school bus to Kahnawake and who was among Mohawks she invited to join a discussion.
And a young warrior who would only give his name as Rain said he did not think the battle with the Government was over yet. "We can get mad at any time," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Three years after they faced down the police in a confrontation over land rights, Mohawk Indians in Quebec still fume with anger. At an elementary school for Mohawk children at Oka, where the showdown at a barricade took place, a 6-year-old girl ponders the symbols on a peace tree. (Horacio Paone for The New York Times)
 
Map shows the location of Oka, Quebec.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA); OKA (QUEBEC); CANADA (94%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (74%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; MOHAWK INDIANS PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (73%); MURDER (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); INTERVIEWS (60%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



685 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Dick Tracy Takes It on Chin: Wife Splits

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT 

 BODY:
First it was Donald and Ivana. Then Loni and Burt. Now Dick and Tess.
Yes, comic strip fans, it is true. After 45 years of marriage, Dick Tracy and his wife, the former Tess Trueheart, are splitting up. Tribune Media Services, which distributes the strip, has announced that Tess will hit her heroic husband with divorce papers on Feb. 7. 
 Apparently, Tess, like so many other police spouses, is fed up with Dick's long hours and lack of consideration. In recent strips, Dick spent the evening saving a luscious-looking fashion designer from attack; when he came home, after midnight, Tess had left him a note informing him that his dinner was in the freezer.
Michael Kilian, a reporter for The Chicago Tribune who has been writing the comic strip for the last year and a half, said he was introducing marital discord into the comic "to bring Dick Tracy into contemporary times." In this, he and the artist who works with him, Dick Locher, are following other long-running comic strips that in recent years have taken up issues like sexual harassment and job security.
 
A True Dilemma
 Dick will be served divorce papers while he is attending the Federal Bureau of Investigation training school in Virginia, Mr. Kilian said. Just as he is trying to rush home to talk to Tess, the United States Capitol will be attacked by a gang of unemployed-stockbrokers-turned-terrorists, led by the evil Pig E. Bank.
"Dick will be torn between saving the nation's Capitol or going back to Tess," Mr. Kilian said. "And I'm not going to tell you the end of the story."
Rest assured, though, that Tess will not be forgotten. "She is still the love of his life," Mr. Kilian said.
"Dick Tracy" was created by Chester Gould in 1931. Already that year, Dick popped the question to Tess, but his proposal was interrupted when Tess's father, a delicatessen owner, was shot by Big Boy. Vowing revenge, Dick at that point decided to join the police force.
Because of Dick's workaholic tendencies, it took the couple 18 years to get married.
The Tracys have two children of their own, Bonnie Braids and Joe, and an adopted son, Junior.
Since news of Dick's breakup began filtering out on Monday, Mr. Kilian said he had been overwhelmed by calls from reporters. "The phrase I keep hearing," he said, "is, 'How could you do it?' " (A similar question was posed to the writers of "Superman" comics when they announced in November 1992 that they would kill Superman. He was later brought back to life somehow or other.)
Tribune Media Services will not say how many newspapers carry "Dick Tracy" but among them are The Daily News in New York, The Boston Herald, The Chicago Tribune and The New Haven Register.
Michael Silberkleit, chairman of Archie Comics and president of the Comics Magazine Association, said he suspected that Dick's divorce was a ploy to increase circulation of the strip. "It's probably a good idea," he said.
In general, Mr. Silberkleit said he thought it was desirable for comics to deal with "believable" problems.
"Let him get divorced," he said. "Maybe he'll have a happier life."
Speaking of believable, Mr. Silberkleit added, "Maybe he'll marry a much younger woman."

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: DICK TRACY (COMIC)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRIBUNE MEDIA SERVICES TRIBUNE MEDIA SERVICES INC (58%); BOSTON HERALD (50%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRIBUNE MEDIA SERVICES FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMIC BOOKS AND STRIPS MARRIAGE (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); CHILDREN (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); WRITERS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); TERRORISM (70%); SECURITIES BROKERS (63%); FASHION DESIGNERS (55%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (52%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, ELIZABETH

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



686 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
MCI Joins Mexican Phone Venture

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
MCI Communications said today that it was teaming up with Mexico's biggest banking company to build a long-distance network in Mexico, a move intended to create a seamless communications system that would cover most of North America.
MCI is forming a joint venture with Grupo Financiero Banamex Accival, known as Banacci, which owns Banco Nacional de Mexico. Over the next three years, the two companies plan to build a fiber optic network that links Mexico City, Monterrey and Guadalajara. Over the longer term, they plan to build a network that covers the entire country. 
 Both companies are hoping to capitalize on Mexico's booming economy and on any surge in cross-border traffic generated by the North American Free Trade Agreement.
MCI officials said part of their goal was to build a seamless North American network that would use the same technology and perhaps even the same brand names in Canada, the United States and Mexico. MCI has already formed an alliance with Stentor, a consortium of Canadian phone companies that provides most of the country's long-distance service.
 
Smaller but Growing Fast
 The Mexican long-distance market is now about $6 billion a year, roughly a tenth that in the United States. But it is growing twice as fast, and a big part of the business is in communications with the United States. MCI officials estimated that 45 percent of Mexico's long-distance business is in international calls, and 90 percent of that is with the United States.
At the moment, Telefonos de Mexico has a monopoly over both local and long-distance communication. But the Mexican Government adopted legislation three years ago that throws the long-distance market open to new competitors in 1996. The Government is expected to begin approving licenses as early as this summer.
American companies have been eager to carve out territory in Mexico. In 1990, Southwestern Bell spent $458 million for a 5 percent stake in Telefonos de Mexico. Last fall, Bell Atlantic paid $1 billion for a stake in Grupo Iusacell, a cellular-phone company.
Under the agreement announced today, Banacci will own 55 percent of the new venture, and MCI, the rest. MCI will invest $450 million in start-up capital and direct most marketing and technical development.
Banacci controls about a quarter of the Mexican banking industry and has a vast network of local branches. Banacci will invest an unspecified amount of cash, but its biggest contribution will be in providing access to its huge base of customers. The two companies valued the deal at $1 billion, though the initial cash investment will be less than that.
Besides having to get approval from the Mexican Government, which is considered likely, MCI and Banacci must also negotiate connection arrangements with Telefonos de Mexico, which are analogous to the equal-access agreements in the United States between long-distance and local phone companies.
Telefonos de Mexico has already proposed an arrangement under which customers would be able to reach rival long-distance carriers by dialing "1," but it has not concluded an agreement on the prices the long-distance carriers must pay. The Mexican Government has said, however, that if Telefonos de Mexico does not reach connection agreements with the long-distance carriers, it will step in and lay down its own rules.


GRAPHIC: Telephone use between the United States and its neighbors in 1992, in millions of hours on public telephone networks. (Source: International Institute of Communication)
Map/Diagram: "Neighborly Calls"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (98%); VZ (NYSE) (98%); BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (98%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (98%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: MCI COMMUNICATIONS CORP; GRUPO FINANCIERO BANAMEX ACCIVAL; BANCO NACIONAL DE MEXICO VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (98%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); GRUPO IUSACELL SA DE CV (58%); GRUPO FINANCIERO BANAMEX/ACCIVAL SA DE CV (58%); BANCO NACIONAL DE MEXICO SA (57%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCI COMMUNICATIONS CORP; GRUPO FINANCIERO BANAMEX ACCIVAL; BANCO NACIONAL DE MEXICO NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JOINT VENTURES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); STARTUPS (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



687 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: '93 Wages and Benefits Held to 3.5%, U.S. Says

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Aided by moderation in the cost of health insurance, the nation's employers held wage and benefit increases to 3.5 percent last year, matching 1992's record low advance, the Labor Department reported today.
The quarterly calculation of the Employment Cost Index combined with a separate report on 1993 contract settlements to reassure economists that inflation is likely to remain subdued this year, probably only modestly above last year's 2.7 percent rise in consumer prices. 
 At the same time, two other indicators pointed to further solid gains in business activity, about which economists have become increasingly optimistic in recent weeks.
Home resales hit a record 4.49 million units in December, the National Association of Realtors announced, spurred by a small rise in interest rates that made potential buyers afraid of missing out on the most favorable financing in 20 years.
And the Conference Board disclosed that its index of consumer confidence posted its third straight gain, with a January reading of 83.2, or 3.4 points above December's.
While there was little in today's reports that could be considered surprising, analysts were particularly interested in scrutinizing employment costs as Congress returned and prepared to begin serious consideration of health care legislation.
Wages and salaries rose 3.1 percent last year, somewhat higher than the 2.7 percent in 1992. This was offset by a lower increase in benefits -- 4.6 percent, down from 5.3 percent, the smallest since 1987.
While the benefit slowdown was "slightly encouraging," said Robert F. Dieli, economist at the Northern Trust Company in Chicago, "inflation is far from dead.
"I don't think wages are a problem," he said, "but benefits remain worrisome."
The 1993 improvement, the Labor Department stated, reflected a continuing slowdown in health inflation and in the cost of workers' compensation insurance, though they continue to rise faster than other benefit costs, and in pensions.
Other benefits covered by the index include vacations, holidays, sick leave, overtime pay, shift differentials, bonuses, life and accident insurance, pensions, savings plans, Social Security, unemployment insurance and severance.
For the October-December quarter, total compensation costs climbed eight-tenths of 1 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis, the same as during the summer. Wages and salaries grew seven-tenths of 1 percent, one-tenth of a point slower, and benefits climbed 1 percent, one-tenth of a point faster, the report showed.
Rising benefits costs and employers' desires for flexibility have led to startling increases in temporary jobs. Personnel supply companies have added more than 350,000 workers in the last 12 months, said Stephen S. Roach, an economist at Morgan Stanley & Company; their proportion of total job growth reached 24 percent in the last 1993 quarter.
And while the Conference Board's index of confidence has now soared 23 points since October, Fabian Linden, executive director of the board's consumer research center, said that buying plans did not change much last month and that "there continues to be an undercurrent of uncertainty about employment opportunities."
Slack labor-market conditions resulted in major private-sector collective bargaining settlements last quarter specifying slimmer increases than the contracts they replaced, the seventh month of the last eight in which this has occurred. The annual rise over the life of contracts averaged 2 percent in the final 1993 quarter, compared with 2.2 percent for expiring ones.
For 1993, the Labor Department's figures also showed, settlements produced average annual wage increases of 2.1 percent, the lowest in seven years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (83%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) MORGAN STANLEY (83%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (82%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (60%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS WAGES & SALARIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); OVERTIME (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); INTEREST RATES (54%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



688 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
New Contract, for Plywood, Drops on First Trading Day

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Lumber prices fell steeply yesterday, dragging down, on its first trading session, a new plywood contract designed to follow the price of structural panels used in house building. The March structural panel index futures contract opened at $273.30 for 1,000 board feet, at the Chicago Board of Trade, then declined, closing at $268.30.
At the the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, lumber for March delivery dropped its $10 daily trading limit, to $407.80 for 1,000 board feet. 
 The new contract reflects composite prices of three-ply plywood and strand board, key materials in home construction. The contract was introduced during a home-building boom in the United States fed by low interest rates and a rebounding economy.
Lumber supplies have been squeezed by restrictions on logging.
The lumber market peaked at a record near $500 at the end of last year, but some analysts believe that when construction activity gets back into full swing in the spring prices for spruce 2-by-4's will rise beyond $500.
The decline in lumber prices followed Monday's $10 gain, which was linked to storms in the Midwest that ruined the chances that construction activity could pick up again immediately.
On other commodity markets, oil futures ended mixed, with interest again focused on the heating oil market. More cold weather was forecast for the eastern half of the nation, and February heating oil added 0.51 cent, to 49.90 cents a gallon, at the New York Mercantile Exchange.
March crude settled unchanged at $15.17 a barrel.
"It looks like the oil market right now is trying to settle into a range between $14 and $15.50," said Michael Rothman, senior energy futures analyst at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (72%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS FUTURES (94%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (79%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (74%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



689 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Lower Against Yen But Gains in Other Trading

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar weakened against the yen yesterday after the Japanese Government made some progress on a political reform bill, but it firmed against European currencies.
In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 111.05 Japanese yen, down from 111.80 yen on Monday. 
 Meanwhile, gold prices rose. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for February deliver gained 20 cents, to $381.60 an ounce.
Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa of Japan, battling to save his plan to clean up rampant political corruption, persuaded a grudging opposition to discuss a last-ditch compromise on a political reform bill rejected by Japan's upper house last Friday.
 Many analysts believe Mr. Hosokawa must pass some sort of reform bill before dealing with his country's struggling economy and stormy trade relations with the United States.
 
 
News Leads to Adjustments

"The news about the reform bills and the rising stock market helped participants sell dollars and adjust positions after the recent dollar rally," said a bank trader in Tokyo.
The dollar, meanwhile, rose against the mark on the growing belief that Germany's central bank must either cut interest rates or watch the economy lag under tight credit conditions.
Either way, the mark is likely to decline, dealers said.
In New York, the dollar rose to 1.7515 marks, from 1.7495 marks late Monday.
The dollar also got a lift from positive economic news in the United States. Sales of existing homes rose to record levels in December, breaking a record set one month earlier. Consumer confidence, as measured by the Conference Board, also rose in January.
"Over all, the dollar is well supported with good news on the U.S. economy," said George Tzanetatos, foreign currency specialist at Merrill Lynch and Company.
The British pound closed in New York at $1.4945, unchanged from late Monday.
Other late dollar rates, compared with Monday's quotes, included: 1.4684 Swiss francs, up from 1.4660; 5.9375 French francs, up from 5.9325, $1.3127 (Canadian), up from $1.3115 (Canadian), and 1,701 Italian lire, down from 1,706.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (91%); MER (NYSE) (91%); 8675 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); GERMAN MARK (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); INTEREST RATES (66%); EXISTING HOME SALES (64%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (57%); 

PERSON: MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



690 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk; Health Page

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Exercise Therapy Can Help Dizziness From Inner-Ear Ills

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER 

 BODY:
JEFFREY LEVIN was on a commuter train to Manhattan one morning in May 1992 when he suddenly felt unsteady and lightheaded, he said, as if "my head was in a bowl of Jell-O." Doctors told him the dizziness would probably pass, but Mr. Levin only felt worse as the weeks went by.
He began to have trouble negotiating the busy floor of the futures exchange, where he was the chief economist. He found it increasingly hard to concentrate in meetings and began to have memory problems, sometimes calling colleagues into his office and then forgetting why he had asked to see them. 
 "It was scary," said Mr. Levin, 44, who lives in Montclair, N.J. "I was afraid I was getting Alzheimer's."
Fortunately, it was not Alzheimer's disease. Mr. Levin later learned that his dizziness and memory problems were the result of an inner-ear disorder, possibly caused by a virus after a bad cold.
 
A Common Problem
 Nearly 90 million Americans, or more than one-third of the population, report bouts of dizziness at some point in their lives, according to studies from the National Institutes of Health. Of those, 76 million suffer from inner-ear disorders, which can be caused by whiplash, blows to the head, viral infections, high doses of certain antibiotics, strokes or degeneration of the inner ear's balance function, also known as the vestibular system, which often deteriorates with age.
Because inner-ear problems cause such diverse symptoms as vertigo, nausea and blurred vision, many who suffer from the disorders spend years going from doctor to doctor, only to have their symptoms misdiagnosed as sinus, eye, neurological or psychological problems.
But Mr. Levin found help after a few months, when he was referred to New York University Medical Center/Rusk Institute's Vestibular Rehabilitation Program, which treats inner-ear problems with a relatively new form of physical therapy, vestibular rehabilitation. And after 15 months at Rusk, Mr. Levin "graduated," symptom-free, this month.
Studies show that 85 percent of patients with inner-ear problems get at least partial relief from vestibular rehabilitation, and 30 percent recover completely.
"We see people who've been dizzy for 20 years but there was never any help for them before," said Tara Denham, a physical therapist who runs the Rusk program. "I've never seen any patient who hasn't been to at least two physicians, and the average is five, because no one can pinpoint what's wrong with these people."
"The patients themselves have no idea what's wrong," said Jerry Underwood, managing director of the Vestibular Disorders Association in Portland, Ore. "When they get dizzy they don't necessarily associate it with the inner ear."
About 50 vestibular rehabilitation centers have opened around the country in recent years, said Dr. Ronald A. Hoffman, a specialist in otology and neurotology who helped develop Rusk's program in 1989.
 
Exercises Are Developed
 The approach is based on research dating from the 1940's, which has been adopted and adapted by physical therapists only over the last decade. The therapy is rapidly gaining recognition now, as the country's population ages, in part because dizziness is a major problem for the elderly, said Dr. Anne Shumway-Cook, a physical therapist in Seattle who helped pioneer many of the exercises used in the new rehabilitation programs.
Balance is actually a complicated function, maintained by signals the brain receives from the eyes, muscles and joints and from the inner ear, which contains semicircular canals filled with moving fluid. Head movements stimulate the inner ear by moving the fluid through the canals, thus sending messages to the brain about the position of the head and the body.
When the inner ear sends the brain incorrect information, or conflicting signals, the person feels dizzy. The usual response is to limit movement so as to minimize the rocking or spinning sensations.
The therapy is based on the concept that the very movements that make the patient dizzy can eventually relieve the symptoms through repetition. By repeatedly bombarding the brain with the incorrect messages, the brain is ultimately forced to adapt, accepting and reinterpreting the faulty signals as correct. When that happens, the symptoms subside.
The treatment is a home-exercise program custom-designed for each patient; it includes habituation exercises, like jumping, sitting up and lying down rapidly and turning in circles. The exercises are so simple that many patients are skeptical at first that they can work.
Along with the habituation exercises, vestibular rehabilitation patients are given eye exercises that retrain the vestibular ocular reflex, an adjustment controlled by the inner ear that allows the eye to keep the field of vision steady as a person moves. The eye exercises, in which patients repeatedly move their heads from side to side or up and down while focusing on a specific target, like a letter taped to the wall, help patients steady their gaze.
Finally, patients do balance retraining exercises, standing on a thick piece of foam rubber with eyes closed, for example, and forcing the brain to rely on information from the inner ear rather than messages from the eyes and the feet.
"In the vast majority of cases of chronic balance disorders, the physical damage in the inner ear is permanent, but the effects don't have to be because of the compensation process," said Dr. Neil T. Shepard, of the Vestibular Testing Center at the University of Michigan Medical School.
The attendant problems of concentration, memory loss and fatigue, which can often accompany inner-ear problems, actually develop because the brain is working so hard simply to keep the body upright that other brain functions are compromised. These symptoms naturally disappear along with the dizziness.
One inner-ear problem, benign positional paroxysmal vertigo, can be relieved in a single session. This problem is caused by free-floating calcium "crystals" that irritate the inner ear after being knocked out of place by a blow to the head. In treating such cases, the therapist moves the patient's head in a way that causes the crystals to adhere to the inner ear.
 
Need for Monitoring
 Most inner-ear disorders, though, require anywhere from 6 weeks to 18 months of physical therapy, with exercises performed once or twice a day at home and once or twice a week in therapy sessions. The program is constantly revised as the patient improves. The exercises must be carefully monitored by a physical therapist because too much activity too soon can be counterproductive.
Vestibular rehabilitation is not for everyone. Some inner-ear disorders require medication or surgery. But practitioners say the success rate of this drug-free, risk-free treatment has made it one of the fastest-growing areas of physical therapy.
More information about inner-ear disorders, vestibular rehabilitation and support groups is available from the Vestibular Disorders Association at (800) 837-8428.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tara Denham, physical therapist, supervising Christopher Gallinaro during rehabilitation session at Rusk Institute. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HEALTH PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: RUSK INSTITUTE NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUSK INSTITUTE NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: VERTIGO; PHYSICAL THERAPY; EXERCISE DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (90%); MEMORY DISORDERS (89%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (89%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (89%); HEAD INJURIES (77%); NEUROSCIENCE (74%); ANTIBIOTICS (73%); TRAINS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMMON COLD (72%); POPULATION SIZE (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: HENNEBERGER, MELINDA

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



691 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 2635 words

HEADLINE: For Every Ingredient There Is a Season

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT 

 BODY:
"A GREAT restaurant in the old days was one where you could get anything at any time of year, but that's no longer true," said Michael Romano, chef at Union Square Cafe, at a meeting of chefs last fall to promote the use of local, seasonal and organic produce. "What counts now is what is freshest, most locally available and seasonal."
It's a very old idea that suddenly seems radically new. 
 So new that most chefs still serve pretty strawberries in December (or for Valentine's Day) regardless of how numb they taste. Similarly, while the luscious, year-round vine-ripened tomato remains an elusive grail for chefs and consumers alike, many have such a tomato habit that they are willing to make do with pale, cottony slices alongside the mozzarella. And at Morton's of Chicago, the steakhouse chain that recently opened a restaurant in Manhattan with a standard, national menu, Lauren Malis, the catering manager, said with pride, "Asparagus is always in season here."
But this attitude is far from universal these days. Since the beginning of the 1990's, menus have increasingly taken on truly seasonal colors and flavors, making use of the freshest, most flavorful and, frequently, locally produced ingredients, because these are the ingredients that often produce the best-tasting dishes.
This dedication to seasonal produce did not happen overnight. It began in the 1970's, when chefs started using produce imported from Europe and wondered why haricots verts and baby vegetables could not be grown here. A partnership between chefs and farmers developed. At the same time, health considerations increased produce consumption and environmental concerns began to favor local farming.
Jimmy Schmidt, the chef and owner of the Rattlesnake Club in Detroit, says that lately he has seen more chefs in tune with the seasons. "As people get into sustainable and organic choices, they have to work closer with farmers, and that has led chefs to do more than just call the purveyor like in the old days," he said.
Mr. Schmidt is the chairman of Chefs Collaborative 2000, a coalition of influential chefs that is urging the food industry to use locally grown, seasonal ingredients.
It takes determination. Those vine-ripened tomatoes, juicy peaches and sweet ears of freshly picked corn from nearby farms might be a cinch in summer, but what are chefs caught in winter's hammerlock doing now? Those who have temporarily banished fresh tomatoes and asparagus from the kitchen are discovering how well roasted root vegetables, wilted kale, satiny winter squash soups and dried fruit compotes complement the braised meats and thick seafood chowders that suit the weather.
At the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y., a course in ingredients emphasizes seasonality. "We have taken a stand to support the farmers and purveyors in this region," said Charles Rascoll, who trains instructors. Lately, the classes have emphasized kale, root vegetables, mushrooms, cabbages and the like. "Even when they are not locally available, they are still what you usually find in January," he said.
The Griswold Inn in Connecticut relies on local supplies year round. For the last four winters, it has featured a menu of "Connecticut Bounty," including squashes, apples, meats and seafood from the region.
"We have worked with growers and the State Agriculture Department," said Dwight Doolittle, the chef. Butternut squash bisque or oysters stewed with winter vegetables have replaced summer's chilled soup and sole in summer garden sauce.
Some of the late fall and winter vegetables, including bitter greens, sweet roots like parsnips and assertive rutabagas and cabbages, are acquired tastes. But now, American chefs in fine restaurants feature them not only because they are seasonal, but also because they are different and a bit challenging, much the way French chefs dote on organ meats.
Susan Goss, one of the partners in Zinfandel, a new restaurant and market in Chicago where the menu now has hearty, wintry flavors and not a raspberry is in sight, said some people who go out to eat are impressed when a restaurant has raspberries in winter and expect that sort of thing. "But it's really harder to find local farmers to supply the seasonal things we want," she added.
Similarly, Clyde's Restaurant Group in Washington works with local growers whenever possible. "We've become better at it than we were five years ago, when we started, and the farmers are better at it, too," said Tom Meyer, the executive chef for the company, which owns eight restaurants in Washington. "Admittedly, it's tough in winter, but economically you're better off."
Once you consider the price of asparagus and berries out of season, or the quality of fresh corn and tomatoes in January, it's easy to see why chefs are starting to prefer kale, turnips and apples and hard to understand why more home cooks are not following suit. One contributing reason is that supermarkets do not promote seasonal and local items, preferring to advertise "firm slicing tomatoes" shipped from afar. Often, the buying systems in these large chains do not allow for purchases from smaller, local purveyors. Last week in Manhattan, only one of four chain markets on the Upper West Side was selling Swiss chard or kale, and none had celery root.
And if you assume that being in a warm climate removes any notion of seasonality from the menu, think again. "We're just as seasonal down here," said Robbin Haas, the chef at Colony Bistro in Miami Beach. "Our seasons are the opposite of yours. I take a lot of stuff off the menu when I can't get good quality. When our strawberry season is over, I don't serve them."
But the strawberry and tomato habit dies hard. Jonathan Eismann, a transplanted New York chef who is now a chef for and partner in Pacific Time, a Miami Beach restaurant, said some of his customers would not hear of having a salad without tomatoes. "Our tomato season is ending here, so I'll have to make do with what I can get from elsewhere," he said. "In France, they just stop using stuff that's out of season," he continued, adding, "I'm starting to agree with that, but it takes a big change in attitude."
Slowly, the change is coming. Alain Ducasse, the Michelin three-star chef from Monte Carlo, Monaco, summed it up by saying, "The 70's and 80's were the era of the chef and the recipe, but in the 90's, the quality of the ingredient is what counts."
Increasingly, quality depends on chefs working with local farmers, which not only is good for the food on the table, but also promotes local agriculture, cuts transport and encourages production of more perishable organic produce. Last year, the Greenmarket program in New York City published a directory to help its food producers sell wholesale to restaurants, caterers and stores.
"It's been growing year by year," said Barry Benepe, the director. "I was surprised to see places like Lespinasse in the Hotel St. Regis buying from us."
Seasonality is psychologically satisfying. In "The Pursuit of Pleasure," the anthropologist Lionel Tiger said, "There's a seasonality, a scarcity, a harvest, a time for the perfect lingonberry or langoustine or corn or shad roe or oyster."
Some people may still enjoy hefty lamb shanks in air-conditioned restaurants in July and want gazpacho apres-ski. But today, restaurants are offering other choices, and consumers may also begin making them.
"To rely on the same ingredients all year does not inspire the chef," said Mr. Rascoll of the Culinary Institute of America. "For us, the most wonderful thing is being conscious of the seasons, taking advantage of what each one offers, and waiting for the first asparagus in spring."
Tired of Winter? Not With These Dishes

 
Butternut Squash Bisque
(Adapted from the Griswold Inn)
Total time: 45 minutes

 1 large butternut squash, peeled, seeded and diced
 1 large shallot, peeled and diced
 1 large onion, peeled and diced
 1/2 teaspoon white pepper
 1 teaspoon nutmeg
 1 teaspoon minced garlic
 1 bouquet garni (parsley sprig, bay leaf, sprig thyme, 5 peppercorns wrapped in cheesecloth)
 4 cups chicken stock
 1 tablespoon unsalted butter
 2 tablespoons flour
 1/2 cup half-and-half
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste.
1. Combine the squash, shallots, onion, pepper, nutmeg, garlic, bouquet garni and chicken stock in a large saucepan. Cook over medium heat until the squash is tender, about 20 minutes. Drain, reserving the liquid, discard the bouquet garni and puree in a food processor.
2. Melt the butter in a heavy saucepan. Whisk in the flour, and cook over low heat for 5 minutes, whisking constantly. Gradually whisk in the reserved cooking liquid, and bring to a boil; then, stirring constantly, add the squash puree.
3. Stir in the half-and-half, and season with salt and pepper. Garnish each serving with a sprinkling of freshly ground nutmeg.
Yield: 6 servings.
Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 160 calories, 6 grams fat, 20 milligrams cholesterol, 75 milligrams sodium (before salting), 5 grams protein, 25 grams carbohydrate.
 
Smashed Potatoes, Celery Root and Roasted Garlic
(Adapted from Ciao Europa)
Total time: 30 minutes

 1 head garlic
 1 teaspoon extra-virgin olive oil
 1 pound golden potatoes, peeled and diced
 1 pound celery root, peeled and diced (rutabaga can be used)
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste.
1. Preheat oven to 450 degrees. Slice the top off the head of garlic, brush the top with oil and wrap in foil. Place in the oven, and roast until golden brown, about 20 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil, add the potatoes and celery root and cook until tender, about 20 minutes. Drain. Return the potatoes and celery root to the pot.
3. Squeeze the soft garlic cloves out of the head, and add to the pot. Smash the ingredients together with the back of a spoon or a potato masher until well-blended. Season with salt and pepper. Reheat briefly and serve.
Yield: 4 servings.
Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 140 calories, 1 gram fat, 0 milligrams cholesterol, 25 milligrams sodium (before salting), 3 grams protein, 30 grams carbohydrate.

Penne With Swiss Chard and Cauliflower
(Adapted from Tom Meyer)
Total time: 30 minutes

 4 tablespoons olive oil
 1 cup diced onion
 1 head cauliflower, cored and separated into very small flowerets
 Salt to taste
 1 pound penne
 4 large cloves garlic, sliced thin
 1 pound Swiss chard, rinsed and roughly chopped
 1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes, or to taste
 4 ounces imported pecorino romano, freshly grated.
1. Bring 4 quarts of water to a boil.
2. Heat the oil in a large skillet, add the onion and cook over medium heat until golden and beginning to brown, about 15 minutes.
3. Once water is boiling, add cauliflower and some salt, and cook for 3 minutes. Remove cauliflower with a slotted spoon and set aside. Set aside 1/2 cup of the water.
4. Add the penne to the boiling water, stir it and let it cook for about 8 minutes, until al dente.
5. While the penne is cooking, add the garlic to the skillet and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, until lightly browned; then, add the Swiss chard and cook, stirring, until it wilts, another 3 minutes or so. Stir in the cauliflower and reserved cooking liquid and the red pepper. Season with salt.
6. When the penne is done, drain it, add it to the skillet and toss with the vegetables over low heat. Serve at once, dusted with cheese.
Yield: 6 servings.
 Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 490 calories, 15 grams fat, 20 milligrams cholesterol, 415 milligrams sodium (before salting), 20 grams protein, 20 grams carbohydrate.
 
Seafood Pie
(Adapted from Zinfandel Restaurant)
Total time: 3 hours

 3/4 cup flour
 1/3 cup stone ground cornmeal
 1/4 teaspoon salt, and more to taste
 8 tablespoons cold unsalted butter
 2 1/2 tablespoons cold water
 2/3 cup dry white wine
 36 small mussels, scrubbed
 1 pound monkfish, diced
 1 cup diced, peeled parsnips
 1 1/3 cups diced onion
 2/3 cup diced carrot
 2/3 cup diced celery
 1/2 cup slivered dried apricots
 Freshly ground pepper to taste
 1/4 cup milk.

 1. Combine the flour, cornmeal and 1/4 teaspoon salt in a food processor and pulse to blend. Cut 6 tablespoons of the butter in 1/2-inch bits, scatter them over the flour mixture, and pulse until the mixture is uniformly crumbly. Sprinkle the water over this mixture, and pulse again, about 25 to 30 times, until a ball of dough forms. Shape it into a flat disk, wrap it in plastic and refrigerate 2 hours.
2. Place the wine in a saucepan, bring to a boil and add the mussels. Cover and steam 5 to 8 minutes, until they open. Remove the mussels from the pan, reserving the liquid. Shuck the mussels into a bowl. Mix with the monkfish, and refrigerate.
3. Bring a saucepan of water to a boil, add the parsnips and blanch for 4 minutes. Drain.
4. Heat the remaining butter in a heavy skillet. Add the onion, carrots and celery, and cook over medium heat until nicely browned, about 20 minutes. Add the reserved liquid from the mussels, the parsnips and apricots. Place 1/2 cup of this mixture in a food processor, and puree it; then, return it to the skillet. Stir in the mussels and fish, and season with salt and pepper.
5. Divide this mixture among 4 small souffle dishes, each about 12 ounces, or place the mixture in a 6-cup souffle dish or baking dish.
6. Preheat oven to 400 degrees.
7. Roll out the dough, and cut 5-inch circles if using individual dishes, or roll it to cover a single baking dish. Moisten the edges and place it over the fish, pressing the moistened edges down on the edge of the dish to seal. Cut a couple of slits in the top, brush with the milk and bake about 20 minutes, until lightly browned.
Yield: 4 main-dish servings.
Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 600 calories, 25 grams fat, 115 milligrams cholesterol, 200 milligrams sodium (before salting), 30 grams protein, 55 grams carbohydrate.
 
Pear Bread Pudding
(Adapted from Jimmy Schmidt)
Total time: 2 hours

 3 large, ripe but firm Comice pears, peeled, cored and sliced
 Juice of 1/2 lemon
 1 cup sugar
 2 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
 2 1/2 teaspoons nutmeg
 1 cup dry red wine
 2 cups milk
 Pinch of salt
 5 large eggs, beaten
 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
 1/2 cup dark rum
 4 cups dried whole wheat bread in 1/2-inch cubes
 6 sprigs fresh mint for garnish
 Whipped cream (optional).

 1. Toss the pear slices with the lemon juice; then, place them in a saucepan with 1/2 cup of the sugar, 1 teaspoon each of the cinnamon and nutmeg, and the wine. Cook over medium heat until wine is reduced so it just coats the pears.
2. Preheat oven to 325 degrees.
3. Scald the milk in a saucepan. Remove from the heat, and stir in the remaining sugar and the salt. Mix the eggs with the vanilla, rum and remaining cinnamon and nutmeg, and gradually whisk into the milk.
4. Place the bread cubes in an 8-inch-square baking pan 2 inches deep. Pour the egg mixture over the bread and press down so it absorbs the liquid. Place the baking pan in another pan. Add boiling water to come halfway up the sides. Bake 20 minutes.
5. Spread the pear mixture over the top, return to the oven and bake 20 minutes longer.
6. Cool on a rack about 30 minutes, but serve warm. Garnish each serving with a sprig of mint and, if desired, serve with whipped cream.
Yield: 6 servings.
Approximate nutritional analysis per serving (without cream): 390 calories, 8 grams fat, 190 milligrams cholesterol, 220 milligrams sodium, 10 grams protein, 60 grams carbohydrate.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Winter Bounty" -- Like many chefs, Dwight Doolittle of the Griswold Inn in Connecticut is turning to seasonal and local products. His winter menu includes local produce like acorn squash and dishes like oyster stew, butternut squash bisque and apple crisp, as well as local wines and beers. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) (pg. C1); Anthony Colella teaches a class on ingredients at the Culinary Institute of America that emphasizes seasonal produce. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times); Acorn squash and oyster stew from the Griswold Inn. (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CULINARY INSTITUTE OF AMERICA MORTON'S OF CHICAGO INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: CULINARY INSTITUTE OF AMERICA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; SEASONS AND MONTHS; RECIPES RESTAURANTS (92%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (89%); CATERING SERVICES (78%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (69%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



692 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: The Pop Life

BYLINE: By Sheila Rule 

 BODY:

Feliciano Anniversary
Long before there was the term world music, the Puerto Rican singer and guitarist Jose Feliciano was blending musical styles from the global jukebox. His goal, he says, has always been to "get the races closer to each other."
"My influences are not only in Latin music, but in rock-and-roll and, of course, black music," he said from his home in Weston, Conn. "I didn't learn to sing from Frank Sinatra or Jack Jones, whom I consider great singers, but my influences were people like Sam Cooke, Ben E. King, Ray Charles. I think I related to those singers more because we all suffered. I was born in extreme poverty and, like them, I had my own minority things to deal with, one of which is being blind. I had to really develop my skills before I became famous because at every turn, there was a 'no.' " 
 Mr. Feliciano's skills have won him six Grammy Awards, and his latest album, "Latin Street '92" (Capitol/ EMI Latin), has been nominated this year for best Latin pop album. He is performing his special blend of jazz, pop, Spanish and classical music through Sunday at the Blue Note in Greenwich Village, the neighborhood where his career began in coffee houses 30 years ago.
To mark this anniversary, Mr. Feliciano plans to record a live concert album and a double-album set of new music and old favorites. A pay-per-view concert is to be broadcast on Sept. 30.
A professed radio addict, he credits that medium and, in a roundabout way, classical music with helping him in his craft. "I learned everything I did through radio," he said. "That's how I learned to play the guitar. It was my teacher until I was 16. I had wanted to become a classical guitarist at that time, until I saw a lot of classical musicians starving. I said, 'I better learn to sing.' "
 
MTV and Violence
 MTV wants to make it cool to be nonviolent.
In a national telephone survey of 800 people from 16 to 29 years old last month, the network found that violence had replaced jobs and the economy as the most significant problem facing young people. Some 45 percent said they had been personally affected by violence and 44 percent of men claimed to own a gun. Of teen-agers who did not own a gun, 48 percent were considering buying one in the next year, and two out of three high-school students felt they could easily get a gun. Drugs were considered the leading cause of violence, followed by the economy and unemployment, lack of moral values, the breakdown of the family, and gangs.
"The faces on the covers of magazines or in the news when the story is violent is a young face," said Judy McGrath, president and creative director of MTV. "These are the people considered the perpetrators and the victims. We felt that it was our responsibility to try to use MTV to show the complexity of this from their point of view and to let them have a forum to discuss it on MTV. At one point it looked impossible to make voting cool, but we figured that since we succeeded at that, maybe through innovative ideas we can make nonviolence cool."
Ms. McGrath said that within the next two months, the network plans to begin a weekly program that is "sort of a 'Meet the Press' or 'McLaughlin Group' for twentysomethings" with writers, athletes, musicians, thinkers and others who appeal to MTV's audience.
"We realized we didn't have a forum to discuss some of the issues that young people are interested in," she said, "and felt that maybe if there was a place where Rev. Calvin Butts and Axl Rose and Dr. Dre could talk, it would be helpful. You could talk about everything from what happened to Nancy Kerrigan to carjacking."
The network is also planning documentary-style public service announcements, special programs and local events. It has also asked animators to come up with ideas that approach the issue of violence from different points of view.
MTV itself has often been criticized for what is seen as the programming of videos with violent or offensive content, such as "Beavis and Butt-head," a cartoon program whose two heroes take outrageous stands on social issues. But Carole Robinson, a spokeswoman for the network, calls the criticism a "major bad rap."
"People make assumptions about our programming based on what they think about rock-and-roll or based on what they see on other video outlets and assume that it's MTV they're watching. We have very strict program standards and we do not air videos that glorify violence or contain gratuitous violence, and we will continue to view everything we do with an eye toward that."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MUSIC TELEVISION NETWORKS INC (MTV)

ORGANIZATION: MUSIC TELEVISION NETWORKS INC (MTV)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; VIOLENCE; TELEVISION SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC GENRES (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); PAY PER VIEW (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); MEN (64%); 

PERSON: FELICIANO, JOSE; RULE, SHEILA FRANCIS ALBERT 'FRANK' SINATRA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



693 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Health Reform -- "Now!"

 BODY:
Bill Clinton had one overriding task in his State of the Union address last night: to re-ignite a fire under the proposal for health care reform that he has chosen as the defining issue of his Presidency. Victory will not come easily. Bitter battles lie ahead in Congress and the country. But no one who heard his demands for immediate action -- "now, not next year or the year after . . . now!" -- or his threat to veto any legislation that falls short of universal coverage can fault him for squandering the chance to state his case, plainly and passionately.
Like other Presidents before him, Mr. Clinton could not resist a prideful review of his first year. Nor could he resist offering a menu of other proposals. Wisely, however, he devoted most of his energies to the big things that seem now to matter most to the American public -- which, besides medical care, include the economy, welfare and crime. And in so doing, he deftly expropriated at least two issues -- welfare and crime -- that the Republicans had hoped to use against him and the Democrats in the midterm. 
 On the economy, Mr. Clinton celebrated what appears to be a gradual recovery, but he promised retraining for those who have been blindsided by the recession. He pledged to seek welfare reform -- a subject on which he has rarely been heard since the lavish promises of his campaign -- and said he would have a bill emphasizing work over welfare ready for Congress's inspection by late spring.
And he spoke at length about crime and violence, combining calls for stronger penalties for repeat offenders, a debatable proposition, and needed help for local law enforcement with an eloquent appeal for the restoration of personal and community values. Without these, he said, little progress can be made against the pathologies of poverty and addiction that underlie the murder epidemic.
Yet in the end it was health care he had come to talk about, and for good reason. In the four months since he set forth his plan, the health care debate has generated more confusion than clarity, and Mr. Clinton needed desperately to wrench back the initiative from his critics in both parties and the major interest groups that had mobilized against him. Knowing that to succeed he must bring those critics along, he shrewdly indicated a willingness to listen to all competing ideas. But he refused to sacrifice the fundamental principle of universal coverage.
One distressing characteristic of this Administration is that it tends to lose focus, requiring Herculean last-minute rescue operations, as in the fight over the budget and Nafta. Mr. Clinton now seems ready to focus on health care. His Presidency pretty much depends on it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); VETO (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); INSURANCE LAW (70%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); INSURANCE (59%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



694 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Are We Awake Yet?

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
Is there reason for hope, or is that naive?
Is the country really waking up to the enormity of its problems of crime and violence, or is this just another phase, driven by the media and lasting only until we are diverted by a killer blizzard, or a celebrity sex scandal, or a surprise locker-room attack by a Buffalo hitperson to the knees of Dallas Cowboy Emmitt Smith? 
 A serious national effort to combat crime has never been needed more than now. Americans are being murdered, raped, beaten, robbed and otherwise terrorized in numbers that suggest an extraordinary evil has been loosed upon the society.
No one is immune, not even toddlers or infants; and no place is exempt, not even schools or houses of worship.
The reality is more horrible than most fiction writers are capable of imagining. The Children's Defense Fund has released a report that says nearly 50,000 children and teen-agers were killed by firearms in the United States between 1979 and 1991. More than 24,000 of those deaths were homicides, the remainder being suicides and deaths from firearm accidents.
A child growing up in the U.S. is 15 times more likely to be killed by gunfire than a child growing up in Northern Ireland. An American child or teen-ager dies from gunshot wounds every two hours.
The only thing more remarkable than those statistics is that the violent deaths of so many young people could occur without a frenzied national outcry, a collective expression of anguish and outrage.
Perhaps that is occurring now.
A New York Times/CBS News Poll shows that crime has become the nation's biggest concern. The major media outlets are top-heavy with stories and special reports about crime. The politicians, irresistibly drawn to the twin lures of opinion polls and television cameras, are flexing their rhetorical muscles.
But we've been here before. Ten years ago President Reagan trumpeted "the most sweeping anti-crime bill in more than a decade." At a White House press conference he promised to provide "long-overdue protection to law-abiding Americans" and "to put an end to the era of coddling criminals."
That was followed by the most violent, crime-ridden decade in the nation's history.
This time could be different. The key will be whether the politicians and other leaders are willing to avoid the notion of simplistic solutions. Crime is an incredibly complex issue and no real breakthroughs can be accomplished by knee-jerk responses of the right or the left.
Obviously something is wrong with a criminal justice system that regularly releases murderers in five and a half years and rapists in less than three. And there is something wrong with a society that can't seem to corral -- and keep corralled -- repeat violent offenders.
But there is also something wrong with a society that takes huge segments of its juvenile population and condemns them to a hideous world of ignorance, fear, alienation and criminal neglect. Something has to be done for children who, at ages 10 and 11, are making detailed plans for their own funerals.
For years we have had advocates of harsh punishment on one side and those who want to attack the root causes of crime on the other. It is past time for each side to listen seriously, and in a spirit of good will, to what the other side has to say.
Beyond the toll of lives lost and pain endured, crime in America costs hundreds of billions of dollars every year. Getting even a modest handle on crime would have an enormous positive effect on society as a whole, including the economy and the continuing problems of health care and welfare.
Crime is the real crisis in America. But doing something about crime also means doing something about drugs, about guns, about jobs and about values. It will require the effort not just of politicians, but the rest of America as well, including educators and the clergy, community and civil rights leaders, and ordinary citizens, especially parents and others who care for young children.
There's also the media, of course, which can be helpful by shifting some of the emphasis from the sensational crimes to the less entertaining search for solutions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (54%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (56%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (56%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; PUBLIC OPINION SHOOTINGS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); MURDER (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); SUICIDE (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); FIREARMS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); SEX SCANDALS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); WRITERS (68%); CHILD WELFARE (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (67%); HISTORY (62%); SCANDALS (57%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB RONALD REAGAN (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



695 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Can We Afford So Many Unskilled Immigrants?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Anthony Lewis claims in "The Politics of Nativism" (column, Jan. 14) that Julian Simon showed in The Wall Street Journal last year that immigrants do not take the jobs of the native born and that the average immigrant family pays $2,500 more in taxes annually than it receives in public services. 
 Professor Simon and Mr. Lewis are clearly wrong on both accounts. George Borjas, a national researcher, wrote in the National Review for Dec. 13, 1993, that Mr. Simon's calculation was quite wrong. Mr. Simon has both immigrants and natives running a surplus. Since welfare programs are supposed to redistribute income from some groups to others, both cannot be running a surplus.
Mr. Lewis overlooks other soundly based estimates of public service costs. For example, the Rand Corporation, hardly a nativist anti-immigrant group, found that each permanent Mexican immigrant in California had a public service deficit of more than $1,000 annually in 1982.
My own recent national study found that the annual after-tax deficit of post-1970 immigrants, both legal and illegal, exceeds $2,000 per immigrant -- a total cost of more than $42 billion. Comparatively, the native born had a surplus on public services after taxation.
This is not surprising. Data from the 1990 Census show that the poverty rate of post-1970 immigrants is 42 percent higher than that of the native born. An immigrant's probability of receiving public assistance, adjusted by the amount of assistance received, is 44 percent greater than that of the native born. High welfare usage, combined with low earnings (meaning low taxes), means that immigrants must run a public-service deficit that is financed by the native born with low welfare and higher earnings (meaning higher taxes).
Professor Simon's long-held belief that immigrants do not displace Americans in the labor market has been repudiated by a number of careful studies in recent years. A consensus is developing (Huddle, Altonji and Card, Walker, Ellis and Barf) that for each six to seven immigrants, one unskilled or blue-collar job is lost to Americans. As Richard Bean of the University of Texas recently showed, slow growth areas are particularly prone to labor displacement. As in California during the 1990's, many native born, according to Randy Filer in a National Bureau of Economic Research study, end up fleeing the region to avoid job losses and falling wage levels.
Although immigration is more than dollars and cents, we still must be more aware of the affordability issue of large-scale unskilled immigration from the third world. No doubt, however, pro-immigration advocates such as Dr. Simon and Mr. Lewis will be willing to dig a little deeper into their pockets during income tax season to help offset our national budget deficit.
 
DONALD L. HUDDLE
Houston, Jan. 18, 1994
The writer is professor emeritus of economics at Rice University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (69%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; WELFARE (US) IMMIGRATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); CENSUS (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (66%); POVERTY RATES (65%); 

PERSON: HUDDLE, DONALD L (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



696 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: News Analysis;
Economic Safety Zone

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
According to the polls, President Clinton stepped before the nation tonight with his political strength back where it stood when he was inaugurated a year and five days ago, before Zoe Baird, before tax increases, before Cristophe's haircuts, before Somalia and Haiti.
A big reason, the polls indicate, is "the economy, stupid." 
 Economic recovery can give a jet-assisted take-off to a politician; in only seven months, it has lifted Mr. Clinton from the worst approval rating for any President since World War II so early in his term. But a foundering economy can pull a politician back to earth with sickening swiftness; it dragged George Bush down to defeat less than two years after his sweeping triumph in the Persian Gulf.
The President has reached a first-anniversary safe harbor. He outlined what he termed "a hopeful beginning," and it certainly met the two traditional criteria for proclaiming the State of the Union to be sound: no Americans involved in shooting wars abroad, and prosperity for most at home.
 
Treacherous Era
 But who brought about this recovery? Can it be sustained? And even if it is, more or less, will the voters be thinking mostly about their pocketbooks a year, two years, three years from now, or will crime or health care or an unforeseen foreign crisis prove to be the principal preoccupation?
As he has before, with mixed success, the President set an activist's social agenda beside calls for economic restraint, asserting that "there's much more to do" but promising to submit "one of the toughest budgets" ever.
This is a potentially treacherous era for any politician. Mr. Clinton holds office at a time of vast transition. Look in any direction -- to the economy or to diplomacy, to the long-neglected realm of social policy, to Asia or Europe or Latin America -- and everything is shifting. It takes well-honed instincts and more than a little luck to keep afloat in such complex times.
Outside his safe harbor, trouble lurks for the President. There is the minefield of the Whitewater case, the investigation of which will last months if not years. At the moment, the public seems uninterested, even a little irritated that reporters and political opponents keep bringing up the subject. But a stream of revelations, if one materializes, could change that.
 
An Uneasy Majority
 There are the storm clouds looming over Russia, whose leadership and basic direction are in doubt, and over Korea, where conflict is not impossible. A majority of Americans describe themselves to the pollsters as uneasy at the thought of Bill Clinton coping with a major international crisis.
What threatens Mr. Clinton most is the specter of failure on health care. His threat tonight to veto any plan that did not cover everyone showed that Mr. Clinton understood a root political reality: having driven health care to the top of the political agenda in 1992, he must deliver in 1994 or 1995.
It also showed that he realized how hard it will be to do so. In the last six months, important figures on Capitol Hill have made his job more difficult; with two Senators as influential and as different as Bob Dole, Republican of Kansas, and Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, saying that there is no national health care crisis, some sizzle has gone out of the President's appeals.
Figures indicating that health care inflation is already slowing, partly in response to political pressures over the last couple of years, do not help either. Nor do rival plans that have attracted broad Congressional support.
 
Treading a Thin Line
 Finally, the President's threat showed that contrary to his claim tonight to have broken Congressional gridlock, he knew he must still fight vote by vote for his major measures, though his party controls both houses of Congress.
But if Mr. Clinton has demonstrated anything in the last year, amid his foreign policy mishaps and his trouble with appointments, it is an ability to focus on a problem just when it seems he will not, and to snatch a victory on an important issue at the last minute by the narrowest of margins. He did it on the North American Free Trade Agreement, with a lot of Republican help, and he did it on his economic package, with none.
Those were substantial achievements, and there were others, as the President did not hesitate to remind those hearing him: gun control, national service, a family leave plan and a new voting registration law.
But health care is the big one for him, from a political point of view. Without it, he might win another term, but he would have to be lucky on the economy, and he has already been extraordinarily lucky once on that.
 
Some Credit Given
 It is now clear that the economic recovery really started in the last quarter of 1992, the very quarter in which Mr. Bush was defeated. After a couple of upward revisions, the Government's figures show that something of a boom was under way, with growth at 5.7 percent, but the figures did not show that then, and most voters did not believe it. Through much of that year, only 10 to 15 percent of the public thought things were improving.
In the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, almost a third of those interviewed said the economy was improving, and many gave Mr. Clinton some credit. But people are evenly split on whether he is handling the economy well.
Mr. Clinton has heard the critics who accuse him of promising the moon and taking credit for the sun and the stars, too. He said tonight only that "our economic program has helped to produce" the lowest interest rates in two decades and a surge in investment, job creation and auto sales.
A year ago, after all, he argued that economic recovery required a short-term stimulus program of $30 billion in additional spending. Congress turned him down and recovery happened, anyway. That's enough to make even this self-confident President a little hesitant about explaining how it all works.
It is not clear that the main reason for lower interest rates is Mr. Clinton's deficit reduction program. Many economists believe that interest rates tend to be set globally, and many others would give the Federal Reserve Board more credit than Mr. Clinton. A few would even credit poor Mr. Bush.
It is probably true, though it is hard to prove, that coming to office as the first Democrat in 12 years, Mr. Clinton had to demonstrate to the markets that he was not just another tax-and-spend liberal, who would let the deficit grow relatively freely, if he wanted to keep rates down. A failure even to make a start on deficit reduction would surely have upset Wall Street.
But the basic explanation for what has happened is the natural corrective process that has taken place, maybe nudged ahead a little by Mr. Bush, a little more by Mr. Clinton. Herbert Stein, one of President Richard M. Nixon's main economic advisers, has always said (less loudly when he worked in the White House) that the business cycle was more important than any President's acts.
 Because of a production error, two pictures with the continuation of the article carried identical captions in some copies. The picture at the left showed Mr. Clinton being greeted as he arrived in the House chamber.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 27, 1994, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A news analysis article yesterday about President Clinton's State of the Union Message misstated the timing of the economic recovery. Although the labor market did not recover significantly until fall 1992, the recovery began in the second quarter of 1991.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Bob Packwood, left rear, listening to President Clinton's speech yesterday. With him were Senators Christopher Bond, front left, Kay Bailey Hutchison, and Malcolm Wallop. (Associated Press); President Clinton greeting members of Congress last night as he arrived to give his State of the Union Message. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (76%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); VETO (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); WORLD WAR II (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); LEGISLATION (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); APPLE, R W JR BILL CLINTON (94%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KIT BOND (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994



697 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Russia Policy: A U.S. Riddle

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration's policy toward the former Soviet Union is being undermined, slowly but surely, by the takeover in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine by politicians advocating populist economics that American officials believe will lead to financial ruin and political turmoil.
Only two weeks ago President Clinton traveled to Moscow and Minsk to deliver his message: more economic reform will lead to more Western aid. The leaders there nodded in agreement and the White House pronounced the visit a rousing success. 
 But no sooner did Mr. Clinton depart than one piece of bad news after another came rolling in from Moscow and Minsk -- everything from the ouster of Russia's key economic reformers to the toppling today of the liberal President of neighboring Belarus.
 
No Reformers, No Reform
 A White House spokeswoman, Dee Dee Myers, tried to put the best face on these sharp reversals, responding with the mantra that "we're more interested in the policies than in the personalities" and that "President Yeltsin, as you know, reassured the President that he remains committed to reform."
Yet the fact is that virtually all of the Cabinet members left standing in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine are dedicated to policies that run completely counter to the economic advice President Clinton gave those countries just two weeks ago. It's hard to support reform without reformers.
"I think the news since the President's Air Force One plane took off from Russia has been unremittingly bad," said Lee Hamilton, the Indiana Democrat who is chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
"The reformers have been leaving, and the Government is being dominated by those people who are skeptical about free markets and want to go on supporting the big state industries. I for one will find it very difficult to support aid for Russia if the Central Bank there continues to pour money and credit into supporting these inefficient state-run industries."
 
Debate on Who Lost Russia
 Behind its public facade of supporting policies, not personalities, the Administration is also scrambling to figure out what to do and bracing itself for what is already being whispered about: a debate on who lost Russia.
What makes influencing events in Russia so difficult, say Administration officials, is that the main problem there is not economics. It's politics. That is, President Boris N. Yeltsin understands the economic advice the West is giving him, which goes like this: The only way for Russia to develop a market economy is if it has a currency that is convertible and stable -- so that banks will be prepared to make loans at reasonable interest rates, so that Russian exporters will be willing to bring their profits back into the country without worrying that their earnings will be eroded by inflation, and so foreigners will be ready to invest there.
The only way to get to that stage is for Russia's Central Bank to stop printing so many rubles. The only way to get to that point is if the Russian Government can close its budget deficit, now running about 9 percent of its gross domestic product. And the only way to accomplish that is if the Government stops subsidizing unprofitable state industries and farms, many of which produce products that sell for less on the world market than the cost of the raw materials that go into them.
This is where economics ends and politics begins. To close such factories and farms would require laying off thousands and thousands of Russians, at least until new businesses sprout up to re-employ them.
The new Government, dominated by conservatives like Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, Central Bank Chairman Viktor V. Gerashchenko and Agriculture Minister Alexander K. Zaveryukha, is not ready to risk the political reaction that such draconian policies would involve -- especially in light of the last election. That was why key reformers Finance Minister Boris Fyodorov and First Deputy Prime Minister Yegor T. Gaidar quit.
 
'Voters Have Spoken'
 "The Russian voters have spoken," said Dimitri Simes, Russian affairs expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "The Administration is, on the one hand, praising Russian democracy and Russian democratic elections. On the other hand, it is pressuring Yeltsin to adopt policies that were supported by less than 15 percent of the Russian people -- who voted for the Russia's Choice party, led by Gaidar."
Senior Administration officials say they are trying to deal with this situation by holding to a two-track policy. One track is to keep shining a light on the path of real economic reform that President Clinton laid out in Moscow. American officials hope that after this new Russian Government dabbles in populist economics it will return to its senses and bring back the reformers.
The United States will keep its offer on the table to Mr. Yeltsin's Government: Adopt real economic reform and the United States will galvanize the Group of Seven industrialized democracies to come up with real money to support it.
The other track is to continue pressing ahead with the $4.1 billion in direct assistance already approved by the Congress. That money is not going to the Russian Government but to support various projects on the ground, from small businesses to housing for soldiers, to energy development, to technical advice on subjects ranging from democracy to accounting. These are the "ground-up" projects that the Administration hopes will plant the seeds of capitalism, no matter what the Government in Moscow does.
But this two-track approach may not be sustainable for long.
"I think that is a phoney distinction," Mr. Hamilton said. "If you have hyperinflation again in Russia, all bets are off. If you have hyperinflation it doesn't matter if you supply them $10 billion or $1 billion. You have to have the fundamentals in line."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); BELARUS (97%); UKRAINE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; BELARUS; UKRAINE; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); BELARUS (97%); UKRAINE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); TRENDS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); AIR FORCES (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



698 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
RUSSIAN REFORMER QUITS
The man who had come to symbolize the future of economic reform in Russia stepped down definitively as Finance Minister. In resigning, Boris Fyodorov warned that economic disaster would result if Soviet-era managers kept the upper hand. A1
 

A SETBACK FOR CLINTON
News analysis: Slowly but surely, the Clinton Administration's policy in Russia is being undermined by the takeover of politicians advocating populist economics. It's hard to support reform without reformers. A1
Lawmakers in Belarus voted to oust their reformist leader. A6
 
YUGOSLAV ARMY FIGHTS IN BOSNIA
Yugoslav Army units have been operating inside Bosnia in recent weeks in an apparent effort to counter recent gains by the forces of the Muslim-dominated Bosnian Government, officials say. A1
 
CIVILIANS ATTACK AN AID CONVOY
Marking a new low point in a desperate food crisis, crowds of hungry Muslims attacked an aid convoy in central Bosnia with guns and a hand grenade, wounding six Government police guards. A8
 
France pressed NATO to relieve two Muslim towns in Bosnia. A8
 
UNMASKING THE OLD BULGARIA
During the cold war, Bulgaria was the East-bloc country most often accused of aiding Communist revolutionaries throughout the world. Today investigators are poring over thousands of documents that detail mysterious international transfers of money, arms and equipment. A3
 
ENVOY'S POST STILL ELUDES SOLARZ
A Justice Department investigation of former Representative Stephen J. Solarz that had delayed his nomination as Ambassador to India ended without charges this week. But the White House indicated that it was not yet prepared to nominate him. A9
 
JORDAN TALKS OF PEACE ROLE
In a signal that his country would take a more prominent role in Middle East peace talks, King Hussein of Jordan said he hoped to meet "before too long" with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel. A5
 
I.R.A. VISA TOUCHY FOR CLINTON
President Clinton is caught in a political bind over whether to grant a visa to the leader of a wing of the Irish Republican Army. A7
 
DEFIANT SPIRIT RIDES IN MEXICO
An Indian rebellion is just the latest proof that Emiliano Zapata, a man turned myth even before he died, lives on in Mexico. A4
 
A leading Democrat argued against trade sanctions for China. A11
 
A debate over Willy Brandt's legacy exposes Germany's fragility. A10
 
National A12-18, B9
 
COMPROMISING ON HEALTH CARE
Just 12 hours after President Clinton threatened to veto any health bill that did not guarantee coverage for all Americans, Administration officials said they were willing to compromise on other important parts of the President's plan. A1
 
LIBERALS LEFT ON SIDELINES
As the President leans toward a centrist agenda on welfare, crime and the military, a forlorn band of liberals are left standing on the sidelines, fighting among themselves. A16
 
REPUBLICAN VIEW ON HEALTH CARE
After months of struggling to find a position on health care, the Republicans now have a party line: there is no crisis. A16
 
DEMOCRATS SPLIT ON WELFARE
The Democratic Congressman who will preside over the Clinton Administration's welfare plan in the House denounced a major provision: a work program that is sets pay at the minimum wage. A12
 
U.S. SEEK TO CURB BANK DEALS
Federal regulators and lawmakers moved to restrict the compensation earned by executives and trustees when mutual savings and loans sell stock or merge with banks. A1
 
ATLANTA BASKS IN SUCCESS
Four days before the Super Bowl and 905 days before the 1996 Olympic Games, Atlanta is reveling in its status as a city on the rise. A12
 
A PLAN TO KEEP CARS AT HOME
The President's budget will propose that some employers who subsidize their employees' parking bills be required to give them the same amount in cash if they give up their parking spots. A12
 
RIOT AREAS STRUGGLE AGAIN
Still grappling with the unhealed scars of the 1992 riots, earthquake survivors in South-Central Los Angeles struggle again to recover from disaster as public sympathy focuses on their wealthier neighbors. A18
 
CRIME DECLINES AFTER QUAKE
In the 10 days since the earthquake, the total number of arrests in Los Angeles hardly equals one day's work in the pre-quake days. A18
 
CUTBACKS FOR MASS TRANSIT
A Clinton budget proposal for a 25 percent reduction in mass transit operating subsidies is getting a cool reception from many mayors and other city officials. B9
 
Metro Digest B1
 
LAYOFFS AT HOSPITAL AGENCY
The chairman of New York City's Health and Hospitals Corporation said he would eliminate 1,300 jobs immediately through attrition and layoffs to help close an unexpected $160 million shortfall in the corporation's budget this year. A1
 
PROBLEMS ARISING FROM PROGRESS
While new medical technology offers patients a fantastic explosion of information and treatment possibilities, it has also increasingly required patients to make decisions that tear at their very souls, like whether to save an unborn child that may have health problems. A1
 
TENSIONS REMAIN IN CROWN HTS.
Crown Heights, divided by antagonisms before it was torn by violence in the summer of 1991, is a neighborhood that today continues to operate under the strains of suspicion and anger, poverty and fear. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Home Section C1-13
 
Anytime is bedtime. C1
 
At home with Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe. C1
 
Review/Fashion: The cheery Depression look. C13
 
Obituaries D21
 
Stephen C. Kleene, mathematician.
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-22
 
Grants to aid choreographers. C18
 
Brooklyn Museum is given $5 million. C16
 
Music: Cyrus Chestnut on piano. C15
 
A Spanish opera with Domingo. C15
 
Dance: A Hawkins premiere, to silence. C15
 
Books: "They Whisper," a novel. C18
 
Sports B10-18
 
Column: Anderson on Super Bowl security. B11
 
Figure Skating: Harding's ex-husband talking to investigators. B11
 
Football: Bills' front line a Super Bowl key. B11
 
Olympics: Georgia's snow man. B11
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A20-21
 
Editorials
 
Tough and smart on crime?
 
Better late than never.
 
Bitter epilogue in Afghanistan.
 
Letters
 
William Safire: Kozyrev & Talbott.
 
Frank Rich: Crime crusaders on parade.
 
Alan Brinkley: At last, maybe a vision.
 
Bridge C20
 
Chronicle B7
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); JORDAN (92%); BULGARIA (90%); FRANCE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BELARUS (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); JORDAN (92%); BULGARIA (90%); FRANCE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BELARUS (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); POLITICS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); VETO (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); RELIGION (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (68%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); WELFARE FRAUD (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



699 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: U.S. OFFICIALS HINT AT NEW FLEXIBILITY OVER HEALTH PLAN

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
The Administration is willing to compromise on important elements of President Clinton's health plan, Federal officials said today.
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen told business executives that the Administration was willing to make some concessions on the structure of the purchasing groups through which most Americans would obtain medical coverage under the President's proposal. 
 The Administration, he said, will consider increasing the number of companies that could serve as their own health insurers, bypassing the huge purchasing groups known as regional health alliances.
The issue is not merely technical. The officials who drafted the plan under the direction of Hillary Rodham Clinton said the purchasing groups would not work effectively unless most Americans were enrolled in them. But gaining the support of business, or at least tempering the opposition, could be crucial to the plan's passage.
 
Business Leaders Pleased
 Mr. Bentsen's comments, at a conference co-sponsored by the National Association of Manufacturers, pleased business executives, many of whom contend that they can control health costs better than the alliances proposed by President Clinton.
The Secretary's conciliatory comments came just 12 hours after Mr. Clinton took a firm position on another aspect of his proposal in his State of the Union Message, saying he would veto any health care legislation that did not guarantee coverage for all Americans.
Under the Clinton plan, employers would have to buy health insurance for their workers, paying at least 80 percent of the premiums. Very large companies could provide their own insurance, but those with 5,000 or fewer employees would have to obtain such coverage through the alliances.
"I know that this is a major issue for you," Mr. Bentsen told the business leaders today. "You think that the 5,000-employee threshold for joining regional alliances is too high. I understand you want it reduced to 500. We hear you. We're willing to discuss this and the other details of our plan."
But he said, "We can't agree to so low a threshold that everybody opts out and only the smallest companies and individuals remain in the alliances."
Moreover, he said: "I used to run an insurance company. I know how these things work. To hold down premium costs, it's critical that the alliances be large enough so that risk can be spread." Otherwise, he said, the alliances would not have enough economic power to negotiate big discounts from doctors and hospitals.
 
Flexibility on Timetable
 In discussions today with members of Congress, Administration officials said they were also willing to consider changes in their timetable for achieving universal coverage. Thomas S. Foley, the Speaker of the House, said after a meeting with the President, "It's possible you will have some kind of a phase-in." And the White House press secretary, Dee Dee Myers, said the Administration was willing to discuss that matter with lawmakers.
Many business executives said they preferred a bill introduced by Representative Jim Cooper of Tennessee and Senator John B. Breaux of Louisiana, both Democrats, who seek more modest changes in the health care system. Their bill would encourage employers to provide insurance to employees, but would not require it.
"The Clintons deserve a clear and convincing victory, but not with their plan as written today," said Mr. Cooper, who also spoke at the conference. "Our plan can achieve universal coverage on the same timetable, by 1998, without an employer mandate. Government coercion should be a last resort, not a first resort."
Mrs. Clinton has said the Cooper bill is defective, in part because it contains no explicit guarantee of universal coverage.
Supporters of abortion rights assailed the Cooper bill today, saying it did not guarantee coverage of abortion. The National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League and 39 other groups concerned about women's rights sent letters to members of Congress urging them to withhold or withdraw support for the Cooper bill, which they described as "a vehicle to discriminate against women."
These objections could chill enthusiasm for the Cooper bill among moderate Democrats who support abortion rights. But there were no immediate defections from the Cooper camp.
The Clinton bill defines a wide range of benefits that all health plans would offer. These include "services for pregnant women." While the bill does not define such services, Administration officials have repeatedly said abortion is included.
By contrast, the Cooper bill would create an independent Federal agency to recommend a uniform set of health benefits, and Congress would then vote yes or no on the package as a whole.
Mr. Cooper said the letter reflected "a White House effort to split our coalition." But Kate Michelman, president of the abortion rights league, said, "This was not coordinated with the White House."
In an interview, Mr. Cooper said: "Our bill does not address abortion or any other specific benefit. The bill is neutral on the subject. Our co-sponsors include both proponents and opponents of including abortion in the benefits package."
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, said he saw no inconsistency in his being a strong supporter of abortion rights and a co-sponsor of the Cooper-Breaux bill.
"The bill is drafted in such a way that people who are pro-choice can be comfortable signing on as co-sponsors," Mr. Lieberman said in an interview. "But ultimately, I believe, this question of coverage for abortion services will be decided on the floor of the Senate and the House."
Some supporters of the Cooper bill have suggested that women who want insurance for abortions could pay an extra premium for such coverage if abortion was not included in the standard package of benefits.
But Ms. Michelman said: "That proposal is unacceptable and unworkable. It would discriminate against one service -- abortion."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said yesterday that the Administration would consider increasing the number of companies that could be self-insured under the Clinton health plan. He conferred with Jerry Jasinowski, left, head of the National Association of Manufacturers, before addressing the group. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); INSURANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); INSURANCE LAW (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEC) BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



700 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 81 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
A news analysis article yesterday about President Clinton's State of the Union Message misstated the timing of the economic recovery. Although the labor market did not recover significantly until fall 1992, the recovery began in the second quarter of 1991. 
 Because of a production error, two pictures with the continuation of the article carried identical captions in some copies. The picture at the left showed Mr. Clinton being greeted as he arrived in the House chamber.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; CORRECTION STORIES; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); LEGISLATION (84%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



701 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Federal regulators and lawmakers want to restrict the compensation paid executives and trustees when mutual savings and loans sell stock to the public or merge with banks. [Page A1.]
The nation's recovery is being hailed by some economists for its noninflationary growth. Although the recovery has skipped some regions and has frequently not increased jobs, these economists argue that it is a model expansion because it has been achieved without a big tax cut or a burst of Government spending -- traditional tools of stimulative policy. [D1.] 
 An S.E.C. report will recommend lowering the minimum quote for stock prices to 6.25 cents, from 12.5 cents. Such a change could shrink brokers' profit margins in some securities. [D1.]
A Clinton budget proposal would require employers that subsidize their commuters' parking bills to give the workers the same amount in cash if they give up their parking spots. [A12.]
 
Companies
Hours after New York State banking regulators gave Green Point Savings Bank final approval for an initial public stock offering, a Federal judge blocked the offering. [D1.]
The Securities and Exchange Commission sued Continental Can's president and chief executive, Donald J. Bainton, accusing him of insider-trading violations. [D2.]
Spectrum Information Technologies confirmed that it was being investigated by the S.E.C. [D2.]
Eastman Kodak will introduce its first discount film to compete with private-label brands. [D2.]
Compaq Computer, continuing its rapid growth, reported quarterly earnings that were higher than Wall Street's estimates. [D4.]
Scott Paper plans to cut its work force by 25 percent and shut some plants, the company's third revamping since 1990. [D4.]
American National Can said its chairman was leaving. [D4.]
A Prudential Securities stock broker was censured by the New York Stock Exchange -- the first time an employee of the firm had been cited by a regulator in the limited-partnership scandal. [D4.]
Merry-Go-Round Enterprises' debt and equity prices have soared since Fidelity Investments started buying it. [D8.]
Air Canada said it would give up its fight to stop Canadian Airlines from reaching a deal with American Airlines. [D20.]
 
International
The Seagram Company had big plans for Ukraine, including a plant to produce vodka. But the venture is stalled, blocked by a suspicious, chaotic and, some say, greedy Government. [D1.]
An American credit union deposited $255 million in a bank that was later seized by the Spanish Government. [D1.]
 
Markets
Blue-chip stocks gained, helped by a rally in utilities. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 12.66 points. [D8.]
Prices of Treasury securities were generally higher as traders focused on the auction of five-year notes. [D16.]
The dollar fell against the yen after trade talks between the United States and Japan ended with no tangible progress. [D15.]
Heating oil and natural gas prices surged. [D15.]
 
Today's Columns
An employee can go far on a pretty face, or at least earn more. New studies show that men and women who are rated below average in attractiveness typically earn 10 to 20 percent less than those rated above average. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
An obscure accounting issue may play a major role in the struggle between R. H. Macy and Federated Department Stores, which is seeking a merger. Market Place. [D8.]
CBS walks a fine line as it promotes coverage of Olympic figure skating. The event has attracted enormous interest since the assault on Nancy Kerrigan. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D18.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AC.A (TSX) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (63%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (79%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SEAGRAM CO LTD (63%); FMR CORP (56%); GREEN POINT SAVINGS BANK (55%); SITI SITES.COM INC (55%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); AIR CANADA (52%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (79%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); DEBT NOTES (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); AUCTIONS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (69%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (69%); PRIVATE LABELS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); AIRLINES (65%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (63%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



702 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Stance on Health Turns to No-Crisis View

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
After months of struggling to find a position on health care, the Republicans now have a party line: there is no crisis.
"Our country has health care problems, but no health care crisis," Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the minority leader, said in his nationally televised response to President Clinton's State of the Union Message on Tuesday night. 
 Representative Bill Goodling of Pennsylvania, the ranking Republican on the House Education and Labor Committee, said after Mr. Clinton's speech that all the nation's health care system needed was fine tuning.
In talking points issued to its members before the President's speech, the Senate Republican Policy Committee proclaimed: "The President insists on calling health care a crisis, but public opinion surveys indicate that the vast majority of Americans are satisfied with their own health care."
It added, "The real crisis in health care is the one President Clinton's one-size-fits-all plan would create."
 
'Common Sense' Advice
 The Republican National Committee, in its pre-speech advice to party members, emphasized the desirability of finding "common sense solutions that can be enacted now" in contrast to Mr. Clinton's proposal for universal health insurance, which would be much harder to pass. It said, "Clinton proposes health care that is always there, but what he is prescribing is Government that's always there."
No position in politics is permanent. The Republicans might well fall back to some of the more conciliatory positions they took in the past if their new position sells badly to the public, in the way that President George Bush's efforts to insist that there was really nothing wrong with the economy in 1992 convinced voters that he was the problem.
The Republicans have changed tack because they found that they were not getting very far on the year's biggest issue by saying, in effect, Yes, there is a crisis, but the President is taking the wrong way out.
And for all the talk of compromise that Mr. Clinton and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, showered on Republicans, especially on moderate senators, members of the minority party saw little movement their way and had little sense that they would end up getting much credit for any bill that emerged.
 
Vague Party Line
 The party is not in lock step. Some Republicans, like Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island, will say -- if asked -- that there really is a health care crisis. Mr. Chafee's complaint on Tuesday night was over Mr. Clinton's threat to veto any health plan that did not include universal coverage that could not be taken away.
But if there are political risks in just going along, more or less, there are also dangers in arguing that there is no crisis when 84 percent of the public, in a mid-January Gallup Poll for the Cable News Network and USA Today, said there was.
William Kristol, the Republican strategist who came up with the no-crisis position, said Republicans ought to contradict the notion that there is a crisis no matter how widely it was held, because it was a superficial answer to a poll question, not a serious perception. "No risk, no glory," he said.
At the center of the Republican dilemma is Mr. Dole, who sounds different notes from time to time, sometimes saying universal coverage must be legislated, sometimes saying that all that is needed is to announce universal coverage as the nation's eventual goal.
 
Politics of 1996
 Mr. Dole may be seeking to solidify his party behind him for a third run for its Presidential nomination in 1996, but he insists he is not thinking about that.
But one thing he plainly is trying to do is unify the Senate Republicans behind him. And although only one of the 44, Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont, has signed on with the President's proposal, there is a wide range of thinking in the party today, expressed in at least four different bills.
For most of last year, Mr. Dole was involved with Mr. Chafee's legislation, the most sweeping of all the Republican bills and one that if it did not quite promise universal coverage -- as the Clintons diplomatically said it did -- promised to try to get to universal coverage. Mr. Dole negotiated on the terms of the bill and insisted on one key step in loosening its rules -- by saying membership in an insurance purchasing alliance must be voluntary, not mandatory.
He won that point, but then ended up as a co-sponsor of the other major Republican bills, too. And on Tuesday Mr. Dole proposed an approach that would be less generous than any of them. His argument was that steps like barring insurance exclusion of pre-existing conditions or allowing self-employed individuals to deduct all of their premiums from their taxes could be done quickly because everyone wants them and that the tougher issues could be left for later.
The strategy to deal with only issues on which there is widespread agreement sounds more like an argument for Republican unity, behind Mr. Dole, than a serious proposal for legislating. Just last week, Mr. Dole told The Boston Globe that he did not want to support only popular ideas and leave the harder issues for future battles.
A key to Mr. Dole's strength is the threat of a filibuster, which would mean that it would take 60 votes to get legislation through the Senate. He has not directly threatened a filibuster, but his sometime Democratic ally, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, has repeatedly said that compromises sufficient to find 60 votes are essential.
Mr. Moynihan, chairman of the Finance Committee, has also joined the Republicans in asserting there is no crisis in health care. He did that on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," and then retreated on the Charlie Rose Show, which has a much smaller audience, saying that the nation had excellent health care but that on "health care costs, you've got a crisis."
But Mr. Moynihan's fundamental argument, and Mr. Dole's, is that 60 votes will be needed to break a filibuster. Today, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, chairman of the Labor and Human Resources Committee, challenged that expectation and in effect dared the Republicans to obstruct the bill.
He told a committee hearing, "The nation deserves a vote, an up or down vote, on all the key issues."
He also said: "As to a filibuster, American people won't tolerate it. The people of this country will not accept a filibuster on health care."
And Senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum of Kansas, the committee's senior Republican and a moderate who hardly ever crosses Senator Dole, joined in, saying, "I am very confident there won't be a filibuster."
She added, "There is a genuine desire to work together to put a constructive health care plan forward."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KANSAS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); VETO (78%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); INSURANCE (70%); INSURANCE LAW (70%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



703 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
'New Democrats' Giving Liberals a Cold Shoulder

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
As Bill Clinton leans ever more urgently into a centrist agenda that urges an overhaul of the welfare system, the passage of tough anti-crime legislation and a strong defense, he has left a forlorn band of liberals standing on the sidelines, fighting among themselves.
Some social progressives are tattered and isolated, fretting together in think tanks and policy-study groups about the tough new punishment provisions in the Senate crime bill, the plan to end benefits to welfare recipients after two years and the huge military budget. 
 Some of their former standard-bearers, people like Walter F. Mondale, the Ambassador to Japan, are now members of the Clinton Administration.
Others are members of Congress who have embraced the pragmatism of the new President. They look for potential gains within Mr. Clinton's economic and social policy agenda.
 
Defining 'New Democrats'
 Right now, they are all earnestly debating what it means to have a President who is a "new Democrat."
In political circles, this is taken to mean that Mr. Clinton is stealing the march from the Republicans, who shut the Democrats out of the White House for 12 years.
But he is doing it under new rules of politics. Although he has made some reductions in the Pentagon budget, they fall far short of what liberal theorists in Congress and elsewhere say he could be doing in a world without a cold war. But maintaining a relatively fat defense budget allows him to fend off attacks from Republicans about his commitment to international security.
There is little money left over for favorite liberal projects.
"Providing jobs for welfare recipients sounds good, but it's not in his budget," said Robert Borosage, director of the liberal Campaign for New Priorities. "Education for every kid, but there's no attempt to even begin to address the savage inequalities in our schools."
 
Scope of Problems
 Michael H. Shuman, the director of the Institute for Policy Studies, said, "The scope of the problem is enormous, and the scope of the solutions Clinton has put on the table so far is small."
The Institute for Policy Studies, a liberal research organization, published a report last week that gave Mr. Clinton an average grade of C for his first year in office. In it, Mr. Shuman calls the President's performance a terrible disappointment, and Barry Commoner, the environmentalist, said the Clinton-Gore Environmental Protection Agency was indistinguishable from the Reagan-Bush agency.
But Mr. Borosage, Mr. Shuman and others are waging an uphill intellectual battle when they try to criticize Mr. Clinton. Stanley B. Greenberg, the White House pollster, maintains that most Americans who identify themselves as liberal support Bill Clinton. And liberal Democrats like Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts and Senators Paul Wellstone of Minnesota and Tom Harkin of Iowa reject the notion that there is any such thing as a new Democrat at all.
"It's completely nonsensical," Mr. Wellstone said.
"Mark me down as pragmatic," Mr. Harkin said. 'I've always been for a lot of these issues. You can't say the health care reform package he sent up here to Congress is centrist."
In ways large and small, these traditional Democrats have proved far more loyal to the Clinton White House than have the President's old colleagues in the middle-of-the-road Democratic Leadership Council.
"What the liberals have to accept is the limits," said Al From, executive director of the Democratic Leadership Council. "What the conservatives have to accept is that it is going to cost money."
Mr. Clinton's advisers said that traditional Democratic coalitions have been shifting for decades. The 1960's debates on civil rights are now 1990's debates on race that are as much about economics as access.
And the trade union movement, which has long been the bastion of liberal ideals, has faded in membership and clout. The passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which was bitterly opposed by labor unions and many liberal Democrats, cast this decline in the starkest possible light.
 
Vanishing Democrats
 Many other traditional Democrats can no longer claim the constituencies they once owned. Polls show that many black voters, who were often written off as knee-jerk Democrats, are in fact more in line with conservative thinking on issues like crime and welfare. Using this evidence, Mr. Clinton has moved to nullify some of the race-baiting that once obscured arguments on welfare and crime.
This trend does not faze Mr. Shuman.
"The White House calculation is that when people go into the polling booth and, facing the Republican Neanderthal and Ross Perot, that they will vote for Bill Clinton even if they have to hold their nose," Mr. Shuman said. "There is some truth to that. But my point is, Clinton did not win by a landslide and simply with the absence of the liberal leadership stumping on his behalf, raising money and mobilizing constituents, he could lose."
But this White House has never had an easy relationship with the most liberal elements of the Democratic Party, and many of Mr. Clinton's political advisers remember that some of their harshest critics sat on their hands or endorsed candidates like Jerry Brown and Mr. Harkin during the 1992 primaries.
Mr. Harkin is now, well, pragmatic, about the whole thing.
"There has been a 20-year campaign to paint liberalism as a bad word, and liberalism as old-fashioned," Mr. Harkin said. "And it worked pretty well. I see some hope under President Clinton that we will define what these terms really mean."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IOWA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CRIMINAL LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (63%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); IFILL, GWEN BILL CLINTON (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARNEY FRANK (56%); TOM HARKIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



704 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Awaiting Quake Aid, and Riot Aid, Too

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 26

 BODY:
On battered streets where vacant lots display the unhealed damage of the 1992 riots, earthquake survivors in South-Central Los Angeles are again struggling to recover from disaster, even as public sympathy dwells on their wealthier neighbors in the San Fernando Valley.
Far from the epicenter and the limelight in this new catastrophe, these residents of the inner city stand patiently in long lines at disaster relief centers or sit on newly broken porches as they wait for Federal loans to be approved. 
 Though the area around the Northridge section, about 25 miles away at the earthquake's epicenter, suffered the most serious destruction, the quake caused millions of dollars of damage in the South-Central area.
Along Adams Street, at businesses in the Baldwin Hills Crenshaw Plaza, at the state's only black-owned bank, the Founders National Bank, and at a half-dozen of the storefront churches that serve the community, shattered glass, fallen walls and broken foundations display the broad reach of the earthquake.
 
Damage Up to $12 Million
 "Damage has been piled upon damage," said Councilwoman Rita Walters, and the toll continues to rise as building inspectors make their way through the area. In the last four days, she said, the estimate of damage to her district, which includes about half of the South-Central area, rose to $12 million from $4 million.
Nick Delli Quadri, the senior structural engineer with the city's Department of Building and Safety, said nearly 1,000 structures were damaged in the area, with 800 dwellings declared unsafe.
Michael Gruett, a senior building mechanical inspector for the city, said many buildings in South-Central Los Angeles were built before strict building codes went into effect and therefore suffered extensive damage to foundations, supporting walls and chimneys.
At the First A.M.E. Church, the largest church in the area, the Rev. Cecil Murray said the church was sheltering 175 quake survivors and expected to feed 1,000 over the next 10 days.
"There is no way of knowing the full extent of the damage in all areas of South-Central," he said. "We can only guess, but for instance, five black churches have been shut down because of damage."
Though the earthquake hit hardest in the distant northern areas of the city, he said, there was an "emotional epicenter" in the South-Central area, where people continue to be battered by unemployment and a shrinking economy.
Some people waiting for disaster aid at a newly opened office of the Federal Emergency Management Agency expressed a familiar grievance that the city's poor black residents were being overlooked.
"We are the neglected, the overlooked," said Courtney Williams, 30, who is unemployed. "They feel the black community is not as important as the valley. I am quite sure they are going to be taken care of in the valley before we are."
Councilman Mark Ridley-Thomas, who represents part of the area, also said he felt that the outside world had been slow to turn its attention to the South-Central area, but he noted that 2 of the 16 FEMA disaster-aid centers and two shelters had been opened there.
 
Comparing the Aid
 Although he has complained that promised relief for the riots has been slow to arrive, he argued that the two disasters could not fairly be compared.
"There is a decidedly different set of dynamics that operate here," he said. "The matter of racial justice or injustice and the matter of the criminal justice system is not at stake here. What we are dealing with now is God's justice."
The Clinton Administration has moved quickly to address the damage of the earthquake, setting up relief centers and tent cities, skipping bureaucratic steps in issuing 18-month rental vouchers for low-income housing and speeding the arrival of the first Federal funds and asking Congress for $6.6 billion more in disaster relief. Officials have estimated that the earthquake caused $15 billion to $30 billion in damage.
The White House aid proposal would ask California to match just 10 percent of the total contribution, rather than the 25 percent that is usually required, in a sign of the Administration's sensitivity to the state's economic difficulties and its political importance.
By contrast, the Bush Administration moved more slowly with relief assistance after the riots in April and May of 1992, in which damage citywide was estimated at $1 billion. Half a year after offering an "action agenda" that won bipartisan support, President George Bush vetoed a bill that included major elements of his relief package. These were a plan for enterprise zones to attract new business to the area and $38 million in tax credits to encourage low-income housing.
 
Riot Aid in Private Hands
 The Bush Administration promised a total of $1.2 billion in riot relief, but nearly two years later only about $600 million has actually been paid out, said Linda Griego, a former Deputy Mayor who was the chief city liaison to the Federal relief effort and remains active in city government.
For his part, Tom Bradley, then the Mayor, turned over the major riot-reconstruction responsibility from government hands to a private consortium, Rebuild L.A., and appointed as its head Peter V. Ueberroth, the former baseball commissioner.
In the end, lacking the clout of a government agency, that group fell short of early hopes. When Mr. Ueberroth resigned under heavy criticism last May, his organization said it had won about $500 million in commitments from corporations for relief.
But much of that money was pledged for donated equipment, buildings or support for training programs, rather than the hoped-for creation of enterprises that would bring jobs to the area. And the numbers have been criticized as inflated, including a number of factories or supermarkets already in planning stages, or projects situated far from the hard-hit areas.
 
Less Charged and Value-Laden'
 Sherry Bebitch-Jeffe, a political scientist at Claremont Graduate School, said several factors separated the disasters and the government responses to them: the differences in style of new administrations, both in Washington with Mr. Clinton and in Los Angeles with the new Mayor, Richard J. Riorden; the fact that the earthquake epicenter was in a more affluent, politically influential area, and the fact that an earthquake is not as politically and philosophically divisive as an inner-city riot.
"The riots were framed in sociopolitical terms, which are always politically dicey," Ms. Bebitch-Jeffe said. "This disaster is far less charged and value-laden."
Deputy Chief Bayan Lewis of the Los Angeles Police Department, who is the interdepartmental coordinator of local relief efforts, said that he knew South-Central residents were angry about the slow response to the riots and that he had seen "a very different response this time."
"The Federal Government moved in here much more quickly," he said. "We were offering to open up the disaster-assistance centers probably before we were even ready for them. For the riots the response was much, much slower. The citizens are left with a bitter taste because they are in a section of the city that has not felt any renovation after the riots."

GRAPHIC: Photo: South-Central Los Angeles, although far from the epicenter of the earthquake, was not spared its share of destruction. The Rev. Lyonel Ford, foreground, and the Rev. Darrell A. Clark inspected the damage to the Southern Missionary Baptist Church on Adams Street. Congregation members have removed stained-glass windows, pews and the organ from the condemned structure. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "The Earthquake at a Glance"
 
DEATHS: 61, according to The Associated Press.
 
INJURIES: 9,309
 
AFTERSHOCKS: 2,500 since Jan. 17 quake, including two early yesterday at 3.8 and 3.6 on the Richter scale.
 
HOMELESS: 6,000 in shelters; 5,000 in tents.
 
DAMAGE: Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) estimates 44,468 residences were damaged or destroyed; 15,309 have been inspected and declared uninhabitable. Cost from $15 billion to $30 billion.
 
WATER: Restored to all but 500 homes in outlying areas. Advisories to boil water still in effect.
 
SCHOOLS: All but 75 reopened; 65,000 of 640,000 students still without classrooms. Overall attendance around 80 percent.
 
FEDERAL ASSISTANCE: 129,724 applications received by FEMA; 5,985 checks for temporary rentals issued, totaling $18.5 million; 5,300 families issued certificates for temporary rental by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. $897 million committed by Clinton Administration; seeking Congressional approval for an additional $6.6 billion.
 
HIGHWAYS: Closed: Santa Monica Freeway at La Cienega Boulevard; Antelope Valley Freeway (Highway 14) at Golden State Freeway; Simi Valley Freeway (Highway 118) at Foothill Freeway. Sylmar-San Fernando Station of Metrolink open, 21 trains added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: FOUNDERS NATIONAL BANK OF LOS ANGELES (56%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (90%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (90%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); SAN FERNANDO VALLEY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES EARTHQUAKES (92%); RIOTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (75%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); RELIGION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (71%); ENGINEERING (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); APPROVALS (70%); RACE & RACISM (68%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



705 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

METRO DIGEST
 
INQUIRY ON SOLARZ ENDS WITHOUT CHARGES
A Justice Department investigation of former Representative Stephen J. Solarz of Brooklyn ended without charges, but the White House indicated that it was not yet prepared to nominate him as Ambassador to India. A9.
 
HARDEST CHOICES SHIFT TO PATIENTS
New technology offers medical patients a fantastic explosion of information and treatment possibilities. But it has also increasingly required patients to make decisions that tear at their very souls. A1. 

NEW YORK CITY
 
HOSPITALS CHAIRMAN TO REDUCE STAFFS
The chairman of New York City's Health and Hospitals Corporation said that he would eliminate 1,300 jobs immediately through a combination of attrition and layoffs to help close an unexpected $160 million budget shortfall. A1.
 
TENSION PERSISTS IN CROWN HEIGHTS
Crown Heights, Brooklyn, divided by antagonisms long before it was torn by violence in the summer of 1991, is a neighborhood that continues to operate under the strains of suspicion and anger, poverty and fear. A1.
 
HATE LITERATURE WEIGHED IN BOMB TRIAL
Hints of the mental and spiritual world of the defendants, one involving powerful strains of anti-Americanism and hatred of Jews, emerged as lawyers debated what evidence should be allowed in the remaining days of the World Trade Center bombing trial. B4.
 
The City Council voted unanimously to designate as a historic district an elegant swath of almost 500 apartment buildings and homes in Jackson Heights, Queens. B2.
 
Leona Helmsley, who was convicted in 1989 of income tax and mail fraud for deducting personal expenses as business expenses, became a free woman after 21 months of confinement. B4.
 
The newly appointed Buildings Commissioner was the treasurer and partner in a company that was indicted last August on charges that it falsified safety records. B5.
 
Four tuberculosis patients at Goldwater Memorial Hospital on Roosevelt Island were charged with attacking several staff members and security officers, hospital officials said. B8.
 
REGION
 
IN THE SHADOWS OF THE CASINOS
Fortune smiled for so long on Brigantine, N.J., a bedroom community to Atlantic City's casino industry, that it was perhaps inevitable that things would take a turn for the worse, like a gambler's hot streak that turns cold. B6.
 
DOG ON DEATH ROW GETS A REPRIEVE
New Jersey's Supreme Court spared the life of the state's celebrated death-row dog, Taro, until March 1, apparently to give officials time to find a way to save the animal from execution. B6.
 
POLICE ASK FOR HELP IN SEARCH
Frustrated in their two-week effort to find the remains of Sara Anne Wood, the 12-year-old who disappeared last summer, the New York State Police made an unusual plea for help. B7.
 
Chronicle B7

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Unemployment Insurance" tracks number of unemployed people whose benefits are exhausted each month. Graph runs from January 1992 through November 1993. (Source: State Labor Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (50%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (87%); CITIES (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CASINOS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); TUBERCULOSIS (72%); MAIL FRAUD (50%); 

PERSON: LEONA MINDY ROSENTHAL HELMSLEY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



706 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Mayors Uneasy On Plan to Shift Aid for Transit

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
A Clinton Administration budget proposal for a 25 percent reduction in mass transit operating subsidies received a cool reception today from many mayors and city officials. They said the plan would force them to increase subway and bus fares and curtail routes and services.
The proposal in the Administration's draft budget would reduce the current $800 million a year in Federal mass transit operating subsidies to $600 million. It would earmark the remaining $200 million for capital improvements, meaning that the money would be spent more slowly on such things as equipment. Cities had been using the $800 million to subsidize fares. 
 "We view the Federal role as more one of supplying the capital than of subsidizing riders," said Brian Cudahy, a spokesman for the Federal Transit Administration.
Mayors and other city officials, interviewed at the winter session of the United States Conference of Mayors, acknowledged today the need for new equipment for their aging mass transit systems. But they said that cutting the operating funds would undermine the use of the systems by placing a greater financial burden on inner-city residents who are the least able to pay.
 
Compared With G.O.P. Plans
 Although reluctant to criticize President Clinton, some of the officials noted that the proposal seemed more in keeping with the views of Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush, conservative Republicans who had repeatedly sought to reduce the operating subsidies. The officials said they were pleased, however, that Mr. Clinton had abandoned his earlier proposal to phase out the transit aid program over three years.
The Administration proposal is opposed by Senator Frank J. Lautenberg, the New Jersey Democrat who heads the Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation and is one of the gatekeepers on Federal money for transportation.
"Operating assistance is a critical element in efforts to keep transit fares affordable," Mr. Lautenberg said in a letter this month to Leon E. Panetta, Director of the Office of Management and Budget. "Reasonable fares are central to ongoing efforts to enhance the attractiveness of mass transit to commuters and relieve budgetary pressures many Americans are experiencing due to unemployment and downward pressure on wages."
But other Congressional leaders say the proposed reduction in mass transit operating funds is an equitable tradeoff for an increase in money for the nation's highways, which is also proposed in the draft budget. These leaders include Representative Norman Y. Mineta, the California Democrat who heads the Committee on Public Works and Transportation. Mr. Minetta agrees with the Administration that capital funds are more important than operating subsidies, an aide said.
 
Aid to the Affluent Cited
 Some Congressional leaders say the operating subsidies wrongly benefit affluent mass transit riders as well as those who are poor. They cite the Red Line of the Washington Metro system, which serves a prosperous area of the city and its suburbs. These leaders want Federal transit aid earmarked for those who really need it.
The Administration proposal would have its greatest impact on smaller cities like Albany and Peoria, Ill., which receive 40 percent to 50 percent of their mass transit revenue from the Federal Government. Cities like New York receive about 5 percent of their mass transit revenue from the Federal Government. But even representatives from the nation's largest cities expressed concerns about the proposal.
"Whether it's service cuts or increased pressure on the fare, it's the wrong thing to be doing at a time when we're struggling to increase ridership," said Peter E. Stangl, chairman and chief executive officer of New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
Under the proposal, the New York metropolitan area would lose $23 million a year in operating subsidies out of the total of $90 million it now receives, Mr. Stangl said, adding, "I don't think it's at all in the national interest, and it's certainly not in our interest." In the years ahead, $23 million would be shifted to capital spending grants under Mr. Clinton's proposal.
Mr. Stangl's views were echoed at the mayors' conference. Mayor Norman Rice of Seattle, a Democrat, said: "It will hurt, especially at a time when we're trying to get people out of their cars. If we don't get that Federal help, it's going to be hard to reduce pollution and traffic congestion."
 
Mayors Voice Objections
 Samuel Halloin, the nonpartisan Mayor of Green Bay, Wis., which receives 40 percent of its mass transit revenue from the Federal Government, said the Administration proposal "would make it very difficult to continue" the area's mass transit system. "It would place a much greater burden on our property tax," he said, "and I'm not sure that could be justified."
Mayor Mike Bergin of Waterbury, Conn., a Democrat, said: "Connecticut's cities do not have the resources to offset that cut. Those dollars will have to come from somewhere, and the people who use mass transit are the people who can least afford it. Mass transit is most needed in the urban areas, which are most in need."
Mass transit operating subsidies are the big loser in the President's draft budget, which would increase money for highways, aviation and railroads. The overall mass transit budget would remain the same, $4.6 billion.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Federal Help for Mass Transit" shows federal operating assistance, in millions of dollars, for mass transit systems in various metropolitan areas in the fiscal year 1994. Gray portion of each column shows the amount the Clinton Administration has proposed to shift to capital improvements in 1995.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5021 FURNITURE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METRO SYSTEMS (50%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (56%); FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (56%); FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (56%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (56%); FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (56%); FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (56%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; BUSES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FARES; FEDERAL AID (US) URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); MAYORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



707 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Atlanta Journal;
Boosterism Isn't Gone With the Wind

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 26

 BODY:
Sure, the Super Bowl rematch of Dallas and Buffalo has all the magic of Bucknell versus Colgate. And, yes, there is the spectacle of blacks and whites haggling over the Confederate battle flag as if the Civil War were still going on.
But four days before Super Bowl XXVIII and 905 days before the 1996 Olympic Games in the City Never Too Busy to Preen, Atlanta is reveling in its status as a city on the rise, sometimes to the point of forgetting that it is only the host, not the show. 
 "You have 750 million people around the world that will see the Super Bowl -- and Atlanta -- on television," gushed Spurgeon Richardson, president of the Atlanta Convention and Visitors Bureau. "Watching the games last weekend, you'd just hear, 'Atlanta! Atlanta! Atlanta!' It just puts chills up and down your back."
Self-promotion has a long and honored tradition in Atlanta, which, 31 years after being burned to the ground by Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman, had bounced back far enough to promote itself to the world at the Cotton States and International Exposition of 1895. Still, the booster virus seems to be mutating at a record rate as Atlanta increasingly finds itself in the national spotlight.
The Atlanta metropolitan area led the nation in job growth last year. And a recent Louis Harris survey of international executives placed the city first by a wide margin as the most favored location in the United States for expansion or relocation.
Of course, Atlanta has also led the nation in violent crime in recent years. If the Super Bowl had been held here last week, it would have taken place in a city where a freeze had broken enough ancient water mains that showers and baths were forbidden. And more than a few people have begun to wonder: If the 100,000 visitors to the Super Bowl have taken up all the hotel rooms for 85 miles, what happens when two million people show up for the Olympics?
But this is not a week for such trifles. Besides, officials like Mayor Bill Campbell and Billy Payne, president of the Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games, are working overtime touting the city's ability to handle what comes.
"They're going to see Atlanta, and they're going to say, 'Wow, what a beautiful city!' " said Jim Breedlove, of the Super Bowl Host Committee. "It's a combination of the old and the new and the modern, and it works."
Not all visitors are dazzled. Some seem puzzled that Atlanta's most-talked-about attractions seem to be its state-of-the-art adult entertainment parlors, especially popular with conventioneers. And some black officials and clergy are still promising to picket the Super Bowl on Sunday because the Georgia Dome will fly the state flag, which incorporates the Confederate battle flag.
"It signifies that Georgia is still a very racist state," said State Senator Ralph David Abernathy 3d, son of the former civil rights leader.
Charles Lunsford, of the Sons of Confederate Veterans, shot back: "This is part of a much broader national attack on everything relating to the Old South. We see it as oppression and censorship of our people."
And, partly because of the mythos of the South, some visitors are finding Atlanta to be more bloodless and neutered than they had expected.
"We're cowboys and culture, and we're comfortable with it," said Bud Kennedy, a columnist with The Fort Worth Star-Telegram as he pored through Atlanta's promotional literature. "I guess they're trying to say Atlanta is a place with a lot of shiny glass buildings where businessmen in tassled loafers make cellular phone calls from their cars."
But even The Dallas Morning News, in a city that itself is no slouch at hype, published a news article this week rather enviously reporting that Atlanta seems to have become what Dallas wants to be. And experts say there is substance as well as hype to the upbeat mood here.
"Lord Keynes said one of the things economists never give enough weight to is psychology," said Richard Nathan, an urban expert at the State University of New York at Albany, referring to the economist. "Attracting events like the Super Bowl or the Olympics makes people feel good about where they live. So it's not just puffery. It's real."
Even Atlanta's critics often end up seduced.
Pearl Cleage, a local playwright and author who grew up in Detroit, said Atlanta was the only place she had ever been where poor people sounded like the Chamber of Commerce when they talked about the city. And sometimes, she said, that reflects a place unwilling to confront its problems.
"I think the willingness to pretend is a major problem in Atlanta," she said. "You have meetings of powerful black people and powerful white people, and you can almost see them breaking out in a cold sweat, just trying to pretend. You know, 'Everything is O.K. Everything is O.K.' "
But, Ms. Cleage added, whenever she gets away, as she did this week to Northampton, Mass., something strange happens. "I was away for a week, and I said: 'Oh, my God, I need to go home. What am I doing up here? These people aren't talking about anything. Plus, their weather's terrible.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite the gala mood that pervades Atlanta, the Super Bowl host, this week, there is haggling over the use of the state flag, which incorporates the Confederate battle flag. The flag was raised on Tuesday outside the Georgia Dome, where the championship game is to be played on Sunday. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA (GA); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; SUPER BOWL AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (74%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (74%); TRADE SHOWS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); VIOLENT CRIME (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



708 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Reporter's Notebook;
Earthquake Sends Crime on Vacation

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 26

 BODY:
Now the good news from the Great Quake.
On any given normal day in Los Angeles, the police make roughly 500 arrests, about a third of them for major crimes like murder, rape and robbery. 
 But these are not normal days in Los Angeles, especially when it comes to policing.
In the 10 days since the quake, the total number of arrests made in the city hardly equals one day's work in the pre-quake days, about 500 in all -- or roughly 50 arrests a day.
Why?
"We've tripled the number of officers patrolling the streets," explained Lieut. John Dunkin, the chief spokesman for the Los Angeles Police Department.
Normally, there are about 700 officers out on patrol during each shift. But since the quake, about 2,000 have been working every shift.
And at times they have been augmented by several hundred National Guard troops, though most of them are now gone since looting has not been a serious problem.
"It's proof of what we've always argued," Lieutenant Dunkin said. "You put enough officers on the street and you'll get results in cutting the crime rate. We put a lot of officers in areas that were hard hit, but we also put extra officers most other places because there was a bit of damage just about everywhere."
Did the quake have any special impact on the criminal mind?
"Nope," Lieutenant Dunkin replied. "There was no significant increase or decrease in any particular kind of lawbreaking, only the decrease in crime over all."
Now the bad news.
Starting tonight, the number of officers patrolling will return to pre-quake levels except in the hardest-hit neighborhoods, mostly in the San Fernando Valley.
 
Small Talk About Big One
 Last week's quake was a major quake by any reckoning, registering 6.6 on the Richter Scale, among the worst ever to occur in Southern California. But it wasn't what Californians like to call the Big One.
The Big One is the quake that scientists say is lurking out there somewhere, sure to cut loose at some point because of the steady buildup of earthly forces beneath the West Coast as gigantic plates of rock shift and bump about. The prediction is that the Big One will unleash 200 times more energy than last week's quake, or will hit at least 8.3 on the Richter scale.
But when?
With every aftershock from last week's quake -- and there have been thousands of them -- new rumors spread, feeding on the gossip at the water cooler and the uninformed chitchat over lunch and, of course, running rampant on talk radio.
Get ready. Maybe not today. Maybe not tomorrow. But soon.
One rumor had a seismologist at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena packing up the family van and heading off for safer turf.
Concerned that such rumors were adding to the jitters already manifest all over the city, disaster officials asked seismologists for an informed reading about the Big One.
Back came an assessment, sent to all government officials and news outlets. The finding: There will be a Big One, but nobody -- nobody -- can predict when with any degree of accuracy. Aftershocks follow every quake and typically diminish in both frequency and strength, which is what is happening here this week.
 
Homelessness Redefined
 The city of Santa Monica, perched in liberal wealth and sunny beauty on the Pacific bluffs west of downtown Los Angeles, has long been a place of refuge for the homeless. Sometimes referred to as "the People's Republic of Santa Monica," it has a policy, hammered out in heated argument, of not running off the down-and-out.
A noble approach. But not so noble that good fortune smiled down on Santa Monica when the quake occurred.
Like many parts of greater Los Angeles, Santa Monica took a pretty good hit. And when the disaster aid centers opened, among the first in line were the homeless.
They were turned away, told that since they had possessed nothing to begin with, they had lost nothing, and therefore would get nothing.
"We have to get people back to their pre-existing state," explained Kathleen Maher, a Red Cross worker.
To which one homeless person, Ken Nelson, replied, "The politicos must realize that it is almost impossible to distinguish between the national disaster homeless and the natural disaster homeless."
 
Most Stay Put
 The Great Quake was only the latest disaster to strike Los Angeles.
First came recession, followed by riot, followed by fire, followed by rain and mud. For many, the California dream has become a nightmare.
Still, even in the aftermath of the hardest blow of all, most Los Angeles residents say they plan to pick themselves up and rebuild, not pick up and leave.
True, job recruiters report some problems persuading new workers to move here. True, moving companies report an increase in demand for vans for out-of-state moves or moves to parts of the state less prone to earthquakes.
But these are the exceptions, a new poll by The Los Angeles Times says. It found that only about 1 of every 30 Angelenos planned to flee.
Robin Rees will not be among them.
"I'm California born and raised, and I'm not going anywhere -- except to a new apartment," she said this morning, standing in front of her old, quake-demolished apartment in the city's Northridge section atop the epicenter of the quake.
She was clutching a bouquet of paper roses, given to her by a grimy fireman who had recovered it in what was left of her mangled apartment. Everything else that the fireman had been able to recover rested at her feet, in two black garbage bags.
"Life in California is good, whatever else happens," Ms. Rees said. "I can pick up and start again. I will pick up and start again."
She poked a shoe at one of the sacks.
"Anyway," she added, looking up and flashing a grin, "I'm a Valley Girl. Like val gals are different. Right?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; CRIME AND CRIMINALS VIOLENT CRIME (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); MURDER (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); COASTAL AREAS (70%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



709 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
An ugly subject: the prejudice against hiring homely people.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
DO blondes have more fun? Social scientists have yet to nail down the answer. But economists now have good reason to believe that blondes make more money -- or at least the trim, attractive ones do. New studies show that men and women (with any hair color) who are rated below average in attractiveness by survey interviewers typically earn 10 to 20 percent less than those rated above average.
One is tempted to write off the results as proof that idle econometricians are the Devil's helpers. But the findings from Daniel Hamermesh of the University of Texas and Jeff Biddle of Michigan State are complemented by other research showing that obese women are also at a considerable earnings disadvantage. And they could figure prominently in the very serious business of deciding who is protected by the three-year-old Americans With Disabilities Act. 
 Professors Hamermesh and Biddle based their estimates on surveys detailing the earnings, skills, work, race and family background of some 7,000 individuals. Interviewers also ranked the interviewees' attractiveness on a scale from one ("strikingly handsome") to five ("homely"). Those rated below average earned 7 to 10 percent less than average, while attractive men and women both enjoyed a 5 percent earnings premium.
The two economists anticipated the skeptics' questions. Yes, interviewers do seem to agree on the beauty rankings. Yes, it is true that better-paid workers can afford better clothes. But independent statistical tests suggest that this effect does not distort the results. Nor is it likely that attractiveness ratings are a proxy for race or social class; the family background information included in the equations separately accounts for this effect.
The Hamermesh-Biddle evidence of discrimination is mirrored in studies of the impact of obesity. Steven Gortmaker and colleagues at Harvard found that the 5 percent most overweight in a sample of 10,000 did less well in life, even when those with chronic health problems related to obesity were eliminated from the sample. Fat women lived in households with, on average, $6,700 less in yearly income.
Sanders Korenman, the director of the University of Minnesota's Center for Population Analysis and Policy and Susan Averett of Lafayette College think this effect largely works through the marriage "market" rather than the job market: Obese women are less likely to be married, and those who are married are likely to have spouses with lower earnings. Still, their own analysis show a residual relationship between earnings and obesity.
While researchers are certain that unattractive people are victims, they can only speculate on why. Employers may avoid them for the same reason racists avoid co-workers with different skin color. But it is also possible that attractive people are better workers because they have greater self-confidence and leadership abilities.
Then, too, there is the chance that the earnings disadvantage reflects customers' preferences. If, for example, clothes shoppers are more likely to buy from svelte salespeople, retailers otherwise indifferent to looks would have incentives to discriminate.
By the same token, almost everyone agrees that prejudice against unattractive people is reprehensible. But there is no consensus that employers should be obliged to hire unattractive people if they are actually less productive. And even if employers are morally obliged, legal scholars still think some forms of prejudice are worse than others. "We didn't fight the Civil War to end discrimination against ugly or fat people," says Michael Horowitz of the Manhattan Institute.
Mr. Horowitz is surely right about Washington's motives for defending Fort Sumter in 1861. But it remains a matter of dispute what Congress had in mind in the Americans With Disabilities Act in 1990. Charles Shanor, a professor of law at Emory University, notes that the law defines disability as "a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities." Garden-variety fat is thus not a disability, he argues. Nor, by the same token, would a homely appearance be.
But a Federal appeals court did uphold a Rhode Island's jury award of $100,000 in back pay to a healthy 300-pound woman under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 -- the law on which the Americans With Disabilities Act is closely modeled. The judge ruled that even if the impairment did not "substantially limit" a major life activity, the fact that she was perceived as handicapped qualified her for protection.
Where the dust will settle is anyone's guess. On the one hand, courts have generally been reluctant to label a common condition unrelated to trauma or disease as a disability. On the other, there is now solid evidence that homeliness does affect earnings and is thus a liability in the workplace.
What's more, the Rhode Island judge linked the concept of disability to "an immutable condition that one is powerless to control." By this standard, Mr. Biddle argues, "if you can win on obesity, you should be able to win on ugly."

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; PUBLIC OPINION; BEAUTY; HIRING AND PROMOTION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; WAGES AND SALARIES COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RANKINGS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); OBESITY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); MARRIAGE (72%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (69%); RACE & RACISM (63%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (53%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; HAMERMESH, DANIEL (PROF); BIDDLE, JEFF (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



710 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Dow Climbs 12.66 Points As Utility Stocks Rebound

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
A rally in utility stocks and a decline in interest rates helped the stock market to an advance yesterday. Telephone, retail, bank and tobacco issues also climbed.
Long-term interest rates, as reflected in the yield on 30-year Treasury bonds, fell amid expectations that the Federal Reserve Board would leave interest rates unchanged for months. That view was supported by a Fed governor, John P. LaWare, who said that inflation was not accelerating and that consumer prices might rise just 2.5 percent this year. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 12.66, to 3,908.00, ending a two-day decline.
A turnaround in the Dow utilities average, often used as an interest-rate barometer, helped push the rest of the market higher, said Joseph DeMarco, managing director of equity trading at Marinvest, a unit of HSBC Asset Management.
 
Utility Index Up 3.49
 The 15-stock utility average rebounded 3.49 points, to 221.46, after falling Monday to its lowest level in more than a year. "Maybe that's a sign of a bottom in the utility index, which would help support, to some degree, the level of the market," Mr. DeMarco said.
The Nasdaq combined index gained 2.41, to 788.80, led by increases in MCI Communications, Nextel Communications Inc. and Oracle Systems.
In the broader market, the Standard & Poor's 500 index climbed 2.28, to 473.20. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by almost 4 to 3 on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume was 304.7 million shares, down from 326.1 million on Tuesday.
Among the utilities, Public Service Enterprise Group rose 3/4, to 30 3/4; American Electric Power was up 3/4, to 35 7/8; Pacific Gas and Electric rose 1/2, to 33 1/4, and Peco Energy, formerly Philadelphia Electric, added 5/8, to 28 1/8.
Traders said the direction of long-term rates might be influenced more by the release of fourth-quarter gross domestic product statistics tomorrow than by Treasury note auctions yesterday and Tuesday.
"Maybe people are feeling rates can work downwards from these levels," Richard Meyer, head of institutional trading at Ladenburg, Thalmann & Company, said.
The G.D.P. report is expected to show that the economy grew at an annual rate of 5.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 1993, the fastest rate since late 1992, according to a Bloomberg Business News survey of 17 economists.
"The economy is doing reasonably well," Jim Benning, a trader at BT Brokerage, said. "I don't think there's a big threat for interest rates to go significantly higher for at least six months or a year."
 
Effect of Clinton Address
 As for profits, Alan Ackerman, executive vice president at Reich & Company, said, "There's still a feeling that earnings will be good and dividends will increase," although some investors were concerned that President Clinton's State of the Union address on Tuesday night might translate into more spending and higher taxes.
Analysts said the address mighthave helped stocks by convincing many investors that the Administration's legislative agenda is likely to be watered down.
"The Republicans are going to give Clinton a real hard time this year," Mr. Benning said.
The advance of the Dow industrial average was fueled by Bethlehem Steel, up 1 5/8, to 23 1/4; J. P. Morgan, up 1 3/8, to 69 3/4, and Sears, Roebuck, up 1 7/8, to 53 7/8.
Bethlehem Steel said its fourth-quarter loss widened to $2.78 a share, from 69 cents in the period a year earlier. Excluding restructuring charges, the results were better than some analysts had estimated.
I.B.M. dropped 1 7/8, to 56 3/8. Its chief financial officer, Jerome York, said the company would report at least break-even results in the current quarter. Some analysts were expecting the company to report earnings of 15 cents a share, according to Zacks Investment Research.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (90%); VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE) (84%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (67%); S (NYSE) (67%); LTS (NYSE MKT) (63%); PCG (SWX) (58%); PCG (NYSE) (58%); PEG (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (67%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (67%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (67%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (67%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); ORACLE CORP (67%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (67%); LADENBURG THALMANN FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (63%); REICH & CO INC (60%); PG&E CORP (58%); HSBC ASSET MANAGEMENT LTD (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INC (54%); PECO ENERGY CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (66%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



711 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Senator Asks End to Threats Against China

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
A leading Democratic voice on trade in the Senate says the policy of annually threatening China with trade sanctions is ineffective, harmful to the reform process in China and should be permanently scrapped this June if China meets the Administration's demands.
Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who chairs the Senate subcommittee on international trade, said in a speech prepared for delivery on Thursday that if the Clinton Administration actually carried out its threat to withdraw China's trade benefits it would be like dropping "the equivalent of a nuclear bomb" in terms of the economic and political fallout. 
 Senator Baucus has long opposed using tariffs as a tool to influence China's behavior. His state, Montana, is a major exporter of wheat to China. But his remarks echo a view emerging from the Administration itself in recent weeks, and suggest that a new consensus could be forming among Democrats on China policy. Most Republicans are already opposed to linking trade status to human rights.
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen also suggested during his visit to Beijing last week that if China could meet the Administration's human rights conditions, set out in an executive order last June, then the White House would then be prepared to scrap, once and for all, the annual threat to withdraw preferred trading status on the basis of China's human rights record. Most-favored-nation status allows China to export its products to the United States at the lowest possible tariffs.
Supporters of a policy change argue that trade with China is now so economically important to the United States, and so important for encouraging political reform in China, that if Washington ever actually had to carry out its sanctions threat the effects would be disastrous for both American business and Chinese reform.
One reason both Mr. Baucus and Mr. Bentsen are speaking out now is in the hope of influencing China by holding out the carrot of permanent de-linking of trade and human rights issues.
Still, there are many on Capitol Hill who have doubts about the proposal. "There is developing a view that we need to look at the question of whether M.F.N. is still a way to achieve our goals," said Representative Lee Hamilton, the Indiana Democrat who chairs the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "But I don't think Congress is there yet. If you drop M.F.N., what do you put in its place to influence China?"
In a speech prepared for the U.S.-China Business Council, Senator Baucus says that unless there is more overall progress by China on the human rights front, the Clinton Administration will have no choice but to carry out its threat to withdraw trade preferences from China in June, when it comes up for annual review.
If trade preferences are withdrawn, Mr. Baucus says, average tariffs on Chinese goods would rise from 8 percent to 40 percent.
"It would become almost impossible for China to export to the United States," Mr. Baucus says. "China would retaliate immediately. Our trade with China, except for smuggled textiles, would disappear."
United States exports to China are valued at about $9 billion a year, Mr. Baucus says. He estimates that the cancellation of this trade would affect about 180,000 American jobs.
"Perhaps even more troubling are the implications of revoking M.F.N. for reform in China," Mr. Baucus says. "Nothing can set freedom back farther than revoking M.F.N."
"M.F.N. is an outdated tool," Mr. Baucus said. "The core M.F.N. law, the Jackson-Vanik Amendment, is a cold war law dealing with the right of Soviet Jews to emigrate. It is an anachronism."
He says that if China violates American trade laws, then the United States should retaliate with specific sanctions, as it did recently with textiles. Human rights abuses, he says, should be answered with canceled high-level contacts, public censure or revocation of American support for World Bank loans to China. In sum, he says, the United States should attempt to influence China's human rights, trade and arms control policies without aborting the overall economic relationship.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (53%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (53%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); MONTANA, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); POLITICS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (55%); MILITARY WEAPONS (55%); 

PERSON: BAUCUS, MAX (SEN); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) MAX BAUCUS (89%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



712 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Senate Report Says Agencies Plotted to Favor Contractors

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
The Defense Department, the Postal Service and other agencies devised elaborate practices of circumventing Federal law, a Senate report says, so that hundreds of millions of dollars in Government business could go to favored companies.
The practice, called off-loading, deprived taxpayers of competitive bidding that could have cut the cost of some contracts by as much as 50 percent, the report says. 
 The Associated Press obtained a copy of the study by the Senate Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management.
Off-loading occurs when one agency, faced with spending limits or tough rules on competitive bidding, finds a second agency with looser contracting rules. The first agency specifies a favored contractor, who is then hired by the second agency to do the work.
The report said that $260 million in improper or questionable contracting had been routed through the Tennessee Valley Authority, the Energy Department, NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory and the Volpe Research Center at the Transportation Department.
 
Submarine Work at Issue
 It is not clear whether the law was actually broken. The Federal Economy Act makes off-loading legal under narrow circumstances. One agency can hire another when the second agency has already contracted for the same goods and services; this could lead to cheaper items through bulk buying. The practice is also permitted when the second agency has special expertise in ordering particular items.
One contracting example cited in the report involved classified research in the Non-Accoustic Anti-Submarine Warfare Office in the Pentagon..
The office contracted for research through an electric utility, the Tennessee Valley Authority. The Defense Department's inspector general found that the anti-submarine office took this route, in part, to "obtain the support of a specific contractor without having to advertise or compete the program."
The utility entered into an agreement with ESG Inc., described in the report as "a tiny company made up of just a few employees, who did none of the required research themselves."
ESG then subcontracted out 96 percent of the work, without competition, "to subcontractors selected by the Anti-Submarine Warfare office."
Ordered by Pentagon officials to end the relationship with the utility, the anti-submarine office rerouted the contract through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which in turn contracted with the utility and ESG.
The anti-submarine office spent $21.9 million for the contract. And it paid a $1.1 million "brokering fee" to the utility for its management services.
And $2.8 million in expenditures were questionable, the Senate report said, including "fees for corporate jet travel, in-room videos, liquor."
Commenting on the findings, the subcommittee's chairman, Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, said: "We're not talking about an occasional slip-up here. We're looking at a governmentwide, systematic end run around the procurement rules."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TVA (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: POSTAL SERVICE ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%); TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (56%); JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (56%); JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: POSTAL SERVICE JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (56%); JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; CONTRACTS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); POSTAL SERVICE (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); SPACE EXPLORATION (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); 

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



713 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: Crown Hts. Tension Persists Despite Healing Effort

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON

 BODY:
Crown Heights, divided by antagonisms long before it was torn by violence in the summer of 1991, is a neighborhood that today continues to operate under the strains of suspicion and anger, poverty and fear.
The sensitive state of affairs in the Brooklyn neighborhood exists despite considerable efforts to promote healing between its black and Hasidic residents. The Crown Heights Coalition, a collection of elected officials and neighborhood representatives formed after the unrest two and a half years ago, has been called ineffective, even irrelevant, by some blacks and Jews in Crown Heights, and it is struggling merely to remain intact. 
 Other formal attempts at conciliation, including a council set up to foster communication between the police and residents, have met with failure.
A dispute has also erupted over plans for the traditional Caribbean Labor Day Parade, an event that this September will fall on the eve of Rosh ha-Shanah. And unease between the police and black residents, present to one degree or another for decades, continues as investigators intensify their operation and neighborhood mothers complain that their sons are being harassed.
"The constant boiling, the simmering, the distrust, the tension," said Thad Owens, a black resident who heads Tenants for Better Housing in Crown Heights. "It's still here."
Crown Heights, then, appears to be much as it was before the rage and regrets of August 1991: split, mistrustful, poor and emotionally charged. And few are hopeful that the Federal civil rights investigation announced on Tuesday by United States Attorney General Janet Reno will ease tensions or solve problems.
"There can be no healing through this in Crown Heights," said the Rev. Gary P. Rogers, pastor of St. Gregory's Roman Catholic Church on Brooklyn Avenue. "No matter what Ms. Reno does, no matter if another young member of this community is tried or convicted, it isn't going to make for better living for the African-American or Hasidic communities."
"That there is no common ground is a given," said Rabbi Joseph Spielman, one of the prominent Hasidic leaders. "I'd have my head in the sand if I said otherwise. Left alone, we could bearably get by."
That isolation, deemed an underlying source of the neighborhood discord that exploded in 1991, was supposed to be addressed by the Crown Heights Coalition. Formed by Borough President Howard Golden, the coalition issued a long report in August 1992, complete with page upon page of recommendations, including cultural sensitization programs for the police and a modest job training plan, as well as others for expanded day-care services and the protection of neighborhood housing.
 
'Has Made a Difference'
 A study of those initiatives conducted six months later found only checkered successes.
"No one is even going to pretend that we have solved all the issues and problems, many large ones that have been allowed to fester for years," said Edison O. Jackson, the president of Medgar Evers College and a co-chairman of the coalition. "But the coalition has made a difference."
Still, within the neighborhood of 207,000 people -- 80 percent of whom are black, 7 percent of whom are Hasidic, and 25 percent of whom receive some form of government financial assistance -- there is a sharp difference of opinion.
"The real problems are economics, and the coalition wants only to work with people they can control," said Mildred Scott, the former head of the 71st Precinct Community Council and a local school board member.
"The black community doesn't have anything to call its own but its churches and its funeral parlors, and the parlors are doing a better business lately," she said. "The coalition came out with a booklet of solutions that don't work. It was designed to keep people quiet, to keep the peace. But there is no peace."
 
'A Cynical Proposition'
 "The coalition was a cynical proposition from the start by people who have been around the block," added Mark Griffith, a local businessman who a decade ago headed a failed civil rights initiative in Crown Heights. "The very structure of the coalition insured that it wouldn't mean much to the people in the streets. I don't know if it was dishonesty on the part of these people or a lack of imagination."
The Hasidic perspective on the coalition is no brighter.
"Basketball games together, that's baloney, that's not real," said Rabbi Jacob Goldstein, the longtime chairman of Community Board 9. "We won't be dating and dancing together, and that won't solve our problems."
Rabbi Spielman, a powerful figure among Hasidic residents whose mere attendance at coalition meetings has been erratic of late, complained: "The people who are leaders in the streets aren't at the table. And should they be? Their answer is that the way to solve the problems of Crown Heights is to get the Jews out. They think they'd have a Garden of Eden if the Jews left."
Clearly, Crown Heights remains a deeply divided neighborhood, although there has been no repeat of the days of violence in August 1991.
 
A Sign of Strain
 Another sign of the strain was the angry collapse of the Precinct Community Council, a police outreach effort in which near-physical altercations and factional political fighting broke out, resulting in the council's effective dissolution.
Also, a proposal by Representative Major Owens for a five-year conflict resolution program, one that would be run by a committee of mediation specialists from outside the neighborhood, has not been endorsed by the Hasidim.
Then there are the tensions over the Caribbean parade. The celebration along Eastern Parkway has been a tradition for 26 years in Brooklyn, organized by the city's Caribbean population. It attracts more than 1 million people. This year, Labor Day falls on the eve of Rosh ha-Shanah, when thousands of Hasidim pour into Crown Heights to celebrate the Jewish New Year.
Members of the Jewish leadership, saying the parade will disrupt preparations for a solemn religious observance, asked the police to intercede with Caribbean-American residents to hold the event a day earlier. The Caribbean leaders were and are outraged.
"We're trying to coexist, and they go behind our backs," said Carlos Lezama, the parade committee chairman. "It was very blatant, very provocative. It may go to court. But we're not moving."
Rabbi Shmuel Butman, an official with the Crown Heights Jewish Community Council, said: "Moving one day -- that's a big ordeal? We're not trying to destroy the parade."
The efforts to achieve understanding between the police and the young black population in the aftermath of the 1991 unrest appear imperiled. The Police Department, which has conducted 10,000 interviews since the 1991 killing of a rabbinical student, Yankel Rosenbaum, has increased its activity since a state grand jury was empaneled earlier this month. And officials say the effort will remain intense as Federal investigators press their civil rights investigation.
"The concern is that our sons are being harassed," said Van Plummer, a black Crown Heights mother. "My son hasn't been brought in. But I'm quite sure they will be coming to my door soon enough."
The police, more than a year after the failed prosecution of Lemrick Nelson Jr. for the Rosenbaum killing, face the pressure of trying to solve an explosive and exasperating case.
"Has there been improvement in communication between police, the Jewish community and the black community?" asked Officer Calvin Bent, the community affairs officer for the 71st Precinct. "I don't know. There have been efforts."
The police effort involving Henry Rice dramatizes the potential for unease. Mr. Rice, a 24-year-old candidate for the police force who works for the National Conference of Christians and Jews, was questioned over two days last month by Brooklyn detectives who insist that Mr. Rice was a witness to the killing. A third meeting with prosecutors last week left Mr. Rice convinced that he will be subpoenaed to appear before the Federal grand jury.
"I don't think the investigation is the reason black youth feel harassed by the police in Crown Heights, but it ain't helping," Mr. Rice said. "And I'm shocked at Reno's decision. What this all means is that there is going to be more upset."
The prospect of another trial provokes some of the most disturbing dialogue on the streets of Crown Heights. The Hasidim say they are eager for justice. Many black residents, convinced that the black life lost on the night of Mr. Rosenbaum's killing on Aug. 19, 1991, was minimized, return again and again to the subject of Gavin Cato, the 7-year-old who was crushed to death by a car traveling in a Hasidic motorcade that night.
"It is not easy for the people here, but another trial has to be done," said Isaac Bitton, a Jewish man who was beaten up along with his son during the 1991 unrest. "Emotionally, we have to go through it."
Others treat the specter of further dramatics in the case more grimly.
"If another trial happens and someone is found guilty, I think there will be riots again," said Walter Cato, the older brother of Gavin.
And so Ms. Reno takes over a difficult case in a troubled neighborhood.
"It's bad political theater that has been played out and that will be played out, and so it's all very familiar," said Mr. Griffith, the local businessman. "To be collecting facts and making a case more than two years after the incident, it's difficult to believe people have hopes of having the truth come out. Or that there is even interest in the truth."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Crown Heights neighborhood in Brooklyn was strained for years before violence exploded there in August 1991. Black and Hasidic residents have persevered in an enduring mood of tension and fear. Passers-by looked at one another on the corner of President Street and Kingston Avenue. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CROWN HEIGHTS COALITION

ORGANIZATION: CROWN HEIGHTS COALITION

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CROWN HEIGHTS (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; JEWS; HASIDISM; BLACKS (IN US); MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (86%); US LABOR DAY (78%); TRENDS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); ROSH HASHANAH (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



714 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Thinking Globally;
A Little City Trolls for Trade

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EAST ORANGE, N.J.

 BODY:
With new trade agreements breaking down the barriers between continents and nations, consider the case of East Orange. After decades of economic malaise, this city is making an unlikely pitch to be a center of global commerce.
East Orange, one of the New York area's oldest commuter suburbs, has no large manufacturers, holds little appeal to office developers and has not had the success of other New Jersey suburbs in luring business from Manhattan. 
 What it does have is a high concentration of African-American residents, including about 2,000 immigrants from the West African nation of Ghana. And it was these residents, including E. K. Sam, a software designer, who helped push the extraordinary international venture of a trade mission linking New Jersey and Ghana.
"There are a lot of opportunities in developing countries," said Mr. Sam, who is president of SIU Software Solutions, based here. "They have often been overlooked by American business, to its own detriment."
The mission to Ghana for two weeks in September has produced these results so far: a $57 million contract, nearly completed, to shore up part of Ghana's eroded coast line, several bids by New Jersey companies to sell computer equipment in Ghana, agreements to import pineapples and other food from Ghana and a student exchange agreement between Upsala College here and the three universities of Ghana.
 
For Love of Country
 "I worried that we would be perceived as just a small town," said Cardell Cooper, the Mayor of East Orange, a city of 72,000 people wedged between Newark and Montclair. The Mayor, who was among 44 people in the trade mission, said all but $20,000 of the $250,000 cost of the mission was paid by companies that participated. East Orange put up $5,000; $15,000 came from the state.
Now, Mr. Cooper said, "We've established a great opportunity and I hope this gets the attention of the White House."
Although Presidential laurels may be premature, East Orange's early success in Ghana reflects the economic power of cities that can call upon the cultural links of their own immigrant populations.
"One lesson is that ethnic groups can bring a lot to the table, and they will do so for the love of their native countries as well as the United States," said Phil Ferzan, the director of the New Jersey Division of International Trade, who traveled to Ghana with the East Orange mission.
 
A Main-Street Influence
 Mr. Ferzan said that trip has already produced better results than any of the other four missions New Jersey has sent abroad since 1990, to Russia, Italy, Japan and Mexico.
Fully 95 percent of East Orange's residents are African-Americans, Mayor Cooper said, giving it a higher percentage of residents of African descent than any United States city besides East St. Louis, Ill. And while most people here are natives of the United States, East Orange has been a magnet for immigrants for more than two decades.
Most obvious, particularly along the city's Main Street business district, is the influence of its immigrants from the Caribbean. Scattered along the commercial strip are such businesses as Dalies West Indian Restaurant, Hacotrans Le Caurrier D'Haiti, a travel agency, and a clothing store that promotes itself as "Things Jamaican."
Although less prominent on Main Street, East Orange's immigrants from Ghana have been growing rapidly in numbers and political influence. They come from a nation where the government has been revamped over the last two years by democratic reforms and where economic development has outpaced most of West Africa.
Mr. Sam said people from Ghana, who have also established enclaves in Brooklyn and Newark, are attracted to East Orange because of its large homes and suburban tranquillity and because they can share some of the cultural and tribal traditions of their homeland here, including feasts and elaborate rituals to accompany births and deaths.
 
Suggestion of a Queen
 With its peculiar amalgam of West African culture and suburban life, people here say East Orange has an advantage in wooing business in Ghana. Their trade mission was suggested first by visitors from Ghana to East Orange.
They included two of Ghana's most powerful tribal leaders, Osagyefo Nana Kuntukununku II, king of the Akyem people, and Nana Doua II, queen of Akuapem State, both of whom have visited since 1992 during diplomatic forays.
By lucky cultural coincidence, many of East Orange's immigrants are members of Queen Doua's tribe, including Mr. Sam's wife, Philomena, who emigrated from Ghana in 1986 and who operates a store here that specializes in colorful kente cloth and other Ghanaian fabrics.
"My greatest goal is to promote African culture here," Mrs. Sam said. Her efforts were given a major boost by Queen Doua, who had been expected to make a brief stopover in East Orange, but instead stayed for two weeks and encouraged business people here to pursue new trade links with her country.
What followed was a grass-roots effort, orchestrated by the Sams and other Ghanaian immigrants, to sell New Jersey on the idea of a trade mission to their homeland. After winning the support of Mayor Cooper and others in East Orange, and then of the Governor, Jim Florio, the group enlisted business people from across New Jersey.
The group went prepared with gifts. East Orange Day care centers, hospitals and the city's library donated medical supplies, toys and books.
Mayor Cooper said the group was far from the only trade mission trying to lure business in Ghana; others from China, Japan and several European nations had been courting the country aggressively.
 
Breakthrough on a Contract
 But it became clear to the New Jerseyans that they had made a good impression by their third day in Ghana, when Jerry Rawlings, who has been Ghana's President since 1979, met with them for over three hours to discuss Ghana's economy and trade.
"We expected a few minutes and a photo opportunity," said Mayor Cooper, whose offices here are now strewn with clippings from Ghanaian newspapers that covered his group's travels in their country. After meeting with Mr. Rawlings, the group was invited to meet with several of his Government's senior officials for trade and economic development.
By far the biggest beneficiary of the mission has been Breakwaters International of Flemington, N.J., an eight-year-old engineering companythat installs huge concrete offshore reefs, and had been vying with several foreign companies for work on a severely eroded and densely populated stretch of Ghana's coast.
"The trade mission created an atmosphere that made this happen for us," said Richard Creter, Breakwaters' president. Although a final contract has not been signed, he said the company has letters of intent from President Rawlings's administration to proceed with a $57 million contract.
That would mean the creation of 300 jobs in New Jersey, he said, where cranes and other construction equipment would be manufactured for the Ghanaian project.
Other trading agreements that result from the trip are expected to be smaller. A Matawan company hopes to import a species of Ghanaian pineapples that it hopes to market as a sweeter alternative to those from Hawaii. Mr. Sam's company is negotiating with Ghana's electric utility to provide computerized billing services. A Morristown computer company has put in its bid to provide Ghana's first "800" telephone number service.
Perhaps the smallest of the new trade links is between Ghana and Mrs. Sam, who is preparing a vacant storefront next to her kente cloth boutique to be used as a distribution center for dried casava, okra, palm oil and other foods from Ghana. She said she expected a ready market among West African immigrants throughout New York City and its suburbs.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The cultural as well as economic ties between East Orange, N.J., and Ghana are seen in the clothes Philomena Sam sells in her shop. Her "greatest goal" is promoting African culture. (pg. B1); In East Orange, N.J., the high concentration of African-American residents, including about 2,000 immigrants from the West African nation of Ghana, has led to a trade mission linking New Jersey and Ghana. At a local clothing shop, the attire mirrors the ties between two distant partners. (Julio A. Ibarra Jr. for The New York Times) (pg. B6)
 
Maps show the location of East Orange, New Jersey and of Ghana. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); GHANA (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (56%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (56%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GHANA; EAST ORANGE (NJ); UNITED STATES (99%); GHANA (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); JAPAN (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); MAYORS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); TRENDS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); REFUGEES (71%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ETHNICITY (60%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (51%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



715 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: In the Shadows of the Casinos

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRIGANTINE, N.J., Jan. 13

 BODY:
Fortune smiled for so long on this coastal island city, a bedroom community to Atlantic City's casino industry, that it was perhaps inevitable that things would take a turn for the worse, like a gambler's hot streak that suddenly turns cold.
Brigantine, just 1,000 yards across the Abesecon Inlet from a gambling resort that draws 32 million visitors a year, has been transformed over the last 15 years by Atlantic City's success, growing from a sleepy island of summer visitors and retirees into a bustling community. 
 The population doubled to some 13,000 as blackjack dealers, cocktail waitresses and others bought or rented houses or condominium units that sprouted on former marshlands at the southern end of the six-mile-long island. In the 1980's real-estate boom, longtime residents sold modest saltbox cottages for two or three times what they had paid for them.
While Atlantic City's 12 casinos, which handled $3.3 billion in revenue last year, were largely recession-proof, Brigantine's overbuilt housing market was not. Prices have tumbled in the last few years and unsold new houses remained vacant or were rented at rock-bottom prices.
 
Locking Doors Now
 The reduced rents brought on by the slump in the housing market attracted lower-income families seeking to move from high-crime neighborhoods in Atlantic City. County social services workers began placing welfare recipients in empty apartments in some of Brigantine's newest housing, and these poorer newcomers placed strains on the island's only public school and forced taxes higher even as property values shrank.
At the same time, more police officers were added to serve the growing population as crimes like thefts and burglaries grew. "When we bought a house in Brigantine six years ago it was a place where people didn't lock their doors at night," said Marilyn Munsart, who moved here with her husband, Herbert, a retired certified public accountant, in 1987. "That's sadly no longer true."
The Munsarts moved to Florida last year and still cannot sell their Brigantine home, which they estimated was worth $195,000 in 1989. "We put it on the market at $131,000 or best offer and didn't attract a single bid," Mrs. Munsart said in a telephone interview from Florida.
"The casinos and the transients they attracted are killing what had been a lovely island."
 
'Value Always Comes Back'
 Though that view is widely shared in Brigantine, in the eyes of many others it is an exaggeration brought on by the stresses of uncertain times.
Councilman Jim Frugoli, who represents the Fourth Ward near the inlet, where a rainbow-shaped bridge connects the island with Atlantic City, compares the nervousness of property owners today with the mood that gripped the island when a March storm flooded the island in 1962, when there were only several hundred year-round residents.
"Back then you could've picked up any property for peanuts," he said. "The value of beautiful seashore land always comes back."
But no one disputes that the relaxed pace of the pre-casino days will be difficult to re-create in the island's enlarged role as appendage to Atlantic City's continual growth.
 
The Pull of Casinos
 Atlantic City plans to add 3,680 new hotel rooms within two years at a cost of $559 million, raising the number of casino hotel rooms to nearly 18,000. Rooms are being added in anticipation of the opening of the city's new convention center in 1996.
Some Brigantine businessmen, noting that the only way on or off the island is over the bridge to Atlantic City, would like to see more done to attract tourists. One of them is Joe Mazza, owner of the Pirate's Den, a small restaurant near the island's north shore where development ends and government preserves lock the coastal marshes and woodlands in a natural state for the next 20 miles.
"Visitors come here and see the beaches and the natural beauty and can't believe it's the Jersey Shore," said Mr. Mazza, who moved here five years ago from Philadelphia.
"But you can't stumble across Brigantine. You have to be directed here and the casinos don't want their customers to get away from the slots and the crap tables for even one hour," he said with a nod in the direction of the casino hotel towers in the distance.
 
'Intimidated by Change'
 There used to be 300 hotel and motel rooms in Brigantine, but today there are fewer than 100; many of the older places were torn down or converted to condos. The island has also lost its only man-made tourist attraction: a structure built on a pier called Brigantine Castle, which included a haunted house and food booths.
"The voters shut down the place years ago because they didn't want outsiders riding a bus out to Brigantine and walking around the streets," Mr. Mazza said. "They're so intimidated by change."
The pull between what used to be and what could be, for better and for worse, underlies almost every conversation about Brigantine.
Ron Luciano, a 49-year-old card dealer and supervisor who works 8 P.M. to 4 A.M., has lived in Brigantine for 15 years and says he wouldn't live anywhere else. "I'm 10 minutes away from work and have the freshest air in the country," he said this week as he played on the beach with his preschool-age daughter.
 
Screening Students Closely
 But he says he worries about the newcomers "moving into subsidized housing at the south end of Brigantine" and overcrowding at the public school, even though a $14 million addition is planned.
"My daughter's going to the Catholic school, that's for sure," said his wife, Maria, who met her husband when she visited Atlantic City for a game of blackjack and ended up marrying the dealer.
Mayor Philip J. Guenther, who is vice principal of discipline at Atlantic City Senior High School, said Brigantine officials are trying to crack down on multiple families moving into single apartments, a growing practice. And school officials are screening pupils more closely to confirm that they actually reside in the city, an effort that recently removed more than 100 Atlantic City children from the local school, the Mayor said.
"Our biggest challenge is to make co-existence work between old-time homeowners and short-term transients," he said. "We want a healthy mix of residents and at the same time want to insure that we prevent a deterioration of housing stock that makes values drop."
Local officials say the surest way to make that happen is for the economy to revive and to revive the second-home market to prop up the price of 2,354 condo units and 1,700 multifamily apartments built in Brigantine through the 1980's.
He and others here figure it's only a matter of time before Brigantine's luck changes and the community is once again dealt a hot hand.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The casino-hotels of Atlantic City loom beyond rows of houses in Brigantine, N.J., where overbuilding in the real-estate boom of the 1980's has resulted in falling prices and new homes that remain vacant. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)
 
Map/Graph: "COMPARE AND CONTRAST: A Tale of Two Cities in Atlantic County" shows ethnic population breakdown, unemployment rate, number of people living below the poverty level, and the median household income for Brigantine and Atlantic City. (Source: U.S. Census, 1990)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIGANTINE (NJ); ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; HOUSING; TAXATION; PRICES GAMING (91%); CASINOS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CARD GAMES (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); HOME PRICES (74%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); BURGLARY (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); FAMILY (67%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



716 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Police Appeal for Help in Girl's Disappearance

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LITCHFIELD, N.Y., Jan. 26

 BODY:
Frustrated in their two-week effort to find the remains of Sara Anne Wood, the 12-year-old who disappeared last summer, the state police today made an unusual plea for help from anyone who was on vacation in the Adirondacks on Aug. 18.
The police asked anyone on vacation at that time to check their home videos for pictures of the light blue Ford Econoline van that Lewis Lent Jr., the suspect in Sara's abduction, was driving then. Such a picture would provide evidence that the authorities say would help them bring charges against Mr. Lent, who told the police that he abducted Sara as she was walking her bicycle here and that he buried her in the woods near Raquette Lake. 
 The police have been searching for Sara's remains in the Raquette Lake area since Jan. 10, mostly in adverse weather, including temperatures as low as 42 degrees below zero. The search continued today, but so far, the police have found nothing.
At a news conference today at the state police command center for the Sara Anne Wood case, Maj. C. Allen Pylman outlined a possible route Mr. Lent could have taken from the site of the girl's disappearance to the Adirondack Mountains.
 
Hoping for Evidence
 Authorities believe he left Litchfield, a suburb of Utica, on Route 8 going south, took Route 20 east, and then Route 28 north to Raquette Lake, Major Pylman said.
"If we can put him on this route at a time period after 2:30 P.M.," Major Pylman said, "that will provide us with a critical piece of corroborative information as far as the investigation is concerned.
"Granted, this is a long shot," he continued. "I'd be the first one to admit that. But if we can jog someone's mind" it might lead to "an important piece of evidence."
The Herkimer County District Attorney, Michael Daley, said the appeal had nothing to do with the search at Raquette Lake.
"The purpose of this appeal is to strengthen or establish a criminal prosecution," Mr. Daley said. "This appeal is directed at trying to obtain evidence that can be used at some later date in a criminal prosecution."
Mr. Lent, a former janitor at a movie theater, has been charged with the attempted abduction of a girl in Pittsfield, Mass., and the slaying of Jimmy Bernardo, 12, who was abducted in Pittsfield on Oct. 22, 1990, and whose body was found in Newfield, N.Y., 10 miles from Ithaca, a month later.
Mr. Lent has not been charged in the disappearance of Sara because the authorities say they have little evidence linking him to her disappearance,other than his own statements. But the police have said he provided information in his statements that they believe only the kidnapper could have known.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; LITCHFIELD (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS POLICE FORCES (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); MISSING PERSONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); MOUNTAINS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); 

PERSON: WOOD, SARA ANNE; LENT, LEWIS S JR C MICHAEL DALEY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



717 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Longer Treasuries Pare Losses

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Government securities recovered yesterday, with longer maturities paring about half of their losses for the week. With no economic news on the calendar, traders and dealers focused on the five-year note auction.
Prices were generally higher, with the only downturn coming after the results of the note auction were released. Some traders said the $12 billion sale of five-year notes was disappointing. Market expectations called for a yield of 5.09 percent, while the auction came in at a high yield of 5.10 percent. 
 But Ronald R. Reuss, senior vice president and chief economist for Piper Capital Management, said the auction, while slow, was not bad. And dealers had to be happy later in the day as the yield on the new five-year noted dropped to 5.06 percent, which meant profits for them as the price, which moves in the opposite direction, climbed higher.
The $12 billion auction of five-year notes was $1 billion larger than December's auction, when the high yield was 5.19 percent.
 
Yield Drops to 6.30%
 By late in the day the price of the 30-year bond was up 15/32 , to 999/32 , for a yield of 6.30 percent, down from 6.34 percent on Tuesday and back to the level at the end of trading on Monday. The 10-year note, another closely followed security, was up 5/32 , to 1009/32 , for a yield of 5.71 percent.
The market reacted more to the note auction than to President Clinton's State of the Union address. Traders said the address did not provide any significant new information on the Federal budget and deficit outlook.
Next Wednesday the Government is scheduled to announce the size of its February auction of 3-year and 10-year notes and 30-year bonds. This will be the first auction of 30-year bonds since August. Last year the Treasury cut the annual sales of 30-year bonds by about 40 percent and moved from an auction four times a year to two times a year.
While the calendar of economic events was blank yesterday, today's releases offer traders and investors something to digest. The Labor Department issues the weekly jobless claims numbers while the Commerce Department reports on durable goods orders for December.
Tomorrow the preliminary fourth- quarter estimate for the gross domestic product is scheduled..
MMS International, a Wall Street research firm, expects durable goods orders to register a 1 percent increase in December.
 
Estimates on G.D.P.
 In an interview with CNBC, a Federal Reserve governor, John P. LaWare, said poor weather and the California earthquake were not enough to undermine growth. He said he saw fourth-quarter 1993 gross domestic product near 5 percent, with the first quarter possibly lower.
Mr. Reuss of Piper Capital said the economy was looking good, adding that he expected a G.D.P. growth of 5.5 percent in the fourth quarter, followed by a slowing to a pace of 2.5 to 3.5 percent in the first six months of 1994.
He said that if the economy slowed to such a pace this year, inflation would not pick up and it was unlikely that the Federal Reserve would have to raise short-term interest rates soon to curb growth and inflation.
Following are the results of yesterday's five-year Treasury note auction:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Yield . . . 5.10%
Low Yield . . . 5.00%
Median Yield . . . 5.07%
Accepted at low price . . . 38%
Total applied for . . . $28,678,165
Accepted . . . $12,029,064
Noncompetitive . . . $566,000
Interest set at . . . 5%
 
The five-year notes mature on Jan. 31, 1999.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since October 1993. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.); "5-Year Treasury Notes" tracks average yields at monthly auctions, in percent, since August 1992. (Source: Treasury Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT PIPER CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



718 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Drops Against Yen After Trade Talks Stumble

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The dollar weakened against most leading currencies yesterday and suffered its biggest loss against the Japanese yen after trade talks between the United States and Japan faltered.
Meanwhile, gold prices rose. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for February delivery rose $3, to $384.60 an ounce. 
 The dollar began falling against the yen in Asian trading on news the United States and Japan ended two days of trade talks, aimed at opening the Japanese market to foreign goods, without agreement. In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 110 yen, down from 111.05 yen on Tuesday.
 
 
'Stumbling Blocks'
 An American official said that "substantial stumbling blocks" hindered further talks, casting a cloud over the planned Feb. 11 meeting between President Clinton and Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa of Japan.
Japan gave the meeting a more positive spin, stating that some progress was made and it was determined to strike a pact.
But Japanese officials reiterated their opposition to measuring progress on the trade front with numerical targets, which Tokyo considers managed trade but Washington views as necessary for compliance.
Jittery traders dumped more dollars on reports that Fred Bergsten, an influential private economist, would advocate a target range for the dollar of 90 yen to 110 yen in a speech scheduled tomorrow. Mr. Bergsten is director of the Institute for International Economics in Washington, and some currency traders believe he has President Clinton's ear.
Moreover, Mr. Bergsten's comments hit a chord with dealers fearful that deadlocked talks would encourage the United States to advocate a strong yen to redress the trade imbalance.
"Market focus is shifting back to political tension between the U.S. and Japan over the trade issue, which played a key role in pushing down the dollar today," Tetsya Ogura, customer dealer at Nippon Credit Bank in Tokyo, said.
The dollar also fell to 1.7442 marks in New York, from 1.7515 marks late Tuesday, after the German currency posted gains against other European currencies. And the British pound closed in New York at $1.4950, up from $1.4945 late Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8304 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (98%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: AOZORA BANK LTD (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (98%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (70%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); POLITICS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); BRITISH POUND (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



719 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1648 words

HEADLINE: Smooth Landing for Economy

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
For the first time in 30 years, the United States economy has pulled itself out of recession without benefit of a significant tax cut or burst of new Government spending. And although the recovery has skipped some regions and left many workers still without jobs -- as President Clinton noted in his State of the Union address -- others have hailed it as a model expansion with noninflationary growth and falling unemployment.
Achieving a noninflationary recovery has been something of a Holy Grail in economic policy circles for decades. While cutting taxes and increasing spending have proved useful in temporarily increasing economic growth, that growth often seemed to be coupled with the seeds of higher inflation. 
 In the recoveries of the 1960's and 1970's, for example, the price of extra stimulus to the economy was higher inflation. Some economists argued that monetary policy would have done the job better, but many others doubted that monetary policy alone would suffice.
 
Potent Recovery Tool

To some economists, the biggest lesson of the nearly three-year-old recovery is that monetary policy -- and particularly lower interest rates -- can be a potent tool for pulling the economy out of recession, perhaps as potent as the traditional tools of fiscal policy: the tax cuts and Government spending used by Presidents from John F. Kennedy to Ronald Reagan.
Other economists caution that the effectiveness of monetary policy depends in part on the particular circumstances. Monetary policy alone might not have been sufficient if the economy had been as sick as some people had feared. Pent-up consumer demand, renewed consumer confidence and growth in third-world export markets, all not directly tied to monetary policy, added to the economic momentum.
Others also argue that the noninflationary nature of the current recovery owes as much to the weakness of the rest of the world as it does to the particular magic of monetary policy.
Nonetheless, there is a new respect for the powers of monetary policy -- and for the success of the Federal Reserve Board's low-interest-rate strategy. The Fed, which had raised rates by three percentage points in late 1989 to ward off inflation, has since brought rates down to the lowest they have been in 20 years.
"In a period when fiscal policy is frozen, monetary policy can do it," said Benjamin M. Friedman, an economist at Harvard. "The recession didn't turn into a depression and we got through the recession without financial fragility causing some kind of rupture. If that's what you mean by soft landing, then that's what we've had, and the credit goes largely to monetary policy."
That does not mean that Presidents are likely to become converts to the monetarist creed -- the notion that the money supply and interest rates are the biggest influence on the economy's short-run ups and downs. Tax cuts and spending have a voter appeal that monetary policy simply does not offer and George Bush arguably lost his job because he would not cut taxes in 1991, at a time when many thought he should be taking a more activist approach to reviving the economy.
And it is certainly possible that the announcement of a fiscal stimulus plan early in the recovery could have helped to restore consumer confidence sooner, though at the risk of frightening financial markets. In the absence of clear signals that the Bush Administration was prepared to assist the economy, people may have been less sure that the recovery would continue and kept their spending in check.
Unlike a tax cut, which puts money in paychecks, or public works spending, which employs people directly, some of the workings of monetary policy are indirect and far removed from the average household pocketbook, low mortgage rates aside.
But willing or not, as long as the deficit remains big enough to worry voters, Presidents may be forced to let the Federal Reserve do the heavy lifting, while they focus on micro-measures -- extending jobless benefits or shifting dollars around -- that have little discernible effect on the overall economy but are good public relations.
"For the foreseeable future, administrations have no choice but to rely on the good graces of the Fed," said Bruce Steinberg, an economist at Merrill Lynch.
While there may have been little choice, many economists, including some inside the Bush and Clinton Administrations, were worried that monetary policy by itself would not work. One of the key lessons of the Great Depression was that interest rates could be pushed down to zero and people would still not borrow or spend if they believed the economy would not expand and they could lose their jobs.
 
Stagnation Was Expected
 So it was with a sense of history that many economists in recent years feared that the economy would keep on stagnating.
In fact, however, exports helped shore up the economy in the first year of recovery. And last year, housing, cars and business investment -- spending that is sensitive to interest rates -- provided most of the growth. A necessary part of that spending, however, was renewed consumer confidence. When that began to rise, it helped spur spending, especially on big-ticket items.
The result has been a recovery that has added 2.5 to 3 percent to the gross domestic product annually, has whittled unemployment to 6.4 percent from 7.8 percent and has kept inflation -- a shade under 3 percent last year -- at bay.
"In addition," said Robert Giordano, chief economist at Goldman, Sachs, "we didn't end up with a higher structural deficit, which would only have worsened our long-term problems."
The widespread doubt that lower interest rates alone could cure the economy of the ailments it had developed over the long, strong 1980's expansion was hardly surprising. Every recovery in the last 30 years was aided by a jolt of deficit spending. Monetary policy did ignite the 1982 recovery, but tax cuts gave it a big push. President Gerald R. Ford gave consumers tax rebates in 1975. And President Richard M. Nixon cut income taxes after the 1970 recession.
 
Debt Is Refinanced
 As it turned out, however, lower rates were just what a debt-heavy economy needed. Low rates inflict their own pain, on the incomes of retirees and other investors in money market funds for example. But in the last two years, consumers refinanced more than $1 trillion in mortgage debt and most corporations have replaced nearly all their high-cost debt with cheaper funds. That has freed up billions of dollars for spending that formerly went to pay interest.
Equally important, lower rates helped ease strains on the banking system. "Because the recession was limited, the number of bank failures and bankruptcies was limited, too," Professor Friedman said
In the last year, lower rates have given spending a sharp increase. They made people richer by causing the price of stocks and bonds to rise. And they created a strong incentive for car buyers and home buyers to do their buying now. Car, van and truck sales roared back this year and single-family home sales and new housing starts are at their highest level since the late 1970's.
Monetary policy also stimulated the economy by keeping the dollar cheap, as investors could get higher returns on their money overseas. And a cheaper dollar helped keep exports growing solidly during the first two years of economic recovery. Lower short-term interest rates also helped nudge down long rates as investors shifted from low-yielding money market funds into higher-yield bond funds -- though slow growth, low inflation and the brighter deficit picture also contributed.
 
Offset for Higher Taxes
 Lower rates also helped offset some of the drag from higher taxes. One reason that rates had to be driven so low was that Washington was actually raising taxes and cutting military spending during the recession and early in the recovery. While Washington had certainly not left off deficit spending, the point is that it was not doing more of it.
"Certainly, the Fed went a lot further than anyone thought would be necessary but ultimately it more than offset the 50-mile-an-hour headwinds that Greenspan was always talking about," Mr. Steinberg said, referring to Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Fed. "As rates came down, it was enough to offset the deflationary forces in the economy."
Nonetheless, neither economists nor policy makers are inclined to say "never" when it comes to using fiscal policy. The economic recovery has been only about half as fast as past expansions and it took much longer than usual for the economy's job machine to warm up. Unemployment did not start to come down and job growth did not take hold for a year and a half into the recovery. "For a lot of policy makers the recovery was unacceptable," said Robert Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget Office, "If you were a resident of Southern California or New York, you wouldn't look back at the last couple of years with equanimity."
 
Confidence Called Key
 Alicia Munnell, Assistant Treasury Secretary for Economic Policy, agreed. "Once confidence is restored, and investors believe that we're not going to let the deficit go up in good times as well as bad, then you could use some countercyclical policy."
"But," she added, "the most important thing right now for the financial markets and everyone else is that this Administration and Congress are committed to paying for their expenditures."
Michael J. Boskin, who as President Bush's chief economic adviser suggested that the Bush Administration consider a tax cut of $50 billion to $75 billion, thinks that this is not all bad.
"I wouldn't want to say under no circumstances ever would you want to use fiscal policy," he said, "But I do believe it is a clumsy tool. It's hard to enact. It's hard to do quickly. Its effects are uncertain."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bruce Steinberg. (Merrill Lynch); Benjamin M. Friedman. (Harvard University); Robert Giordano. (Goldman Sachs) (pg. D6)
 
Graph: "Fiscal Stimulus and Recovery"
 For the first time in three decades, the economy has emerged fromk a recession without a sharp increase in deficit spending. Graph tracks the structural budget deficit and economic growth since 1965. (Source: Goldman, Sachs & Co., based on Commerce Department and Congressional Budget Office figures) (pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (60%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; PRICES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); RECESSION (91%); MONETARY POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); RELIGION (70%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA; STEINBERG, BRUCE; FRIEDMAN, BENJAMIN M; GIORDANO, ROBERT RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



720 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1830 words

HEADLINE: Anytime is Bedtime

BYLINE: By MITCHELL OWENS

 BODY:
WHEN Edith Wharton gave her "Age of Innocence" character Mrs. Manson Mingott a first-floor bedroom hard by the entrance hall of the lady's Fifth Avenue mansion, she insured that Mrs. Mingott's society friends were properly shocked. In direct defiance of Victorian mores -- the bedroom then was a sanctum sanctorum, tucked away upstairs and free from intrusion -- the obese Mrs. Mingott's bohemian quarters were considered scandalously convenient.
A century later, the attitude that a bedroom is just another room, to be used and enjoyed by all, is heartily endorsed by Min Hogg, the editor in chief of The World of Interiors, a British interior decorating magazine. In her London apartment, Ms. Hogg can often be found in her bedroom, dining supine. While she nestles informally against an upholstered headboard, her drop-in guests eat from trays perched atop several thin cotton gauze comforters from India. 
 "I can't see the point in going home, having a bath and getting dressed again just to go out and eat," Ms. Hogg said. "It seems such a waste of energy."
As the traditional boundaries between public and private spaces continue to blur, the bedroom and the primary piece of furniture it shelters have been transformed in the United States into a $16 billion industry for 1993, up $2 billion from the previous year. The bedroom, once a sacred preserve dedicated to leading the weary occupant toward a healthful 40 winks, is becoming a multipurpose enclave for eating, working and playing -- solo, a deux or en famille.
"The bed is the heart of the home, where the entire human drama is enacted," said Alecia Beldegreen, the author of "Bed" (Stewart, Tabori & Chang, 1991), a lavish tribute to the one home furnishing that, she said, constantly nourishes, whether you're asleep or not. "It's where we play, we work, we convalesce, we make love, we give birth, we die."
Ms. Beldegreen's book and at least nine others currently celebrate the sensual pleasures of the bed. Enticingly operatic bedroom displays with luxurious banks of pillows and goose-down comforters have become a standard component of everyday life, whether they are glimpsed in catalogues, on the cover of glossy design magazines or in the windows of shops from coast to coast.
"Just think about it: a bed with two dozen ruffled pillows," said Jeffrey Bilhuber, a New York City interior decorator. "My God, it would take you 45 minutes just to make it every morning."
While display coordinators are quick to note that store displays aren't to be taken literally, consumers continue to be titillated, if not inspired. "Copying beds like these would cost you a fortune," said a coordinator at a Manhattan department store, referring to his own hyper-accessorized creations.
Indeed, a tour of New York stores last week disclosed single displays ranging in price from $1,747.50, at Ad Hoc Softwares on West Broadway in SoHo, to $5,898, at Bergdorf Goodman on Fifth Avenue at East 58th Street.
One of the most costly examples is Ralph Lauren's lush, wintry "Russia" collection, which was directly inspired by his clothing for women. The designer layers a twin-size bed with soft black velvet and wool and cotton paisleys. From the cotton sheets ($15 each) to the cavalry twill throw edged with faux Persian lamb ($2,930), the total look will set you back $5,135. (The collection has already sold out at Macy's.)
Home Furnishings Daily, an industry publication, says that the $16 billion that Americans spent in 1993 to dress their bedrooms includes almost anything made of fabric, from quilts to picture frames.
Quilts, throws and duvet covers (a term that entered the American vernacular only about five years ago) were the stars of retailing, according to a national survey that will be released in the Feb. 14 issue of Home Furnishings Daily. Quilts, a $425 million business driven by the ever-increasing interest in the American country look, experienced a 25 percent jump last year, while sales of duvet covers rose by 16.6 percent and throws by 40 percent.
Pillows alone were a $792 million market, up from the previous year's $510 million. The tucked-in bedspread, considered by many consumers to be too strait-laced, has lost a significant market share for the last three years against the rumpled and casual look of the down-stuffed duvet.
Paradoxically, despite the rise of what some may call "comfort porn," it appears that the average American is doing everything in bed but sleeping. As Juliet B. Schor, a professor of economics at Harvard University, explained in her best seller, "The Overworked American: The Unexpected Decline of Leisure" (Basic Books, 1992), studies of sleep patterns, conducted in laboratories, show that a majority of adult Americans are operating on a "sleep deficit," getting as much as 90 minutes less sleep a night than they should for optimum health and job performance.
According to the Better Sleep Council's monthly newsletter, women have shorter periods of deep sleep than men, a condition that makes them more vulnerable to chronic exhaustion and stress-related health problems. Sleep-deprivation research also shows that the average working woman sleeps about 20 minutes less a night than the average working man, and as much as 50 minutes less if she has small children to care for.
Consequently, for sleep-deprived people, the bed has become the ultimate form of escapism, said Faith Popcorn, the founder of the Brain Reserve, a Manhattan-based market analysis company. She won a niche in the market-research pantheon when she codified one of the hottest behavioral trends in the 80's with a snappy, insouciant label: cocooning.
"We are looking at an entirely new trend, what I call 'pleasure revenge,' " she said. "We're sick of being so good -- smoking less, eating less, being monogamous. It's time for a safe indulgence, and a beautiful bed that's beautifully equipped fits into the whole escapist scenario."
Apart from its marketing potential, the beautiful bed scenario may have a strong psychological basis. "It's the eternal contest between fantasy and reality," said Dr. Barbara B. Seruya, a Manhattan clinical psychologist who specializes in qualitative market research. "People's perceptions are dictated by their own inner needs, and dressing a bed may symbolize, even compensate for, a person's desire for what he or she can't get enough of: sleep."
The iconographing of the bed isn't really new, said Ms. Beldegreen, the author, who likes to work at home, in bed, with her papers and books spread out around her. She explained that in the 18th century, it was fashionable for women to play hostess while stretched out on a bed or chaise longue. And since Roman times, all sorts of creative people have been famous for working in bed. While in bed, Rossini composed operas, Proust wrote much of "The Remembrance of Things Past," Winston Churchill governed Britain. Mark Twain sometimes used a cigar-box lid as a writing board while working in bed, Fantin-Latour painted and Philippe de Rothschild ran his renowned Chateau Mouton vineyard and translated hundreds of Elizabethan poems into French.
Mel Byars, the author of "The Chairs of Frank Lloyd Wright" and a co-editor of a forthcoming book, "50 American Industrial Designers" (Preservation Press), said: "Talking on the telephone, watching television, writing, listening to compact disks, eating takeout -- I live in my bed.".
What would make the situation absolutely ideal, he wistfully added, would be an adjustable bedside computer terminal that would allow him to edit manuscripts without having to relinquish his reclining position. "In a perfect world, I wouldn't have to get up to do anything," he said.
 
Pillow Talk
 IN the truly elegant bedroom, dressing the bed is just as de rigueur as undressing to get into it. But if your notions of bed-making come strictly from the Girl Scouts -- or boot camp -- the vocabulary of this domestic activity may seem as tangled as the sheets after a nightmare.
Following is a glossary of bedding terms to put the mind at rest. A caveat: Despite standardization in the industry, sizes vary among makers (higher-priced European specialty shops tend to cut their linens bigger), so always measure before you shop.
 
BEDSPREAD: Becoming extinct, now that more people are favoring the "open bed," on which pillows and coverings are proudly displayed rather than hidden.
BLANKET COVER: Like a bedspread, only less wide and chicquer. It usually goes under, rather than on top of, the pillows, and hangs down far enough to cover the mattress.
BOLSTER: A decorative cylindrical pillow that lies across the entire width of the bed. It can be either open-ended or tied at each end like a bonbon. The French call it a traversin and even sleep on it.
BOUDOIR (OR BREAKFAST) PILLOW: Small and rectangular, 12 by 16 inches, it is used either decoratively or for sleeping. Especially good for children, or maybe for a cat who likes to cuddle with its owners.
DOG BONE: This small pillow, also called a peanut, is shaped like its namesakes, though it is a good deal softer. About 13 inches long, indented in the middle and designed to support the neck.
DUVET: Meaning "down" in French, it is a synonym for "comforter," used by Europeans and by Americans who wish to make their sleep habits appear more Continental.
DUVET COVER: The same as a comforter cover. It is designed like a huge pillow case with an open end secured by a zipper, buttons or Velcro. Usually made of cotton or some other washable fabric, it saves mightily on dry cleaning bills if you like to eat in bed.
DUST RUFFLE: A skirt for the bed. Hemlines here don't vary much: the idea is to cover the space from the box spring to the floor.
ELBOW PILLOW: Do a lot of thinking in bed? About 8 by 10 inches, this little prop will support your elbow as you ponder, chin in hand.
EUROPEAN (OR CONTINENTAL) SQUARE: A large pillow 26 inches square. A fixture on European beds, it's good for leaning back on while you write your novel, Colette-style.
FEATHER BED: Like a mattress-size pillow filled with down, a European luxury goes between the mattress and the sheet. It gives the only sinking feeling most people love.
NECK ROLL: Not a gymnast's trick, but a pillow meant to support the neck. Shaped like a cylinder, it's 6 to 8 inches wide and 16 inches long.
(PLAIN OLD) PILLOW: Nobody needs a definition, but you might want to know the sizes. Standard, 20 to 21 inches by 26 to 27 inches; queen, 20 by 30 inches; king, 20 to 21 inches by 36 to 38 inches.
PILLOW SHAM: It's not a fake anything. It's like a pillowcase, but has a decorative flange on all sides and a slit in the center at the back. (Strictly speaking, pillowcases open at the end.)
THIN QUILT: Meant to double as a blanket and a bedspread, this very thin coverlet is quilted with a little polyester filling to make it warmer and sturdier than a sheet. LAUREL GRAEBER

GRAPHIC: Photos: Creating the country look on a budget, with products from New York City stores. (Brian Hagiwara for The New York Times; Carol Helms, stylist) (pg. C1); Alecia Beldegreen covers her bed with Tibetan fabric. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (56%); INDIA (56%); CHINA (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (54%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: THE BEDROOM STORE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (56%); INDIA (56%); CHINA (54%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (54%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: BEDS AND BEDDING INTERIOR DECORATING (89%); WRITERS (74%); RETAILERS (64%); 

PERSON: OWENS, MITCHELL MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



721 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Home Desk; Consumer's World Page

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: For Kitchens: the Good, the Odd, the Silly

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 24

 BODY:
One's first impulse is to applaud the National Housewares Manufacturers Association, sponsor of the annual International Housewares Show here, for honesty. In the huge four-day exhibition last week, the trade group gave the name "Design Oasis" to the one small display that showed off prize-winning product concepts by industrial design students.
Visitors were clearly intrigued by student prototypes like a small microwave oven with an expandable cooking space and rounded, heat-saving design that gave it the whimsical eye-appeal of early radio. Other innovations included a plastic picnic cart that folds out into a table and a portable toaster powered by natural gas. 
 Of course, the trade group did not really mean to imply that the acres of displays surrounding the design exhibit were, comparatively speaking, a desert. But the truth is that what consumers want for their homes changes slowly, and merchants try to stay in step.
That stability was reflected in the show's landscape despite the bustle created by 50,000 or so buyers and sellers who converged on the McCormick Place exhibition center. For most exhibitors, change comes in nuances like new colors, slightly different shapes, new prices or changes in advertising strategy. Here is an arbitrary review of some that stood out.
"WE DID IT BUT NOW WHAT" AWARD Technology fans loved the Welbilt Corporation's Breakfast Express, the first appliance able simultaneously to fry eggs, toast bread and brew coffee or tea. It took Japanese manufacturing experts nearly four years to come up with a device that met the specifications of Welbilt, America's largest importer of bread-making machines. That's longer than microchip makers spend on a new generation of semiconductors or Detroit takes to come up with a new automobile.
Clearly, it's attractive to everyone who doesn't have a toaster, coffeepot and stove and doesn't worry about cholesterol. But who will buy it at a suggested retail price of $399? It could sell well among the subclass of the well off who lack servants and want breakfast but can't cope with making it.
"ANYTHING FOR A LAUGH" AWARD The pitch for 3M's new Scotch Brite "Never Scratch," the first wool soap pad for cleaning Teflon and other nonstick cookware, was centered on a "blues" singer who consented to go by the name Soapy Waters and showed no apparent embarrassment belting out lyrics like these:
My baby's in the kitchen scouring pots and pans,
I hear her scream in agony, steel splinter in her hand.
You know it's hard to watch my baby hurt so much
When all she's ever wanted is a soap pad with a delicate touch.
"THE EGGPLANT THAT ATE CHICAGO" AWARD The Rubbermaid booth at the housewares show does not actually double in size each year, but the variety of products the company fashions out of plastic expands continuously. The growing range of sheds and storage units alone makes one wonder how long it will be until the company, based in Wooster, Ohio, starts signing up other exhibitors to put their entire displays inside its products.
Honorable mention in this category to the General Housewares Corporation's Oxo International unit, which started out designing distinctive ergonomic handles for gadgets like peelers and has expanded into garden tools. Presumably, the product-line expansion will run out of momentum before ballplayers are seen striding to the plate with Oxo-designed bat handles. Or will it?
"NAME GAME" AWARD With Farberware and Braun plunging into the iron business and Pillsbury's Betty Crocker group seemingly intent on licensing its name in every kitchen segment short of garbage disposers, the drive to leverage famous brand names was as fierce as ever.
The most inspired one-two punch was thrown by Moller International, which assigned the architect Michael Graves the task of creating a high-class tea kettle and related items for adults based on Mickey Mouse. Mr. Graves gave Moller elegant but unmistakable mouse-ear handles for its $100 kettles and trays. The motif continues in sugar bowl, creamer and mug and coaster set -- but no lunch pails.
" 'TIS A GIFT TO BE SIMPLE" AWARD Many Shakers would no doubt have been pleased to see so many manufacturers of ready-to-assemble furniture offering products inspired by their simple, practical designs. Unlike many other 19th-century religious sects, the Shakers strove for and admired commercial success.
There's nothing simple, though, about the economic forces driving the industry, so one wonders what the Shakers would think on closer inspection of how their legacy is faring. The ready-to-assemble industry relies heavily on manufacturing abroad that is sustained by low wages and, in some areas, environmentally questionable tree-harvesting practices. To keep prices low, manufacturers also offer furniture lines that consist of wood veneer or printed paper over plywood laminates, particle board or other wood substitutes.
"We'll do it whichever way our customers want," said Scott Whittall, national sales manager for Southern Enterprises Inc. of Dallas. That is just what buyers from department stores and catalogues like Spiegel expect to hear, of course. The-customer-is-always-right rule makes life simpler commercially if not spiritually.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONSUMER'S WORLD PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (81%); MMM (NYSE) (81%); MMM (FRA) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (87%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: WELBILT CORP (82%); NATIONAL HOUSEWARES MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOUSEWARES MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (87%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSEWARES; EXPOSITIONS AND FAIRS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); HOUSEWARES & FURNISHINGS MFG (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); FOOD SERVICE EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); RETAILERS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); NATURAL GAS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); COMPUTER CHIPS (63%); SEMICONDUCTORS (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



722 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Kozyrev & Talbott

BYLINE: WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
Two relatively young and sophisticated men, both setting policy at their nations' foreign ministries, have changed their positions radically in the past few months. Their shifts reveal much about the deterioration of Russian-American relations.
One is Strobe Talbott, longtime friend and Oxford roommate of Bill Clinton's. He stepped down from the power and prestige of Time magazine columnist to handle President Clinton's dealings with the nations of the former Soviet Union, and was recently named Deputy Secretary of State. 
 Although he was widely blamed for being the impetus behind Clinton's unfortunate choice for Defense Secretary last November, his friends charge that the current finger-pointing is the handiwork of David Gergen, who Talbottites claim was himself the leading advocate of the withdrawn nominee. The Clinton inner circle is not a happy band of brothers.
But the serious, urbane Talbott (to use Time's old, two-adjective style) has learned more than the art of White House infighting. To his credit, he has exhibited a refreshing willingness to reverse a position when it is shown to be mistaken, which we can hope may lead to a re-examination of his whole accommodationist Weltanschauung.
Little more than a month ago, Talbott reacted to Russian voter dissatisfaction with reformers' "shock therapy" by talking up "less shock, more therapy." That was a terrible blunder; it encouraged Boris Yeltsin to follow his go-slow instincts, undermining reformers and endangering Russian economic recovery.
That American position was modified when Clinton went to Moscow to promise "more reform, more support"; Talbott apparently thought that bought a Yeltsin commitment to continue reform. He was misled; reformers were double-crossed and the power shifted to the old apparatchiks.
Just as the invasion of Afghanistan awakened the accommodationist Jimmy Carter to Kremlin realities, the sellout of the reformers awakened Clinton and Talbott. Last week, the Deputy Secretary-designate made a 180-degree turn: in tough testimony to Congress, Talbott warned that aid to Russia depended on reform, and that reform had to come first. It was an epiphany.
Meanwhile, half a world away, another high-level diplomat was undergoing his own profound change. Short, boyish Andrei Kozyrev used to be a Certified Good Guy. His April Fool's Day speech last year alerted the world to the danger of militant Russian nationalism. Unafraid to ad-lib in English, he wowed those who interviewed him then with his good sense and good humor and support of a new Russian respect for its neighbors.
But in Moscow last month, a harder edge was evident: he had just won his election in Murmansk, a military area, by talking tough about the "near abroad." When I asked about the withdrawal of 13,000 Russian troops remaining in Latvia, he switched the subject to what he called discrimination against 11,000 retired Russian soldiers and their families living there (many in confiscated homes, infuriating native Latvians).
That was the new, disturbing Kozyrev. Two weeks ago, he seemed to carry that hard line to an extreme, in a speech telling Russian diplomats "we should not withdraw from those regions that have been the sphere of Russian interests for centuries."
As nervous Balts went ballistic, the Talbott State Department spokesman promptly said "we don't accept" that old-style hegemony. That rebuke caused a Kozyrev flunky to bluster about "mass media . . . deliberate distortion of the minister's pronouncements" and for Kozyrev to lash out at Latvia for "massive and crude violations of human rights" of the well-off colonists -- but also to call in the U.S. Ambassador to assure him troop withdrawal would take place this year.
Both Russians and Latvians are waiting for Talbott to suggest a compromise of letting a few hundred Russian troops rent the Skrunda early-warning radar facility for four years; when he does, I hope Latvia grabs the deal to get occupying troops out. Nor would it hurt for Latvians to assure long-resident Russian-speakers of ultimate first-class citizenship.
Kozyrev has taught Talbott to begin to toughen up; we can hope that Talbott will now teach Kozyrev to drop his crowd-pleasing, phony-tough attitude.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATVIA (91%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; LATVIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATVIA (91%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LATVIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLITICS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); WRITERS (71%); ARMED FORCES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; TALBOTT, STROBE; KOZYREV, ANDREI V (MIN) BILL CLINTON (94%); JIMMY CARTER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



723 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
Crime Crusaders On Parade

BYLINE: FRANK RICH

 BODY:
The good news is that it's no longer the economy, stupid. Crime now leads the pollsters' hit parade of hot issues.
The bad news is that most politicians will now do for crime what they did for the economy: pander to the public by offering quick fixes to postpone the complex process of halting what the unglib Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan calls "the manifest decline of the American civic order." 
 "Three strikes and you're out" is the sound bite du jour, embraced by imperiled incumbent governors as diverse as Pete Wilson and Mario Cuomo. This pleasing panacea -- mandatory life sentences without parole for three-time violent felons -- meshes well with the grandiose prison-building program pushed by the Republican Presidential hopeful Phil Gramm.
Who will be punished first by the costly construction of these mammoth "regional prisons"? Who else? The economy, stupid.
But the most simplistic approach to crime may be the campaign against television violence that has become the pet crusade of Senator Paul Simon and Representative Edward J. Markey, with cheerleading asides from Janet Reno. Last week the cable television industry responded to Senator Simon's threats of "legislative solutions" -- longhand for censorship -- by drafting a plan for rating violent programming. There's also talk of a V-chip, a gizmo that would allow parents to block violent programs by pushing a button, much as Colgate's Gardol protected my generation of American youth from tooth decay.
Assume for argument's sake that Senator Simon's debatable premise is accurate -- that television violence spawns real-life violence. If so, what good will ratings and V-chips do?
Not much. The same derelict or absentee parents who now let children watch television indiscriminately are unlikely to lay down the law according to ratings. Even those who push the V-button will block only a tiny percentage of tube violence.
In a typical oversimplification, Senator Simon, whose research about television does not seem to extend to watching it, defines his target as "entertainment violence," glossy Hollywood bloodbaths that can be easily identified, R-rated and V-vanquished. But violence permeates television as thoroughly as it does society. News coverage of the Bobbitt case, the Long Island Rail Road slaughter and the Menendez trial can desensitize and terrorize unsupervised young viewers as much as the made-for-TV movie versions to come.
And what about the bloodless violence on talk shows like "Geraldo"? Cartoons? Trash tabloid "news" programs?
Senator Simon is trying to put his finger in a dike that has already burst. Cable will soon offer 500 channels, many of them spewing fresh garbage. Given the proliferation of violent video games (with their own new ineffectual ratings) and coming innovations in the expanding cyberspace of entertainment technology, ratings and V-chips will quickly be roadkill on the information superhighway.
Only an enormous bureaucracy could fulfill Senator Simon's goal of creating an "independent monitoring committee" to evaluate this tonnage of media. By suggesting that someone like Walter Cronkite or John Chancellor might head such a monitoring force, Mr. Simon tells us more about his own gullibility before television imagery than about the medium's present realities.
The real way to end television violence and pressure its most irresponsible show-biz purveyors is not with gimmicks that challenge common sense and the First Amendment. Parents and other concerned citizens must instead say that they are mad as hell and aren't going to watch it anymore. Television programs with low ratings are canceled. Cable channels with few subscribers vanish.
Responsible parents already make these choices, and, as President Clinton put it Tuesday night: "Governments don't raise children. Parents do." But as the President also said in making his own powerful Moynihanesque comments linking crime to the collapse of the American family, too many children lack such parents.
Television can't fix that, and television won't change until America fixes itself. Senator Simon's crusade, already overcovered by the wary industry it attacks, is escapist fare that diverts attention from social reconstruction and crime-busting, the urgent tasks at hand.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; CENSORSHIP; TELEVISION; TELEVISION PROGRAMS CENSORSHIP (90%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); SENTENCING (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); FELONIES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); MOVIE RATINGS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); CONTENT RATINGS (72%); PRISONS (69%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (67%); CABLE INDUSTRY (51%); TOOTH DISORDERS (50%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK EDWARD J MARKEY (72%); FRANK RICH (59%); PHIL GRAMM (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



724 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Credit Union Placed Millions With Seized Spanish Bank

BYLINE: By JOSHUA MILLS

 BODY:
The U.S. Central Credit Union, which provides financial services for the country's 13,000 credit unions, acknowledged yesterday that it had deposited $255 million in uninsured accounts in Banco Espanol de Credito months before the Spanish Government seized the institution last month.
On Monday, Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, the Texas Democrat who heads the House Banking Committee, sent letters to U.S. Central and to the National Credit Union Administration, the Federal agency that regulates credit unions, asking whether the credit union was "risking taxpayer monies by investing" in Banesto, as the Spanish bank is known. 
 Staff members of the banking committee said yesterday that the concerns of Mr. Gonzalez went well beyond U.S. Central, the linchpin of the Corporate Credit Union Network, which functions like a central bank for credit unions. The committee, they said, would ask the Federal Reserve to determine whether American banks other than J. P. Morgan & Company had been involved with the Spanish bank. J. P. Morgan had created an investment partnership that held an 8 percent stake in Banesto.
Responding to Mr. Gonzalez's query, credit union officials said yesterday that the Banesto investment, whatever hindsight might show, was made in the name of diversity and safety. "We pursue a diversification strategy that takes us into the highest-rated banks in the world," said Glenn Carter, the chief financial officer of U.S. Credit. "Of the top 25 in the world, one is in the United States, of the top 250, 30 are in the United States."
Last summer, he said, U.S. Central made deposits of $10 million to $50 million, at maturities of three to 12 months, the last of which will mature on June 9. Mr. Carter declined to specify the interest rates on those deposits other than that they were at "fair market value, reflective of market levels at the time."
When those deposits were made, Banesto enjoyed top ratings for its short-term debt from ratings agencies like the Standard & Poor's Corporation and Moody's Investors Service. Those were among the data that Mr. Carter consulted. S.& P. lowered its rating on the Banesto debt on Dec. 13, two weeks before the Spanish Government appointed a new board and four months after U.S. Central made its last deposit in Banesto.
As recently as last Friday, Mr. Carter said, a $10 million deposit matured and its principal and interest were paid by Banesto. And he said Spanish Government officials had said publicly, and the board of Banesto had stated in writing, that the American deposits were secure and would be fully repaid.
Mr. Carter of U.S. Central said his credit union, which is based in Overland Park, Kan., had assets of about $27 billion, of which 15 to 30 percent was invested with foreign banks, "the bulk of that in the United States in branches of foreign institutions."
 
Deposits Restricted
 The 13,000 credit unions that accept money from individuals are permitted by law to deposit their money only in United States Treasury securitiesor other Government-backed instruments. Their excess funds are deposited in what are known as "corporate credit unions," of which there are 43, and which are permitted to deposit money overseas. These 43 regional or state credit unions, in turn, deposit their excess funds in U.S. Central.
Robert Loftus, a spokesman for the National Credit Union Administration, said only four corporate credit unions had deposits overseas, none of them in Banesto.
Aides to the House Banking Committee said yesterday that in addition to the specifics of the U.S. Central deposits, committee members were concerned about why the corporate credit unions were permitted to operate under less restrictive requirements than those imposed on banks and savings and loan deposits.
The Senate voted in 1991 to impose higher capital standards on corporate credit unions, but the House did not.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 28, 1994, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the U.S. Central Credit Union's deposits in a Spanish bank misstated the scope of the organization's membership. U.S. Central helps administer a network providing financial and investment services for 90 percent of the nation's 13,000 credit unions, not all of them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BTO (MCE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (84%); SIC6062 CREDIT UNIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (84%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (63%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); SPAIN (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANCO ESPANOL DE CREDITO; UNITED STATES CENTRAL CREDIT UNION; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; MORGAN, J P, & CO BANCO ESPANOL DE CREDITO SA (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); U S CENTRAL CREDIT UNION (84%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (63%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION (57%); NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANCO ESPANOL DE CREDITO; UNITED STATES CENTRAL CREDIT UNION; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; MORGAN, J P, & CO FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION (57%); NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN; ; UNITED STATES (97%); SPAIN (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT UNIONS; BANKS AND BANKING CREDIT UNIONS (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (85%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, HENRY B (REPR); MILLS, JOSHUA HENRY B GONZALEZ (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



725 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: At Last, Maybe, A Vision

BYLINE: By Alan Brinkley; Alan Brinkley is professor of American history at Columbia.

 BODY:
Theodore Roosevelt once said that a good political speech is "a poster, not an etching." More important than fine details are broad, bold themes that stand out from a distance. But through most of American history, State of the Union Messages -- even Theodore Rove almost always been more like etchings than posters, often dreary, seldom memorable.
In recent years, only Ronald Reagan -- who, like Theodore Roosevelt, always claimed to prefer "banners of bold colors" to "pale pastels" -- managed to transcend the genre. With "American heroes" seated prominently in the visitors' gallery, teary references to acts of courage and sacrifice, evocations of families and neighborhoods and communities and buoyant descriptions of America as "once again alive with hope and opportunity," "a soaring eagle, proud and free," Mr. Reagan transformed his State of the Union addresses from lists of policy achievements and goals into evocations of national values and myths. They were an essential part of his effort to attach moral weight to his conservative agenda. 
 Bill Clinton, a man as enchanted with the details of policy as Mr. Reagan was bored with them, nevertheless delivered a State of the Union address Tuesday night more evocative of Mr. Reagan's bursts of symbolic oratory than the legislative report cards of other predecessors.
To be sure, Mr. Clinton boasted of economic and fiscal successes; he promoted his flagging health care proposals; he spoke at surprising length about welfare reform -- an issue many had assumed would remain on the back burner until after the health care debate; he made modest (and only partly convincing) claims of diplomatic achievements.
But most striking was his effort to make those goals seem part of a coherent whole: to persuade the American public that he does not just have ideas, but also an idea -- that in addition to specific policy proposals he has a vision of how the future can and should look.
There is good reason for him to do so. Mr. Clinton came into office with an exceptionally frail mandate in an exceptionally adversarial political climate. He was despised by the right, only tentatively embraced by the left and harried from all directions by Ross Perot. He stumbled through his first few months watching his already weak public support crumble in the face of a string of missteps and misfortunes. Even now, with some considerable successes behind him and his popularity much enhanced, he faces considerable public skepticism.
Unlike at least four of the last five Presidents, Mr. Clinton believes in the capacity of Government to do good. But he has inherited a political climate in which relatively few Americans seem to agree with him. For 40 years, the cold war not only imposed a coherent framework on American foreign policy, it also helped legitimize two generations of domestic initiatives, as part of the nation's effort to justify its position as leader of, and model to, the world. The cold war is over. In the 1950's and 1960's, the assumption of permanent affluence made it seem possible for the nation to undertake great tasks without having to absorb great sacrifices. That assumption is in a shambles.
The belief in progress -- in the possibility, even desirability of social improvement -- is probably as frail today as it has been at any moment in our history. On what, then, can an activist President base his hopes for a reinvigorated Government?
In a speech in Chapel Hill last fall, the President experimented with a framework for his programs reminiscent of the New Deal and the Great Society: the idea of security. The American people face a future of insecurity and instability, he said, and it is up to Government to make them feel that they can weather the inevitable changes that await them with some minimal confidence. His trade policies would contribute to economic security, his health care proposals to medical security, his anti-crime initiatives to personal security. Government would again be the protector of its citizens as they entered an age of uncertainty.
It was an intelligent speech, and in another time it might have generated real excitement. But amid the disenchantment and cynicism of the 1990's, the theme sounded somehow hollow. And the President, perhaps realizing that, made only oblique reference to it Tuesday night.
He turned instead, with what seemed genuine emotion, to things that were staples of Mr. Reagan's speeches. He spoke about social problems rooted in "the loss of values, in the disappearance of work and the breakdown of our families and our communities." He cited the role of "churches and other good citizens" in helping to solve social problems. He insisted that individual acts of heroism are still possible in the face of apparently overwhelming social forces. He spoke above all about family -- and, in an apparently spontaneous moment, of his own mother, who died earlier this month.
Ronald Reagan, and many other conservatives, used such symbols as a rebuke to liberals. They cited the strength of communities, families and churches as evidence of the irrelevance of Government and the importance of unleashing individuals from its shackles.
Mr. Clinton has been trying, slowly and tentatively, to enlist the same symbols behind his own activist agenda. Americans, he said, have revealed the "better angels of our nature" in their responses to flood, earthquake, fire and storm. And they can do so as well in attacking our "deepest problems" -- not by relying solely on individual acts of generosity and courage but by joining in an effort to make Government an ally of change and progress.
The President was, in other words, trying to do more Tuesday night than boast of his accomplishments and jump-start his health care plan. He did those things effectively, but he was also trying to reclaim from the right a moral language that liberals have -- in recent years, at least -- largely abdicated. He was continuing the effort he began with his speech on crime in Memphis last November to rescue liberalism from the symbolically barren, socially fragmented world it has inhabited for a generation, and to link it to a popular yearning for values and community.
No recent President has been better than Bill Clinton at explaining policies; he can talk intelligently for hours about the details of legislation and programs. But on Tuesday night, he seemed to recognize that a firm grasp of policy is not enough. Without a poster, as Theodore Roosevelt understood, there will be little interest in his etchings.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (88%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); HISTORY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); HEALTH CARE LAW (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (69%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, ALAN (PROF); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994



726 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 18; Column 3; National Desk; Law Page

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: Two Black Lawyers' 'Crazy Idea' That Worked

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
From the beginning, H. Jesse Arnelle and William Hastie knew it sounded crazy: They would close their lucrative solo law practices and create a minority-owned corporate law firm, one of the first in the nation, committed to cost effectiveness in its management and diversity in its hiring policy. And they would turn the firm into a multimillion-dollar operation, with six-figure annual billings and corporate clients like the Coca-Cola Company, Levi Strauss and the Chrysler Corporation.
"It was a crazy idea because there weren't any real models," said Mr. Hastie, noting that most minority-owned law firms specialize in litigation, civil rights, criminal defense, family and personal injury law. 
 Now, about nine years later, the firm with no models is the model, with six partners, 30 associates and offices in San Francisco, Los Angeles, Sacramento, New York, Philadelphia and Cherry Hill, N.J. Its client list reads like a Who's Who of corporate America: the Eaton Corporation, the G.T.E. Corporation, First Federal Bank of California, E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Company, SmithKline Beecham P.L.C., Bank of America and others.
"You're aren't going to find at a majority firm better lawyers or better economics," said Joann M. Russell, the associate general counsel for Levi Strauss. "And the diversity at Arnelle & Hastie is not just a diversity of color, but of ethnicity and gender. That is real important to my company."
The firm's success is built on a few tenets: keep the practice small, keep costs down and keep going after clients, taking advantage of all contacts and any programs that promote the interests of minority lawyers, like those developed by the National Bar Association in 1976, the American Bar Association in 1988 and the California Bar Association in 1990.
 
Fee Flexibility Helps
 "We're extremely aggressive about pursuing clients, particularly in the context of the various programs concerning minority counsel and lawyer diversity," Mr. Hastie said.
In a branch of the law that tends to generate higher incomes than other kinds of law, the firm is flexible about fees. "We frequently offer alternative fee structures to clients," Mr. Hastie said, "charging on a flat fee basis for a matter, a blended rate that combines our lowest and highest hourly rates, or incentive rates, where we offer to take a much lower hourly rate than our normal, with an agreement that if we achieve a certain level of results we get a bonus; if not, we're stuck with a huge discount on our hourly rate."
He added: "We tend to be about 10 to 15 percent under the costs of what big firms charge, and by big I mean a 200-plus-lawyers firm." He declined to disclose his firm's total annual billings.
The law firm that has emerged answers several corporate needs. "Some corporate counsel now are considering sending a higher proportion of their work to smaller firms, which frequently have better cost structures," John Morris, editor of The American Lawyer, explained. "So to the corporate counsel, hiring minority firms, which are generally smaller, may kill two birds with one stone: save the corporation money and encourage the development of minority lawyers."
Both Mr. Arnelle, who is 60, and Mr. Hastie, who is 46, came to their partnership with connections in both government and the private sector. Mr. Arnelle graduated from Dickinson School of Law in Carlisle, Pa., in 1962, Mr. Hastie from Boalt Hall School of Law at the University of California at Berkeley in 1971. Both had performed some corporate work in public finance and banking, but they had specialized in litigation.
Mr. Arnelle, who comes from a modest family background, was hired by R. Sargent Shriver in 1963 to be associate director of the Peace Corps in Turkey.
 
The Taste of Silver
 Mr. Hastie describes himself as having been born "if not with a silver spoon, then a silver-plated one." His father, William H. Hastie, who is dead, was the first black appointed to a Federal appeals court judgeship. He was also a dean of Howard University law school and a Governor of the United States Virgin Islands. Mr. Hastie's sister, Karen Hastie Williams, is a civil rights lawyer and former budget official under President Jimmy Carter.
Mr. Arnelle and Mr. Hastie had known each other for several years when both lived in the San Francisco area. When Mr. Arnelle decided to start the firm, he compiled a list of lawyers with whom he felt he could work; Mr. Hastie led the list.
It was a formidable undertaking. "Most corporations have not been willing to entrust very important business to minority firms," said Pauline Schneider, a black partner at Hunton & Williams in Washington and head of the American Bar Association's accreditation committee.
Jack Crump, executive director of the National Bar Association, the black law organization, said minority lawyers seldom have the money to set up the kind of offices necessary for a corporate practice or the contacts needed to pursue such a practice.
Mr. Arnelle and Mr. Hastie started in 1,500 square feet of space in the Ferry Building in San Francisco with a card table, a telephone and a list of contacts. Today, that office has expanded to 13,000 square feet on several floors, while their contacts have generated clients who give them ever larger, more lucrative, shares of their legal work.
Mr. Arnelle, who is on the board of trustees of Pennsylvania State University, knew executives who were graduates of the institution. "William Schreyer, the C.E.O. and chairman of the board of Merrill-Lynch, was on the board, and his was the first call I made from that card table," Mr. Arnelle said. "He just was so positive about the possibilities, you can't imagine how I felt after making that very first corporate call." Merrill-Lynch and Company eventually became a client.
 
Corporate Connections
 Mr. Hastie also brought corporate connections. He had once sued Levi Strauss over a stockholder issue. Though he did not win the case, he got to know the company's lawyers. Levi Strauss became another client.
Guy Rounsaville, chief counsel and corporate secretary of Wells Fargo Bank, which hired Arnelle & Hastie, said the two lawyers "are two very dynamic individuals and are extremely well thought of in the San Francisco community and in the legal profession." Mr. Arnelle is on the company's board.
Drucilla Ramey, executive director and general counsel of the Bar Association of San Francisco, credits the firm's corporate appeal to the civil rights litigation background of many of its lawyers. "They are crack litigators," Ms. Ramey said. "They're used to litigating against huge law firms on the other side with limited resources. Corporations hire them now because they have a phenomenal track record as lawyers."
Still, by the end of the firm's first year, they say they were running a deficit. Then came the RJR Tobacco Company, which picked Arnelle & Hastie as one of its corporate counsels on the recommendation of James Cole, associate general counsel for the Clorox Company and a classmate of one of the tobacco company's lead counsels. Arnelle & Hastie started turning a profit.
Over the years, Arnelle & Hastie has attracted experienced lawyers from other firms. "Partially that is because you've got to have real experience and judgment," Mr. Hastie said. "We can't build the traditional pyramid law firm because we don't have the time."
And the firm needed the resources to convince clients that it could service all their corporate law needs. For example, Mr. Hastie specialized in employment law, but it was clear that the firm needed an expert in public finance, specifically bond work for cities or municipalities. It also needed someone young who would not command a high salary.
"We found such a person in Bill Lofton, but he needed back-up, so for the first year or two of our public finance practice, I acted like the associate," Mr. Hastie said. "That included inputting documents into the computer because we didn't have money to pay overtime to secretaries. I was under his direction because he was the one who knew."
Mr. Lofton, who had been a senior associate with the well-known public finance law firm of Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe, was 28 years old at the time. He joined Arnelle & Hastie, where he is now a partner, for 60 percent of the salary he was earning plus incentives.
"I did it because hopefully I was going to make a lot more money," Mr. Lofton said. "But as important is that I thought there ought to be at least one first-rate large law firm in the country that is owned and controlled by African Americans."
Arnelle & Hastie's success has made it difficult to maintain the very diversity that makes it unusual: the raiders have become the raided. The firm already has 14 alumni, many of whom were lured away to work for corporations. That is why the partners, who at one time were black, female, Asian, Hispanic and white, are now all black and all male, Mr. Hastie says.
Stephen Melikian, who is white and a former partner at Arnelle & Hastie, now works for Nossaman, Guthner, Knox & Elliott. His race was never an issue in the firm, he said, but the the work was overwhelming. "When you have six partners you all have to chip in," Mr. Melikian said. "At a small firm that is growing, it really takes a lot of time and energy."
Mr. Melikian said he had young children and wanted to spend more time with them. He still does business with Arnelle & Hastie, however. "They have extremely good results with clients," he said. "And if you look at people based on results and repeat business, then they're doing very well."

GRAPHIC: Photo: H. Jesse Arnelle, left, and William Hastie closed their solo practices to create a minority-owned corporate law firm committed to frugal management and a diverse hiring policy. The firm generates six-figure annual billings and includes blue-chip companies among its clients. (Darcy Padilla for The New York Times)
 
Charts: "H. Jesse Arnelle"
 
Born: December 30, 1933.
 
Hometown: New Rochelle, N.Y.
 
Education: New Rochelle High School, 1951; Pennsylvania State University, B.A., 1955; Dickinson School of Law, Carlisle, Pennsylvania, 1962.
 
Career Highlights: 1985 to present, co-founder and managing parter of Arnelle & Hastie; sole practitioner, 1975-1985; public defener, United States District Court, 9th Circuit, 1973-1975; associate, Morrison, Forster, 1971-1973; private practice, 1971; general counsel of I.D.E.A. Inc., a nonprofit educational development company of the Charles F. Kettering Foundation, 1969-1970; associate general counsel at the Federal Power Commission, 1968; Peace Corps, deputy in charge of special recruiting, 1967-1968; Peace Corps, a regional director, India, 1965-1967; Peace Corps, associate director, Turkey, 1963-1965.
 
Family: Married to Dr. Carolyn A. Block Arnelle. One daughter, Nicole; jtwo sons, Paolo and Michael.
 
"William Henry Hastie"
 
Born: March 3, 1947, Charlotte Amailie, Virgin Islands.
 
Hometown: Philadelphia.
 
Education: Central High School in Philadelphia, 1964; B.A. Amherst College, B.A., 1968; J.D., Boalt Hall School of Law, University of California, Berkeley.
 
Career highlights: 1985 to present, co-founder and managing parter of Arnelle & Hastie; visiting law professor, graduate school of public policy at Berkeley and part-time law practice, 1983-1985; Undersecretary and General Counsel for state and consumer services (State of Calif.) and chairman, California State Building Standards Commission, 1979-1983; founder of Hastie-Lawrence Associates, Ltd., management/legal consulting company, 1978-1979; executive officer and general counsel, California Fair Employment Practice Commission, 1976-1978; co-founder/lawyer, Public Advocates, Inc., the West Coast's first public interest law firm, 1971-1976.
 
Family: Married to Cassandra Maurine Flipper, general counsel of the Nature Company Group. One daughter, Karen, and a son, Carl.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (72%); DUPP (PAR) (69%); DD (NYSE) (69%); ETN (NYSE) (69%); GSK (NYSE) (68%); GSK (LSE) (68%); BIOC (EGX) (68%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (72%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (69%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (69%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (69%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS333996 FLUID POWER PUMP & MOTOR MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (69%); SIC3594 FLUID POWER PUMPS & MOTORS (69%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (68%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARNELLE & HASTIE COCA-COLA CO (72%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (71%); E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (69%); EATON CORP PLC (69%); TE CORP (69%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (68%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (57%); ONEWEST BANK FSB (55%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); PEACE CORPS (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARNELLE & HASTIE PEACE CORPS (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BLACKS (IN US); HIRING AND PROMOTION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) LAWYERS (92%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (78%); ETHNICITY (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (71%); PERSONAL INJURY (69%); 

PERSON: DE WITT, KAREN; ARNELLE, H JESSE; HASTIE, WILLIAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



727 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: SENATE URGES END TO U.S. EMBARGO AGAINST VIETNAM

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
In a strong bipartisan vote intended to make it easier for President Clinton to end decades of rancor with a former enemy, the Senate voted today to urge that the trade embargo against Vietnam be lifted soon. The White House had supported the measure behind the scenes.
After an emotionally charged debate about the lessons of the Vietnam War and the fate of missing servicemen, the Senate, by a 62-to-38 vote, agreed with the bill's chief sponsor, John F. Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat and Vietnam veteran, who said it was time "to put the war behind us." 
 Although the resolution is not binding, Administration officials said today that it would certainly make it easier for Mr. Clinton to take the politically sensitive step of ending the 19-year embargo, closing a chapter on a war in which 58,135 Americans died.
 
'A Seminal Event'
 "The vote will give the President the kind of political cover he needs to lift the embargo, and I expect that relatively soon," said Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican and a sponsor of the bill, who was a prisoner of war in North Vietnam for five and a half years. "I think it's a seminal event in U.S.-Vietnamese relations."
A consensus emerged among senior Administration officials last month to lift the embargo, but they decided that action would be put off to take political soundings around the country and determine how much backlash there would be. Administration officials acknowledge that this is a particularly sensitive issue for Mr. Clinton because he, like thousands of Americans in his generation, avoided military service during the Vietnam War.
 
2,200 Americans Missing
 Today's resolution aimed to show the President that lifting the embargo has widespread political support and is not a betrayal, as some veterans groups argue, of servicemen missing in Vietnam. Forty-two Democrats and 20 Republicans voted to lift the embargo; 14 Democrats and 24 Republicans voted against.
Last summer, President Clinton indicated he would lift the embargo if Vietnam cooperated in providing the fullest possible accounting for the more than 2,200 Americans missing in Indochina.
Now, the question in the Administration is not whether the embargo will be lifted, but how soon, though some officials say the President needs to do some more explaining to veterans' groups and families of missing servicemen.
The White House regarded the vote as useful in calling attention to the progress that Vietnam has made in meeting the conditions set by the Administration, officials said. But they said they did not expect Mr. Clinton to follow the Senate recommendation immediately.
Dee Dee Myers, the White House spokeswoman, said, "We certainly welcome the Senate's sentiment." But she said the Administration was still considering whether Vietnam had made sufficient progress toward providing information about P.O.W.'s and M.I.A.'s and on other fronts for full relations to be restored.
Many veterans' groups and family groups opposed today's resolution, arguing that Vietnam has not done enough to resolve the cases of missing Americans.
 
American Legion Opposes Move
 "The American Legion is both disappointed and concerned," said John F. Sommer Jr., the executive director. "However we are not going to give up the fight. Vietnam has not cooperated by a long shot."
Defying the intense lobbying by these groups, the Senate approved a resolution that said Vietnam's cooperation has increased significantly over the last three years in resolving the cases of missing Americans. The resolution also noted that senior American military officials feel that lifting the embargo will accelerate efforts to account for prisoners or war and missing servicemen.
Republicans in the Senate split almost evenly on the vote, with some convinced that Vietnam was making strenuous efforts to provide information on missing servicemen. Other Republicans appeared ready to use lifting the embargo as political ammunition against the Democrats.
 
Complaints From Businesses
 Many companies have quietly told Republicans and Democrats that the embargo is hurting American business as Vietnam opens its economy to the outside world.
Senator Robert C. Smith, a New Hampshire Republican who has been a strong opponent of lifting the embargo, said today: "We should not reward Vietnam with improved relations until we know they have unilaterally provided all the documentation they can from their archives. At this time, they have not even come close."
Demonstrating how emotional the issue is, he called today's vote "immoral and incomprehensible."
The bill's sponsors argued that Vietnam might stop cooperating if President Clinton did not lift the embargo.
 
'Incentives to Respond'
 "You cannot expect the Vietnamese to go on and on helping us forever and receiving nothing in return but the cold shoulder of two decades of wholesale embargo," Senator Kerry said. "In the last two years, Vietnamese cooperation on the P.O.W.-M.I.A. issue has accelerated dramatically because we engaged them and because we offered them incentives to respond."
Rejecting suggestions from some service families that supporting the resolution was unpatriotic, the bill's backers noted that the main sponsor, Mr. Kerry, was wounded three times in Vietnam and was awarded a Silver Star and a Bronze Star; the other principal sponsor, Mr. McCain, was a P.O.W. Another sponsor was Senator Bob Kerrey, the Nebraska Democrat and Medal of Honor winner who lost his right leg below the knee in Vietnam.
Senator Kerry and Administration officials vigorously denied that the Administration had stage-managed today's vote with the aim of clearing the President's way to lift the embargo.
 
Links to White House
 Administration officials and supporters of today's resolution said Senator Kerry was in regular contact with the White House's political staff on the resolution. A senior White House official said President Clinton had not sought to dissuade Senator Kerry when he told them he planned to bring the matter to a vote. But he said the White House had nothing to do with initiating the gambit.
Senator McCain said, "The White House staff felt it was very important to pass this, given the problems that the President's lack of military background gives him on this sort of an issue."
Today's resolution also sought to press Vietnam by stating that as Washington and Hanoi move toward normalizing relations, Vietnam should "demonstrate further improvements in meeting internationally recognized standards of human rights."
The resolution was proposed as an amendment to the State Department authorization bill.
In defending today's resolution, Senator McCain said he was relying on the view of two well-positioned military officials -- Adm. Charles R. Larson, Commander of United States forces in the Pacific, forces, and Gen. John W. Vessey Jr., former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Mr. Clinton's envoy to Vietnam.
Mr. McCain said they believed that "lifting the embargo will enhance their ability to make progress on the P.O.W.-M.I.A. issue."
Senator Kerry noted that the Vietnamese have turned over 67 sets of remains last year -- the most since the war ended in 1975. He also noted that investigators have been given access to Vietnamese archives.
"The time has come for us to replace the hostility and mistrust of the last 19 years with reconciliation and reconstruction," Senator Kerry said.
Supporters of the embargo argued today that removing it would leave no levers to press Hanoi to continue cooperating. But Senators Kerry and McCain argued that there are many ways to press Hanoi, like continuing to withhold diplomatic relations or threatening to restore the embargo.
Last year, the Administration took several steps toward improving relations with Vietnam. In July, it gave the green light for the International Monetary Fund and other international institutions to lend money to Vietnam. In September, it began allowing United States companies to bid for contracts financed by loans from the I.M.F. and other international organizations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; MISSING IN ACTION; EMBARGOES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); VETERANS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KERRY, JOHN F (SEN) JOHN KERRY (92%); BILL CLINTON (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



728 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-10
 
SENATE VOTES ON HANOI EMBARGO
In a strong bipartisan vote, the Senate urged the Administration to end its trade embargo against Vietnam soon. The vote is intended to make it easier for President Clinton to take that step and end decades of rancor with a former enemy. A1
 
EXICO ADOPTS ELECTION REFORM
Bowing to pressure for political change after a peasant uprising in the south, Mexico's governing party agreed to lower campaign spending limits by almost 80 percent and allow a more impartial choice of election authorities. A1 

WO VIEWS OF BOSNIA'S MUSLIMS
News analysis: The war of words between Washington and Paris reveals a fundamental difference in the way they view the Muslim-led Government of Bosnia. A6
 
Serbian forces are said to be massing near two Bosnian towns. A6
 
BELARUS TRIES TO CALM ENVOYS
After the ouster of the country's reformist leader, the Government of Belarus called in diplomats to reassure them that commitments to nuclear disarmament and a market economy are unchanged. A6
 
HOSOKAWA TURNS TO THE PEOPLE
Opening a counterattack, Japan's leader appealed for popular support to force Parliament to endorse a broad realignment of the electoral system by Saturday. Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa is struggling to salvage his Government and its proposals for political reform. A10
 
BASQUE SEPARATISTS LOSE STEAM
After 25 years of violence that has taken more than 800 lives, hopes of peace are stirring in the Basque region of northern Spain. The police are gaining, and many people are disenchanted with the separatist movement's violent tactics. A3
 
RUSSIAN SCIENTIST ON TRIAL
In a case closely followed by human rights groups, a Russian scientist who wrote about Moscow's chemical weapons program has been arrested. He has refused to testify at his own trial on charges of divulging state secrets. A5
 
Israel welcomed overtures from King Hussein of Jordan. A8
 
An Italian media magnate entered the political fray. A8
 
Salahaddin Journal: From a mountaintop, a plea for the Kurds. A4
 
National A12-20
 
JUSTICE OFFICIAL RESIGNS
The No. 2 official at the Justice Department, Philip B. Heymann, announced his resignation in an abrupt departure that added to personnel problems plaguing the Clinton Administration. A1
 
NORTH ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL
Six years after he infuriated lawmakers with tales of lying to Congress to keep the arms-for-hostages deal secret, Oliver North formally began his bid to win the Republican Senate nomination in Virginia. A1
 
AN ELECTRIC CAR SETBACK
General Motors hopes California will postpone or scrap the 1997 deadline for "zero-emission" vehicles because the auto maker's electric car has come up short of expectations. A1
 
WRESTLING OVER A POWER LINE
In one example of a nationwide debate over where to put energy projects, residents of a Florida county are fighting a power company over its plan to string 40 miles of high-voltage power lines. A12
 
3D TRIAL IN EVERS SLAYING
Thirty years after he was first tried in the slaying of the civil rights leader Medgar Evers, Byron De La Beckwith, older but no less a white supremacist, went on trial for the third time. A12
 
BOOM IN BUSINESS AFTER QUAKE
With damage estimates from the earthquake as high as $30 billion, and Angelenos still edgy over the aftershocks, businesses from drywall contractors to massage therapists are being besieged. A16
 
City officials are worried about the quake's impact on tourism. A16
 
Thousands of people have moved out of the emergency tent cities. A16
 
WHITE HOUSE TOUTS PROJECTIONS
The White House seized on a new set of Congressional projections showing shrinking budget deficits to argue that there is no need for a Constitutional amendment requiring a balanced Federal budget. A18
 
COLLEGE ACCREDITING CONSIDERED
The leaders of six regional accrediting organizations are meeting to consider the future of the entire accrediting process for universities and colleges. A19
 
Law Page B18
 
A "crazy idea" about a corporate firm works for two black lawyers.
 
Four hundred jobs a lawyer can do when a lawyer does not practice law.
 
At the Bar: The selling of the "devil made me do it" defense.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
KELLY DEFENDS HIS MANAGEMENT
Former Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly defended himself against a week of attacks from the Giuliani administration, which has labeled the department as lethargic and one of its cornerstones, community policing, as mismanaged. A1
 
COLORFUL MEMORIALS TO THE SLAIN
The violence that has taken thousands of young lives in New York City has some physical reminders: in wall murals throughout the city commemorating the dead. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-27, D17
 
Reality reeling in age of pundits. C1
The new world of pinball. C1
For Children C18
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
"No Man's Land." C1
Film: Surprises at Sundance. C5
"Living Proof." C8
"Bad Girls." C8
"Golden Gate." C10
"The Scent of Green Papaya." C15
Music: A new cello concerto. C3
Celebrating Mexico. C16
Restaurants C22
Art: Art in Review C19
Inside Art C23
Photography: Gestures. C17
Television: Home Video D17
DuPont-Columbia awards. D17
 
Sports B8-16
 
HARDING LEARNED OF ATTACK
Tonya Harding admitted she found out "that some persons that were close to me" were involved in the attack on Nancy Kerrigan, but that she delayed in telling the police. A1
 
Baseball: Abbott and Yanks agree. B9
Column: Berkow on Harding and the Olympics. B9
TV Sports B11
Figure Skating: Harding will get Olympic spot. B9
Tennis: Martin ousts Edberg. B9
 
Obituaries B7
 
Claude Akins, actor.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
The Mayor's badly aimed ax.
Defense time bomb.
Gerry Adams's visa.
A million Mrs. Bobbitts.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Police and prisons.
Anthony Lewis: Whistling past Weimar.
Simon Fass: Blessings from Papa Doc.
 
Chronicle B6
 
Crossword C24

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); VIETNAM (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SPAIN (92%); BELARUS (92%); VIET NAM (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); EUZKADI TA ASKATASUNA (ETA) (54%); EUZKADI TA ASKATASUNA (ETA) (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUZKADI TA ASKATASUNA (ETA) (54%); EUZKADI TA ASKATASUNA (ETA) (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); VIETNAM (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SPAIN (92%); BELARUS (92%); VIET NAM (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (83%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (72%); EMISSIONS (72%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); RELIGION (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); RESIGNATIONS (65%); ARRESTS (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



729 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Leader Broadens His Battle to Win Reform

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 27

 BODY:
Struggling to salvage his proposals for political reform and avert a collapse of his Government, Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa took the extraordinary step today of appealing for popular support and international pressure to force Parliament to endorse a broad realignment of the electoral system by Saturday.
Direct pressure from Japan's largely apolitical citizens has never been a major factor in decision-making here. But Mr. Hosokawa began a counterattack to reverse his defeat in a key vote last Friday by borrowing a tactic from American politics. He called for voters to launch a telephone, fax and write-in campaign to force the Parliament to accept his proposals to reshape Parliamentary election districts and curb campaign contributions. 
 To increase the pressure, Mr. Hosokawa said that a package of measures to revive the recession-bound economy would be held hostage to the electoral legislation, which has been debated now for five years. He also suggested that he was willing to resign, and perhaps call a snap election, if the bills are killed.
 
Courting the Foreign Press
 Equally unusual was the fact that his aides went out of their way to invite members of the foreign press corps to hear his speech, in an apparent attempt to enlist international opinion.
Mr. Hosokawa said that unless the reform bills were passed this week, in some form, "it is perfectly clear that Japan will completely lose the trust of the international community." He has said that his ability to settle simmering trade disputes with the United States and to open the Japanese economy rest on his success in the current struggle.
"It is in the fifty-odd hours we have remaining that we must show the world that Japan has become a mature democracy whose people are able to make wise decisions," Mr. Hosokawa said, alluding to the end of the current session of Parliament at midnight on Saturday.
The reform measures would impose new ceilings on political contributions to candidates and parties in response to a series of bribery and corruption scandals that led to the Liberal Democratic Party's fall after nearly four decades in power.
 
Redrawing Districts
 In addition, the measures supported by the Prime Minister would increase the number of urban districts in Parliament and reduce the number of rural districts. The bills would also change the current system, in which three to six members are elected in each district, to single-seat districts.
The theory, which even the Liberal Democrats accept in principle, is that the new districts would stop members of the same party from running against one another, and thus make campaigns turn on policy differences rather than money. The main objections have come from some Socialists and members of smaller parties who claim that minority voices would not be represented.
In his speech today, Mr. Hosokawa offered to compromise on the bills, but his appeals and threats indicated that he was prepared to force a showdown.
Mr. Hosokawa's counterattack and the growing feeling here that Japan is on the cusp of major political changes were due in part to speculation that the bribery scandals that led to the effort to clean up the corrupt campaign-financing system were about to claim several powerful new victims.
The press has been filled with reports that Seiroku Kajiyama, a former Justice Minister and one of the most conservative members of the Liberal Democratic Party -- and a staunch opponent of electoral reform -- may be arrested soon on charges that he accepted an illegal contribution.
 
L.D.P. Faces More Defections
 Mr. Kajiyama's arrest would hurt the Liberal Democrats, who governed Japan for 38 years until a split last summer. The indictment of the party's former kingmaker, Shin Kanemaru, and the defection of several dozen younger members because of differences over electoral reform put Mr. Hosokawa's coalition in power in August.
The party is under enormous pressure because dozens of younger members support Mr. Hosokawa's reform proposals and are threatening to quit if the party's leaders refuse to strike a deal with the Prime Minister.
"Today, the wind is blowing against the L.D.P. again," said Yuriko Koike, a member of Mr. Hosokawa's Japan New Party. But she said it was still not clear that the Government would manage to get its reform legislation passed by the session's end. In fact, a multi-party committee failed today to hammer out a compromise.
Mr. Hosokawa went so far as to offer to virtually adopt the Liberal Democrats' version of the reform bills.
Although both bills are supposed to clean up electoral corruption, the Liberal Democrats' version is far less rigorous. For instance, corporate contributions to individual members of Parliament would still be permitted.
But the actual impact of the bills has rarely been the principal focus of this titanic battle for Japan's political future. Mr. Hosokawa appears to be calculating that by embracing both reform packages he can force a wedge between those Liberal Democrats willing to embrace change and those who staunchly oppose it.
If the Liberal Democratic Party is split again, the balance of power could shift to the cluster of parties in the center, breaking up the cold war division between the Socialists on the left and the Liberal Democrats on the right. Already, many of the more left-wing members of the Socialists -- which is part of Mr. Hosokawa's coalition -- have been driven to the brink of quitting the party.
The strategy now, according to Eichiro Ishida, the chairman of the Clean Government Party, another coalition partner, is to get through some form of the bills this week, and then amend them later.
Mr. Hosokawa succeeded in passing his bills through the more powerful lower house last November, but was stunned with an unexpected defeat in the upper house last Friday. Currently, a 20-person committee from both houses is debating a compromise. If it succeeds, the new bills would have to be passed by a majority of both houses.
If that method fails, Mr. Hosokawa can go back to the lower house and seek a two-thirds majority. That frightens the Liberal Democrats because it could encourage young rebels who have been eager to follow Mr. Hosokawa to finally make the break.
"I think we should create an environment that supports these people by coming up with a compromise that is as close as possible to the L.D.P.'s bills," said Shigeru Ishiba, who left the Liberal Democrats several weeks ago. "Then we would create widespread public support, which would leave the L.D.P. helpless."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); ELECTION LAW (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); REDISTRICTING (69%); HOSTAGE TAKING (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); CORRUPTION (61%); SCANDALS (50%); BRIBERY (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO (PRIME MIN) MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



730 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Belarus Says Aide's Ouster Won't Stop Reform

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 27

 BODY:
The Belarus Foreign Ministry called in foreign diplomats in Minsk today to reassure them that the country's commitments to denuclearization and a market economy were unchanged by the ouster on Wednesday of Stanislav S. Shushkevich, a non-Communist reformer, as chairman of Parliament and ceremonial head of state.
The removal of Mr. Shushkevich by Parliament, on dubious charges of corruption after two years of battling for early elections and economic reforms, leaves Belarus in the hands of the same Communist Party officials who ran it before the collapse of the Soviet Union in December 1991. 
 Mr. Shushkevich, 59, was also considered an outspoken advocate of Belarusian independence from Moscow, which had ruled Belarus since 1772. His opponents, including the longtime Prime Minister, Vyacheslav F. Kebich, who survived a similar vote, favor ties to Russia that are much closer, almost a reunion of the two states.
President Clinton met with both men two weeks ago to thank Belarus for agreeing to scrap its 81 SS-25 nuclear missiles and to give support to faster economic reform and early parliamentary elections, seen as an effort to prop up Mr. Shushkevich.
 
Fear of New 'Empire'
 Senior Western diplomats in Minsk expressed concern before Mr. Clinton's visit that a reunion of Russia with Belarus could start an "imperial reconstruction" that Washington and the West did not want to see.
In Minsk today, the head of the opposition in Parliament, Zyanon Paznyak, said the removal of Mr. Shushkevich represented "a creeping Communist coup aimed at eliminating Belarusian statehood and imposing a dictatorship under Kebich."
Mr. Shushkevich, a physicist who once helped teach Russian to Lee Harvey Oswald, was succeeded by his deputy, Vyacheslav Kuznetov, a conservative former Communist.
Yuri V. Khadipa, the deputy chairman of the opposition Belarus National Front, said: "Now the last stage of the reconstitution of the Russian empire will begin with the induction of Belarus into the ruble zone. This move will prop up factories of the former Soviet military-industrial complex, which no one needs."
Having already forced through a military alliance that calls on Russia to defend Belarus and its 10.7 million people, Mr. Kebich is a prime proponent of an economic union that would subordinate Minsk's financial policies to Moscow's in return for cheap energy and the use of the Russian ruble. He recently agreed upon such a union with his counterpart, Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, who is due to come to Minsk next week to iron out details.
Belarus is heavily dependent on Russia for energy and contracts, and its unreformed economy is experiencing 50 percent monthly inflation.
Minsk-based diplomats said the return to dominance of Soviet-era managers in Moscow had an obvious impact in Belarus, though they stressed that the Communist-dominated Belarusian Supreme Soviet, first elected in March 1990, has been trying to oust Mr. Shushkevich for months. They almost succeeded in July, but he was saved then by Mr. Paznyak and the opposition.
But this time, after more months of trying to balance between Mr. Kebich and Mr. Paznyak, Mr. Shushkevich ran out of supporters, many of whom were angered at his failure to protect two Cabinet allies who were removed from office on Tuesday.
This monetary union, which would cost Russians many millions of dollars if the ruble is exchanged one for one for the weaker Belarus currency and if debts between state enterprises are canceled, was one of main factors cited by Yegor T. Gaidar, the architect of Russia's economic reforms, when he quit Mr. Chernomyrdin's Cabinet, followed this week by the Finance Minister, Boris G. Fyodorov.


GRAPHIC: 
Map of Belarus shows the location of Minsk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BELARUS (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELARUS; BELARUS (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); COUPS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INFLATION (73%); TRENDS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (67%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (66%); CORRUPTION (56%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; SHUSHKEVICH, STANISLAV BILL CLINTON (70%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (70%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



731 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: 18,000 Investors Submit Claims to Prudential

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
About 18,000 investors have submitted claims so far to a fund established by Prudential Securities to compensate hundreds of thousands of customers for losses suffered because of fraud in the sale of limited partnerships, according to a report by the fund's administrator.
The tally of claims underscores the big task Prudential faces in complying with the terms of its October settlement with securities regulators that required it to set up the $330 million fund. The report also provides details of what investors making claims stand to receive. 
 As many as 325,000 claim forms were sent in recent weeks to customers who invested in the partnerships.
The 18,000 claims were submitted as of Jan. 17, the last day accounted for in the quarterly report of the administrator, Irving M. Pollack. The speed of that response, coming before Prudential's Jan. 18 deadline for mailing out claim forms, reflects the urgency for investors -- many of whom were elderly -- in getting their money back.
 
First Offers of Settlement
 According to the report, filed late last week in Federal District Court in Washington, Prudential sent out its first 25 offers of settlement last Friday. None of those offers have yet been accepted or rejected, the report said.
In the case, securities regulators charged that Prudential misrepresented the safety and liquidity of the highly risky partnerships. Under the settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the administrator must file quarterly reports on fund performance with Federal District Judge Harold H. Greene.
In his report, Mr. Pollack has determined that customers who were unsuitable partnership investors or who were deceived will receive out-of-pocket costs -- minus benefits from the investment -- plus interest. The benefits include distributions, tax deductions and the remaining value of the investment.
The interest rate paid will be the yield equivalent of a one-year Treasury bill, annualized for each year the investment was owned. For example, an investor who still owned a partnership purchased in 1982 would receive a varying rate of interest for each year it was held, ranging from 12.61 percent in 1982 to 3.46 percent in 1993.
The cost of the partnership scandal is showing on Prudential's bottom line. The firm reported yesterday that its 1993 earnings of $145 million were essentially unchanged from the previous year. That came as a number of other brokerage houses were reporting record earnings after Wall Street's biggest year ever.
The comparative earnings sluggishness appeared largely to be a result of the costs of the scandal. During the year, Prudential set aside $430 million in reserves, which were used to finance the settlement fund.
But Prudential showed a number of signs of financial health. For the year, revenues were up 13 percent, to $3.4 billion. Assets grew 11 percent, to a record $151 billion. The firm also opened more than 20,000 new accounts each month and increased its number of brokers by 230.
During the fourth quarter, Prudential's revenues were up 18 percent from the comparable period in 1992. The firm, which is not public, did not provide full earnings for the fourth quarter, although pretax earnings from continuing operations were $154 million, more than double the total in the quarter a year earlier.
Meanwhile, the scandal has led securities regulators to examine how other Wall Street firms marketed limited partnerships, a booming business in the 1980's. In recent weeks, the S.E.C. has sent requests for information to about 10 firms that were among the top sellers of the investments, Wall Street executives said.
The requests are not part of any active inquiry into the activities of any particular firm or partnership, but rather an effort by the S.E.C. to learn more about the way such investments were sold in recent years, people involved in the situation said.
Similar requests have been made in the past. For example, shortly after questions arose last year about political contributions by municipal bond dealers, the S.E.C. sent requests for information across Wall Street to learn more about those practices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (58%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; PARTNERSHIPS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; CLASS-ACTION SUITS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LITIGATION (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); JUDGES (66%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



732 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Forecast Is New Clinton Weapon In Debate Over Balanced Budget

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
The White House today seized on a striking new set of Congressional projections showing shrinking budget deficits to reinforce its argument that there is no need for a Constitutional amendment requiring a balanced Federal budget.
Still worried that the amendment could win Congressional approval in a vote as early as next month, President Clinton's top economic deputies hailed as evidence of their progress an estimate by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office that the deficit would drop to $171 billion in the fiscal year 1995 -- $113 billion less than the analysts predicted last January. 
 The Congressional office praised the President and Congress for having made "dramatic" progress in reducing the Federal deficit, and Mr. Clinton's aides immediately described it as vindication of their arguments that discipline, not law, was what would best bring the deficit under control.
"You don't need a constitutional amendment," said Leon E. Panetta, director of the Office of Management and Budget. "What it takes is real leadership in this country, and that's what's being provided by this President."
 
Cautious Clinton Estimates
 The Congressional estimate for next year's budget deficit was even more optimistic than the $180 billion figure put forward by President Clinton last week, a rare instance of a sitting Administration being more cautious than the independent analysts. The Congressional Budget Office also said the 1994 Federal deficit would drop to $223 billion, $68 billion less than it projected just a year ago.
But the Congressional analysts also projected that barring any major change in Government spending, including for health care, the deficit would begin to climb steeply again by the end of the decade, and the White House pointed to those figures to answer criticism of its efforts to overhaul the health care system.
"Ask the fellow who has to write the checks," said Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, who joined Mr. Panetta at a White House briefing. "The message is simple: with health care reform, we get the deficit headed down. And without it, it shoots right back up."
By any measure, however, the Congressional forecast brought good news for the Administration by depicting a deficit that is shrinking steadily in the short term, something not seen by the Government for decades.
Part of the reason for the better outlook lies in improvements in the economy and low interest rates, which allow the Government to spend less on poor people and collect more revenue from businesses and taxpayers, thereby narrowing the budget gap. But the Congressional Budget Office gave credit for much of the improvement to the narrow passage by Congress last summer of Mr. Clinton's economic package.
It said that "difficult step" by Congress and the President "seems likely to achieve the desired outcome -- significantly lower deficits than were projected a year ago." The budget plan approved last summer included nearly $500 billion in deficit reduction over five years, with that total almost equally divided between income tax increases for the wealthy and freezes in existing Government programs.
The 1995 fiscal year does not begin until Oct. 1, and Mr. Clinton will not introduce his budget for that year until Feb. 7. But Mr. Panetta sought today to underscore the Administration's pledge that it would abide by strict fiscal discipline and said the budget would show cuts in spending for 7 of the 14 main Federal departments.
With that emphasis on restraint, the White House is trying to steal the wind from efforts by supporters of a balanced budget amendment to push it through Congress, which has grown more receptive to the idea since the 1992 campaign.
Mr. Clinton has consistently opposed such an amendment as unnecessary, and has said that what is needed is leadership to make tough choices on Federal spending.
The amendment, which would require Congress to balance the budget by the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1, 1998, was only narrowly defeated by the House last June. A Senate vote was put off last November until next month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (52%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS BUDGETS (98%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (88%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JEHL, DOUGLAS BILL CLINTON (93%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



733 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: 30 Years Later, 3d Trial Begins in Evers Killing

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JACKSON, Miss., Jan. 27

 BODY:
Exactly 30 years after the start of his first inconclusive trial on the charge of murdering the civil rights leader Medgar Evers, Byron De La Beckwith, a lot older but no less outspoken in his white supremacist views, went on trial today for the third time.
The case is being heard in the same Hinds County courtroom that it was 30 years ago, amid the same brass sconces, chandeliers and intricately carved eagle pediments that survived a 1986 renovation. 
 The first witnesses were even the same. Mr. Evers's widow, Myrlie, took the stand to describe in a strong, clear voice the events of midnight June 12, 1963, when "a horrible blast" sent her running to the door of her home, where she found her husband lying in a pool of blood, his keys clutched in his hand.
"The children ran out and they cried out: 'Daddy! Daddy! Please get up, Daddy!' " she testified, but Mr. Evers, 37, had been fatally shot.
As she spoke, the 73-year-old Mr. Beckwith, a former fertilizer salesman whose fingerprints were found on the scope of a rifle believed to be the murder weapon, appeared unmoved.
Perhaps as much as any other event, the slaying of Mr. Evers in the turbulent coming of age of black Americans' fight for civil rights helped galvanize the movement, focusing national attention on the atmosphere of terror that prevailed in the South during that era.
In his opening statement, the prosecutor, Bobby DeLaughter, tried to convey the sense of that distant time to the jurors, most of whom were small children at the time of the slaying. Mr. DeLaughter told of Mr. Evers's pivotal role as the N.A.A.C.P.'s Mississippi field secretary, who led voting rights protests and drives to integrate public accommodations and schools.
"Medgar Evers was the focal point of everything that this defendant hated," said Mr. DeLaughter, an assistant Hinds County District Attorney. Mr. Beckwith, he told the jurors, was "a self-proclaimed, rabid racist" who in letters to newspapers, public statements and pamphlets dating from the 1950's had made clear that his "mission was to purge society of anyone and anything that was for integration."
As a result, the prosecutor said, Mr. Beckwith killed Mr. Evers. "His life was snuffed out by a bullet aimed by prejudice, propelled by hatred and fired by a coward -- a back-shooting coward at night," Mr. DeLaughter said.
The courtroom also echoed with the same protestations of innocence that Mr. Beckwith made 30 years ago. Then as now, Mr. Beckwith maintained that he was more than 90 miles away from Jackson in his home town of Greenwood when the shooting occurred.
One of Mr. Beckwith's two court-appointed lawyers, Merrida Coxwell, told the court: "By the time this case is over you will see that it was physically impossible for Byron De La Beckwith to have killed Medgar Evers. You're going to find that the state can't prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Mr. Beckwith killed Mr. Evers."
But much has changed since that day 30 years ago when Mr. Beckwith's first trial opened. Absent was the smiling visage of Mississippi's Governor at the time, Ross Barnett, who shook Mr. Beckwith's hand and clapped him on the back in a show of support that was shared by much of white Mississippi. Also absent were the all-white, all-male juries that deadlocked in two trials in 1964. Sitting in the jury box now were eight blacks and four whites, with seven of these jurors women.
Security was tight. Spectators, who had been required to obtain identification cards before entering the courtroom, stood solemnly in line to pass through metal detectors.
"I was 23 years old when it happened and so young," said Thomasine McClendon, a 53-year-old black woman from Jackson who had come to watch. "I remember it, and remember it hitting us hard, but I was so young. I'm here to see justice finally served."
Brenda and Carl Dixon, a white couple from Pearl, also said that they had come to see that "justice is done." They said they did not know who had killed Medgar Evers, but, Mr. Dixon said, "somebody did and this ought to help us find out who it was."
 
Old Wounds and Old Pain
 But for many people, black and white, the case is a source of ambivalence. Many whites say it needlessly reopens old wounds that have been salved, if not completely healed, by political and economic advances made by black Mississippians.
Among blacks, Mr. Beckwith's guilt, while never legally established, has long been a matter of moral certainty that, along with dozens of other cases of unpunished violence against blacks, has graphically defined the era of racial terror and white intransigence that was Mississippi in the 60's.
Many blacks say the new trial gives the state a chance to cleanse its soul. But some wonder aloud whether a failure to convict Mr. Beckwith this time would do subtle damage to the legacy of the 60's. Reuben V. Anderson, the first black justice on Mississippi's Supreme Court, said he sensed that history itself and a world view were on trial along with Mr. Beckwith. "There are tremendous technical and legal obstacles to a case like this, and while the prosecutors are among the best in the state, won't the state look bad once again if they can't convict him?" said Mr. Anderson, who left the bench three years ago to practice law in Jackson.
The third prosecution of Mr. Beckwith had its beginnings in 1989, when published accounts of the files of the Mississippi Sovereignty Commission, a now defunct state agency that had been created to support the maintenance of segregation, showed that its officials had helped screen potential jurors in Mr. Beckwith's two trials. Looking into the possibility of jury tampering, the Hinds County District Attorney's Office instead found new witnesses.
 
A Costly Boast
 The new witnesses fell into two categories: those to whom Mr. Beckwith was said to have boasted that he had killed Mr. Evers and those, many of them black, who said they had seen Mr. Beckwith in Jackson on the evening of the shooting, assertions that contradicted two white Greenwood, Miss., police officers who had provided Mr. Beckwith with his alibi when they testified that he had been seen in Greenwood, two hours away.
In court today, Mr. Beckwith looked dapper in a gray chalk-stripe suit, but the passage of three decades was apparent. His hearing aid sat on the table in front of him, its wire trailing to his ears, and he mostly sat silently, rarely reacting to what was said. Thirty years ago he took copious notes throughout the trial and constantly huddled with his lawyers over strategy.
Before he was re-indicted in 1990, Mr. Beckwith was living in Signal Mountain, Tenn., where he flew a Confederate flag from his front porch and regularly talked with those he met of his hatred of blacks and Jews.
After testimony ended for the day Mrs. Evers, who had seemed unshakable on the witness stand, told of the flood of bitter memories when Mr. DeLaughter showed her a picture of her husband's body.
"It was afterward that I cried," she said. "I pride myself of being tough, but it was emotional."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Myrlie Evers, the widow of Medgar Evers, arriving yesterday at court in Jackson, Miss., for the trial of Byron De La Beckwith. (Associated Press)
 
Chart: "The Evers Case"
 
1963: The civil rights leader Medgar Evers is shot in the back by a high powered rifle in front of his hime in Jackson, Miss.
 
1964: Mr. Beckwith's frirst trial ends in a mistrial after the jury declares itself deadlocked.
 
1989: An investigation by The Jackson Clarion-Ledger shows that a state agency might have tampered with jurors. Mississippi prosecutors decide to reopen the case.
 
1990: After a 14-month investigation turns up new evidence and new witnesses, a grand jury votes to indict Mr. Beckwith in the killing.
 
1994: Mr. Beckwith's third trial begins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); 

CITY: JACKSON, MS, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON (MISS); UNITED STATES (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); JACKSON, MS, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; TRIALS; BLACKS (IN US) CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); WITNESSES (90%); MURDER (90%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); CHILDREN (88%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); FINGERPRINTING (66%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; EVERS, MYRLIE; EVERS, MEDGAR; BECKWITH, BYRON DE LA

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



734 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Battle With Echoes: Floridians Fight a Power Line

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: THONOTOSASSA, Fla.

 BODY:
Out here in Tampa's back yard, where suburban sprawl thins into rural spread, the residents of Hillsborough County are wrestling with the Florida Power Corporation over its plan to string 40 miles of high-voltage power line across the flat landscape.
In many ways it is a perfectly prosaic conflict between development and environment, pitting just another local coalition of property owners, residents and county officials against just another company with "power" as its middle name. 
 But it also typifies a broader, long-running debate nationwide over where to put energy projects, a subject deeply worrisome to some of the nation's energy experts. The experts in the Government estimate that the demand for energy is growing at an annual average of a quadrillion British thermal units, or B.T.U.'s, enough to allow every person on the planet to bring a bathtub of ice water to a boil.
 
Worry Over Energy Supply
 Government energy analysts say the disputes over sites for energy sources point up the necessity of balancing the need for energy with responsibility to the environment. Unless that balance can be achieved, they say, the disputes could choke off supplies.
"It seems evident that siting is becoming more difficult for all types of facilities," the Energy Department said in a recent report. "Failure to act decisively to ameliorate siting constraints will seriously impact our ability to achieve key energy, economic, and environmental goals."
The decade-old debate in Hillsborough County is just what the report was talking about. The power company contends that the high-voltage line is needed to insure that 1.5 million customers in central Florida are not threatened with power blackouts.
Opponents say the power company is afraid to reconsider an alternative route a few miles to the south because the utility would again have to win state approval. The opponents contend that the power company could not convince the state that the high-voltage line is needed, as it did 10 years ago. The utility now has an unused power line with 80-foot towers along its right-of-way. It wants to replace the line with one capable of carrying 500,000-volt currents on towers twice as tall.
After the state approved the high-voltage line, opponents took their battle to the Federal Environmental Protection Agency. Those who live along the power line's path are worried about the possible health hazards of being exposed to electromagnetic fields. Some researchers assert that electromagnetic fields can bring on various forms of cancer. The opponents are also concerned about a loss of property value.
They found an ally a half-hour beyond the housing tracts, where the power line would cross an extraordinary parcel of land: the 14,000-acre Two Rivers Ranch. Its owners have preserved it for decades, balancing pasture with wilderness.
 
Rich Wildlife Habitat
 The ranch, which includes crystalline springs and meandering streams that provide much of Tampa's water supply, offers a rich wildlife habitat. A power company biologist who walked the six-mile stretch of ranch that the power line would cross recorded scores of rare, threatened or endangered species: bald eagle, wood stork, gopher turtle, sand-hill crane and alligator among them.
The power company says it has designed the project to minimize the effects on wetlands and wildlife. For example, it proposes to avoid road construction by using helicopters to remove cypress trees and to install the steel towers in their place.
Opponents, including Nancy Fleming, an organizer of the Citizens Coalition for Responsible Power, and Robert Thomas, the scion of the family that owns Two Rivers Ranch, are hoping that the Federal Government will stop the project on the basis of environmental damage. The project would include the filling of wetlands on the ranch and in other rural areas.
In recent interviews, both Mrs. Fleming and Mr. Thomas said the utility's proposal for planting power lines was flawed. "There was no consideration whatever -- not for wetlands, not for families, not for anything," Mrs. Fleming said.
As a result of the opposition, the Hillsborough County Commission appealed the project's Federal permit to the Environmental Protection Agency. The county is also weighing legal actions, said John Dingfelder of the county attorney's office.
In response to the county, Robert Perciasepe, the E.P.A.'s assistant administrator for water quality, asked Edward Dickey, the assistant secretary for civil works of the Army Corps of Engineers, to review the permit issued to Florida Power last year by the corps' regional office. The office has jurisdiction over wetlands. Mr. Dickey's decision on whether to let the permit stand is scheduled to be announced next week.
Florida Power had convinced the corps that innovative construction techniques would limit the filling of wetlands to the areas just around each tower: a total of seven-tenths of an acre for all the towers that would be built in wetlands.
 
Pattern of Fights to Come
 Mr. Perciasepe disputed that contention. He said the project "would impact 241 acres of valuable forested wetlands, an aquatic resource of national importance."
The power company's fight follows patterns that energy officials and environmentalists see occurring around the country. In December, the Energy Department published a 184-page study by a working group assigned to come up with ways of avoiding conflicts over proposed sites for all kinds of energy projects, including stringing transmission lines, laying pipelines, building power plants, refineries and dams, digging coal mines, setting up drilling rigs, and creating windmill fields.
The group cited a Government report estimating that from 1990 to 2010, there will be a need for 2,200 new coal mines, 170 new coal-powered generating plants and 300 new plants burning municipal solid wastes.
Although electricity use is expected to grow even faster than other forms of energy consumption, the Government is unable to predict the need for high-voltage power lines like the one that has riled Hillsborough County residents. But the Government report did predict that concerns about wetlands and electromagnetic fields might arise around many proposals for power lines.
What can be done to stave off such collisions? The Energy Department is not sure, but it is seeking ideas for reaching consensus among interested parties and government agencies early in the planning instead of at the end.
 
Ranch Seeks Coexistence
 At Two Rivers Ranch, the managers are working with state agencies and private companies to develop a local network of "greenways." These would be common corridors on which roads, water pipelines and perhaps even power lines might be built with minimal effect on the ranch. At the ranch, the Thomas family raises only a fraction of the number of cattle it could and brings in extra money by offering horseback riding and breeding, hunting and canoeing.
Florida Power, however, has its doubts about the "greenways" proposal. "There is no magic route," said Teresa Guarcello, the company's environmental specialist. "We would have just as much opposition to any other route."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Florida Power Corporation's plan for a new high-voltage power line in Hillsborough County is flawed, said Robert Thomas, because environmental concerns were not considered. Mr. Thomas paused on a bridge on his 14,000-acre Two Rivers Ranch, which the line would cross. (Tom Seaton for The New York Times)
 
Map shows the route of proposed power line.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FLORIDA POWER CORP FLORIDA POWER CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA POWER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; HILLSBOROUGH COUNTY (FLA); UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ENVIRONMENT; POWER LINES NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); COUNTIES (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (78%); SUBURBS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); APPROVALS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); CANCER (60%); WILDLIFE (60%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (60%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



735 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Bracing For Losses in Tourism

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 27

 BODY:
When Alvin Dollar of Atlanta told his wife that he was headed for Los Angeles to attend a convention and asked if she wanted to come along, her reply was an emphatic "no!"
Mrs. Dollar said she feared another earthquake. 
 Mr. Dollar didn't, and today he found himself enjoying the sunny, noisy, thrill-filled delights of one of the most popular entertainment parks in the Los Angeles area, Universal Studios Hollywood.
"I didn't want to be the chicken," Mr. Dollar said as he headed for a ride called "Back to the Future."
 
A $20-Billion Business
 Tourism is a $20 billion-a-year business in Los Angeles, which tourist officials say makes it one of the biggest businesses in the city. But in the aftermath of the Jan. 17 earthquake, city officials are deeply worried that in the coming months there may be a lot of "chickens" when it comes to tourism here.
There were times today at the Universal Studios park when no one stood in line to buy an entry ticket. For that matter, most of the ticket booths were closed, although park officials said January is a slow month anyway.
One quick survey commissioned this week by the Los Angeles Convention and Visitors Bureau concluded that the loss in tourism income here in the next year could exceed $300 million, resulting in layoffs for more than 9,000 of the 400,000 people who work in the industry.
The survey did not turn up any major cancellations of conventions or major sports and entertainment events; Disneyland, for example, reported no major falloff in business. But the survey did find a few long-term as well as short-term hotel cancellations, some based on the incorrect assumption that the quake had caused major damage to the city's tourist attractions and convention services.
 
More Cancellations Likely
 Moreover, based on the tourism industry's experience after earlier natural disasters and man-made disruptions, the survey predicted more cancellations.
"No question we're going to be hurt," said George D. Kirkland, president of the bureau. "For all that's happened, the truth is that we are basically still a fully operational city, with some buildings and highways badly damaged, yes, but only a few major buildings and only a few spans down in an entire 500-mile freeway system. That's the message we have to get out to overcome the psychic damage that goes along with the physical damage. And we intend to do it."
One major concern is that the earthquake might result in the cancellation of future conventions and events in the city's convention center, now the largest on the West Coast and one of the largest in the country since the recent completion of a $500 million expansion.
Typically, city convention centers are major catalysts in generating tourist dollars.
While the predicted losses in money and jobs here may seem statistically small, they would add significantly to the economic problems that have afflicted Los Angeles in recent years as Southern California has been whipsawed by the national recession, rioting, brush fires and torrential rains.
Tourism losses from the riots and looting that swept Los Angeles in the spring of 1992, for example, were estimated at $500 million, the Convention and Visitors Bureau said.
 
1.5% Loss in Revenue Likely
 Before the earthquake, the region had been anticipating a 2.6 percent rebound in tourism revenue as the economy strengthened and memory of the riots, fires and rains diminished. Now, if the survey pans out, the city will end up with a loss of tourist revenue of at least 1.5 percent.
And there is more bad news: Los Angeles will probably not be the only place where tourism suffers because of the quake.
State officials expect the earthquake to have an aftershock effect on tourism throughout California, which is the top tourist destination in the country. In fact, tourism is the second largest industry in California, after agriculture, bringing in $54 billion annually.
"After the 1989 quake that hit San Francisco there was a major fall-off in tourism all over the state, especially in Los Angeles," recalled John Poimiroo, the state's director of tourism. "Unfortunately, there's no reason to think the same thing won't happen all over again this time, with San Francisco suffering, too, from the economic aftershock."
 
Confident of Rebounding
 Still, Mr. Poimiroo, who was in Los Angeles and at Universal Studios today for some meetings on how to promote California tourism, is confident that business will rebound.
In the first few days and weeks after the earthquake that struck the San Francisco Bay area on Oct. 17, 1989, he said, tourism in that city declined by almost 20 percent. In Los Angeles, the falloff was almost 15 percent.
"But within a few months, things were coming back pretty strong in both places," Mr. Poimiroo said. "And after a year or so things were almost normal again. I expect just about the same thing to happen this time around."
In an effort to offset any impressions that California, and in particular Los Angeles, may be down and out when it comes to tourism, state and city tourist officials plan special national advertising campaigns. But the campaigns may be limited unless the State Legislature and City Council here can be persuaded to put up extra money.
Last fall, a task force appointed by Gov. Pete Wilson to study tourism in the state estimated that it would take more than $15 million in advertising to stem the loss in tourism resulting from the economic downturn and the natural and man-made disasters that had hit the state. Now, after last week's quake, it presumably will require an even larger advertising campaign.
But state and local officials say they not only cannot come up with $15 million, but will also have difficulty coming up with $3 million.
 
Federal Aid to Be Sought
 "Things are very tight," said Mr. Poimiroo said. "We're going to put on a campaign, but to pay for it we're going to have to pool our resources. And we're also going to ask the Federal Government for some help. We've got to do more."
Julie Meier Wright, the state Secretary of Trade and Commerce who was here with Mr. Poimiroo for the tourism meeting, put it more bluntly.
Even before the earthquake and all the other disasters hit California, she said, the state was loosing tourist dollars because it was not advertising enough. Although the state ranks No. 1 in tourism in the United States, she said, its tourism advertising budget ranks 16th.
"Our budgets in recent years have been up and down and erratic," she said. "And certainly they've been insufficient. We've been slipping in market share."
 
Earthquake Ride Closed
 Whatever the case and despite the earthquake, Rudi Salandanan showed up in Los Angeles this week, a tourist who traveled here from the Philippines. Today he was out at Universal Studios Hollywood, ready to ride, a dream come true for the Los Angeles Convention and Visitors Bureau and the California Division of Tourism.
He was making his way toward the earthquake ride when he learned that it had been closed -- for public relations reasons, according to park officials.
"But that's what I came all this way for!" he exclaimed with angst in his voice.
Universal's earthquake ride measures a bone-rattling 8.3 on the Richter scale of ground motion. Last week's real event was a wimpy 6.6.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL STUDIOS HOLLYWOOD (57%); LOS ANGELES CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAU (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAU (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TOURISM (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (88%); LODGING (78%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); POULTRY (75%); CITIES (74%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LAYOFFS (71%); TRENDS (71%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



736 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Begins Talks to Keep N.F.L. Offices in New York

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
The Giuliani administration said yesterday that it had begun talks with officials of the National Football League about offering financial incentives to keep the league's office in New York City.
Officials of the N.F.L. -- whose lease on their executive offices, at Park Avenue and East 54th Street, expires in February 1995 -- said yesterday that they had looked at possible sites in Westchester County where they could move their headquarters and 250 employees. 
 Although the N.F.L. office represents a relatively small work force, the presence of a major sports organization has symbolic importance for the city, which is home to major basketball and hockey offices as well.
Moreover, for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, the discussions represent a significant first attempt at negotiating incentive packages with organizations and companies to remain in New York, a critical element in his quest to revive the city's economy. It comes after the decision of several companies last year to move some or all of their work forces out of New York City.
During the mayoral campaign last year, Mr. Giuliani was harshly critical of former Mayor David N. Dinkins for allowing too many companies to leave the city, despite the offer of financial incentives. On the other hand, some officials, including Mark J. Green, the city's Public Advocate, have criticized the use of incentives, which typically include tax breaks, as a huge loss of future tax revenues. They contend that the city is subjected to a game of corporate bluff on the part of executives who may have no real intention of leaving New York.
John S. Dyson, Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, would not discuss any details of the talks, but said that the city was eager to keep the N.F.L. in New York. "It represents 250 jobs, but we don't want to lose those jobs," he said. "They are a prominent internationally known organization and we feel we can help them find the right space."
Mr. Dyson, who met with Neal Austrian, the league president, in the N.F.L.'s office, said the discussions included "a smorgasbord of incentives," and added: "We explained to them a number of alternatives we could help them with. Right now, we are just at the beginning of the process."
Greg Aiello, a spokesman for the N.F.L., said the league's officials expected to make a decision with the next three weeks. He said that officials had looked at office space throughout the metropolitan region, including in New Jersey and Connecticut, but that they have narrowed their search to a site in Westchester and three in midtown Manhattan. Mr. Aiello said the league was looking to obtain 130,000 square feet of office space.
The league headquarters has been in New York City since 1960, when it was moved from Bryn Mawr, Pa., a Philadelphia suburb, under Commissioner Pete Rozelle.
In 1992, the United States Tennis Association moved its headquarters from Manhattan to Harrison in Westchester County, relocating about 100 employees from the Manhattan site and two other offices in Princeton, N.J., and Jericho, L.I.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRIA (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (58%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRIA (58%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS LABOR FORCE (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SPORTS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); BASKETBALL (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); DINKINS, DAVID N RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



737 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: From Recession, California Is Emerging Into Earthquake 'Boomlet'

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 28

 BODY:
With damage estimates from the earthquake running as high as $30 billion, and people all around Los Angeles still edgy over the aftershocks rumbling underfoot, it comes as little surprise that a wide variety of service businesses -- from the mundane drywall contractor to the more exotic massage therapist -- are being besieged.
Local newspapers are full of classified advertising promoting "earthquake-safe chimneys," "seismic rehabilitation" and "professional estimates" for the Federal Emergency Management Agency's aid applications. Desperate commuters, intent on slicing time off drives that have been tripled because of damaged highways, have cleaned out the inventories of motorcycle dealerships. 
 And retailers, restaurateurs and entrepreneurs, emerging from the initial shock of the disaster, are holding earthquake sales and promoting products tied to the quake -- things like espresso "earthquake shakes" to "I survived the quake" T-shirts.
"It's going to be a boomlet," said Jack Kyser, chief economist of the Economic Development Corporation of Los Angeles County, a private nonprofit business association. "This is a jump start for a construction industry that has hit bottom and was moving sideways. And it certainly can't hurt retailers and other small businesses that can assist some way in the recovery."
 
A Help, but Not Enough
 Nonetheless, economists said that the gains for the regional economy, fueled by the expectation of as much as $7.5 billion in Federal aid, will still not be enough to lift Southern California out of its three-year recession. At best, they said, the rebuilding will allow the region to keep from falling into deeper economic troubles and will postpone the recovery that many had been predicting for this year.
The damage in the San Fernando Valley, where the earthquake was centered, and other parts of Los Angeles is so pervasive that it may well outweigh whatever aid comes from the state and Federal governments.
Indeed, some businesses and homeowners may choose not to rebuild, and the largest public projects -- the highways, the hospitals and the schools -- could take years to complete. The overall cost of doing business in Los Angeles could increase if residents are charged higher taxes to finance the repairs.
There have also been concerns that some people have been profiting unfairly from the misfortune of others. In the days following the quake on Nov. 17, some service stations reportedly doubled their prices and some convenience stores were reported overcharging people for essentials like batteries and water.
More recently, some officials have warned that building owners may be using earthquake damage as an excuse to evict renters so then can convert their property into high-priced condominiums. In some parts of the San Fernando Valley, displaced homeowners who are searching for apartments have complained about higher rents being charged for vacant units.
 
A Contractor Sting
 And on Wednesday, the Contractors State License Board conducted a sting operation from a damaged home and arrested four uncertified contractors who had bid on home repairs.
Still, the post-earthquake boomlet is benefiting many, and the evidence can be seen from Wall Street, to the union halls of Los Angeles to front yards of ranch homes in Northridge.
Lawrence Horan, a senior building analyst with Prudential Securities in Manhattan, said there was a small increase in the stock prices of publicly traded construction companies in the days after the earthquake, as traders "anticipated that there would be people buying and rebuilding new homes." Shares of the Standard Pacific Company, a home building concern, rose to 125/8 , an increase of 15/8 , by the end of last week, although it had dropped slightly to 107/8 by the end of today's trading.
One of the country's largest demolition companies, Penhall International Inc. in Anaheim, has been working round the clock since the day after the earthquake, clearing more than 30,000 cubic yards of concrete from three damaged superhighways. Roger C. Stull, the company's president, said that these jobs for the California Department of Transportation will easily bring more than $1.3 million, and he has added 60 employees to the company's payroll of 500.
 
Work to the Max
 "It's loaded us up with work to the maximum," Mr. Stull said. "Before we were running at 60 to 65 percent of capacity, and now we're over 100 percent. We don't have one free piece of equipment left."
In downtown Los Angeles and the San Fernando Valley today, the Carpenters Union halls were bustling with activity. Members who had been driving taxis and flipping hamburgers to survive the recession before the quake suddenly found themselves again making $23.80 an hour.
Mike Aragon, a contractor in the San Fernando Valley, had also been struggling to get by for the last two years, remodeling kitchens and repaving garden walks. For the last week, however, he has done a brisk business in damage assessments, conducting about 20 at $100 each.
There has been a boom here in the sales of glass, earthquake preparedness kits and construction supplies. The Home Depot store in Canoga Park has been crowded all week, selling 250 water heaters a day (at $134) and 120 generators for the week (at $545) as against the usual 25 heaters and two generators, said Bob Barnett, the manager.
The economic activity, however, extends past constuction workers and earthquake supplies. At Altmans Winnebago in Van Nuys the sales lot is nearly empty after 30 of the motor homes were rented in one day and 20 more the next day.
The renters cannot stay in their homes, or are afraid, so they park the motor homes in front, said Tom Lander, the dealership's general manager.
And the massage therapists, chiropractrors and biofeedback specialists at the Los Angeles Healing Arts Center on the city's West Side have been booked solid since the quake, said Daniel Bienenfield, its executive director. "Right now people need a tactile connection," he said. "They need their hands held."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (57%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (57%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE EARTHQUAKES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); DRYWALL & INSULATION CONTRACTORS (72%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (71%); TRENDS (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (70%); CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); MOTORCYCLE DEALERS (69%); HOME PRICES (66%); RENTAL PROPERTY (62%); EVICTION (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%); MOTORCYCLES (55%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



738 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Jump in Late Trading

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Prices of long- and intermediate-term Government securities rose sharply yesterday afternoon after initially slipping in response to the morning's reports on jobless claims and December durable goods orders.
The economic reports, particularly the one on durable goods, were worrisome because they provided more proof that the economy was picking up steam, which bond traders and investors fear may lead to rising inflation. But other analysts believe that the stronger growth has already been discounted in bond prices. 
 Ward McCarthy, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Associates, a bond market research firm in Princeton, N.J., did not offer any single reason for the afternoon spike in bonds, which moved the price of the 30-year issue from 999/32 to 9928/32 near the close of the New York cash market. "If you asked a hundred people you'd probably get a hundred different answers," he said. "The market was already firm going into the afternoon and just picked up momentum."
 
 
Still in Trading Range
 By late in the day the price of the 30-year bond was up 20/32 as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 6.26 percent, from 6.30 Wednesday but well within the trading range it has been locked in since early December.
In shorter maturities, the new two-year issue was trading at a price to yield 4.10 percent, a basis point under its auction high yield of 4.11 percent. There was strong demand for the new five-year note auctioned Wednesday, pushing the yield down to 5.03 percent, well under its auction high yield of 5.10 percent.
Walter S. Frank, chief economist for Donoghue's Money Report in Ashland, Mass., said that the December durable goods numbers were very good and indicated that "business investment is going along at a good clip."
Durable goods orders were up 2.2 percent for the month. Excluding the volatile transportation sector, orders were up 2.6 percent.
New jobless claims for the week that ended Saturday fell to 309,000 from a revised 365,000 in the previous week. The decline came after three weeks of rising claims.
Analysts said the reports of the last several weeks were difficult to read because of the impact of severe weather across the country, particularly in the Northeast, and the earthquake in Los Angeles. The decline in the recent week may be a result of the fact that a lot of people could not get to offices to make their claims.
"You really have to look at a trend," Mr. Frank said. "If over the course of a month the trend continued it would mean something is in the works."
A report on the growth rate of the economy in the fourth quarter, which is scheduled to be released today, is expected to show strong growth in the last three months of 1993, Mr. Frank said.
"But the market will be looking at the individual components as we go forward this year, such as inventories and inflation indicators," he added. "The only thing that would surprise the market now is that the numbers would show a slowdown, and I can't believe that is happening."
In the weeks ahead the market will have other areas of interest to focus on, such as the testimony of Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, before Congress in February on the nation's economic outlook and the central bank's interest-rate policy. Coming up at the end of next week are the monthly employment figures, one of the most closely watched economic reports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (92%); BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); TRENDS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); INFLATION (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (55%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



739 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Stocks at Another High in Busy Day

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The stock market pushed to record highs yesterday amid very heavy trading as investors were attracted by prospects for sustained economic growth and low interest rates.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 18.30 points, to 3,926.30, its 10th record closing so far this year. The Standard & Poor's Index of 500 stocks rose 3.85 points, to 477.05, also a record. 
 Prices were also strong in the broader market, with the Nasdaq Composite Index rising 4.08 points, to 792.88, less than two points below its all-time high set on Jan. 21.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 346.5 million shares, with 1,329 stocks rising and 784 falling.
"The stock market is making a case for the 'best of all possible worlds' forecast," said Kevin Bannon, chief investment officer at the Bank of New York. There is, he said, "a growing belief that the economy will grow enough to produce decent growth in corporate profits, but not so much that you have to worry about rising inflation and rising interest rates."
Fresh evidence of the economy's health is expected today, when the Commerce Department reports on economic activity in the fourth quarter. Predictions that gross domestic product -- the sum of all the goods and services produced in the country -- would exceed 5 percent after inflation were widespread.
"It will be an unpleasant surprise to the market if the gain is below 3 percent," said Mark Kimsey, manager of global equity research at Lehman Brothers.
Mr. Kimsey noted that demand from foreign investors had been strong. Many who earned large profits last year in Asian markets, where prices rose 50 percent or more, now see greater opportunity in the United States, where the S.& P. 500 index rose less than 10 percent last year.
 
Expectations of Growth
 Expectations of sustained economic growth helped lift a variety of stocks labeled as "cyclicals" because their performance is often tied to the ups and downs of the business cycle. Procter & Gamble's report yesterday of record earnings was not enough to lift its price above the previous day's close of 58 5/8, but it did help convince investors that strong profits are likely at other companies whose sales are closely tied to the general health of the economy and consumer spending.
General Motors, up 1 1/4, to 59 7/8, and Ford Motor, up 1 7/8, to 66 3/4, both benefited from expectations of a healthy economy, as did many other manufacturing companies. Housing-related stocks were also strong, with the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, rising 3 1/8, to 87 3/4. Among retailers, J. C. Penney rose 2 5/8, to 53 1/4.
The other catalyst for yesterday's gains was the performance of the bond market, where prices rose modestly despite reports of a large rise in durable goods orders and a decline in initial claims for unemployment. Because both reports were signs of a strong economy that on other days might have led to lower bond prices and fears of higher inflation, the fact that the bond market improved was especially significant, according to some traders.
Timothy Heekin, a managing director in charge of equity block trading at Salomon Brothers, the giant bond-trading firm, noted that the improvement in the bond market was the catalyst for strong gains among "interest-sensitive stocks like banks, insurance companies and utilities which were lagging the market until recently."
Banking and insurance company stocks have been weak until the last few days because of worries that rising interest rates would reduce the value of bonds they hold as investments. Electric utility stocks, because of their high dividends, tend to trade in the same general direction as bond prices.
Although there is an expectation among some instititonal investores that bond yields will fall below 6 percent once again, Mr. Heekin noted that bond traders were attributing much of yesterday's gains to the short-term trading strategy of a large securities firm that had been a heavy seller of bonds recently, but yesterday was a buyer as it sought to cover its short positions.
Among other issues, McDonnell Douglas rose 2 5/8, to 111 1/2. Israel decided to spend $1.8 billion on its F-15I jet fighters, instead of Lockheed's F-16's. Lockheed was unchanged at 63 3/4.
Telefonos de Mexico gained 2 1/2, to 71 3/8, on signs that political tensions were easing in Mexico. Intel was the most active Nasdaq issue and it gained 5/8, to 64 1/4.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); BK (NYSE) (56%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (61%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (61%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (61%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EQUITY RESEARCH (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); RETAILERS (65%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



740 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Gold Prices Hit 8-Week Low As Investors Turn to Stocks

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Gold prices tumbled to an eight-week low yesterday as weakening inflation signals prompted investors to shift their money from precious metals into stocks.
The slide in gold prices set off heavy selling by computer-guided commodity funds and eroded traders' confidence in a near-term rebound. 
 "This is beginning to test the resolve of gold's friends," Dinsa Mehta, chief bullion dealer at Chase Manhattan in New York, said.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for February delivery plunged $7.20, to $377.40 an ounce, the lowest daily settlement since Dec. 2. March silver skidded 16 cents, to $4.98 an ounce, a seven-week low.
 
 
Bond Market Advance
 The selloff came late in the session as the Treasury bond market advanced, despite seemingly strong economic reports. Such data often send bond prices lower. Stocks also surged.
Rapid growth is associated with rising inflation, which tends to diminish the value of securities that pay a fixed rate of return. Investors typically buy precious metals as a hedge against inflation.
"You had a roaring stock market, a roaring strong bond market -- I think that added to the weakness in metals," William O'Neill, senior futures strategist at Merrill Lynch Futures in New York, said.
Contributing to the disinflationary scenario were lower grain and crude oil prices.
Gold has fallen $16.80 since peaking on Jan. 20 at $394.20 an ounce in the last of several unsuccessful runs at the psychologically important $400 level.
"This market is going to test the nerves of its supporters," Mr. Mehta said. "I wouldn't be surprised if the price erodes another 10 or 15 bucks before we move back up again."
He said some gold bugs were beginning to question the market's long-term potential. But Mr. O'Neill said gold and other commodities typically slumped in midwinter.
 "I think the markets are setting themselves up for a good near-term buying opportunity at some time in February," he said.
On other commodity markets, grain and soybean futures prices ended mostly lower amid profit taking and heavy selling on the cash market by grain dealers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (55%); MER (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH PIERCE FENNER & SMITH INC (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GOLD; STOCKS AND BONDS FUTURES (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



741 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 4; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Viking and Spender Near Settlement

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

 BODY:
In the face of a barrage of negative publicity and a troublesome lawsuit pursued in Britain by the poet Stephen Spender, Viking has tentatively agreed to alter passages of David Leavitt's recent novel "While England Sleeps," people involved in the negotiations said yesterday.
Mr. Spender contends that the novel, the story of a love affair between two men in the late 1930's, is little more than a thinly disguised, and objectionably salacious, retelling of parts of "World Within World," his 1951 memoir. 
 "The book is being withdrawn and will never appear again in this form anywhere in the world," said one participant in the negotiations, who, like the others involved, would only speak anonymously.
If a settlement is reached, Mr. Spender will withdraw his claim and Viking might well have to destroy any unsold copies of the book. More than 30,000 copies have been printed in the United States, but in Britain the novel was recalled from stores, with just a handful of copies sold, when Mr. Spender filed suit in October. The book is still scheduled to be published in paperback in the United States.
 
A Remaining Issue
 Several people who are taking part said yesterday that the negotiations were nearing completion but that the two sides were still arguing over an important and very sensitive issue: how to go about altering "While England Sleeps" in a way that would satisfy Mr. Spender and still be acceptable to Mr. Leavitt.
"You have substantial literary issues at stake here," one participant said. "You're dealing with different reputations and different egos. What if the manuscript comes out totally gutted? Will Spender have to sign off on the new product?"
Another participant said that a final settlement was expected within a week but cautioned that hitches could arise at any time. But, he added, both sides had agreed that no new copies of the current edition of the book would be printed, and that the old, unsold copies may well have to be pulped.
Such a course is highly unusual in publishing, where publishers try hard to back their authors in such disputes and are loath to destroy books, for reasons of economics, principle and publicity. The most famous example in recent years was in 1983, when Random House recalled and destroyed 58,000 copies of a biography of the late Barbara Hutton because it contained misinformation about a Beverly Hills doctor.
 
A Difference in Nations
 In this instance, Viking has had to contend both with Mr. Spender's formidable literary reputation and with British laws that seem much more sympathetic to Mr. Spender's claims than to Mr. Leavitt's defense.
In his suit, Mr. Spender says that passages in "While England Sleeps" bear an unsettling resemblance to passages in "World Within World," Mr. Spender's account of his life between 1928 and 1939. He also said, in court papers filed in London in October, that Mr. Leavitt's work was a "distorted adaption" and would "tend to sensationalize and trivialize my work."
Mr. Spender's suit is based on two claims: that Mr. Leavitt had breached Mr. Spender's copyright, and that the American author had unfairly violated Mr. Spender's "moral right" to his own work, much in the way that a painter might contend that his moral right had been violated if someone reproduced parts of his painting in a new and offensive painting.
Martin Garbus, a First Amendment specialist in New York who is a lawyer for Viking, said, "You're allowed greater leeway in America than in Great Britain." Mr. Garbus would not comment on the specifics of the impending settlement, but said that the courts in England take a much stricter view of creative and literary ownership rights than those in the United States.
"The British courts would tend to look at the similarities between the two works, while the American courts look at the differences," Mr. Garbus said. "There's more of a recognition in America that if you have a mother-son conflict, it doesn't mean you necessarily went back to 'Oedipus.' "
 
An Unacknowledged Debt
 Mr. Leavitt, 32, has said that he was inspired by Mr. Spender's book and that at one point he considered acknowledging his debt to Mr. Spender in a preface but was dissuaded by an in-house lawyer at Viking. Mr. Spender, who is to turn 85 at the end of next month, did not learn of the similarity between Mr. Leavitt's novel and his memoir until he was asked about the subject by a reporter from The Washington Post. He said in a telephone interview from his London home yesterday that he was gratified that a settlement seemed near.
"I don't think a writer should steal material from another writer and use it, really, to bad purposes, so in a way I'm vindicated," Mr. Spender said. "If young writers think that it's perfectly all right to imitate other writers, I'm against that. I think it's an important case not just for me but for other writers."
Mr. Leavitt was traveling yesterday and could not be reached. His agent, Deborah Karl of Wylie, Aitken & Stone, said that she would not comment, either.
Mr. Spender said he had never sought monetary damages in the matter. And he added that he bore no particular grudge against Mr. Leavitt, whose previous books include "Family Dancing" and "The Lost Language of Cranes."
"I think it's the publisher's fault more than the writer's because publishers ought to have editors who are aware of this kind of thing," Mr. Spender said. "I suggest that sometimes editors don't read the books they publish, and then they get some young person into great trouble."
No one at Viking in New York would officially comment on the matter. Paul Slovak, a spokesman for Viking in New York, referred calls to Alan Kaufman, an in-house counsel, who said he could not discuss the case. Rosie Glaisher, a spokeswoman for Viking U.K., said in a statement from London, "As far as we are concerned, negotiations with Sir Stephen Spender's lawyers continue, and there is nothing for us to say until these are complete."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Spender. (Jerry Bauer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WHILE ENGLAND SLEEPS (BOOK); WORLD WITHIN WORLD (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); 

COMPANY: VIKING PRESS THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: VIKING PRESS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; COPYRIGHTS WRITERS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); LITERATURE (89%); PUBLISHING (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); PAPERBACK PUBLISHING (66%); 

PERSON: SPENDER, STEPHEN (SIR); LEAVITT, DAVID; LYALL, SARAH MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



742 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Fred Friendly Honored In Broadcasting Awards

 BODY:
A Gold Baton, the highest honor in the Alfred I. duPont-Columbia University Awards, was presented to Fred W. Friendly, the former CBS News producer, for lifetime achievement in broadcast journalism in a ceremony last night at the university.
The annual awards, given for outstanding reporting in television and radio news, included 12 winners of Silver Batons for work in 1992-93. Among those winners were CNN for its coverage of fighting in Bosnia, the ABC News program "20/20" for a report that reconstructed an Army surgeon's efforts to save the life of an American soldier wounded in the Vietnam War, and the PBS series "Frontline" for a report on the financing of Presidential campaigns. 
 A second PBS series, "The Pacific Century," about the growth of economic power in Asia, also won a Silver Baton.
Two independent productions were also honored: "Fallen Champ: The Untold Story of Mike Tyson," produced by Barbara Kopple and broadcast on NBC, and "Harry Bridges: A Man and His Union," about the leader of the Longshoremen's Union, produced by MW Productions
 
5 Decades in Television
 Mr. Friendly was honored for his five decades of contributions to broadcast journalism, including more than 80 televised seminars on the media and society produced by Columbia University. Mr. Friendly remains the Edward R. Murrow Professor Emeritus at the Columbia School of Journalism. Mike Wallace of "60 Minutes" was the host of the event.
Christiane Amanpour, a correspondent for CNN, was singled out for her coverage of Bosnia and accepted the Silver Baton for the network.
Five television stations and one radio station also were awarded Silver Batons. KRON-TV in San Francisco won for a documentary on the 10th anniversary of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. Wisconsin Public Television was honored for a special broadcast on women and the 1992 election.
WTVJ in Miami won an award for its extensive coverage of Hurricane Andrew. WBFF in Baltimore was honored for three programs on urban violence. WPLG in Miami was awarded a prize for eight reports on a secret anti-Castro group operating in the Florida Everglades.
WBAI/Pacifica Radio won the single radio honor for a program based on the massacre of Timorese by Indonesian troops.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (76%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (76%); MARYLAND, USA (58%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (72%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (72%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (76%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (76%); MARYLAND, USA (58%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; DUPONT, ALFRED I-COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY AWARDS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA JOURNALISM (91%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (77%); ARMIES (76%); VIETNAM WAR (75%); VETERANS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (69%); 

PERSON: FRIENDLY, FRED W CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



743 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2543 words

HEADLINE: The New Pinball: Music, Lights, Voices

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
TWO rolls of quarters into the Addams Family pinball machine at the Broadway Arcade, I knew something was horribly wrong. The ball was traveling too fast for me to keep up. I was spazzing out with the flippers. The constant backtalk from the machine, the flashing lights, the loud sound effects and the complicated "play field" were throwing me off. My scores were so low I began worrying that some nearby teen-agers might notice and begin snickering.
There was no getting around it. I was a middle-aged man playing a young man's game, and very poorly at that. I began to wonder if my driver's license should be revoked. 
 Once it was different. In my early 20's, like many other college students, I invested too much time and far too many quarters following the trail of the silver ball. My wife was an enthusiast, too, and we would play together at a diner in Bloomington, Ind., that had some great machines.
I'd take the left flipper, my wife would take the right, and we would spend blissful hours shooting down the horseshoe targets of the Sheriff or the very similar playing-card targets in Drop-a-Card. For a change of pace, we'd steer the ball toward the thrill-packed elevated rails of Roller Coaster.
In a way, pinball set the pattern for our married life. In an atmosphere of constant bickering and mutual blame, we lurched forward to ever higher scores. One magic night, we broke the house record on the Sheriff. In addition to giving us a free hamburger, the manager put our names up over the grill along with the other record-holders. Life was sweet.
In the last 20 years, however, pinball has changed almost beyond recognition. Anyone who doubts this can drop in at any New York City arcade or visit the international tournament of the Professional and Amateur Pinball Association, more commonly known as PAPA, which will start next Friday morning at the Park Central Hotel in Manhattan.
The bold can pay a tournament entry fee, step right up to the flippers and compete in the appropriate skill category. In the qualifying rounds, players will do their best against Judge Dredd, Jurassic Park, Tales From the Crypt, Indiana Jones, Creature From the Black Lagoon, Twilight Zone, Wipeout and Streetfighter 2.
In the finals, three new machines will be unveiled: The Who's Tommy, Popeye and World Challenge Soccer. The fourth machine in the finals will be one that is just now hitting the arcades, Star Trek: The Next Generation. The top prize is $4,000, making PAPA the most lucrative of the pinball tournaments. Be warned. Anyone who has been away from pinball for a while will find the new games bewildering. They are more complex, and the ball moves faster. In a terrifying mode of play known as multi-ball, as many as six silver orbs are released in a swarm. The sport has succumbed to hyperinflation, with points now scored in the millions and even billions.
The themes are different, too. Most of them are tied to films or television series, and they present a kind of story line.
"In Star Trek, I'm part of Star Fleet; I want an increase in rank, and I'm out there doing missions with the crew," explained Roger C. Sharpe, the director of marketing at Williams, the largest of the three major American pinball companies. "With the Addams Family, you want to get the fortune, and you have to go through the vault. It's just like the movie."
In pursuit of the Final Frontier, players of Star Trek undertake as many as eight missions, and the machine provides some serious hardware to carry them out. Using Probe Launchers, players can fire balls and photon torpedoes to repel an attack by the Borg ship, a menacing presence at the top of the play field. A wire loop-the-loop carries balls at warp speed throughout the galaxy.
There's a lot of noise and visual flash to go along with all this. On the "back glass," the part of the machine where the score appears, dot-matrix displays generate scores, messages and dramatic scenes. The machines blast out music and sound effects. They also talk back. They cajole, applaud and taunt, often in strangely familiar voices.
That's Arnold himself saying "I'll be back" and "Hasta la vista, baby," as a skull with hellish red eyes flashes wildly in Terminator 2. In the Addams Family, that's Raul Julia saying, "Thank you, Thing," when a hand reaches out from a box, grabs the ball and pulls it back for storage.
 
A Counterattack
 There's a simple reason for the big conceptual change in pinball machines: video games. In the 1970's, video swept the land, and for a time it looked as though pinball would disappear. From the outset, video games offered characters and drama, even if it was only Pac-Man eating little blips. The games played faster, so the customer had to feed more money into the machines. In the early and mid-1980's, pinball's share of the coin-operated amusement market fell to as low as 5 percent.
Faced with extinction, the pinball makers adapted. They cut back the number of balls per game from five to three, to shorten playing time, and offered one game for a quarter instead of three (the newer machines now cost 50 cents a game). They introduced new technology as soon as it became available for more exciting sound, light and special effects. They began to weave story lines into game design and borrowed the video approach of having the player ascend through increasingly difficult levels of play.
Gradually, pinball made a comeback, while the weaknesses inherent in video games became apparent with time. "In 1988, attitudes changed," said Steven Epstein, the owner of the Broadway Arcade and the president of PAPA. "Video became stale and repetitious. The graphics were better, but the game play was stagnant."
In 1992, according to Vending Times, an industry newsletter, pinball produced net revenues to their operators of $2.26 billion, or a little more than a third of the coin-operated entertainment industry's $7 billion. In 1992, video accounted for revenues of $2.7 billion.
 
Universe of Excess
 In today's pinball, the governing esthetic is more. More lights, sound and action. More stars, more special effects.
Take Tommy, an irresistible case study, because it's a pinball machine based on a musical about pinball.
The manufacturer, Data East, packed in 21 pieces of music from the Broadway show, with vocals by members of the original cast, and elements of the stage sets, notably a World War II bomber and a motorized mirror. (When the ball hits the mirror, the machine goes deathly silent, and an eerie voice calls out "Tommy . . . Tommy.")
The game has more than two dozen play modes, in which different features with different scoring payoffs light up. In Fiddle About mode, for example, the player tries to hit a flashing target that moves across the play field. The piece de resistance is Tommy mode, a clever reference to the fact that Tommy, the pinball wizard, is "deaf, dumb and blind." In Tommy mode, a metal fan pops out and covers the flippers, so that the player has to operate blind.
There's some evidence that the designers went well around the bend on this one, and that too much thinking about pinball can do peculiar things to the mind.
"When you go into multi-ball, the game changes," said Joe Kaminkow, the vice president for research and design for Data East and head of the Tommy design team. "It's like it morphs, and takes you back to a different era of pinball. You hear bells chiming and ringing."
Small wonder that pinball machines now carry movie-style credit lines at the bottom of the play field for sound, music, art design, concept, software, dot-matrix display and mechanics.
 
First, the Script
 The development of the machines has an oddly Hollywood feel to it as well. The process, which takes a year or more, begins with film scripts. Mr. Kaminkow says that he reads 15 to 20 scripts a week, looking for a good pinball story. (Needless to say, he is writing his own script as well.)
Once a licensing agreement is reached (with the studios and stars retaining strict control over the use of likenesses and voices), designers produce the equivalent of a rough cut, which they modify during the first testing phase. In phase 2, machines are placed in test sites at malls and arcades and, based on customer feedback, undergo further refinement. In Manhattan, the Broadway Arcade gets machines well before the rest of country because the companies use Mr. Epstein as a sounding board.
Finally, the machines go into general release. "Think of it like a movie," said Gary Stern, the executive vice president and general manager of Data East. "We make positives of a game model and distribute it. Each game, moving from location to location, has a four- or five-year economic life, and every three or four months we have another one."
Some machines never reach the general public. Mr. Kaminkow has a sideline in making custom machines for favored clients, like Joel Silver, a film producer known for his high-decibel tirades. Mr. Kaminkow designed a machine that incorporates events from Mr. Silver's life and makes use of his famous voice.
"When you push the flippers, he screams," said Mr. Kaminkow, who built one of Mr. Silver's favorite lines into the soundtrack: "Repeat after me, '11 double E,' because you're going to be selling shoes in this town!"
 
Effective Bait
 The added complexity of the new machines makes excellent economic sense. Tantalized players wind up investing many quarters just to figure a machine out.
On the Internet computer network, a pinball club of about 100 hard-core members devotes hours to arcane discussions of strategy for different machines. Some members generate handbooks of up to 50 pages on a single machine.
That way madness lies. I took the experiential approach. At the arcade, I bonded with Arnold, grew fond of the electric chair in the Addams Family and took manic delight in hitting the bloodshot-eyeball targets in Tales From the Crypt.
But the machine that really pulled in my quarters was a humble little game called Tee'd Off. It was a golf game, with an intriguing pitch-and-putt ramp and an exploding volcano. Its main character is a gopher that runs from hole to hole and taunts the player nonstop with remarks like "You look like you need some serious help," "Did anybody ever teach you how to play this game?" and "In case you didn't notice, you just blew it," or, succinctly, "You're lousy." After a well-executed shot, it would say, "Amazing," but the tone was sarcastic and, I felt, unacceptable. The running commentary was punctuated by little nyuk-nyuk chuckles.
I came to hate the gopher. As quarter after quarter disappeared, and the razzing continued, I made a vow: No matter how long it took, no matter how much money I spent, I was going to stomp that little rodent.
It took about $40. Gradually, a few of my dormant skills returned. I never figured out all the rules of the game, but with time, I began winning free balls with fair regularity. (New York law does not allow the awarding of free games.)
Then, on one punishingly cold afternoon, I entered what pinball players call "the zone." As though briefly endowed with supernatural powers, I was able to keep each ball in play for several minutes, racking up big-time scores. In multi-ball, instead of flailing randomly, I would trap two balls on one flipper and play the third ball with the free one, a major strategic advance for me. In one blissful moment, I sent the ball straight into the hole where the gopher was hiding, evoking a startled cry: "Hey, you got me." In the end, my score was nearly half a billion points. Man had triumphed over machine, and over a darned annoying little pest.
The funny thing is, two quarters later, the gopher hadn't changed his attitude.
 
Where to Insert the Coins and Interact

 
 
 Here is a sampling of pinball arcades and pinball events in New York City:
 
Arcades
 
BROADWAY ARCADE, 1659 Broadway, near 52d Street, (212) 247-3725. Hours: 8 A.M. to midnight, daily.
 
PLAYLAND, Broadway near 42d Street, unlisted telephone. Hours: 24 hours a day, daily.
 
TIME OUT FAMILY AMUSEMENT CENTER, Penn Station (near Long Island Rail Road ticket booths), unlisted telephone. Hours: 24 hours a day, daily.
 
PETER PAN GAMES OF BAYSIDE, Bayside Shopping Mall, 212-65 26th Avenue, Queens, (718) 229-0064. Hours: 11 A.M. to 11:30 P.M. Sunday through Thursday; 11 A.M. to 12:30 A.M. Fridays and Saturdays.
 
SUPER AMUSEMENTS FAMILY FUN CENTER, Whitestone Pathmark Shopping Center, off service road to Whitestone Expressway, Queens, (718) 961-6791. Hours: 11 A.M. to midnight, Mondays through Thursdays; 10 A.M. to 2 A.M. Fridays and Saturdays, 10 A.M. to midnight Sundays.
 
Pinball Rental
 
PARAMOUNT VENDING, 587 10th Avenue, between 42d and 43d Streets, Clinton. Store rents two rooms filled with video games and pinball machines for private parties. The rate is $15 a person (a minimum of 20 in a group) for two hours. The company also rents machines ($150 to $350 a day, delivery and pickup included) and sells new and used machine at prices ranging from $695 to $3,700. Information: (212) 279-1095.
 
Exhibition
 
"REMEMBER PINBALL," Park Avenue Atrium, 237 Park Avenue, at 46th Street. An exhibition of more than 50 pinball machines from the golden era (late 1940's to late 50's), as well as precursors and samples of pinball art. Through Feb. 24. Hours: Monday through Friday, 8 A.M. to 6 P.M. Free admission. Information: (212) 850-9786.
 
Tournament
 
PAPA 4 INTERNATIONAL PINBALL CHAMPIONSHIPS, Grand Ballroom, Park Central Hotel, 870 Seventh Avenue, at 55th Street, Manhattan. The championship competition for the Professional and Amateur Pinball Association. Qualifying rounds: Feb. 4, 11 A.M. to 1 A.M.; Feb. 5, 9 A.M. to midnight. Final rounds: Feb. 6, 9 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. How to enter: All adult divisions are $15. Juniors division (age 16 and under) is $10. Players may re-enter as many times as they like, paying the entry fee each time. Qualifying rounds are open to the viewing public at no charge. Information: (212) 247-3725.
 
Benefit
 
"FLIPPERMANIA," Park Central Hotel, 870 Seventh Avenue, at 55th Street, Manhattan. A pinball party featuring members of the cast of "Tommy" and other Broadway actors, as well as anyone else who wants to compete on 75 pinball games. A benefit for Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS, co-presented by the Professional and Amateur Pinball Association. Feb. 6 at 6 P.M. Tickets: $30; $25 in advance. Information: (212) 978-0208.
 
League Play
 
LEAGUE NIGHTS, Broadway Arcade, 1659 Broadway, near 52d Street. The arcade sponsors pinball league nights that run for 10 weeks in the spring and fall. Spring leagues begin in mid-April, with Monday reserved for experts (singles only), Wednesday for "very good" players (singles only) and Thursday for beginners (singles and doubles). If enough players sign up, Tuesday will be devoted to a women's league. Play begins at 7 P.M. and lasts about three hours. The cost is $5 to register and $3 a week for singles, $5 for doubles, which goes toward prizes, jackets and trophies. To sign up, go to the arcade in late March. Information: (212) 247-3725).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Visual flash: A pinball aficionado works the flippers at the Broadway Arcade; Tommy, the game: Pinball based on the Who's musical. (pg. C1); Broadway Arcade, a pinball test site, receives new games well before the rest of country. Leo Johnson, right, wears an apron full of quarters; Kai Bateman, the 1993 New York pinball champion, playing Tee'd Off. (Photographs by Susan Harris for The New York Times) (pg. C26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PROFESSIONAL AND AMATEUR PINBALL ASSN

ORGANIZATION: PROFESSIONAL AND AMATEUR PINBALL ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PINBALL MACHINES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); AMATEUR SPORTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); CARD GAMES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); SOCCER (70%); SHERIFFS (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



744 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: The Mayor's Badly Aimed Ax

 BODY:
In announcing his wrongheaded -- and hardheaded -- decision to eliminate New York City's minority contracting program, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani at least had the grace to say that one could disagree with his view that there is no need to remedy past discrimination.
Mr. Giuliani manifestly dislikes remedial action, or he would not have struck down one of the most socially beneficial and cost-effective programs of its kind anywhere. Since it was started by the Dinkins administration in 1992, companies owned by minorities or women have gotten contracts worth $270 million. 
 No one has argued that their work was inferior. Moreover, the rules were so carefully drawn that the program became a model of economic development for small business. Unlike Federal affirmative-action programs, the city's did not require a set percentage of contracts to go to minority companies and thus make it possible for some incompetent ones to slip in under the quota. Instead it placed all bids in the same competitive pool and simply allowed businesses owned by minorities or women to win with bids that were up to 10 percent higher than the lowest majority-owned company.
The administration's own figures make the case against the Mayor's abolition order. The program cost the city only $2.7 million in added contracting expenses, plus costs for settling lawsuits by non-minority contractors who challenged it. Yet in only two years, female- and minority-owned companies almost doubled their share of city business, from under 10 percent to 17.5 percent.
The Mayor says he is not hostile to minority businesses. Indeed, he says he will encourage the city to give them 20 percent of its business. How will he make that happen? The answer is that old Republican time-buying promise of a community development bank.
This is supposed to be an administration of smart budgeteers. But there is no community banking plan backed by tax money that is going to double minority and female participation in city business at a cost anywhere near as modest as $3 million. The mystery then is why smart budget-makers would wipe out a cost-efficient program that works for a goal Mr. Giuliani endorses.
One unattractive explanation is that Mr. Giuliani as Mayor has decided to play to the exaggerated sense of white embattlement that helped him as a candidate. Perhaps politics was not the reason, but if the decision had been made on budgetary merit, economic benefit or healthy community values, it would have gone the other way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; CONTRACTS; BLACKS (IN US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); WOMEN MINORITY BUSINESSES (95%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (91%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BUDGETS (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); COMMUNITY BANKS (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



745 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Defense Time Bomb

 BODY:
Many Americans still treat the defense budget as a symbol of strength. Politicians therefore spend more money than necessary to shield themselves from charges of weakness. President Clinton brandished the budget as a shield in his State of the Union address when, with surprising fervor, he drew the line against further cuts.
But the defense budget is more than a symbol; it is a set of multibillion-dollar programs. Some of them are essential to American security. Others are wasteful vestiges of the cold war. Mr. Clinton's instinct for self-protection could limit his ability to cut unnecessary programs. Even worse, it could put him under severe pressure to increase a defense budget that is already unreasonably high. 
 Last year the Pentagon completed a "bottom-up review," which proceeded from the premise that the U.S. should prepare to wage two regional wars simultaneously. The review recommended force levels comparable to those established in the Bush Administration. As Mr. Clinton must know, these force levels -- which Congressional Republicans are sure to support -- will end up costing far more than his proposed $260-billion-a-year budgets over the next five years. In short, the bottom-up review is a time bomb that threatens to blow the lid off the Clinton defense budget.
There are three ways for the President to defuse it. One, which Mr. Clinton has unfortunately rejected, is to reduce the force levels in the bottom-up review to a more reasonable level. A second, which William Perry, his nominee for Secretary of Defense, favors, is to rely on managerial efficiencies. That will not suffice. A third way, which Mr. Perry has only hinted at, is to defer acquisition of costly new weapons. That would maintain today's oversized force structure but it would keep spending under control by relying on the Pentagon's existing inventory of weapons.
The Pentagon has plenty of programs to cancel, starting with Milstar, the communications satellites designed for fighting a nuclear war; the overpriced and underperforming C-17 transport plane; the multi-role fighter, and a new aircraft carrier. It can also cut back purchases of new aircraft like the F-22 stealth fighter.
Critics may cry foul if Mr. Perry chooses to cancel weapons in order to hold the line at $260 billion. But they cannot accuse him of weakening America, because most of the weapons the Pentagon already has can outperform any in the arsenals of the rest of the world. Nor will he have to short-change readiness. And research and development can preserve what is essential in America's defense industrial base -- its technological edge.
The trouble is that reduced procurements will shrink defense industries and bring more layoffs. That may make it hard for many in Congress to vote for cuts. But sooner or later Congress will have to realize that America's security also rests on productive investment in other sectors of the economy. What's surprising about Mr. Clinton's pledge to hold the line on cuts is that he, more than anyone, has preached the need to shift priorities.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (57%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) BUDGETS (94%); DEFENSE SPENDING (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (62%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



746 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Whistling Past Weimar

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
President Clinton was impressive when he talked about domestic issues in his State of the Union address because he connected. When he told of Americans who were sick or needed family leave, he related to their pain. More than that, he seemed to be drawing from his own life, his own hopes and hurts.
How different it was when he turned to foreign affairs. One felt that his heart was not in it, that he was going through a mechanical recitation of claimed achievements. It was as if he dealt with those things because he had to as President, not because they engaged his deepest moral or political concerns. 
 The points he made showed his lack of focus on foreign policy. To call his comments shallow would be a compliment. In their blithe optimism they seemed strangely -- scarily -- disconnected from reality.
He said the advance of democracy elsewhere was the best way to insure our security, and that was why we had supported the democratic reformers in Russia. He applauded Congress for backing his initiatives to help Russia.
But the reformers are out of power in Moscow. When Mr. Clinton was there at the summit just two weeks ago, President Yeltsin said he would be "resolute and radical" on economic reform. Since then he has in fact been weak and reactionary, giving up reform to please the Communists and extreme nationalists in the Duma.
The prospects for Russia look grim. Its new Government has promised to pour money into the hopeless old state industries -- money that can only come from the printing press. That means the economy will be at risk of hyperinflation, the condition when a currency becomes worthless.
Weimar Germany is the classic example of what hyperinflation can do to a society. In such a situation demagogues wait in the wings to preach that dictatorship and nationalism are the answer. And Russia has its demagogue today in Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the fascist who did so well in elections to the Duma.
Mr. Clinton and his foreign-policy team have made Russia their dominant interest. And they have made support for Mr. Yeltsin the basic, almost unquestioning premise of their policy.
Thus the Administration did not object when Mr. Yeltsin asserted a special Russian right of influence in the "near abroad," the other former Soviet republics. It rejected urgent appeals from Poland and other East European countries for membership in NATO because that might be politically difficult for Mr. Yeltsin, offering them instead the essentially meaningless "Partnership for Peace."
The Russocentric -- or Yeltsin-centric -- policy looks like a disaster today. Russia is a potential source of great danger: a huge country, with thousands of nuclear weapons, heading for economic chaos and who knows what social disorder. Yet President Clinton continues to talk as if all were well.
In his State of the Union speech Mr. Clinton also said that Europe now had the "possibility of becoming unified for the first time in its entire history, based on the simple commitments of all nations in Europe to democracy, to free markets and to respect for existing borders."
Respect for existing borders? When Serbian forces misled by nationalist demagoguery have destroyed Bosnia, a member state of the United Nations? What world is Mr. Clinton in? Does he know that European unity is frail and fraying, that Europe and the United States have no credibility as guarantors of security after our failure to stop Serbian aggression?
That leads to another point. Mr. Clinton spoke compellingly about a sick little girl whose father spoke to him in the White House. But he said nothing in the State of the Union, and he has said nothing elsewhere, about the six little children who were killed while at play in Sarajevo last week by deliberate Serbian shelling of civilian areas.
The world is a frightening place now. The only way for this country to deal with it is to stick to principles: to put down aggression on the continent where we have long committed ourselves to maintain peace and order, Europe; to approach a turbulent Russia not with weakness but with a clarity and firmness that Russians will respect, and above all to open our eyes to reality.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1994



747 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2216 words

HEADLINE: Crossroads for China;
With Democratic Stirrings Among Chinese, U.S. Is Pressing Beijing on Crucial Choices

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 28

 BODY:
Under enormous pressure from the Clinton Administration, China faces a series of decisions that could result in greater freedom of expression and guarantees of basic human rights that Chinese leaders have long considered a potential threat to the survival of Communist Party rule.
Already there seems to be a new surge of democratic activity. 
 Late Wednesday, 11 dissidents daringly signed a two-page statement calling for the release of Qin Yongmin, a young pampleteer dispatched by the Public Security Bureau last month for two years of hard labor. His crime was urging nonviolent political change in a "peace charter" written in November.
 
Vowing to Speak Out
 He joins thousands of others still imprisoned in China for the nonviolent expression of their political and religious beliefs. In his absence, his colleagues have vowed to continue speaking out.
Wei Jingsheng, China's most famous democracy campaigner, who emerged last fall from 14 years in prison, carried on a one-man free speech movement this week by giving interviews to foreign journalists on democracy issues despite threats by the secret police to muzzle him.
These stirrings can only be expected to grow.
The pressure to open the system up still further has come from President Clinton's threat to cancel China's low-tariff access to the American market unless Beijing makes "overall significant progress" in human rights, including freedom for significant numbers of political prisoners and Red Cross access to labor camps and detention centers.
The Administration also wants China to loosen its emigration restrictions and to stop jamming foreign news broadcasts into the country, and to come to terms with the long-simmering independence movement in Tibet.
Top Communist Party officials, including President Jiang Zemin, have said China is "going to make an effort" this year to respond to Mr. Clinton's requirements. If carried through, these decisions will disprove the conventional wisdom that China's leaders are paralyzed with indecision as they await the death of the senior leader, Deng Xiaoping.
It is too early to say whether China will expand on the initial steps it has taken or promised in recent meetings with Secretary of State Warren Christopher and other American officials.
But if China complies with the American demands, the relaxation of repression could well reinvigorate the democracy movement that has been largely dormant in China since it last erupted in the spring of 1989, only to be crushed in Tiananmen Square.
 
Next Few Months A Critical Period
 Interviews with China scholars, Western diplomats and economists suggest that the next few months are critical to determining the future course of Chinese politics.
By threatening to force open China's closed and intolerant political system, Mr. Clinton has confronted the country's leaders with a hateful dilemma.
Cancellation of China's favorable trade status could result in a catastrophic setback for its remarkable economic expansion, although such a move would also hurt American businesses that have been eager to invest in China.
But if China accepts the human rights challenge, its Communist leaders may set themselves on a path to extinction. The collapse of Communist rule, many Chinese leaders fear, could ignite social chaos, even civil war.
"The fear of social chaos is never far below the surface in their planning and thinking," a senior Western official, who works closely with top leaders on economic and development issues, said this week.
Between the extremes, a middle path for political reform in China seems possible, but it is seldom debated, since the Communist Party considers power sharing another form of suicide.
Many economists say the key to China's uninterrupted expansion lies in the United States, where China sold as much as $40 billion in goods in 1993, a phenomenal leap from $2.5 billion in sales just 10 years earlier.
Thus, when the history of China at the end of the 20th century is written, it will have to be asked whether this group of colorless Communist cadres, the successors of Mao and Deng, nurtured or undermined the largest economic expansion in China's history.
 
Is the Leadership Capable of Acting?
 To protect this vast export market in America, China must change, President Clinton says, and there are several basic questions about that change. First among them is whether the Chinese leadership can make tough decisions, or whether it is too paralyzed by factional rivalries as it awaits the death of Mr. Deng, who is 89 and in declining health.
The conventional wisdom for some time has been that China's leaders are seized by an abundance of political caution. This analysis holds that no leader wants to appear as having made concessions to the United States, especially on human rights or democracy issues, for fear of losing out in any power struggle with hard-line factions after Mr. Deng's death.
Two previous Chinese leaders, Hu Yaobang in 1987 and Zhao Ziyang in 1989, lost their jobs by showing sympathy for democratic reform.
But over the last several months, Chinese leaders seem to be paving the way for some major new decisions on human rights.
For the first time in 45 years, they have entered detailed discussions with the International Committee of the Red Cross about opening Chinese prisons. Such a decision would allow Red Cross workers to visit any political prisoner and determine if he or she was being tortured or mistreated.
Last week in Paris, the Chinese Foreign Minister, Qian Qichen, told Secretary Christopher that China would for the first time give detailed information on the list of 235 Chinese political prisoners compiled by Washington last fall. This information exchange is the prelude to what President Clinton hopes will be a large-scale release.
A Hong Kong human rights campaigner, John T. Kamm, said this week that China might have already quietly released between 30 and 60 political prisoners whose names were among the 235.
There are also some signs, Mr. Kamm says, that China is putting greater numbers of political prisoners on "medical parole."
While considered promising, these developments merely lay the groundwork for the much tougher decisions ahead, principally the full release of the remaining prisoners and protections against future arrests.
Some decisions have been made, but Clinton Administration officials say they are not enough.
Last week, China agreed to tighten an agreement to prevent products made by prison labor from being exported to the United States. And China made major concessions to the United States this month to strike a new textile agreement, which for the first time permits United States customs inspections on Chinese soil.
These steps have done nothing to dismantle the security apparatus that suppresses free expression and keeps the Communist Party in power, but they show that China's leaders are capable of acting.
Earlier this month, Qiao Shi, the head of China's Parliament and a former chief of the country's security services, toured several European capitals, where he said China needed to learn from Western countries how to establish a rule of law to protect its citizens.
The Justice Minister, Xiao Yang, has been talking about the need for China to train tens of thousands of lawyers in this decade to represent companies and citizens in court.
The sincerity of these statements will be tested in the months ahead.
 
Will Rights Gains Be Reversed Later?
 But another question is whether, even if Chinese leaders make major decisions to improve human rights conditions, they will they stick to them.
A decision by the Politburo to respond fully to President Clinton's human rights challenge could open China's more than 1,200 prisons, labor camps and detention centers to international inspection and could lead to the eventual release of hundreds, if not thousands, of political and religious prisoners.
However large the exodus, this tiny but potent population of free-thinking opponents of Communist rule, set loose in the sea of 1.2 billion Chinese, could well form the nucleus of a new democracy movement in China and Tibet.
Given China's past record for releasing handfuls of political dissidents while arresting dozens or even hundreds of others in a given year, many human rights officials say the Communist leadership cannot afford a wholesale release of political prisoners.
China's most famous dissident, Mr. Wei, said this week that because China did not yet follow the rule of law, it could easily roll back any concessions it made on human rights.
"The Clinton Administration has to be alert not to be cheated," Mr. Wei said. "If you do not exert continuous pressures, the Chinese Government will very soon take back what it has said."
But as Mr. Wei's release has demonstrated, the Communist state has not collapsed under the force of his free speech.
It is also certain that if President Clinton rewards a bold step by China on human rights by lifting the conditions on trade relations, a sudden relapse by China would set off a storm of indignation in Congress. It would also be likely to lead to trade sanctions.
The United States Ambassador to China, J. Stapleton Roy, said in a recent interview, "It is impossible for a country like the United States to have normal relations with a country that resorts to overt suppression of its own people."
 
Would Democracy Lead to Civil War?
 If China releases its political prisoners and tolerates a new era of democratic debate, will Mr. Deng's prophecy that democracy will only lead to chaos and civil war come true?
In the four and a half years since the Tiananmen massacre, and after a great deal of soul searching, student leaders and supporters of democratic change have asked whether a significant victory was frittered away because the students could not decide how and when to end their long siege of central Beijing. That siege lasted lasted almost continuously from mid-April to early June 1989.
The military assault on the night of June 3-4 and its bloody outcome followed many abortive attempts at compromise. The explosion of violence sent China into a spasm of withdrawal and repression that lasted for three years before it began to thaw.
It was clear in the aftermath that the student protesters in Beijing did not necessarily represent the vast majority of Chinese, especially the 800 million peasants of rural China. Most Chinese, while interested in democracy, crave stability and prosperity above all else, even under authoritarian rule.
Today, it is unlikely that another mass democracy protest could occur. The Government can now deploy a rapid-reaction armed police force to stop any protest in its early stage.
It is widely believed among Western and Asian diplomats that if the death of Mr. Deng brings thousands of Chinese into the streets either to praise or to protest his rule, they will be greeted by a martial-law response, especially at the entrances to Tiananmen Square.
By all accounts, the Chinese people do not want another Tiananmen-style confrontation. But many Chinese believe that the country could tolerate a greater degree of political openness now. Perhaps because Mr. Deng remains opposed to it, the authorities seem unwilling to experiment with a more open political environment.
 
National Priorities: Growth and Stability
 A final question surrounding the pressures confronting China is this: If China does make major decisions on human rights, what does it say about its national priorities?
Over the last two years, China's leaders have established as their overarching national security goal the need to sustain rapid economic growth for the next two critical decades.
During this period China faces a population surge to 1.5 billion or more before its population growth is expected to stabilize as a result of the one-child-per-family population control policy that has been in force since 1979.
The numbers are daunting. There are more mothers of childbearing age in China than there are people in the United States. Because its base is so large, China's population adds the population of Texas, about 17 million people, every year.
China's economy has to grow rapidly just to stay even with the demands for jobs, food and housing of this population, many economists point out. China's natural resources are under mounting pressure. Hundreds of cities are short of water, and arable land is shrinking under the encroachment of deserts and development. Per capita, China now has less arable land than Bangladesh.
These stark realities belie the image of China as an upstart Asian superpower, fattened by prosperity and harboring military or expansionist ambitions in the region.
Many Chinese say that what their country desperately needs is internal stability, peace on its borders and peace in Asia so it can run the gantlet of its troubles in the years ahead.
If so, China needs foreign technology and foreign markets to fuel the engine of its growth.
A new national strategy focused on growth and stability is one that may finally subordinate all of the ideological debates left over from the Maoist era. Such a strategy may also be able to accommodate a new commitment to human rights.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chinese dissidents, Xu Wenli, left, and Wei Jingsheng, were interviewed in Beijing on Tuesday. They said they knew Western pressure on their Government had advanced rights in China: It got them out of prison. (Associated Press)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); TIBET (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: ;RED CROSS

ORGANIZATION: ;RED CROSS

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); TIBET (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICAL PRISONERS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; CENSORSHIP; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; FREEDOM OF SPEECH; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS FREEDOM OF SPEECH (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); TRENDS (75%); CENSORSHIP (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); WRITERS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (67%); JOURNALISM (67%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RELIGION (54%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; QIN YONGMIN; WEI JINGSHENG BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



748 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: Finding Windfalls in Quake's Rubble

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 28

 BODY:
The earthquake last week virtually destroyed Carlos Lara's apartment, and at first, living with his family in the back of his 1979 Oldsmobile, he lamented his misfortune. But now he concedes the disaster has allowed him to reap a windfall in Government housing aid.
The filthy $400-a-month Hollywood tenement where the Laras lived before the earthquake was a hangout for crack dealers and the scene of a fatal stabbing. But because Mr. Lara is broke and unemployed, he qualified for a Federal program that moves poor disaster victims into apartments that would normally be beyond their means and pays most of their rent for 18 months. 
 As a result, the Laras moved into a spacious two-bedroom apartment today with a skylight, balcony and underground garage -- housing far nicer than their previous homes.
 
Many Are Waiting
 While the need of people like the Laras is evident, the ease and speed with which they were accommodated contrast sharply with the cases of about 40,000 other needy Los Angeles residents unaffected by the earthquake who have been waiting for months, and in some cases years, for non-emergency Federal housing aid.
As a consequence, the $100 million low-income-renter program financed by the Clinton Administration has touched off a debate over how the Government is treating the disaster victims. Some of those who have been waiting months and years have telephoned Federal officials to complain, and at least one Congressman has criticized the Federal largesse, charging that too many of the beneficiaries are illegal immigrants.
Also generating disputes here is the emergency food stamp distribution effort for earthquake victims. Federal and Los Angeles officials say it has attracted dozens, perhaps many more, opportunists making fraudulent claims because restrictions have been eased.
After reports of widespread abuses, and of incidents of food stamp lines becoming unruly, local and state welfare officials said today that though they would continue to accept applications, they intended to stop issuing the stamps for three days to restore order and to investigate reports of fraud. Federal officials would not confirm those reports.
Los Angeles County welfare officials said they had received reports from several of the 29 county food stamp centers that people who did not suffer earthquake damage had nonetheless applied for benefits. Others have applied for food stamps at more than one center or by standing line repeatedly at the same center, the officials said.
Abuses have become easier because emergency procedures have eliminated much of the normal screening. Applicants can claim that they suffered earthquake losses and that they meet low-income standards without showing proof.
The housing program that helped Mr. Lara, known as the Section 8 low-income housing assistance program, is also allowing applicants to "self-certify" in the same way, though officials said they had encountered no evidence of fraud in that program.
 
Disruption, Not a Change
 The earthquake added new inconveniences to the daily grind of poverty for thousands of poor people like the Laras, in some cases destroying the buildings in which they lived, but in many cases did not radically change their fundamental living conditions. Still, the aftermath has proved a bonanza for many by allowing them to qualify for newly generous Government aid programs.
The Clinton Administration has promised $6.6 billion in earthquake aid, and the shift to Government generosity has invigorated public officials dispensing aid here with a renewed sense of mission.
The change also has produced enthusiasm among some beneficiaries, but it appears to bewilder other victims unaccustomed to such generosity. "They told me they'd give me a loan, but I said I can't pay you back," said Mary Magdalena Vasquez, who was applying for earthquake assistance today at an aid center in Hollywood. "They said we'll have a check out to you in 10 days."
Some of the 40,000 poor people whose applications for the Section 8 low-income housing assistance have been backlogged for years have been calling the Los Angeles Housing Authority to complain that they have been leap-frogged by earthquake victims. And one Republican representative is criticizing the emergency processing procedures.
"When all is said and done, we're going to have spent hundreds of millions helping illegal aliens who shouldn't be eligible," said Representative Dana Rohrabacher, a Republican who represents beachfront communities in Orange County. "Its not fair and its going to lead America to ruin."
A prominent Hispanic businessman, Fernando Oaxaca, ridiculed Mr. Rohrabacher's criticism.
"This is painful to listen to, if you think of all the misery that's been suffered," Mr. Oaxaca said on a radio news program. "This idea of withholding the intravenous needle until you show your green card is just crazy."
The original Section 8 housing program was not an emergency relief effort but a permanent antipoverty program, part of the Housing Community Development Act of 1975. Under it, beneficiaries pay 30 percent of their adjusted income toward rent and the Government pays the rest. Since many beneficiaries have tiny incomes, the Government often pays 90 percent or more of the rent.
Before the quake there were 31,000 Los Angeles households receiving long-term Section 8 aid, said Marshall Kandell, a spokesman for the Los Angeles Housing Authority. Four years ago, the authority allowed new applicants to sign up for a waiting list during one three-week period and 80,000 persons applied. Today, 40,000 applicants are still waiting, Mr. Kandell said.
After the earthquake, Housing Secretary Henry Cisneros used $100 million from his department's budget to establish an emergency addition to the Section 8 program that will pay for rental assistance for 10,000 earthquake victims like Mr. Lara for 18 months. Mr. Cisneros also urged Federal and local housing officials to be flexible in the processing of applicants.
"Our goal was to get people into housing the fastest way possible," Mr. Cisneros said in a telephone interview today. "It may be that some people that were doubled in crummy apartments before are going to be better off now. If we can better some people's lives for 18 months, well, that's the business I'm in."
As of Thursday night, nearly 8,245 Angelenos had applied for emergency Section 8 aid, 4,724 had been given certificates allowing them to seek rental housing and about 82, like Mr. Lara, had moved into new apartments, Mr. Kandell said.
In neither the ordinary Section 8 nor the earthquake Section 8 program do Government officials make any attempt to verify applicant's citizenship, Mr. Kandell said.
Unlike the food stamp program, Mr. Kandell said that so far no applicants for Section 8 assistance had been found to be falsifying income or other data.
For Mr. Lara, an unemployed 49-year-old laborer who came to Los Angeles from Sinaloa, Mexico, 15 years ago, the expedited procedures were a wonderful turn of luck after the earthquake rattled him, his wife, Maria, and his two boys out of a roach-infested Hollywood apartment, where he was paying $400 monthly.
When he applied for rental assistance, Mr. Lara said he was amazed to hear Government officials urge him to find an apartment that was flawless, so that it would pass a Government inspection.
The apartment he found rents for $750 and he will pay $105. Over 18 months, the Government will pay $11,610 in rent subsidies for Mr. Lara.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; HOUSING; FOOD STAMPS; FOOD; FEDERAL AID (US); FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ILLEGAL ALIENS NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); IMMIGRATION (64%); COCAINE (56%); 

PERSON: ROHRABACHER, DANA (REPR); DILLON, SAM DANA ROHRABACHER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



749 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-5
 
AGREEMENT ON JAPAN REFORM
Japan's political parties reached an agreement on a somewhat watered-down version of a plan for broad alignment of its electoral system, saving the Prime Minister's job and his reform movement. 1 

HOPE AND IMPATIENCE
The Japanese regarded the package of electoral reform bills on which the parties agreed today with both hope and skepticism, but many were anxious to move on to other problems, such as the economy. 4
 
HUMAN RIGHTS PRESSURE ON CHINA
News analysis: the Clinton Administration pressure on China, if successful, could result in changes in freedom of expression and other basic rights as significant as the economic revolution already under way. 1
 
CONDITIONS FOR U.S. PEACEKEEPING
The Clinton Administration has completed work on a new policy that would set tough minimum conditions for United States involvement in United Nations peacekeeping operations around the globe. 1
 
PAST PRISMS ON FOREIGN POLICY
Four former Secretaries of State met with Secretary of State Warren Christopher, and each had his own perspective on how to approach today's foreign policy issues. 5
 
BOSNIA ACCUSES CROATIA
The Bosnian Government accused Croatia of invading its territory and asked the United Nations Security Council to take action. A confidential United Nations report appeared to support Bosnia's contention. 3
 
The U.N. leader said he is prepared to order Bosnia air strikes. 3
 
PROGRESS ON THE P.L.O. PACT
Both sides hope for a breakthrough as Israel prepares to meet again with the P.L.O. about Palestinian self-rule, and officials said that despite some sticking points, much progress has been made. 5
 
St. Petersburg Journal: Remembering the siege of Leningrad. 2
 
National 6-9
 
MISTRIAL IN 2D MENENDEZ CASE
The six-month trials of Lyle and Erik Menendez for the murder of their parents has ended in two mistrials with badly fragmented juries, leaving unresolved a tangle of legal, emotional and moral questions. 1
 
TURMOIL AT JUSTICE DEPT.
News analysis: For a year now, the department has been drifting indecisively. Whether the replacement of the No. 2 official will improve the situation is uncertain. Some officials there say a major part of the problem may be the managerial style of Attorney General Janet Reno. 6
 
RIFLE PRESENTED AS EVIDENCE
The high-powered rifle that is believed to have been used to kill the civil rights leader Medgar Evers was one of the few remaining pieces of physical evidence from the original trial. 6
 
QUAYLE HAWKS POTATO CHIPS
Dan Quayle is hawking Frito-Lay potato chips during the Super Bowl, as the marriage of Madison Avenue and politics continues. 6
 
EXPERIMENTS WITH DYING PATIENTS
Dying patients have become the subjects of choice for research in studies that may help future patients but have very small chance of benefiting the subjects. 7
 
GOVERNMENT SPEEDS HOUSING AID
When the Government cut through red tape to help poor people who lost their homes in last week's earthquake in Los Angeles, it gave some people a quick windfall. 8
 
QUAKE FOOD STAMP EFFORT ENDS
Concerned about fraudulent claims for earthquake relief, disaster officials closed a program that provided food stamps, on the spot, to any poor person professing to be an earthquake victim. 8
 
DEMOCRATS PONDER NEXT MOVE
More than 100 House Democrats ended their annual retreat after two days of pondering how to pass and sell an ambitious domestic agenda topped by health care. 9
 
FIRST LADY SPEAKS ON HEALTH CARE
At a meeting of doctors in Nevada, Hillary Rodham Clinton disputed the argument increasingly popular among Republicans that there is no crisis in health care. 9
 
Pope John Paul II called television a major threat to family life. 9
 
Metro Digest 21
 
FRIGID TO WARM, SUDDENLY
After weeks of blizzards and brutal cold, the fickle Winter of '94 played another diabolically nasty trick on the New York region, delivering springlike temperatures and a pounding rain that melted snow, flooded roads and homes, delayed travelers and made life a muddy, miserable mess. 1
 
GIULIANI PLANS JOB CUTS
Faced with a $2.3 billion gap in the next fiscal year's budget, Mayor Giuliani plans to eliminate 14,000 to 18,000 city jobs over the next year and a half by offering inducements to certain workers to quit, administration officials said yesterday. 1
 
DEATH-ROW DOG SAVED
Taro, the death-row dog, was saved from execution by order of the Governor of New Jersey but condemned in the same breath to live the rest of its life outside the Garden State. 1
 
Business Digest 35
 
Arts/Entertainment 11-15
 
Comic-book festival in France. 11
 
Music: Swervedriver. 11
 
Rorem's new concerto. 11
 
Junior Brown. 15
 
Dance: Douglas Dunn. 13
 
City Ballet's Vienna. 13
 
Obituaries 26
 
LEVITTOWN DEVELOPER DIES
William J. Levitt, the Long Island developer who built the prototype for the suburbs that would lure middle-class Americans out of cities by the millions after World War II, died at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 86. 1
 
Reuben Mattus, the founder of Haagen-Dazs. 26
 
Ivan Warner, a judge on the State Supreme Court in the Bronx. 26
 
Claude Akins, actor. 26
 
Sports 27-32
 
Baseball: Yanks sign Ojeda. 31
 
Column: Rhoden on Gilchrist. 27
 
Football: Turner is in demand how. 27
 
Levy a scholar and coach. 29
 
Hockey: Islanders shut out. 32
 
Tennis: Graf breezes in Australian final. 31
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 18-19
 
Editorials
 
Learning from Russia's reverse.
 
Justice in disarray.
 
Senate's green light on Vietnam.
 
New York's crumbling schools.
 
Letters
 
Anna Quindlen: A woman scorned.
 
Russell Baker: Soother of the beast.
 
Mario M. Cuomo: "Three strikes and you're out" -- harsh, but fair.
 
Mimi Silbert: "Three strikes" is the wrong way to get tough.
 
Rozanne Gold: The Giulianis' front burner.
 
Bridge 15
 
Chronicle 20
 
Crossword 14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); CROATIA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

COMPANY: FRITO-LAY INC (51%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); CROATIA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); EVIDENCE (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MURDER (71%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (70%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (70%); JURY TRIALS (68%); MISTRIAL (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); TZIPORA LIVNI (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



750 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1890 words

HEADLINE: Aides Say Giuliani Plans to Cut 14,000 to 18,000 Jobs by 1995

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
Faced with a $2.3 billion gap in the next fiscal year's budget, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani plans to eliminate 14,000 to 18,000 city jobs over the next year and a half by offering payments to certain workers to quit, administration officials said yesterday.
The officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that the administration had already identified 5,500 positions to be cut. It intends to identify for elimination another 5,000 to 6,000 jobs by late April, when Mr. Giuliani presents his executive budget for the 1995 fiscal year, which begins in July. 
 The rest of the reductions would come later that year, the officials said. The total reductions would be roughly 6 to 8 percent of the work force paid entirely from city funds, or 216,000.
It is not clear what will happen to workers who do not accept the severance package, the details of which were not disclosed. But officials warned that if the administration did not force out enough workers, it would have to resort to attrition or layoffs.
The proposal would try to entice workers to leave jobs identified by the administration as unnecessary by using $200 million from a surplus fund of the Municipal Assistance Corporation. In return, the administration would pledge not to refill four out of every five jobs eliminated.
Stanley Hill, the executive director of the city's largest municipal union, District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, reacted angrily to the proposal, complaining that the Mayor's office had not notified the union, as promised. He said that such deep reductions would have a marked impact on the city's services and its workers.
 
Impact on Services and People
 "It's a lopsided way of doing business that workers should be given the burden of closing the budget deficit," said Mr. Hill, whose union represents 125,000 municipal workers. "Not only is there no question that this will have an impact on services, but they do not see the impact on the people who will suffer because they have to do without."
Raymond D. Horton of the Citizens Budget Commission, who has served as an adviser to the new administration, welcomed the proposal to reduce the city's work force, though he said it remained to be seen if the severance package would prove enticing enough.
He said that if the $200 million were divided among, say, 12,000 workers, the packages would average about $17,000 -- or less than a third of the average municipal salary of $56,000.
"I think if it's part of a larger strategy for reducing the work force and if it's something that is not going to impose future obligations on taxpayers, then it's something that should be seriously considered," said Mr. Horton. He outlined ways to reduce the city's work force by 30,000 jobs over four years at a retreat in Westchester County this month that was attended by senior mayoral aides.
The details of the proposal come as Mr. Giuliani is finishing a preliminary budget plan, to be unveiled on Wednesday, that would eliminate or consolidate agencies, cut administrative costs and sharply reduce spending in most departments.
The plan will offer a first glimpse at how Mr. Giuliani intends to keep his promises to reduce the size of government and create "new approaches" to manage what is left, all without raising taxes or drastically cutting services -- a feat that independent budget monitors say appears virtually impossible.
Some of the greatest savings in the plan are expected to come from virtually across-the-board cuts in the city's agencies, from 5 percent to as high as 10 percent of their budgets. Those cuts will total more than $1 billion, or nearly half the deficit, one aide said. While it is not yet clear how much of an impact those cuts will have, there are indications they could be substantial enough to be felt by many New Yorkers.
Speaking broadly yesterday about his strategies in the plan to be released next week, Mr. Giuliani said, "I expect there will be a big reaction against this." He added, however, "There aren't any other options."
While independent budget monitors have expressed skepticism that the city's budget can be balanced without new taxes or painful cuts, Mr. Giuliani and his aides have expressed hope that they can do so by reducing municipal fat and by improving the way the city delivers services.
"We can give the citizens of New York a pretty good bang for the buck -- in terms of services -- and still have a balanced budget," Deputy Mayor Peter J. Powers said. "I don't want to say there won't be pain, but I think we can keep it to a minimum."
For Mr. Giuliani, the city's first Republican Mayor in a generation, the proposal to reduce the work force by so many jobs will become his first major challenge with the powerful municipal unions, which are almost certain to resist drastic, essentially involuntary cuts. And his success could define his ability to streamline government, as he pledged during the campaign, and still maintain services important to voters.
 
The Faster, the Fewer
 The administration officials said yesterday that their goal was to eliminate the 14,000 to 18,000 jobs as quickly as possible in order to maximize savings in the first years of Mr. Giuliani's tenure and thus possibly avoid further job reductions later, when Mr. Giuliani could be closer to seeking re-election.
"In essence," one official said, "the faster we can reduce a position, the more money we're going to save and ultimately the fewer positions we have to reduce."
The severance offers, in the form of cash payments, would begin in mid-March so that as many of the jobs as possible would be cut in the current fiscal year, which ends in June. The officials said the plan was not an early retirement package since that would require state legislation.
The officials said they did not know the payments per worker. That and other details will be ironed out by Randy Levine, the Commissioner of the city's Department of Labor, in talks with the municipal unions.
They said the jobs to be eliminated had been identified by commissioners as ones they could do without, while other jobs could be cut by putting government operations up for private competition. The severance packages would be offered only to workers whose jobs the administration hoped to eliminate as unnecessary, and not, for example, to police officers.
 
Layoffs or Attrition by June
 If the administration does not achieve enough reductions, the officials said, additional jobs will be eliminated through layoffs or attrition, starting as soon as June.
Mr. Hill declined to comment specifically on the proposal because he had not been given any details. He did say, however, that the administration had started its first negotiations with the unions very badly by leaking details of the proposal to reporters before informing union officials.
"I think he's playing a very dangerous game," Mr. Hill said.
The final preparations of the preliminary budget plan Mr. Giuliani will release on Wednesday are still under way, and aides cautioned that while while many decisions had been made, the plan would evolve over the weekend. Its details have remained secrets among the Mayor's senior aides, who say they hope to minimize outrage over specific cuts in some departments and programs by unveiling the plan -- and its cuts -- as a whole to show that whatever pain it has is spread equally.
The administration also hopes to minimize the sort of lobbying by interest groups and constituencies that has already begun. The administration's plan to cut part of the city's Department of Consumer Affairs, for example, led 27 members of the City Council to sign a letter vowing to resist any reduction of the department's power to protect the rights of consumers.
 
Ignoring Minority Concerns
 And yesterday, the 22 members of the council's Black and Hispanic Caucus held a news conference to criticize the Mayor for ignoring their concerns as he prepared his plan.
"We're not going to sit back and let services that we know affect our communities be tampered with," the group's chairwoman, Priscilla A. Wooten of Brooklyn, said, adding that the members would challenge Mr. Giuliani's proposal when the Council takes up his executive budget in May.
The Mayor and his aides have gone to great lengths to underscore just how serious the city's budget gap is. They have said the $2.3 billion shortfall is the worst a new administration has ever had to close, though other administrations have sought to portray their budget problems as the worst ever.
Still, Abraham M. Lackman, the Mayor's budget director, said that for the first time since the fiscal crisis of the 1970's, the city's budget would not grow or would grow very little from the previous year because of a drop in revenue from city property taxes.
The current budget, for the fiscal year that ends in June, totals $31.6 billion, of which $21.7 billion comes from the city's revenues. The new budget "will have de minimus growth or none at all," Mr. Lackman said.
 
Merging Responsibilities
 The proposed reductions that have already provoked strong reactions are those to cut back the Department of Consumer Affairs and the city's Human Rights Commission. Other proposals expected in the plan would fold the duties of the Taxi and Limousine Commission into the Police Department, while the responsibilities of the Department of Telecommunications, which regulates the cable industry, would move to the Department of General Services.
Aides to Mr. Giuliani also said that the plan would outline a change in the Mayor's office itself, eliminating or consolidating the roughly 40 agencies, commissions and offices that oversee an array of policies and programs.
One mayoral aide said that the elimination of the constituency affairs offices -- the Offices of African-American and Caribbean Affairs, European-American Affairs, Jewish Community Affairs, Latino Affairs and Lesbian and Gay Community Affairs -- would eliminate 19 jobs and save about $700,000 a year, mostly in salaries and benefits.
The administration is also seriously considering whether to sell off some or all of WNYC, the radio and television stations operated by the city. And Mr. Giuliani said this week that he would turn over two of the city's municipal hospitals to private nonprofit groups next year and contract with businesses to collect parking tickets and other fines.
 
Saving on Overtime Costs
 The plan is expected to include other measures to save money, including steps to control overtime among the city's police, fire, corrections and sanitation workers. Overtime costs in those agencies has repeatedly exceeded budgeted amounts -- by a total of $100 million for the current fiscal year -- because of unexpected emergencies, increases in sick leave and failures to achieve savings through productivity.
The officials also said yesterday that the plan would propose decreases in two taxes over the first 18 months and more tax cuts in the second two years. More tax cuts might be considered if the economy picks up, they said, declining to specify the taxes under consideration. The Mayor has said he favors cuts in the city's taxes on hotel rooms over $100 and on the rent that businesses pay for commercial office space.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MUNICIPAL ASSISTANCE CORP; CITIZENS BUDGET COMMISSION AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUNICIPAL ASSISTANCE CORP; CITIZENS BUDGET COMMISSION AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES BUDGETS (92%); CIVIL SERVICES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); SEVERANCE PAY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); COUNTIES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MYERS, STEVEN LEE; HILL, STANLEY; HORTON, RAYMOND D RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



751 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
Economy Grew Strongly In Final Quarter of '93
The economy surged at a 5.9 percent annual pace in the final quarter of 1993, the best performance in six years. The broad advance was driven mainly by gains in sectors of the economy that are responsive to low interest rates. Page 35.
 
Studying Dying Patients
 When patients join experimental research protocols, the potential for cure may be outweighed by the possibility of exploitation. Page 7.
 
 
Leading Law Firm to Close
 One of New York's most prestigious law firms, Shea & Gould, will close because of irreconcilable differences among its 80 partners. Page 35.
 
Earthquake Largesse
 Some poor people whose lives were upended by the earthquake last week received windfalls when the Government cut red tape. Page 8.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (87%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



752 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Asserting Croatia Invaded, Bosnia Appeals to U.N.

BYLINE: By CHUCK SUDETIC, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Jan. 28

 BODY:
Bosnia's Government appealed to the United Nations Security Council today to take action against neighboring Croatia, accusing it of mounting an invasion. A confidential United Nations report appeared to support the Bosnian contention.
"Open military intervention by the armed forces of the republic of Croatia is being carried out against the republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina," the mostly Muslim Government said in its appeal to the Council. It called for an immediate emergency session of the Council and appealed to it to take measures under Chapter 7 of the United Nations Charter. 
 Chapter 7 allows the Council to call for the use of force to defend a United Nations member state. Bosnia and Herzegovina was admitted to the United Nations in 1992.
 
Intervention Called Obvious
 "This intervention has become obvious, not even disguised," said Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic of Bosnia, asserting that 25,000 to 30,000 Croatian Army troops and a large number of tanks are in the country, fighting alongside the Croatian Defense Council, the militia of the Bosnian Croats. In recent months, Bosnian Government forces have driven the Croatian Defense Council out of a significant portion of central Bosnia.
In May 1992, the United Nations imosed an economic embargo on Yugoslavia, which now includes only Serbia and Montenegro, for arming and supporting nationalist Serbs in Bosnia. United Nations officials confirmed earlier this week that Yugoslav Army contingents have recently crossed into Bosnia.
Asked if the United Nations should impose economic sanctions on Croatia, Mr. Silajdzic said it was up to the Security Council.
The latest reports of intervention in Bosnia by Croatian and Yugoslav army units highlight a new level of cooperation between the Serbian and Croatian Governments, which are pressuring the Bosnian Government to accept a European Union-sponsored partition plan that would cede 70 percent of Bosnia's territory.
 
Warning From Croatia
 Croatia's President, Franjo Tudjman, warned weeks ago that his country would intervene militarily in Bosnia if the Bosnian Army continued to move against Croatian militia forces that overran several swaths of central Bosnia last spring.
But on Jan. 5, the United States representative to the United Nations, Madeleine K. Albright, visited Croatia and warned its leaders not to get involved in the war.
United Nations officials here refused to discuss the Croatian troop buildups.
"We have heard some rumors about it," the chief military spokesman of the United Nations, Maj. Idesbald van Biesenbroeck, said tonight. "We don't have any firm proof of Croatian Army presence in Bosnia. I really can't believe that the United Nations military force wouldn't be aware of it."
But a confidential United Nations situation report, dated Jan. 23, asserts that "more evidence of H.V. involvement in Herzegovina has been found, but it has been restricted to personnel and vehicles." The abbreviation refers to the Croatian Army.
[At a briefing in Zagreb, the capital of Croatia, a senior United Nations officer confirmed that there was clear evidence that an estimated 3,000 regular Croatian Army soldiers had been sent into Bosnia. He also said that the peacekeeping command had "no conclusive evidence of unit level" involvement of the regular Yugoslav Army in the fighting in Bosnia, saying that with identifying insignia removed from his uniform, a Yugoslav Army soldier would be indistinguishable from a member of the Bosnian Serbs' militia.]
 
U.N. General Expresses Shock
 In one of his final interviews as commander of the United Nations military forces in Bosnia, Lieut. Gen. Francis Briquemont expressed shock that the international community had not taken punitive action against Croatia.
"Units of the Croatian Army are fighting in the region of Gornji Vakuf," General Briquemont told Reuters two weeks ago. "There has been no international community reaction to Croat actions.
"Roso is a Croatian Army general," said General Briquemont, referring to the Croatian Defense Council's commander, Gen. Ante Roso. "We have Croatian Army units, officers and generals fighting in Bosnia. What is the reaction of the international community? Croats are blocking convoy routes, blocking Mostar. What is the reaction? I cannot understand this lack of reaction."
In a detailed statement before an open meeting of Bosnia's Government, Defense Minister Hamdija Hadzihasanovic said 10 Croatian Army brigades, about 5,000 troops, were on Bosnian soil in the area of Prozor and Gornji Vakuf.
The Defense Minister said sizable Croatian Army contingents were also fighting in the city of Mostar as well as on the south bank of the Sava River near the village of Orasje.
 
Italian Journalists Killed
 A Croatian shell killed three Italian television journalists today in the part of Mostar controlled by the Bosnian Government, a United Nations official here said.
The Defense Minister said the Croats are using airplanes and helicopters for reconnaissance, to drop supplies and to move troops, in violation of the no-flight zone imposed by the United Nations.
Also today, Britain suspended its involvement in the relief convoy operation in Bosnia after a gang of gunmen in the Bosnian Government-controlled city of Zenica abducted three British civilian aid workers, killing one and wounding the others, United Nations officials here said.
It was the first instance of abduction and murder involving United Nations aid workers since the war began 22 months ago.
"We want the authorities to restore law and order," said Ron Redmond, spokesman for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. "If this kind of thing continues, we are not going to be able to operate."
Mr. Redmond said he did not know whether the incident would prompt United Nations relief officials to halt aid deliveries to the area.
"People are desperate because they're hungry," Mr. Redmond said. "The situation is very dangerous for that reason."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bosnian Government and United Nations officials say thousands of Croatian Army soldiers have been sent into Bosnia to help the Bosnian Croat militia. Two Bosnian Croats searched a building early this month in Vitez, a Croatian enclave in central Bosnia under Muslim attack. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Bosnia and Herzegovina showing location of Mostar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); CROATIA (99%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; CROATIA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); CROATIA (99%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); ARMIES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); 

PERSON: SUDETIC, CHUCK

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



753 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Public's Ardor Over Vote Reform Fades

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Saturday, Jan. 29

 BODY:
After a five-year struggle to enact election and campaign finance reform laws, the Japanese people seem to regard the prospect of the passage of a package of bills with skepticism, a bit of cynicism and some modest hopefulness.
A compromise package of bills that was agreed on early today would create new election districts and make them single-seat constituencies, as opposed to the current multiple-seat districts. The bills would also modestly tighten campaign finance laws and stiffen penalties for violations. 
 Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa and his coalition partners have promoted the package as the prelude to a new kind of political system that will place more importance on policy debates than cash gifts.
 
Other Problems to Solve
 But most people seem impatient to get on to other problems, like the economy; a package of measures to stimulate growth has been shelved until the reform issue is resolved. What emotion once existed about pervasive corruption has eased.
"People are disappointed rather than angry at this point," said Mayumi Takasaki, 19, a student.
The lack of emotion was evident in the response to the Prime Minister's plea on Thursday, when he called on voters to telephone or fax their representatives and demand action. While common in the United States, this tactic is all but unheard of in Japan, and thus underscored Mr. Hosokawa's goal of defining himself as a new kind of populist.
But officials in the Prime Minister's office said on Friday that there had been about 20 calls from people eager to express their opinions, "a few more than usual." The other parties said much the same thing.
The Tokyo Metropolitan Police said there had been one political demonstration on Friday.
The news media have carried such a steady diet of stories on the issue, along with accounts of the latest arrests of senior politicians, that people interviewed around the city seemed strikingly well informed, but less than passionate.
 
It's the Economy
 The overwhelming sense was that the toppling of the Liberal Democratic Party last summer after 38 years in power was a more important event, and that further changes were likely to play themselves out over a long period of time.
"I wish they would hurry up and settle this, finally," said Yukihisa Hashimoto, 33, an office worker who happened on another rally in front of Shinbashi Station in central Tokyo. "I want them to tackle reflating the economy. That's more important."
"But I can't say I'm angry," Mr. Hashimoto added. "I had heard that the politicians were doing these kind of corrupt things for a long time."
While many Japanese describe such tepid comments as a product of the nonconfrontational Japanese character, politics has not always been so bloodless here.
During the 1960's and early 1970's, student radicals regularly took to the streets and defied the conservative power structure and its tear gas. The renewal of the security treaty with the United States in 1960 caused student riots.
"Students are a large group that can express its opinions freely, and at one time they played an important role in politics, but they have become very conservative and interested in the status quo now," said Ikuo Kabashima, a professor of politics at Tsukuba University, who has conducted opinion surveys for years. "They are interested more in themselves, really. They don't see a connection between their lives and politics. That's true of a lot of people."
 
More Distrust Than Anger
 He added: "What anger people felt when the corruption scandals were first publicized is gone. By now it's not so much anger as just a general distrust of politicians."
That is not to say that opinions are uniform, of course. Kii Nakamura, chairman of Japan Housewives Association, a large consumer group, said she wanted the bills killed because they had been watered down too much in the final dealmaking phase.
Akio Motoki, 22, a college student who hopes to begin his first job next year, was one of those who said he was willing to accept half a loaf now as a way of breaking the deadlock.
"This is a crucial moment," he said. "We cannot miss this chance. Passing these bills is a prerequisite for other changes. Until we get this cleared up we cannot move on."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); POLICE FORCES (64%); 

PERSON: MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



754 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Shea & Gould Partners Vote to Close Law Firm

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
One of New York's best-known law firms, Shea & Gould, announced yesterday that it would break up.
The 80 partners voted Thursday night to dissolve the 200-lawyer practice, said a management consultant hired by the firm, Bradford W. Hildebrandt of Somerville, N.J. Mr. Hildebrandt said he had recommended the decision, which came on a show-of-hands vote, because of serious discord among the partners. 
 A partner in the firm, Lawrence J. Lipson, said "irreconcilable differences" led to the breakup.
"It's not for any economic reason," he said. "There is no reason for this business to dissolve except that some partners could not live with others."
Yesterday, some employees gathered for what amounted to a wake in the law firm's offices on the 46th floor in the Exxon Building in midtown Manhattan, and some staff members threw darts at an outsized photograph of Thomas E. Constance, the chairman of the firm.
Rumors that a large contingent of Shea & Gould lawyers planned to defect to another firm had been circulating for several days. The New York Law Journal reported Thursday that Shea & Gould had been discussing a merger with Greenberg, Traurig, Hoffman, Lipoff, Rosen & Quentel, a 200-lawyer firm based in Miami.
Several people from Shea & Gould said yesterday that those negotiations were continuing, and it was not clear what would happen to the firm's lawyers -- either partners or associates -- in the aftermath of the breakup.
The Law Journal said that five partners had departed in the last month, including Lauren J. Wachtler, daughter of the former Chief Judge of New York State, Sol Wachtler. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's daughter, Madeline, also worked at Shea & Gould but left more than a year ago.
The firm was founded 30 years ago by the man for whom Shea Stadium was named -- William A. Shea, a confidant of governors, mayors and corporate chieftains from the 1940's until his death in 1991 -- and Milton S. Gould. Now 84, Mr. Gould had been moving toward retirement in the last couple of years, although he was in court yesterday, arguing a case.
 Mr. Shea and Mr. Gould were an odd match, a unlikely pairing of "blarney and chutzpah," someone once said. Shea & Gould was known across a wide variety of legal disciplines, and its influence was such that it was considered a powerhouse from back rooms to board rooms and from back rooms to board rooms and from City Hall to Albany and Washington. It represented both the Yankees and the Mets, as well as banks like Apple, Crossland and Marine Midland and the Toys "R" Us retail chain.
But the firm ran into turbulence even before Mr. Shea's death in October 1991. He was known more for his leadership skills than for his legal prowess, while Mr. Gould was a canny courtroom strategist. Together they made a formidable leadership team. But the longer they remained at the top, the more frustrated their younger partners became.
"They lost a whole generation of lawyers because they wouldn't let go," one former partner said last night.
Mr. Gould had passed much of the responsibility for the firm's management to younger lawyers, but some partners -- accustomed to years of strong management by the two older men -- chafed under the new arrangements. Cliques and factions formed around legal disciplines, age groups and clients, balkanizing the firm, some members said.
No one group or alliance of one or two lawyers was strong enough to gain control over the whole firm.
Mr. Hildebrandt, a well-known consultant to the legal profession, was hired to try to bring some unanimity to the firm, but ultimately concluded that it was too factionalized to continue as a unified entity.
"A law partnership is a fragile arrangement at best," The Associated Press quoted him as saying. "It's like a marriage. You can have very good and talented people together, but if they disagree, at some point it doesn't work."
A person close to several of the partners was told that Mr. Hildebrandt had convened a meeting at one point at which he told the partners: "You don't have an economic problem, you have a personality problem. You hate each other."
 
Closing on March 31
 Mr. Hildebrandt, who had been hired to try to smooth out some of the disagreements, said that Shea & Gould would close its doors on March 31 and that outstanding cases would be handled according to clients' wishes. In some cases, partners will take the work with them when they go to other firms.
"There will be an orderly windup of business affairs," he said.
Several lawyers at Shea & Gould described the shutdown as a "divorce" and said it was different from what happened to Finley, Kumble, Wagner, Heine, Underberg, Manley, Myerson & Casey, another large Manhattan firm. It crumbled and went into bankruptcy in 1987.
But unlike Finley, Kumble, Shea & Gould had been doing well lately, several employees said. Shea & Gould had difficulties because of the real-estate slump and the firm's own expensive lease. The lease, in Rockefeller Center, almost led to the firm's demise a few years ago, but Shea & Gould managed to renegotiate the terms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (50%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SHEA & GOULD GREENBERG TRAURIG LLP (91%); TOYS 'R' US INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHEA & GOULD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) LEGAL SERVICES (91%); LAWYERS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); MAYORS (78%); JUDGES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (62%); GOVERNORS (58%); 

PERSON: BARRON, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



755 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Columbia U. May Be Sued In Sex Case

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN

 BODY:
Setting a precedent for sexual-harassment cases, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has ruled that a woman can sue her employer, Columbia University, under Federal civil rights laws for sexual harassment, even though she could not show that she suffered economic harm. The ruling reversed a lower court decision.
The woman, Sharon Karibian, who started as a secretary in the university's fund-raising office, said her supervisor, Mark Urban, forced her into a violent sexual relationship, in exchange for which, she said, she received promotions and pay increases. Mr. Urban conceded that the relationship had existed, but said that it had been consensual.
 
Rights Are the Same
 Typically, Federal courts have considered cases in which the worker has refused to comply with advances and was subsequently punished. This case, Karibian v. Columbia University, is unusual, a three-judge panel said, because the worker submitted and was rewarded accordingly. But the court emphasized that the legal rights of employees are the same, whether or not they accede to sexual advances. 
 "The focus should be on the prohibited conduct, not the victim's reaction," Judge Joseph M. McLaughlin wrote.
The trial judge, Thomas P. Griesa of Federal District Court in Manhattan, dismissed Ms. Karibian's case because she had not proved that she had suffered an economic loss as a result of her relationship with Mr. Urban.
It also dismissed her claim under another type of sexual harassment case known as "hostile work environment," because, it said, she had not followed the university's formal grievance procedures for such complaints.
Elizabeth L. Koob, who represented Ms. Karibian, said the lower court had "focused on what the victim does as opposed to what the supervisor has done, and almost encourages supervisors to become more aggressive so women will submit and employers won't be liable."
 
Significant for Employers
 But the Second Circuit also disagreed with the trial court's ruling on the hostile work environment question, and its opinion earlier this week, which Ms. Karibian's lawyers said has been echoed by other appeals courts, could be significant for employers.
An employer does not have to be given notice through a formal grievance procedure to be held responsible for its senior management, the court said. In essence, the Second Circuit has put a greater burden on employers to prevent harassment by high-level supervisors. In contrast, an employer may be held liable for sexual harassment by co-workers or low-level supervisors only if there is no grievance procedure available or the employer knew of the behavior and did nothing.
Other Federal courts have held that employers must have been given notice to be held liable for the actions of their employees.
But, wrote Judge McLaughlin, if a jury agreed with Ms. Karibian that her supervisor forced her "to endure a prolonged, violent and demeaning relationship," then, he said, "Columbia is liable to Karibian because Urban abused his delegated authority to create a discriminatorily abusive work environment."
A lawyer for Mr. Urban, Clifford M. Solomon, was unavailable for comment.
While she was a student in Columbia University's general studies program in 1987, Ms. Karibian contends, Mr. Urban, her supervisor at the university's Telefund office, repeatedly invited her to bars and ultimately coerced her into a violent sexual relationship. Many of the terms of her employment, including hours and raises, were conditional on her responsiveness to Mr. Urban, she said.
In September 1988, Ms. Karibian said, she took the matter to Columbia's confidential Panel on Sexual Harassment and then to the university's Equal Opportunity Office. What remains in dispute is whether they dissuaded her from pressing her claim or whether she did not want them to pursue it. She claims that in 1989 she also told another supervisor.
Ms. Karibian continued to receive promotions and raises.
In 1990 Ms. Karibian again met with a woman representing the Equal Opportunity Office and an investigation began. Eventually Columbia University dismissed Mr. Urban, although the reasons are not clear, and laid off Ms. Karibian.
A spokesman for Columbia, Fred Knubel, said: "The university disagrees with the decision because it departs from prior law." Its options include going to trial, offering to settle with Ms. Karibian, and appealing to a full panel of the Second Circuit or to the Supreme Court.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; HIRING AND PROMOTION; WOMEN SEXUAL HARASSMENT (93%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); JUDGES (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); APPEALS (89%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); EMPLOYER LIABILITY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); 

PERSON: HOFFMAN, JAN; URBAN, MARK; KARIBIAN, SHARON JOSEPH M MCLAUGHLIN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



756 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
 The economy surged at a 5.9 percent annual pace in the final quarter of 1993, the best performance in six years. The broad advance was mainly driven by sectors of the economy that are responsive to low interest rates, including housing and cars, and was accompanied by low inflation. [Page 35.] 
 
Companies
 The law firm Shea & Gould will close because of irreconcilable differences among its 80 partners. The firm, founded 30 years ago, is one of the best known and most prestigious in New York City, with about 200 lawyers. [35.]
 BankAmerica will buy Continental Bank of Chicago for $1.9 billion in cash and stock, creating a bank with $209 billion in assets, second only to Citicorp, the nation's largest. [35.]
 Aetna Life will take $1.28 billion in charges against earnings. It will also cut 4,000 jobs, abandon a loss-plagued part of its investment business and pay for higher than expected losses in its workers compensation insurance business. [35.]
Green Point Savings Bank went public in the largest initial public offering of a bank or savings institution in the last 20 years. The offering of $804 million in stock came just hours before a critical deadline. [35.]
R. H. Macy has filed a motion to preserve its right to sue Federated over the sale of the Bullock's and I. Magnin stores to Macy in 1988. Macy will cut 700 jobs in its West Coast unit.[37.]
Federated Department Stores hired Harold D. Kahn to head its Abraham & Straus chain, a move considered ironic by the retail industry because Federated wants to merge with Macy. [37.]
Big oil companies saw fourth-quarter earnings surge, in part because of a plunge in crude oil prices. [37.]

International
 A small Polish television broadcaster beat out bigger rivals, including Time Warner and Capital Cities/ABC, to win a license for the country's first private national network. The company, PolSat, has attracted the interest of Rupert Murdoch. [37.]

Markets
 Stocks surged to record highs in a second day of heavy trading. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 19.13 points, to 3,945.43, a gain of 30.95 points for the week. [36.]
Bond prices rose sharply after a Government report showed inflation under control despite brisk economic growth. [43.]
The dollar closed higher in a sharp turnaround from an earlier selloff overseas. [46.]
Soybean prices tumbled, hog and pork belly futures soared, and crude and heating oil fell. [46.]

Your Money
 Variable annuities may be the rage in retirement saving, but investors should look again at individual retirement accounts, which carry the tax sizzle of annuities at a lower cost. [33.]
Convertible securities can be a defensive way to play the stock market. They have a higher yield than a company's stock, but can be exchanged into a fixed number of shares. [33.]
Investors can avoid the charges of switching within a family of mutual funds by using two money market funds, one for transferring in and out of a family's no-load funds and another for cruising its no-load universe. [33.]
A small-company growth fund aims to take advantage of the edge that small stocks, despite their volatility, have had over their larger brethren. [33.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: M (NYSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); GREEN POINT SAVINGS BANK (55%); ABC INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (68%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PORK (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); BONDS (77%); LAWYERS (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); FUTURES (74%); ANNUITIES (74%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); US DOLLAR (72%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (70%); RETAILERS (70%); HEATING OIL (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (68%); HEATING OIL PRICES (68%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (67%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (64%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (63%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (63%); BOND MARKETS (61%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (61%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



757 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Economy Grows 5.9% In Quarter

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28

 BODY:
Surpassing most expectations, the economy surged at a 5.9 percent annual pace in the final quarter of 1993, the best performance in six years, the Government estimated today.
The impressively broad advance was driven mainly by sectors of the economy responsive to low interest rates, including housing and cars. And it was accompanied by low inflation, making it unlikely, analysts said, that the Federal Reserve will soon yield to any urge to nudge rates up. 
 "Good news -- and great news," said Irwin L. Kellner, chief economist at Chemical Bank, referring to the pair of growth and price results.
 
 
White House Takes Credit
 The Clinton Administration was quick to hail the Commerce Department report and to claim credit for what Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the President's chief economic adviser, called an economy "squarely on a path of sustainable growth." She pointed to progressive improvements that in 1993 lifted the economy from "jobless recovery to, I would say, expansion with job creation."
This was the 11th straight quarter of rising output since the official end of the latest recession in early 1991, and it raised growth for the full year to 2.9 percent. This compared with 2.6 percent in 1992 and was the best since 1988, President Ronald Reagan's final year in office, when the economy's output of goods and services grew 3.9 percent.
Bond and stock markets advanced smartly after release of the figures. Stock prices reached new highs as measured by several indexes, including the Dow Jones industrial average, which closed at a record 3,945.43, up 19.13 points. [Page 36.]
Investors clearly focused on the low inflation numbers. The Government's fixed-weight price index for gross domestic purchases, measuring prices paid by residents of the United States, rose at a 2.1 percent rate in the fourth quarter, compared with 1.8 percent in the third quarter. For the full year, the rise was 2.9 percent, the smallest increase since 1986.
But the G.D.P. deflator, which captures shifts in which goods are purchased as well as price changes, rose a slim 1.3 percent for the quarter and was just 2.2 percent higher than in the fourth quarter of 1992, the slimmest rate increase since the 1960's. This showed that price-conscious consumers were changing their shopping patterns to seek the best values.
 A second piece of upbeat news today was another hefty increase in consumer confidence. The University of Michigan's index of consumer sentiment jumped in mid-January to 94.3, the highest in more than four years. The December reading was 88.2. The expectations of consumers, widely watched as a key to future spending -- consumers account for about two-thirds of the nation's economic activity -- climbed to 86.4 from 78.8, according to subscribers to the university's report.
 Although private analysts typically accuse Presidents and candidates of exaggeration in interpreting economic statistics, few expressed doubt that the expansion had become solidly self-sustaining and that inflation showed little sign of revival.
They also agreed with the Administration that the fourth-quarter burst in growth was too strong to be repeated, benefiting as it did from a statistical rebound from last summer's floods and drought as well as from an end to model change-over problems that cut production at the General Motors Corporation.
"There is sufficient spending momentum to attain around 3 percent G.D.P. growth in the first quarter" and possibly beyond, said Richard Aspinwall, chief economist at the Chase Manhattan Bank.
Considerable dispute remained about how much credit the Administration deserved for the economic revival, with many economists contending that the economy would have righted itself without deficit reduction or other Government action. Some suggested that Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, was due the most praise, since his power over monetary policy is far greater than the Administration's ability to control fiscal policy.
 
 
 
Still Mourning Stimulus Plan
 For their part, Administration officials were unwilling to concede today that even in hindsight they might have been lucky to have failed in their attempt to obtain a $30 billion economic-stimulus package. Robert E. Rubin, a senior counselor, told reporters that passage of the deficit-expanding measure would have given the economy still more momentum.
 Almost nobody, in or out of Government, expects a repeat of the pattern a year ago when growth nearly vanished -- sliding to a rate of less than 1 percent -- after a 5.7 percent surge in the fourth quarter of 1992, a period that included Mr. Clinton's election and a Christmas shopping spree by consumers.
Sharply higher confidence, the return of respectable job growth, strong orders for factory goods, low oil prices and low interest rates are some of the factors thought more than sufficient to offset the drag from higher taxes, weak military spending and lackluster prospects for exports.
"There's little chance that the first quarter will collapse as it did last year following a strong Christmas season," said David Orr, chief economist at the First Union Corporation, a large banking company in Charlotte, N.C. "There is enough momentum in the housing and motor vehicle pipeline to generate 3 to 4 percent real G.D.P. growth in the first quarter," he said.
 
 
 
Lift From Auto Industry
 According to Lewis Alexander, chief economist at the Commerce Department, about 1.5 percentage points of the economy's growth in the final three months of last year, or about a quarter of the growth, was attributable to an end to production problems in the automotive industry. Another four-tenths of a point stemmed from the aftermath of Midwestern floods and a Southeastern drought.
Without these factors, growth would still have been about 4 percent, with investment by business in new plants and equipment maintaining a torrid pace.
Producers' durable equipment purchases soared at a 24.6 percent pace in the quarter, more than twice the third-quarter gain, raising the full-year 1993 advance to 16.2 percent.
 Analysts said this reflected how American industry, taking advantage of low interest rates and falling computer prices, was busy substituting machinery for labor, whose costs continue to rise significantly, particularly for medical care and other benefits.
A sizable portion of this equipment is made abroad, however, contributing to a surge of imports that took some of the glow off a strong rise in exports, economists said.
Consumer spending on cars, furniture and other durable goods rose at a 14.3 percent rate to account for about half of the 4 percent overall increase in total consumer spending for the quarter, the report showed. Benefiting from an uptick in interest rates that stirred fence-sitters to action, home building jumped at a 31.7 percent rate, the best by far for the year.
Mr. Alexander, the Commerce Department economist, said he could as yet make no worthwhile estimate of the effect on first-quarter activity of severe winter weather and the Los Angeles earthquake, but observed that lost or deferred business would be at least partly offset by increases in output by utilities, the costs of snow removal and rebuilding efforts.
Data included in the gross domestic product for the fourth quarter of 1993 follow, with all dollar amounts in billions at seasonally adjusted annual rates. Percentage changes are from the previous quarter at seasonally adjusted annual rates.

Gross Domestic Product	$6,510.8	7.4	Consumption	4,487.4	6.3	Business investment	653.0	19.2	Inventory change	11.7	N.A.	Housing	271.1	35.4	Net exports	-77.7	N.A.	Government	1,165.3	0.2	Memo: Final sales*	6,499.0	7.1	1987 Prices	 	 	Gross Domestic Product	$5,212.1	5.9	Consumption	3,503.9	4.0	Business investment	623.8	21.0	Inventory Change	12.7	N.A.	Housing	227.2	31.7	Net exports	-95.6	N.A.	Government	940.1	-0.7	Memo: Final sales*	5199.4	5.4	G.D.P. price deflator		1.3	G.D.P. fixed-weighted price index		2.2	
 
*G.D.P. less inventory change.
N.A. Data are not applicable.
Source: Commerce Department

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Real Economic Growth" shows annual rate if change in the gross national product from '89 to '93 (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. 47)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INFLATION (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RECESSION (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (68%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR RONALD REAGAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



758 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

REPRIEVE FOR A DEATH-ROW DOG
Taro, New Jersey's death-row dog, a 5-year-old Akita, was saved from execution by order of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman but condemned in the same breath to live the rest of its life outside the Garden State. Page 1.
 
WINTER OF '94 SPRINGS ANOTHER SURPRISE
After weeks of blizzards and brutal cold, the fickle Winter of '94 played another diabolically nasty trick on the New York region, delivering springlike temperatures and a pounding rain that melted snow, flooded roads and homes, delayed travelers and made life a muddy, miserable mess. Page 1. 
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
GIULIANI PLANS JOB CUTS
Faced with a $2.3 billion gap in next year's budget, Mayor Giuliani plans to eliminate between 14,000 and 18,000 city jobs over the next year and a half by offering inducements to certain workers to quit, officials said. Page 1.
 
HARASSMENT SUIT IS ALLOWED
Setting a precedent for sexual-harassment cases, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed a lower court and ruled that a woman who could not show that she suffered economic harm could still sue her employer, Columbia University. Page 23.
 
CHARGES DROPPED AGAINST CUSTODIAN
A New York City school custodian whose arrest two years ago on a misconduct charge was accompanied by photographs said to show him puttering on his boat during work hours, had all charges against him dismissed. Page 23.
 
 
One of New York's best-known law firms, Shea & Gould, announced it would break up. Page 35.
 
Green Point Savings Bank went public, issuing $804 million in stock just hours before a critical deadline. Page 35.
 
CASE DROPPED IN ASSAULT
All charges against the last defendant awaiting trial in the 1989 Glen Ridge sexual assault case were dropped after the victim's parents opposed further prosecution, officials said. Page 24.
 
REPUBLICAN SEEKS SENATE NOMINATION
Former New Jersey State Senator Brian T. Kennedy said he will seek the Republican nomination to challenge Senator Frank Lautenberg, a Democrat, in November. Page 24.
 
INDICTMENT IN SLAYING OF JEEP OWNER
A student was indicted in New City, N.Y., on charges of second-degree murder, attempted murder and kidnapping in the shooting of two teen-agers after commandeering their Jeep, District Attorney Kenneth Gribetz said. Page 24.
 
BODY OF GIRL ABDUCTED IN '87 IS FOUND
The body of a 16-year-old girl abducted in 1987 was found buried in the northern Adirondacks. The state police said a convicted bank robber would be charged with her killing. Page 24.
 
PROPOSAL TO REROUTE FLIGHTS CRITICIZED
The Westchester County Executive, Andrew P. O'Rourke, attacked a plan by a New Jersey citizens' group to reroute flights from Newark International Airport over Staten Island, Long Island and Westchester County. Page 24.
 
About New York by Michael T. Kaufman 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GREEN POINT SAVINGS BANK (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); DOGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MURDER (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (88%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (87%); INDICTMENTS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTIES (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); BUDGETS (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (73%); LAWYERS (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (72%); BANK ROBBERY (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); MISCONDUCT (69%); POLICE FORCES (69%); APPEALS COURTS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); LEGAL SERVICES (64%); AIRPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (70%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



759 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: Behind the Tinted Windows;
Life Styles of the Middle Class and Obscure Now Include the Occasional Limousine

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LINDENHURST, L.I.

 BODY:
On a Wednesday evening, a stretch limousine glided through the crowded streets of Manhattan, stopping at some of the usual destinations of the rich and famous in New York: Bergdorf Goodman, the Plaza and Tavern on the Green.
But behind the tinted windows of this particular 24-foot-2-inch vehicle, snuggled in the leather seats and sipping highballs from the limousine's bar, were not stars of screen or stage, scions of oil fortunes or up-and-coming Wall Street traders. 
 It was George and Patricia Nolde of Lindenhurst, a retired New York City police officer and his wife, who had just finished their annual winter pilgrimage to the city in a style that more and more suburbanites now favor for their occasional nights out on the town.
 
High Life Without Pitfalls
 The Noldes' brush with the high life reflects a trend that has proved to be one of the few bright spots for the limousine industry during a stubborn regional recession. Limousine companies have found a lucrative market in suburbanites wanting to spend a special night on the town without having to deal with traffic, parking costs, crime and other pitfalls of the traditional journey into New York City.
After the Noldes spent the afternoon and evening seeing the sights, the white limousine stopped in front of the couple's home of 26 years, a three-bedroom brick colonial in a neighborhood of pizzeria owners, retirees and Civil Service workers. The chauffeur jumped out, opened the door and helped Mrs. Nolde out. As she beamed and said, "So this is how the other half lives," Mr. Nolde shook his head and wondered aloud whether any neighbors were watching.
The bill came to $315, and neither doubted that this Christmas present from Mr. Nolde to his wife was worth every penny.
 
A Birthday Party
 Couples are not the only ones making use of limousines for jaunts to the city. One Long Island company recently chauffeured a birthday party of 13-year-olds to see the tree at Rockefeller Center, followed by ice cream sundaes at Rumpelmeyer's, because of the parents' concern about walking with a group of children through the streets of Manhattan. James Gleason of J.S.G. Limousine in Merrick had three consecutive nights last month with groups of seven people going in for dinner and a play or a concert and who wanted to drink.
Several companies mentioned husbands who insisted that their wives use limousines to go into the city to do their Christmas shopping so they would not be toting armfuls of shopping bags among the crowds.
Wayne Smith, executive director of the National Limousine Association, said that a typical limousine company will get 10 to 15 percent of its business from "regular working people from the suburbs" who hire them for a trip to the theater or a sports event, a marked change from the 1980's.
 
Cocktails Without Fear
 "This is part of the security-crime syndrome that we're going through," Mr. Smith said. "These people want to do dinner and the theater, and with a limousine, they know that they're going to be left off at the front door of the restaurant, the department store, the show or whatever and will have someone watching them as they go in."
The use of limousines has also been spurred by the new consciousness about drunken driving, he said, adding that people no longer feel comfortable about driving into the city and having a few cocktails.
Limousine operators say the cost is not so high when shared by three or four couples, who might otherwise be traveling into the city in two cars and paying for gas, parking and cabs. This way, they said, everyone can be together for a trip that they may take only once a month or a few times a year.
The increasing use of limousines by middle-class customers comes as the industry grapples with the erosion of its traditional client base, which in the 1980's was dominated by business executives and entertainers. In the recession, with companies laying off employees, these once blue-chip riders now see the long limousines as sending the wrong message in a time of budget cutting, and now prefer vans or town cars.
Limousine rates have remained relatively steady at about $45 an hour for a six-person vehicle. As a result, middle-class people are not only using limousines for trips to the city, but also for weddings, bachelor parties and even to pick up newborn babies from hospitals.
 
Who's Inside?
 Limousine operators say a major attraction for suburban riders is the glitz, the 15 minutes of fame.
Jim Powers, the owner of Allstar Limousine Service in Lindenhurst, who says that about 20 percent of his business is "average people" going to the city, said: "It's prestigious and makes passengers feel important. People on the street see the plates, the limousine, and think it must be some kind of star inside."
"Plus, you get the safety, convenience and all the amenities," he said. "You stretch back and relax with a drink. You can't do that on the Long Island Rail Road or in your car."
Last month, one of Mr. Powers's cars carried two couples and two children for a visit to Santa at Macy's, followed by the show at Radio City Music Hall, a visit to the Christmas Tree at Rockefeller Center and dinner.
A minute or two after getting into the limousine in Lindenhurst, Frank Schiraldi, 35, a technical director of television programs, and his girlfriend, Connie DiVirgilio, 35, a secretary, popped the movie "Aladdin" into the car's videocassette recorder. Their sons, Nicholas, 5, and Michael, 8, were soon sprawled out, transfixed by the video, and not to be heard from again until the hourlong ride to the city was over.
"If we were driving in ourselves, the kids would be driving us crazy," Ms. DiVirgilio said, explaining that Mr. Schiraldi would be turning around every five minutes to warn them to be quiet. It would not be a good start to a fun day in the city, she said.
"That's why I like taking these things," added Mr. Schiraldi, who regularly takes the train into the city for work. "This way, I don't have to drive, and it's more of a day out."
As he spoke, the Long Island Expressway resembled a parking lot, but neither he nor anyone else in the back of the limousine seemed to notice. When the car emerged from the Queens-Midtown Tunnel and stopped at a light, another passenger, Tim O'Neill, pointed to a man with a squeegee who walked right past them without trying to wash the windshield.
"You don't need to worry about a homeless guy coming up to you this way," Mr. O'Neill said. "Homeless guys don't come up to limousines."
 
The Safety Factor
 Mr. O'Neill, who works for a tuxedo rental business, goes into the city a few times a year from his home here, almost always by limousine. Safety is a factor, he said.
"I wouldn't go on the train or walk around the city like this," he said, referring to a full-length leather coat he was wearing. "Four or five years ago, people were getting stabbed for these coats."
"Take a train or drive in and you're a target," he said.
Such concerns about crime can be taken to extremes by some riders, particularly those who rarely venture to New York. Robert Kelly, a driver for Allstar, said he had a number of passengers who would order him to lock the doors as soon as they climbed into the car from dinner or the theater in Manhattan.
"You get some very paranoid people from Long Island," he said. "They don't want to go into a strange cab, they don't want to walk four blocks, they don't want to deal with the subway. It's a security thing."
Mr. Nolde, the former policeman who first used a limousine three years ago, is not scared of New York. Now 51, he works as a private investigator for insurance companies and is often in some of the worst parts of the city investigating claims.
 
Close Calls
 But he and his wife, both of whom grew up in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, admitted that they liked the added safety and security of the limousine, recounting past visits to Manhattan during which they had close calls, from an unpleasant (albeit harmless) brush with a panhandler to Mr. Nolde's returning to a parking lot, only to find the attendants gone, his car doors unlocked and the keys underneath the visor.
With the limousine, Mr. Nolde can unwind and forget about the darker side of the city.
He recalled the trip he and his wife took to Broadway in November for their 25th wedding anniversary, a present they received from family. When they left "Phantom of the Opera," he saw the driver waiting outside with the door open. Mr. Nolde put his hand in his coat, pretending he had a gun, and put his arm around his wife, rushing her to the car, saying "Get in, get in."
Mrs. Nolde laughed. "Everyone was watching, saying, 'Who is that? Who is that?' " she said. "They thought he was my bodyguard."
The next day, she was happily back to clipping coupons, and he was at work, serving subpoenas. "I don't want to be rich, and I've never been deprived," she said. "Every once in a while you just got to treat yourself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: George and Patricia Nolde of Lindenhurst, who are not rich and famous, acting as if they were. They made their annual winter visit to Manhattan in a style that many suburbanites now favor for their occasional nights out on the town. (pg.21); Tim O'Neill, who works for a tuxedo rental business, goes into New York City a few times a year from his home on Long Island, almost always by limousine. "Take a train or drive in and you're a target," he said. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg.22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: LIMOUSINES; ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; NYTRAVEL; SUBURBS DRINKING PLACES (89%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (89%); CHRISTMAS (88%); SUBURBS (88%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (87%); RESTAURANTS (77%); THEATER (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); ICE CREAM (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); CITIES (70%); CHILDREN (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN WAYNE T SMITH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



760 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Images and Action Weighed at Democrats' Retreat

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PINEY POINT, Md., Jan. 28

 BODY:
More than 100 House Democrats ended their annual retreat here today after two days of pondering how to pass and sell an ambitious domestic agenda topped by health care, and how to get the credit for it from a public that holds Congress in low regard.
Democratic leaders said they were convinced that the American people wanted and expected an overhaul of the health care system, despite the second-guessing of the interest groups and assertions from some Republicans that there is no health care crisis. 
 "I'm optimistic," said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader. "I think the American people want it, and I think the Republican argument, that this is not a problem, is not shared by the American people."
Mr. Gephardt also contended that the recent slowing in the growth of health care costs was a result of the prospect of an overhaul of the system, and not a sign that the problem was solving itself.
 
Obstacles Facing Overhaul
 Still, Democrats are keenly aware of the stumbling blocks to revamping one-seventh of the American economy. The Democratic caucus is itself divided among three plans, including a "single payer" bill, modeled after the Canadian system of national health insurance, in which the Government would pay the bills.
The other two plans are both versions of managed competition, which relies on a blend of market forces and regulation to hold down costs: President Clinton's plan, which would promise insurance to everyone and would require employers to help pay for it for their workers; and a more conservative version of that approach sponsored by Representative Jim Cooper of Tennessee, which would not require employers to pay but also stops short of universal coverage.
Representative Thomas S. Foley, the Speaker of the House, told reporters today that he expected the final bill passed by Congress to "be closer to the Clinton plan than any other bill that is out there now." But support for rival plans has proved to be more enduring than many had expected.
Administration officials braved icy weather to come and cultivate this caucus, which assembled near the southernmost point of the eastern shore of the Potomac River in Maryland. President Clinton flew down by helicopter for a private meeting with the Democrats this afternoon.
After the meeting, Mr. Foley said the President had emphasized his desire to work with Congress to achieve his domestic initiatives and believed that all wings of the Democratic Party could transcend their divisions to push through health care and other major programs.
The Speaker said the President spoke for about 15 minutes, then answered questions for another 20 to 25 minutes, including one question on whether it was possible to make deeper cuts in military spending. "The President was pretty firm about that," Mr. Foley said, adding that he had reiterated his opposition to deeper cuts than already proposed by the Pentagon.
There was some apprehension here, with many of the members getting the first full taste of the potential opposition to health care overhaul during the holiday recess. Even aside from the orchestrated efforts of interest groups, many members reported a wave of questions from the public at large.
"The euphoria has subsided and we're into the question period," said Representative Dan Glickman, a Democrat from Kansas. Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, said the most difficult questions were coming from people who were fairly satisfied with their current coverage. "How are we going to explain to a majority of my constituents, who have worked hard and invested in a plan that they're not terribly unhappy with, that they should jump into the abyss of the unknown?" he asked.
Much of the time here was spent on the image of Congress and its members. These sessions, which were private, focused on what many members find to be a frustrating phenomenon: even as the President's ratings climb, even after what many lawmakers and outside analysts considered a strikingly productive session last year, the ratings of Congress remain low.
Democratic leaders said they were considering several steps to try to improve the image of Congress, including passing a measure that makes clear that Congress is not exempt from the laws it passes, like occupational safety and health laws. This is a favorite charge of conservatives.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
DEMOCRATIC STAFF SHAKE-UP
 WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 (AP) -- The Democratic National Committee has announced a senior staff shake-up to bring several veteran party hands on board for the 1994 election year.
Among the hirings announced by David Wilhelm, the party chairman, were Robert L. Watson as deputy executive director. In 1992, Mr. Watson pleaded guilty to conspiracy and was fined $10,000 for his role in disclosing a tape of an illegally recorded phone conversation involving then-Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia.
Mr. Wilhelm also announced that Edward H. Lazarus, a partner in a prominent Washington polling and consulting firm and veteran of numerous Democratic campaigns, would become his assistant for strategic communications, and that Donald R. Sweitzer, a veteran consultant with close ties to organized labor, would replace Craig Smith as assistant to the chairman for political affairs. Mr. Smith is expected to take a White House job.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HEALTH INSURANCE POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); 

PERSON: FOLEY, THOMAS S (SPEAKER); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR) ; TONER, ROBIN BILL CLINTON (88%); JIM COOPER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



761 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: 2 Banks Set $1.9 Billion Merger

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
In a move to expand its corporate banking business, the BankAmerica Corporation said yesterday that it would buy the Continental Bank Corporation for $1.9 billion in cash and stock.
The merger is unusual because Continental, which is based in Chicago, specializes in dealing with medium and large businesses and does not serve consumers. BankAmerica, based in San Francisco, has a vast consumer-banking business in Western states and in Texas. But it also has a major corporate-banking business throughout the country and overseas, especially in Asia. 
 In the last year, BankAmerica has tried to increase its corporate-banking operations, which will be combined with those of Continental and will be based in Chicago.
 
A Limited Expansion
 BankAmerica's chairman, Richard M. Rosenberg, said the company had no plans to offer retail banking services through Continental or to acquire other banks in the Midwest.
The merger will reinforce BankAmerica's position as the nation's second-largest banking company, after Citicorp. Continental has assets of $23 billion, but BankAmerica said it would cut Continental's balance sheet in half by selling its securities holdings. Thus, the combined company's assets would total about $200 billion, shy of Citicorp, at $216 billion.
Continental was one of the country's 10 largest banks in the early 1980's, having grown rapidly in lending to large companies. But a string of bad oil and real estate loans in the Southwest led it to the brink of failure, and the Government rescued it with a $1 billion bailout in May 1984.
Since then, Continental has sold its small consumer-banking operation to focus on serving medium-sized corporations under the direction of its chairman, Thomas C. Theobald, a former Citicorp executive who had lost the battle to be chairman of that company. Mr. Theobald will now leave the bank.
"I have 34 years in the banking business, and that is enough," he said, adding that he would look for a new business to run. "I have learned over the years, the more entrepreneurial a position I'm in, the more fun I have."
Mr. Theobald, who at the end of 1993, owned 188,627 Continental shares and options on a million more, stands to make a profit of more than $20 million on his holdings.
Mr. Theobald said Continental agreed to be acquired by BankAmerica because it was finding it harder to keep up with ever-larger competitors, especially with relatively little capital left after the bailout. "We didn't have the capital to carry ourselves to the 90's," he said. "We didn't have the international network called for by the economic integration around the world, and we were not prepared to make the investments in technology that were necessary."
BankAmerica's wide international network is especially strong in Asia. And it has the capital and credit rating that Continental lacks.
One reason Continental lacked capital was that its strategy was never popular with investors and it was the only major bank whose stock sold below book value. That allowed BankAmerica to get a relative bargain, paying about 120 percent of book.
BankAmerica will pay Continental shareholders $939 million in cash and 21.25 million shares of stock, giving the deal a combined per-share value of $37.50. Continental's shares surged $6.125 to close at $34 yesterday. Bank-America's shares slipped 37.5 cents, to $45.375.
BankAmerica will buy back $500 million of its common stock in the open market. As a result, the transaction is not expected to reduce its earnings per share.
Consolidation of operations will result in the elimination of a total of 500 to 800 full-time jobs from both companies, in the United States and in five Latin American cities. BankAmerica has 96,000 workers worldwide and Continental, 4,200.
Continental will be renamed Bank of America Illinois and will be headed by its current vice chairman, William Goodyear.
 
A Big Motivation
 BankAmerica hopes that its corporate-banking business will get a lift similar to that given the Chemical Banking Corporation from its merger with Manufacturers Hanover. After that merger in 1992, the combined bank became the biggest lender to large companies in the United States.
Corporate banking has been out of fashion among large banks in recent years as they have devoted themselves to taking advantage of interstate banking laws and building up consumer branch networks. Bank-America bought Security Pacific Bank of Los Angeles for $4.7 billion in 1991, the largest bank merger in American history.
More recently, as profit growth has slowed in banking, the large banks have again turned to corporate banking. Nationsbank, the nation's third largest, based in Charlotte, N.C., has become an especially aggressive competitor, offering large loans at attractive prices to build market share among corporations.
Citicorp, meanwhile, which was the most aggressive corporate lender in the 1980's, has de-emphasized lending to companies in the United States, which it finds less profitable than lending in Asia and Latin America.
 
Seeking Other Opportunities
 But all the big banks are trying to do other business with large companies, like trading foreign currency with them and selling them new products called derivatives, which let corporations manage risks in currency and interest-rate markets.
That is a principal motivation behind this merger, the executives said at their news conference. Continental had found that some companies did not want to do business with it because its credit rating was only triple-B, the lowest investment-grade rating. BankAmerica is rated single-A, and its credit is improving.
The merger should also take care of another problem that had faced Continental -- its relatively high cost of deposits used to finance loans. BankAmerica's deposits mainly come from its branch network, a cheaper source of money than the certificates of deposit from large investors that Continental relies on.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard M. Rosenberg, left, BankAmerica chairman, and Thomas C. Theobald, Continental Bank Corporation chairman, announcing the banks' proposed merger at a news conference yesterday in Chicago. (Associated Press); Chart: "The Banks at a Glance" Source: Associated Press.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (98%); BAC (LSE) (98%); 8648 (TSE) (98%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); WEST USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (78%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL BANK CORP; BANKAMERICA CORP BANK OF AMERICA CORP (98%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONTINENTAL BANK CORP; BANKAMERICA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); WEST USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MERGERS (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); RETAIL BANKING (90%); BAILOUTS (86%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); STOCK OPTIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE (69%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL; THEOBALD, THOMAS C; ROSENBERG, RICHARD M RICHARD M ROSENBERG (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



762 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Report of Low Inflation Lifts Bonds

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Bond prices rose sharply yesterday after a Government report showed inflation under control despite brisk economic growth.
The price of the Treasury's bellwether 30-year bond, which added 20/32 point on Thursday, rose another 20/32 point, or $6.25 for $1,000 face value. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 6.21 percent, from 6.26 percent late Thursday. 
 The Commerce Department said yesterday morning that the nation's economy grew at an annual rate of 5.9 percent in the last three months of 1993, the best since the fourth quarter of 1987.
The rise was based on consumer buying of big-ticket items like houses and cars. Spending on durable goods rose at a robust 14.3 percent annual rate, helping to fuel a healthy 4 percent increase over all in consumer spending.
 
Surge in G.D.P.
 The growth in fourth-quarter domestic product was stronger than the 5.5 percent that many economists had predicted. Usually, a surge in economic growth sends bond prices lower, on the premise that more aggressive economic activity could lead to inflation and higher interest rates.
But the report yesterday also included data indicating that while the economy was growing, inflation remained benign.
The so-called G.D.P. implicit price deflator, a broad-based measure of inflation, came in at 1.3 percent, well below the 3 percent some economists were expecting.
Economists and traders seized on that figure and bid bond prices higher, sending the 30-year bond up nearly a point in morning trading. Prices settled back in the afternoon as traders squared positions ahead of the weekend.
The inflation data represent "the ultimate nirvana for the fixed-income investor," said Stephen Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley & Company. "If you're going to have growth without inflation, there's still terrific value in the long end of our market."
Bond investors want inflation under control because it erodes the value of long-term fixed-income investments.
But Mr. Roach said he was not as optimistic as the rise in bond prices yesterday might suggest. With the domestic economy improving steadily, interest rates could be bottoming out, he said.
The balance between risk and reward "is tilting away from further reduction in the inflation rate," Mr. Roach added.
Brian Fabbri, chief economist at Midland Montagu Securities Inc., said he expected the economy to grow only half as fast in the first quarter of 1994, compared with the last quarter of 1993.
"There are too many uncertainties out there," he said, including the California earthquake and snowstorms in the Northeast.
Mr. Fabbri said the Federal Reserve would probably not raise interest rates until after the first-quarter numbers are in, sometime in April.
Prices of shorter-term maturities posted smaller gains. Short-term Treasury securities rose 1/32 point to 5/32 point, and intermediate maturities were up by 5/32 point to 9/32 point, the Telerate Inc. financial information service reported.
The Lehman Brothers Daily Treasury Bond Index, reflecting price movements on bonds with maturities of a year or longer, rose 2.49, to 1,314.15.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (81%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (65%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES; CREDIT BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DURABLE GOODS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



763 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Stages Rally in U.S., Reversing Overseas Losses

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar closed higher in hectic trading in the United States yesterday in a sharp turnaround from an earlier selloff overseas.
In New York, the dollar ended at 109.90 Japanese yen, up from 108.65 yen on Thursday. It also rose to 1.7425 German marks, up from 1.7285 marks. 
 Gold prices were mostly lower. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for February delivery settled at $376.90 an ounce, down 50 cents. But the Republic National Bank quoted spot gold at a late bid price of $377.30 an ounce, up $1.
The dollar declined in European trading, continuing a drop that had gripped the markets in the previous session. The selling gained momentum when trading shifted to American markets, analysts said.
"It was a wild day," said Randolph Donney, research director at Pegasus Econometric Group. After what he called a "massive" selloff, "the dollar came roaring back at the end of the day."
Traders spent the morning sifting through the Government's latest report on the economy, which showed that gross domestic product surged to a 5.9 percent annual rate in the final three months of 1993, the best quarterly performance in six years.
The dollar did not rally, since the figure was largely in line with expectations. Further, a component of the report showed that inflation was being kept at bay, reducing the likelihood that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates. High interest rates enhance the value of dollar-denominated securities.
But the dollar drew strength from a political compromise in Japan that preserved Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa's coalition Government.
The dollar also strengthened against the yen in response to comments by a Fed governor, Wayne D. Angell, who said he did not necessarily favor a higher yen as a way to hold down Japan's trade surplus with the United States. Speaking in Davos, Switzerland, Mr. Angell said he preferred stable exchange rates.
Trading was "very very busy, and a bit thin," said John McCarthy of ING Bank. "But this is still a very nervous market."
The British pound also slipped in New York after rising overseas, ending the day at $1.4945, down from $1.5090 on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (52%); INGA (AMS) (52%); ING (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (52%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); SWITZERLAND (90%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); ING GROEP NV (52%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); SWITZERLAND (90%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); GERMAN MARK (77%); SPOT MARKET (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); BRITISH POUND (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



764 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: The Senate's Green Light on Vietnam

 BODY:
This week the Senate staged a pre-emptive strike -- a 62-to-38 non-binding vote urging an early end to America's long economic embargo against Hanoi. The senators deserve praise for taking another step back from the bitterness of that war.
Vietnam is now giving all the cooperation Washington has asked for in the search for information about Americans lost in the Indochina wars. That deserves official recognition. And flooding Vietnam with U.S. businessmen may be the best way to flush out further information on the few remaining cases. 
 The bipartisan Senate effort was led by two Vietnam veterans -- John Kerry, a Democrat, and John McCain, a Republican -- with White House encouragement. The Clinton Administration concluded last month that Hanoi's actions justified lifting the embargo. But, sensitive to President Clinton's own avoidance of military service, it first checked the political waters. Thursday's Senate vote should have provided all the encouragement needed.
Opponents of economic ties cite human rights problems concerning Vietnamese citizens, ambiguous evidence of past deception on U.S. prisoners and the less than 100 remaining "discrepancy cases" involving Americans who may have survived capture but never returned.
The Administration responds that other forms of leverage, like diplomatic recognition, can be used on human rights; that allegations of deception concern long-ago events and are not sustained by hard evidence; and that while every discrepancy case needs to be aggressively pursued, Vietnamese cooperation has brought the remainder down to a very low number compared with other wars.
Those arguments will never persuade some Americans still angered by the loss of a loved one, humiliated by the outcome of the war or otherwise embittered against Hanoi. But many Americans personally touched by the Vietnam debacle, like Senators Kerry and McCain, have wisely concluded that it is time to let go of the past. Few Americans have any quarrel with the Vietnamese people; and Vietnam's Government is moving toward many goals Americans would approve of, including a market economy. It is no longer in America's best interest to isolate Vietnam. May the White House now quickly proceed to order an end to an outdated and pointless embargo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); VIETNAM (91%); VIET NAM (91%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; UNITED STATES (97%); VIETNAM (91%); VIET NAM (91%); HANOI, VIETNAM (91%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; BOYCOTTS; EMBARGOES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BOYCOTTS (77%); VIETNAM WAR (77%); VETERANS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



765 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Learning From Russia's Reverse

 BODY:
Economic reform in Russia is on the ropes, and the Clinton Administration is groping for a response. Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen and Ambassador at Large Strobe Talbott say the West must hold up aid until Russia puts market reforms in place; a spokesman for the Secretary of State denies that is U.S. policy. Which is it?
The U.S. cannot undo Russia's recent election, which produced a Parliament split down the middle over reform and drove President Boris Yeltsin to appoint an anti-reform Government. But Washington can prepare for the possibility that Russia may again reverse course and resume the tortured path toward markets. To do that, President Clinton needs to learn from his mistakes. 
 The election showed that reform cannot proceed without popular support; and Western aid could prove critical to that support by helping to cushion the worst effects of reform.
The West never delivered most of the aid it promised -- deciding it was more important to make sure the money wasn't wasted than to back reformers who wanted to take Russia down the road toward democracy and markets. So it held up the money, waiting until reforms were locked into place -- and virtually assuring that they would never be tried.
This sad story suggests that for Western aid to sway the political debate in Russia, it must be delivered up front, allowing reformers to set up relief funds for dislocated workers, an inevitable fallout from true reform.
No country this century has undertaken radical market reforms without sizable foreign aid; Russia is not likely to be the first. If the West gets another opportunity to promote reform, it must be ready to deliver substantial aid without delay once a credible government promises a feasible reform strategy.
This week's Senate hearing did little to clarify U.S. policy. Mr. Talbott, the President's Russia expert, told senators: "Our support will follow their reform; it cannot be the other way around." If the Administration sticks to that line, it will undermine Russian reformers when the current Government's financial mismanagement gives them a chance to return to power.
Senators accused the Administration of being blind to the suffering of Russian workers. The truth is that few leaders at either end of Pennsylvania Avenue were prepared to face American taxpayers -- millions of whom were unemployed and had exhausted government benefits -- and say that a few billion dollars was needed to set up a relief fund for Russian workers.
Russia's new course is not the first wrong turn in its tortured path to transformation, nor will it be the last. The hope is that Russia's leaders will reverse course before hyperinflation destroys what is left of the economy, and that America's leaders will be ready to help.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



766 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: DIALOGUE: 'Three Strikes' -- Two Views;
Harsh, Sure, But Fair

BYLINE: By Mario M. Cuomo; Mario M. Cuomo, Governor of New York, proposed a "three strikes" crime law in his 1994 State of the State Message.

DATELINE: ALBANY

 BODY:
Violence has shattered the order of our civilized life like a bullet through the living room window. In response, political leaders across the country have offered a spectrum of tough new laws. One in particular has gained attention everywhere. In New York, we call it "three strikes and you're in." It would put those convicted of three violent felonies behind bars for life, with no possibility of parole.
Nearly 30 states are considering some version of this law, and President Clinton in his State of the Union address proposed such a measure for violent Federal offenses. In all its many variations, the idea has received widespread support, and on both sides of the political aisle. 
 It is imperative that we act forcefully to help the American people regain their basic sense of security, and a well-formulated "three strikes" law can be part of the answer. But we should not give in to the appeal of a solution with a snappy name and a gratifying harshness, only to create a rigid law that won't do much good or will come back to bite us with unintended costs or consequences.
The merits of the law are clear, so long as it is carefully written to focus on the worst offenders. Studies by criminologist Marvin Wolfgang and others have shown that 15 percent of offenders account for 85 percent of personal-injury offenses. A "three strikes" law would give us a heavy hammer to use against these career criminals. The law would not only protect us from the most violent criminals, it would surely have a powerful deterrent effect. While it will be years before we can know the full effects of "three strikes" laws, for many prisoners not even execution is more frightening than the idea of spending the rest of their lives behind bars.
Despite the strength of the "three strikes" idea, others have raised legitimate questions about its consequences. One objection is that the law would not affect enough criminals to do any good. In 1992, of 25,000 offenders imprisoned in New York State, only 286 were sentenced as three time violent offenders. Thus a "three strikes" law would have kept "only" 286 murderers, rapists, armed robbers and other violent felons off our streets.
If that number seems small, imagine the public outcry if we announced that instead of locking these felons up for life, we intended to release that many. If a "three strikes" law prevented only one rape, one murder, one assault, it would have been worth the trouble to pass the legislation.
Other critics suggest that the law will cost too much money by producing long and expensive trials. Experience tells us that most violent crime is committed by relatively young people and that even repeat felons tend to get less violent as they get older. Thus, the argument goes, we would be spending money to incarcerate people who would eventually cease to pose much of a threat.
But the number of potential cases is relatively small, so the criminal justice system could absorb the consequences of appeals and delays without difficulty, especially since the alternative -- releasing these offenders on parole -- would likely result in more arrests and trials for future offenses.
More importantly, all too many incorrigible offenders never drop their violent behavior, and our criminal justice system doesn't provide an adequate way to keep them off our streets. Surely we can afford the price of incarceration -- even for a life term -- if it means protecting our citizens from serious harm and pervasive fear.
Certainly, no single proposal will end violence in our society. To stop the tide of violent crime, we will need to take aggressive steps on many fronts -- tough gun control, tough law enforcement, tough love and a society that offers young people real economic opportunity. But a "three strikes" law can be part of an intelligent, comprehensive answer to one of the most urgent problems of our time.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SENTENCING (89%); FELONIES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SEX OFFENSES (79%); MURDER (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); ROBBERY (74%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



767 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Let's Normalize Relations With Vietnam

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Tie Vietnam Status to Rights Reform" (letter, Jan. 15), Viet D. Dinh is right to cite Hanoi's abuse of the human rights of its citizens in answer to your Jan. 6 editorial call for lifting the United States economic embargo against Vietnam. But to say that Buddhism is persecuted goes, I believe, beyond the evidence. The state's attack is against those Buddhists who want a church independent of state control. 
 However, Mr. Dinh is wrong to state that Hanoi is "desperate to have the embargo lifted." All of our major capitalist rivals, with the addition of Australia, have not only unencumbered trade and investment with Vietnam, but full diplomatic relations as well. Small and medium-size high-tech products of the United States are readily smuggled into Vietnam by Asian middlemen.
If the United States adhered to Viet Dinh's excellent standards of human rights, we would never have had relations with the Soviet Union or with South Africa, and would not now have them with China.
We need full diplomatic relations with Vietnam to show Hanoi that we have truly ended our war against the Vietnamese. It is only when we make peace with Hanoi, and guarantee respect for Vietnam's territorial integrity, that we gain the right seriously and properly to pursue human rights issues with the Vietnamese.
One surely hopes that once United States recognition is established, we can then present a united diplomatic front of democratic states for human rights.
I regret, however, that Viet Dinh was not able to mention problems affecting Christians and the highland ethnic minorities of Vietnam.
The Southern highland peoples, with their increasing attraction to Christianity, suffer thrice over, as cultural-linguistic minorities. Christians, and those who, in considerable part, resisted the Communist takeover after 1975. (In the 1960's, they fought the Saigon regime for independence and, later, autonomy.)
No outside church groups or international human rights agencies have been permitted extensive contact with these Deqa peoples since 1975. Hanoi acknowledges that there have been serious ecological and economic problems in the highland regions, as lowland, ethnic Vietnamese have been settled there, and Northern highlanders were encouraged to move to some Southern upland areas.
Plans being made for the enormous Ta Bu Dam threaten the Thai speakers and other peoples in northwest Vietnam.
 
ROBERT FRANCOIS
Greensboro, N.C., Jan. 20, 1994
 
The writer is a researcher on the world indigenous rights movement who worked in southern highland Vietnam in 1966.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); VIETNAM (94%); VIET NAM (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (94%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; UNITED STATES (95%); VIETNAM (94%); VIET NAM (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (94%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (88%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (76%); WRITERS (73%); ETHNICITY (68%); ETHNIC GROUPS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: FRANCOIS, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



768 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
A Cookie That Never Crumbled

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
SOMETHING about the Buffalo Bills has bothered me for the last three years, but I couldn't put my finger on it until now.
The feeling went beyond compassion or contempt for their three straight Super Bowl losses. It had more to do with what gods Buffalo crossed to earn the cruel fate of Sisyphus. Three times the Bills have rolled this heavy rock to the top of a steep hill; three times it's rolled back. 
 Last week, when Jimmy Johnson boldly predicted what the Cowboys were going to do to San Francisco -- and then did -- the answer to what bothered me about Buffalo became apparent: The Bills lacked swagger. The Bills lacked flair. The Bills lacked Cookie Gilchrist.
That was the missing piece: Where is Cookie Gilchrist?
Carlton Chester Gilchrist was a punishing 6-foot-3-inch, 250-pound fullback who effectively put Buffalo on the football map. He joined the Bills in 1962 after six seasons in the Canadian Football League. He is the only player elected into the C.F.L. Hall of Fame to refuse induction, citing racism and exploitation.
With Gilchrist running the football for Buffalo, the Bills became the American Football League's first great ball-control team, and he was its first great power runner.
"Cookie was the Jim Brown of the American Football League; he was the icon of the league," said Booker Edgerson, a member of the Bills 1964 championship team and a 10-year veteran. "But the biggest thing about Cookie is that Cookie did not take any mess off of anyone. That's his legacy."
He lasted three seasons in Buffalo before being traded after friction with Lou Saban, the Bills' head coach.
My first exposure to Gilchrist came in 1964 as an eighth grader. I was fascinated by how Gilchrist was virtually a self-made man: He left high school after the 11th grade, tried out with the Cleveland Browns as an 18-year-old halfback, then went to Canada and played for a couple of semipro teams before being picked up by Hamilton. He enjoyed two sensational seasons but was traded after challenging the coach to a fight after a disagreement.
Gilchrist was the first athlete I remember who openly and forcefully spoke his mind. The first time I heard the phrase "attitude problem" attached to an athlete was in connection with Gilchrist. I later discovered that the phrase was generally reserved for black athletes who asserted their independence or went against the grain. Gilchrist did both.
"Cookie was a leader when someone needed to be a leader," Edgerson said. "When nobody else wanted to confront the coaches he'd do it and he took a lot of heat for it, especially back then."
At halftime of the 1964 championship game against San Diego, Gilchrist took over and summarily threatened the team. He told the players in explicit language that if they lost, he would kick everybody's butt in the locker room.
Paul Maguire, a linebacker on the team, once recalled. "I was so far back up in my locker the only thing sticking out of my locker were the tips of my shoes. If I could have got them up in farther I would have because I knew he meant it." That, essentially, was Gilchrist. His spirit is what Buffalo needs, and what it lacks.
Gilchrist's most significant moment came in 1965 on the eve of the A.F.L. All-Star Game in New Orleans. A few black players had visited the French Quarter and had been refused admittance to two clubs. They came back enraged.
Gilchrist organized a meeting and five hours later, 21 black players left town and vowed to boycott the game if it was held in New Orleans. The game was subsequently moved to Houston.
Nearly 30 years later, Gilchrist, 57, lives a private life in Philadelphia. He says he has little to do, not only with the Bills, but also with the N.F.L. and its players association. He reserves most of his criticism for black athletes who he thinks have done nothing, in an economic sense, to relieve suffering in the black community.
Despite his bitterness, Gilchrist is a crucial part of Buffalo's unresolved history. Gilchrist will not say much publicly about his relationship with the Bills. But he thinks that they will not be totally successful until they make amends with him.
Before last year's Super Bowl, he said, he wrote Ralph Wilson, the Bills' owner, and volunteered to bring his "winning presence" to Pasadena and address the team if the Bills would fly him out. Wilson declined. The Bills were routed.
If I were Wilson and wanted desperately to avoid having the stone roll down a fourth time, I'd call Gilchrist today, fly him first-class to Atlanta and have him swagger into the locker room before the game.
Sisyphus would have done a lot better with Gilchrist pushing the rock.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 31, 1994, Monday

 CORRECTION:
The Sports of The Times column on Saturday reversed the formal given names of Cookie Gilchrist, the former Buffalo Bills fullback. He is Chester Carlton Gilchrist.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cookie Gilchrist (United Press International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); OHIO, USA (52%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: BUFFALO BILLS BUFFALO BILLS (94%); DALLAS COWBOYS (57%); DALLAS COWBOYS (57%); CANADIAN FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); CANADIAN FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS BUFFALO BILLS (94%); DALLAS COWBOYS (57%); DALLAS COWBOYS (57%); CANADIAN FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); CANADIAN FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); OHIO, USA (52%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL SPORTS (92%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (87%); RACE & RACISM (66%); 

PERSON: GILCHRIST, CARLTON CHESTER; RHODEN, WILLIAM C JIMMY JOHNSON (57%); JAMES NATHANIEL 'JIM' BROWN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1994



769 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Residential Resales

 BODY:
In the following reports, the "listed at" price is the asking price when negotiations began that ended in the sale. Time on market is from most recent listing to contract.
 
 MANHATTAN
 
 CHELSEA $140,500
 244 West 23d Street
 1-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 725-sq.-ft. duplex loft; elevator, 11-ft. ceilings; maintenance $393, 40% tax deductible, listed at $154,500, 2 years on market (Broker: Selena Goudeau Associates) 

GRAMERCY PARK $1.58 million
 40 Gramercy Park North (21st St.)
 2-family, 5-story, 1845 town house; 3 bedrooms, 4 baths, dining room in primary unit; 2 bedrooms, 1 bath, dining area in other; den in each; professional office space on the first floor; 20- by 98-ft. lot; taxes $20,000, listed at $1.95 million, 32 weeks on market (Broker: Corcoran Group)
 
 GREENWICH VILLAGE $775,000
 37 West 12th Street
 3-bedroom, 3-bath, 2,000-sq.-ft. postwar co-op; 24-hr. doorman, manned elevator, dining room, solarium; maintenance $1,802, 40% tax deductible, listed at $835,000, 25 weeks on market (Brokers: Ambrose Mar-Elia; Wells & Gay/Stribling)
 
 UPPER EAST SIDE $330,000
 250 East 65th Street
 2-bedroom, 2-bath, 1,350-sq.-ft. postwar condo; 24-hr. doorman, entry foyer, 11-ft. ceilings, common roof garden; common charge $676, taxes $7,092, listed at $345,000, 16 weeks on market (Broker: Bellmarc Realty)
 
 BRONX
 
 BAYCHESTER $100,000
 1045 East 230th Street
 3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 35-year-old semi-attached brick house; dining room, eat-in kitchen, finished basement, private driveway; taxes $1,300, listed at $125,000, 9 weeks on market (Broker: ERA/Wage Realty)
 
 VAN CORTLANDT AREA $178,000
 3924 Bailey Avenue
 3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 53-year-old semi-detached brick house; dining room, finished basement, 1-car garage; taxes $1,750, listed at $189,500, 20 weeks on market (Broker: Century 21/Metro Star)
 
 BROOKLYN
 
 CLINTON HILL $350,000
 410 Waverly Avenue
 2-family, 2-story, 1895 carriage house; 3 bedrooms, 2 1/2 baths, dining area in primary unit; 1,200-sq.-ft. studio loft in other; new windows and bath, complete renovation, 2-car garage; taxes $1,200, listed at $395,000, 1 year on market (Broker: Naida McSherry Realty)
 
 PARK SLOPE $195,000
 269 12th Street
 3-family, 100-year-old detached brick house; dining room in two units; eat-in kitchen in other; 2 bedrooms, 1 bath in each; taxes $1,021, listed at $199,000, 1 year on market (Broker: Aguayo & Knox)
 
 PROSPECT PARK SOUTH $245,000
 188 Stratford Road
 6-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 96-year-old detached Victorian; dining room, eat-in kitchen, 2 fireplaces, original oak detail, 2-car garage; taxes $2,018, listed at $275,000, 29 weeks on market (Broker: Mary Kay Gallagher)
 
 QUEENS
 
 FOREST HILLS GARDENS $433,500
 35 Slocum Crescent
 4-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath, 80-year-old detached stucco and brick Tudor; dining room, 2 dens; taxes $2,400, listed at $525,000, 4 weeks on market (Broker: Sarah Jones Realty)
 
 WHITESTONE $69,000
 
 166-26 Powell's Cove Boulevard
 (Le Havre)
 2-bedroom, 1-bath, 1,100-sq.-ft. postwar co-op; redone kitchen, pool; maintenance $592, 40% tax deductible, listed at $90,000, 60 weeks on market (Broker: Agranoff Real Estate)
 
 STATEN ISLAND
 
 NEW DORP $225,000
 729 Tysons Lane
 2-family, 31-year-old detached aluminum and brick house; 2 bedrooms, 1 bath, dining room, eat-in kitchen in each unit; taxes $1,700, listed at $239,900, 37 weeks on market (Broker: Kingsley Real Estate)
 
 SHORE ACRES $280,000
 17 Sea Gate Road
 2-bedroom, 2 bath, 26-year-old brick ranch; dining room, finished basement, water rights, Manhattan skyline view, 1-car garage; taxes $2,000, listed at $325,000, 2 weeks on market (Broker: Vitale Sunshine Agency)
 
 CONNECTICUT
 
 COS COB $445,000
 79 Orchard Street
 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 2-year-old, 3,486-sq.-ft. Victorian; dining room, family room, c/a, rear deck, 2-car garage, 60- by 118-ft. lot; taxes $2,856, listed at $479,000, 12 weeks on market (Broker: Preferred Properties Inc.)
 
 GREENWICH $870,000
 31 Boulder Brook
 3-bedroom, 2-bath, 47-year-old, ranch; dining room, family room, solarium, 2 fireplaces, pool, c/a, 2-car garage, 1.43-acre lot; taxes $5,664, listed at $925,000, 36 weeks on market (Brokers: Preferred Properties; Greater Greenwich)
 
 NORWALK $270,000
 24 Pheasant Lane
 4-bedroom, 2-bath, 33-year-old cedar-framed ranch; dining room, fireplace, playroom, walk to train, 2-car garage, 0.5-acre lot; taxes $4,735, listed at $274,900, 20 weeks on market (Brokers: William Raveis; Prudential Connecticut Realty)
 
 NEW CANAAN $505,000
 923 New Norwalk Road
 4-bedroom, 4-bath, 38-year-old wood-frame colonial; dining room, family room, swimming pool, 2 fireplaces, 2-car garage, 1.7-acre lot; taxes $5,310, listed at $539,000, 11 weeks on market (Brokers: Preferred Properties; William Raveis Real Estate)
 
 NEW JERSEY
 
 EWING TOWNSHIP $141,000
 5 Blue Grass Drive
 3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 28-year-old ranch; h/w floors, finished basement w/family room, enclosed porch; taxes $3,592, listed at $142,800, 3 weeks on market (Broker: Richard A. Weidel Corp., Realtors)
 
 MEDFORD $185,500
 6 Cedarbrook Lane
 3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 19-year-old colonial; updated kitchen, screened porch, deck, new windows; taxes $3,518, listed at $189,900, 9 weeks on market (Broker: Weichert Realtors)
 
 PARK RIDGE $284,000
 3 Kent Road
 3-bedroom, 2-bath, 30-year-old colonial; family room, covered patio; taxes $4,917 listed at $295,000, 14 weeks on market (Brokers: Prudential Higgins Realtors; Murphy Better Homes and Gardens Realty)
 
 ROCKAWAY $234,000
 144 Phillip Drive
 4-bedroom, 2 full-, 2 half-bath, 15-year-old colonial; brick fireplace in family room, deck, 2-car garage, pool; taxes $5,646, listed at $247,900, 1 year on market (Brokers: Prudential New Jersey Realty; ReMax Leading Edge Realty)
 
 LONG ISLAND
 
 FARMINGDALE $170,000
 115 Duane Street
 4-bedroom, 2-bath, 48-year-old Cape Cod; legal two-family, two eat-in kitchens; taxes $5,600, listed at $179,990, 4 weeks on market (Broker: A-1 Network of Homes)
 
 LAKE RONKONKOMA $148,000
 111 Clarendon Road
 3-bedroom, 1-bath, 30-year-old colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, 2-car garage; taxes $4,500, listed at $156,000, 8 weeks on market (Brokers: Prudential Long Island Realty; Straub Resales)
 
 MANHASSET HILLS $355,000
 37 Queens Lane
 6-bedroom, 3-bath, 31-year-old high ranch; dining room, den, wet bar, alarm and sprinkler systems; taxes $8,900, listed at $389,000, 32 weeks on market (Brokers: U.S. 1 Adams Estates; ERA Caputo Realty)
 
 SYOSSET $285,000
 157A Berry Hill Road
 4-bedroom, 3-bath, 7-year-old high ranch; dining room, eat-in kitchen, family room, 1-car garage; taxes $4,900, listed at $315,000, 20 weeks on market (Brokers: U.S.1 Brookville; Horan-Duffy Realty)
 
 WESTCHESTER
 
 PELHAM $870,000
 150 Corona Avenue
 6-bedroom, 4 1/2-bath, 68-year-old Tudor; fireplace, solarium, breakfast room, maid's room; taxes $17,251, listed at $925,000, 2 years on market (Broker: McClellan & Company)
 
 PORT CHESTER $210,000
 54 Bowman Avenue
 3-bedroom, 2-bath, 63-year-old colonial; enclosed sun porch, den, fireplace, 1-car garage; taxes $4,992, listed at $238,000, 22 weeks on market (Broker: Zinsner's Real Estate)
 
 RYE $287,5000
 313 Betsy Brown Road
 4-bedroom, 2-bath, 37-year-old Cape Cod; eat-in kitchen, 1-car garage, full unfinished basement; taxes $5,899, listed at $310,000, 19 weeks on market (Brokers: Zinsner's Real Estate; Weichert Realtors)
 
 SOUTH SALEM $243,000
 74 Tribrook Drive
 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 15-year-old colonial; cathedral entry hall, library, office, family room; taxes $7,664, listed at $269,000, 51 weeks on market (Brokers: Coldwell Banker; Renwick & Winterling Realty)

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Data Update" shows mortgate rates in the region and National housing trends from 1991 to 1994. (Source: HSH Associates; Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CITIES (70%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



770 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 10; Page 13; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property: Purchasing Rather Than Renting;
A Belief in Recovery Jogs Both Buyers and Banks

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
MATHIAS MEINZINGER does not consider renting a viable option. His company, Creative Bath Products, makes bath accessories on expensive machinery that requires a lot of electricity to run, and his cost of setting up shop is high.
"If I'm going to pay to improve a building, I'd rather improve one that I own," he said. 
 So last year Mr. Meinzinger moved into a 210,000 square foot building he had built for his company on 20 acres that he bought in Central Islip, L.I. The site is big enough to accommodate his expansion needs for some time. The Town of Islip came through with a tax abatement, the Long Island Lighting Company with reduced rates and Chemical Bank lent him the money he needed.
"Maybe people think the banks don't want to lend, but, hey, I certainly do, that's how I make my money," said Hank H. Auffarth, a Chemical Bank vice president in Queens.
This is no isolated tale. Many companies have grown comfortable enough with the economy -- and thus with their futures -- to buy their own buildings. And many banks are lending them the money to do so.
As low interest rates have made other investments less attractive, investors have been trickling back to the real estate market. And with more potential buyers around, property prices are inching up, enticing more owners to put their properties on the market.
A result has been a surge in commercial property sales in the last six months or so, the likes of which investors and brokers say they have not seen in five years.
"I am amazed at how much money is pouring into real estate," said Anthony E. Malkin, president of W & M Properties, a frequent investor.
"I'm not sure we did as much as $50 million in sales in 1990," said Peter Hauspurg, president of Eastern Consolidated Properties, a real estate investment banking firm in Manhattan. "In 1993 we did more than $200 million, and most of that was in the last half of the year."
In fact, competition for buyers has turned into competition among buyers for decent properties. Mr. Malkin's firm was outbid on five of six properties it tried to buy last year.
Adrienne Albert, president of Marketing Directors Inc., which just added a commercial sales division to its residential condominium business, bid on a 16-story office building near Rockefeller Center that went on the market in late November. By Christmas -- traditionally a very slow time in real estate -- the owner had 10 bids on the table.
"There are real buyers in the marketplace now, not just the bottom fishers of the last few years," Ms. Albert said. "And because of that, there are a lot more sellers too."
The sales push is not confined to New York. Equitable Real Estate Investment Management, for one, sold $611 million worth of properties nationally in 1993; in 1992 it sold only $240 million worth.
In New Jersey, Public Service Electric & Gas Company, which runs one of the country's oldest utility-driven economic development programs, reports that the number of companies inquiring about industrial space was up by 20 percent in 1993 from the year before. Although the utility does not compile separate figures for renters and buyers, Stephen J. Kukan, its general manager for area development, guesses that a lot of the interest came from potential owners.
"The cost of money is substantially down, and New Jersey's incentive programs encourage buying or building," he said.
The most dramatic numbers are in Manhattan, where everything, even in a recession, seems to be more expensive than almost anywhere else.
Darcy A. Stacom, a senior director at Cushman & Wakefield, said building sales volume in Manhattan hit $900 million in 1993, up from $400 million a year before. Even properties in beleaguered downtown are selling, particularly, Ms. Stacom noted, to investors from Brooklyn's Hasidic community, who like downtown's proximity to Brooklyn.
"Manhattan has become irresistible to everybody," she said.
Still, the bulk of the deals, if not of the dollars, were outside Manhattan, as companies bought factories and warehouses.
Sanford Zuckerbrot, president of Sholom & Zuckerbrot, a Queens-based brokerage, notes that warehouses languished on the market until recently, with prices plummeting from as high as $75 a square foot to below $30.
"Then the banks started finding themselves with large cash reserves and started courting potential corporate owners," he said. "Add to that the incentive packages that cities and utilities offered, the favorable prices and the strengthening economy and we suddenly find ourselves in a healthy market for industrial building sales."
Indeed, some brokers even report a scarcity of decent industrial properties. John Ritter, an executive vice president of Sholom & Zuckerbrot, tells of a kitchen-supply distributor who is looking for a 50,000-square-foot building in eastern Queens.
"They'll probably get stuck renting because there's just nothing for sale that meets their requirements," he said.
Banks have fueled the shortage by prodding clients to buy and helping them find the right incentive packages.
Chemical Bank recently showed a small household-utensils company how a combination of tax abatements, moving grants and mortgage money would enable it to afford its own 25,000-square-foot building.
"We guide small businesses through the morass of red tape associated with incentive programs," said Thomas F. Pergola, a vice president who handles much of Chemical Bank's real estate financing.
The market for office buildings is a bit less frantic. But even here, sales are heady, as more tenants recognize that the economics have tilted toward buys.
In the late 80's, prime Manhattan office space was selling for maybe $500 a square foot and lending rates were about 15 percent. Now space can be had for $150 to $200 and financing can go as low as 5 percent.
"Buying something at $150 a foot that costs $350 to replace makes great sense," said Michael Myers, chairman of Corporate Realty Partners, a new commercial brokerage.
WITH virtually no new construction in New York, replacement costs may be a specious comparison. Still, when a lease runs out a tenant has an expired lease; when a mortgage is paid off, a tenant has a building. Examples of such thinking are rife. Beth Israel Medical Center, which originally planned to rent space, just paid $34 million for about 350,000 square feet of commercial space at 10 Union Square.
Steelcase Inc., which makes office furniture, just bought 4 Columbus Circle, an eight-story, 124,000-square-foot office building originally designed by Swanke Hayden & Connell, the architectural firm, for its own use, for $18.15 million. Although the building is about three-quarters occupied, Josh N. Kuriloff, a Cushman & Wakefield director who represented the owners, said he had marketed it primarily to corporate owner-users.
"Owner occupants are the trend in the market," Mr. Kuriloff said. For now, Steelcase will occupy only part of its new building.
Slowly, investors are rejoining the market.
"They realized that if they stood on the sidelines too much longer the users would own everything," said Ms. Stacom.
The investors are not getting the generous financing that users are, though. The investors that bought 200 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, put up close to half the $25 million purchase price in cash. Similarly, investors got financing for only half of the $4.4 million they paid for 240 Madison, near 38th Street.
Owners did not get the kind of money they would have liked, either.
Mr. Hauspurg, of Eastern Consolidated Properties, said the owner of 240 Madison Avenue had turned down $18 million five years ago, when real estate prices seemed to be on a never-ending ascent. Similarly, an investor group recently bought 150 East 58th Street for $61.5 million; Equitable paid $145 million for it in the late 80's.
Of course, neither Equitable nor other solvent property owners are taking such lumps across the board. Many continue to hold their properties off the market on the theory that if they can get a good price now, they can get an even better one tomorrow.
"We are not putting a lot more properties on the market," said Timothy J. Welch, an Equitable executive. "Near-term prospects are for improvement, and our clients have the capital to be long-term holders."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Beth Israel Medical Center has taken 350,000 square feet in 10 Union Square, top; 200 Madison Avenue at 36th Street sold for $25 million. (Photographs by Kim Garnick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); CREATIVE BATH PRODUCTS INC (58%); CHEMICAL BANK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; SALES; PRICES; MORTGAGES; OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (93%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (56%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



771 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Someone Spying? So Are the Teddy Bear and the Potted Plant

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

DATELINE: MORGANVILLE

 BODY:
SEE the cuddly teddy bear over on the shelf? Well, it sees you, too. "Right here is the camera, behind the left eye," said Marvin Bandler, the owner of Spy Mart, a Monmouth County company dedicated to the proposition that what you don't know can hurt you and what you do know protects you from being caught off guard.
"There's a wireless transmitter in here," Mr. Bandler said, holding the teddy bear in his arm and pointing to its furry little head. "It can send a signal up to 300 feet away, so you don't even need a wire to attach it to a VCR." 
 Mr. Bandler, a licensed private investigator and former chief investigator for the New York State Department of Corrections, was demonstrating some of the items he sells from Spy Mart's showroom.
"See that planter over there," Mr. Bandler said, pointing in the direction of an ordinary-looking potted plant. "There's a camera in the pot. We built it last week. I was shopping with my wife, I saw the planter and I came up with the idea."
Mr. Bandler's business is an answer to a challenge: how do you find out what someone is up to without his finding out what you are up to first?
"Most of my customers are law-enforcement types," Mr. Bandler said, referring to the police, private detectives and prosecutors' investigators who come to avail themselves of the latest in clandestine surveillance technology. "But we also have a lot of private-sector people and businessmen who come in because they want to record their own telephone conversations or because they're afraid their businesses are being bugged."
 
Paramilitary Atmosphere
 Spy Mart, which Mr. Bandler opened about two years ago, is on the second floor of an office building in Morganville. Mr. Bandler, a tall, burly man with a penchant for 10-gallon hats, also runs his private investigator business from the location. The atmosphere is decisively paramilitary, with a secretary and an assistant calling Mr. Bandler "sir" in terse, formal exchanges.
He instructed the secretary to call him on a telephone atop one of the glass display cases that line the walls of the showroom. The phone rang, and Mr. Bandler lifted the receiver.
"This is a prototype," he said, telling his assistant to pick up an extension in another room. A red light on the phone blinked on.
"See? The phone went dead," Mr. Bandler said, holding the receiver out for a visitor to verify that the phone was quite dead. "What happened was, if I'm talking and somebody gets on the line with a listening device or comes in the room with a transmitter, the light goes on and the phone automatically disconnects the conversation."
He intends to market the new telephone to other spy shops around the country. The price? About $750.
"It's very high tech," he said. "This will detect just about everything."
Many of the devices in the Spy Mart showroom, including the phone that goes dead, are items Mr. Bandler designed himself and then built out of components available in any well-stocked electronics store.
"This is a microphone in a button," he said, holding out for inspection what appeared to be, well, a button with a wire attached to it.
"You can put it on the sleeve of your shirt and attach it to any tape recorder," he said. "It's battery powered, and you can change the actual button so it matches the buttons on your shirt."
He then showed a pen that, he said, has a tiny microphone inside. Even upon close inspection, nothing about the pen appeared unusual.
"The microphone is behind that hole," he said, indicating a hole about the size of the period at the end of this sentence. "It's supersensitive, too," he said, asserting that the tiny microphone is about 10 times more sensitive than the microphones built into microcassette recorders now on the market.
"See that calculator?" he said, pointing to a credit-card-sized calculator. "That's a transmitter. But it's not for public use, only law enforcement. It's not F.C.C. approved."
Mr. Bandler's clandestine eavesdropping devices fall into two general categories: hard-wired, like the shirt button microphone, which plugs into a microcassette recorder, and wireless, like the calculator that transmits to an FM receiver some distance away.
 
Behind the Picture Frame
 Some of the wireless transmitters, like one that replaces an ordinary electrical wall socket, can transmit up to half a mile away, drawing power from house current. Others, which use tiny batteries for power and are about the size of sugar cubes, transmit for less distance but are handy for surreptitious placement in vases, behind picture frames and attached under tables and other furniture.
"Again," Mr. Bandler said, "these are for law enforcement, not for public use. It's illegal to record audio unless you're participating in the conversation."
But if that's the case, who might use the teddy bear with a video camera for a brain?
"Anybody," Mr. Bandler replied. "It's not illegal to videotape."
In fact, he said, the teddy bear was designed for clients who wanted to be able to keep track of how a child's nanny was treating the child when the parents weren't home. The teddy bear was set on a high shelf in the child's room and connected to a video recorder locked in the parents' room.
The cost? "Around $1,000, not including the VCR," Mr. Bandler said. "And there are ways we can make them work in total darkness."
Mr. Bandler pointed to what looked like a clock hung on a wall. He instructed his visitor to look at a video monitor just underneath the clock. On the screen was an image of a confused reporter looking at himself looking at a video monitor.
"Now watch this," Mr. Bandler said, switching off the office lights. The image on the video monitor dimmed slightly but remained clear and distinct. "All we do is introduce a small infrared light source -- we can hide it anywhere in the room -- and it will bounce around and illuminate the room like it was daylight."
A regular customer of the Spy Mart, a Middlesex County private investigator who declined to give his name, described yet another product that makes use of infrared light.
"I bought infrared filters for the headlights on my car," the investigator said, explaining that he used the filters while staking out errant spouses for divorce clients. "I sit in my car with a video camera, aim the headlights at the house or the motel and wait. The infrared filters light up the place like it was daytime. I can see them, but they can't see me."
The investigator said Spy Mart was more than a high-tech toy store for real-life Sam Spades and amateur spies.
"Marvin doesn't just sell you things and send you out the door," the man said. "He tells you how to use what you buy. He gives you suggestions. You tell him what you want to do and he'll figure out how to do it."
And for those new to the business of espionage and counterespionage, Mr. Bandler also offers a small library of arcane books with such titles as "How to Disappear Completely and Never Be Found," "Get Even: The Complete Book of Dirty Tricks," "How the Underdog Gets Justice" and "Methods of Disguise."
Though Spy Mart caters to law- enforcement officials, Mr. Bandler said, a growing segment of his business involves executives and business managers concerned about employee theft and corporate espionage.
"We have a lot of small businesses installing hidden video systems," he said, adding that it is illegal to install such equipment in areas where people are entitled to expect privacy, like dressing rooms and bathrooms.
 
Worries About Wiretapping
 "We also sell a lot of systems to people who think their businesses or home offices are being bugged or wiretapped by the competition," he said. "And we help people who want to record their telephone conversations. A lot of insurance brokers are now recording customer conversations, which is legal."
Though the market for surveillance devices for law enforcement never seems to dry up, he said, the market among business customers tracks the economy.
"When things are bad out there for business, then business is good for me," Mr. Bandler said. "When the economy is bad, people are stealing more, and there are more bad things going on."
One of the last items he showed his visitor was his personal favorite.
"This is a bug detector," he said, opening a case that contained a small electronic control panel. He took a small wand with a wire attached to it out of the case and pointed the wand at the calculator, which was really a hidden transmitter and was supposed to be virtually undetectable. The bug detector flashed and beeped an electronic warning.
"It's one of my most popular items," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marvin Bandler, the owner of Spy Mart, holding teddy bear containing a camera. Left, image being transmitted by camera hidden in box in lower left of television image's viewing area.; A tiny microphone sold by the company. (Photographs by Kim Garnick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SPY MART (MORGANVILLE, NJ)

ORGANIZATION: SPY MART (MORGANVILLE, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WIRETAPPING AND OTHER EAVESDROPPING DEVICES AND METHODS INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (89%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (78%); WIRETAPPING (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); PRISONS (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY; BANDLER, MARVIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



772 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 3; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Q & A: Paula Williams;
When Bed-and-Breakfast Inns Team Up

BYLINE: By HELEN PIKE

DATELINE: STANHOPE

 BODY:
NINE years ago, after the divestiture of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, Paula Williams left the company and started a modest bed-and-breakfast in a Victorian mansion that she and her husband, Joe Mulay, restored and named the Whistling Swan Inn.
Six years later, with her business booming, Ms. Williams added more bedrooms. Mr. Mulay took early retirement from his own job at A.T.& T. to help his wife full time. 
 Despite her success, Ms. Williams missed the benefits of working in an office. Specifically, she missed the camaraderie, problem solving and networking that comes when a group is united in a common goal, she said. She soon realized she was not alone.
"The innkeepers were feeling isolated from one another," Ms. Williams recalled of the tenor in the oft-repeated conversations she and Mr. Mulay had with other bed-and-breakfast owners when they traveled around the state.
So, using the organizational skills she learned as a phone company installation and maintenance manager, Ms. Williams canvassed the owners of other inns, guest houses and small hotels about forming a professional association.
Three years after the first meeting at the Normandy Inn in Spring Lake, the fledgling group goes by the name of the Bed and Breakfast Innkeepers Association of New Jersey. It has incorporation papers, bylaws, criteria for membership, the attention of Trenton's code officials and a marketing strategy that includes a four-color brochure and a guest membership program to attract repeat business by offering discounts on lodgings.
All the work to get the association up and running was done by innkeepers whose previous professional affiliations included law, accounting, finance, art, publishing, construction, woodworking, travel and architecture. Ms. Williams was recently re-elected its president for a second term.
"We are like one big 500-room hotel," she said, describing the association, which has 80 out of a possible 90 inns as members. And she believes that New Jersey may have more bed-and-breakfast places in the future.
She cited a Professional Association of Innkeepers International study that describes these establishments as "the fastest-growing in-home industry" and said she and Mr. Mulay regularly fielded inquiries from couples looking to quit the corporate merry-go-round to go into the hospitality business.
"It really does become a way of life," Ms. Williams said. "Your business is in your house with you. You must learn how to balance the two."
But while she had to learn the ropes of finance and marketing, Ms. Williams didn't have to learn how to cook, because she grew up helping her grandmother make her hearty farm recipes, especially corn pancakes.
"I think I went into the B.& B. business because there were always people around our dinner table when I was growing up," Ms. Williams said.
Ms. Williams and Mr. Mulay continue to refurbish the imposing mansion, which was built by the village ice-house merchant and justice of the peace at the turn of the century. It is in the Pocono Mountains foothills, about a mile from Lake Musconetcong in Sussex County.
Q: What are the minimum requirements for membership in the association?
A: An inn must have 4 to 20 bedrooms; the owner or manager must live on the premises or adjacent to the property, and there must be proper signage to identify the inn, which, in turn, must be licensed and registered with the state, including having a sales tax number.
Also, the inn must serve breakfast. It must be located in a nice neighborhood, have its lawns mowed and have light bulbs in all its rooms.
Q. What is happening to the association in 1994?
A. By raising membership fees to $125 per inn, plus $10 per room, the association plans to have an administrative office and a part-time employee who will handle telephone inquiries, mailings and membership information. We are looking at the Jersey Shore area because it is equidistant from north and south Jersey. Membership costs also cover printing and distribution of the new directory, more advertising and a membership drive.
Q. What code changes has the association brought about in Trenton?
A. In 1992 we lobbied to change the state's fire codes to make them more applicable to home-style settings instead of to hotels and motels. What helped is the association's nonsmoking criterion for membership.
The association also succeeded in winning changes to the commercial dishwashing standard in order to allow for the use of disinfectant rinses instead of harsher detergent. After all, we're using our grandmothers' hand-painted china.
Q. What, if any, inspections do you perform?
A. Beginning this year, the association has a self-evaluation sheet with criteria we all agreed to meet. Also, we do put stock in A.A.A. and Mobil Guide inspections.
Q. How long does it take to create a successful bed-and-breakfast?
A. There are slight variations depending on people's talents and how much financial resource they have when they start up. The average length is five years. At that point, either they bail out or they are in it for the long term.
Some couples get started by turning their homes into weekend B.& B.'s while they have regular Monday-to- Friday jobs. Usually, they have four bedrooms. A six-bedroom B.& B. will generally pay for itself. Nine to 12 bedrooms means a couple can work it full-time with no additional staff.
Q. Does the association act alone?
A .We are an independent organization, but members individually work with their local and regional tourism councils in looking for opportunities where their B.& B.'s can partner with surrounding attractions and events. If we all don't make it, then the B.& B's aren't going to make it.
As an example of tourism's growing importance to the state's economy, tourism in Sussex County has surpassed agriculture as the largest income-grossing industry.
Q. Is there any economic data on the impact of bed-and-breakfasts?
A. In the Professional Association of Innkeepers International's study, the estimate is that for every dollar spent at a B.& B., another $15 is spent in the local economy. Also, 99 percent of the guests want fine or casual dining while only 1 percent want to stay curled up in front of the fireplace.
We did our own anecdotal survey based on 10 couples who stayed one recent night at the Whistling Swan Inn. On a per-couple basis, each spent about $15 for tickets to local attractions and gas, $20 for a deli lunch and $60 on fine dining. Three of the 10 couples asked for the nearest bank's automated teller machine.
Q. What is the association's marketing campaign?
A. Besides group advertising in consumer magazines and regional newspapers, the association has printed a glossy brochure that doubles as a directory of the inns and of the state's geographic regions and attractions that can be found in each. We needed a marketing force to promote us -- we are in a historic state that occasionally gets a bad rap.
Q. What is the guest member program?
A. For $20, guest members get the following year's directory free, two $10 gift certificates at two different inns and four newsletters. Since the program was started in July, 250 guests have signed up.
 
Profile
 Born: March 18, 1943, in Tulsa, Okla.
Education: B.A. in speech therapy, 1965, Oklahoma State University; M.B.A., 1978, Illinois Institute of Technology.
Career: Speech therapist; management positions at Illinois Bell and A.T.& T. in New Jersey; began running a bed-and-breakfast inn in 1985; organizer and president of the Bed and Breakfast Innkeepers Association of New Jersey.
Family: Married to Joe Mulay, her partner at the Whistling Swan Inn; two grown children, Denise Hicks of Chicago and James Mulay of Los Angeles.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paula Williams in a bedroom at her Victorian bed-and-breakfast inn in Stanhope. (Kim Garnick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Interview

TICKER: T (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: WHISTLING SWAN INN (STANHOPE, NJ); BED AND BREAKFAST INNKEEPERS ASSOCIATION OF NEW JERSEY AT&T INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHISTLING SWAN INN (STANHOPE, NJ); BED AND BREAKFAST INNKEEPERS ASSOCIATION OF NEW JERSEY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; BED-AND-BREAKFAST LODGINGS BED & BREAKFAST INNS (95%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); DIVESTITURES (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); BUSINESS INCORPORATIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EARLY RETIREMENT (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); MARKETING STRATEGY (64%); 

PERSON: PIKE, HELEN; WILLIAMS, PAULA MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



773 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 12; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: WESTCHESTER GUIDE

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:

ARTIST AS CRITIC
 Two artists from different generations, sharing a singular passion for righting the wrongs of society with humor and compassion, are joined in an exhibition opening on Tuesday at the Nardin Galleries in Somers. It will remain on view through March 14. 
One of the artists is William Gropper, whose satirical cartoons influenced popular perceptions of American life from the 1920's to his death in 1977 at the age of 80, and posthumously in collections, books and exhibitions like this one. More than 40 drawings, cartoons and several oils, including a self-portrait, form a retrospective of his long career. Among the many honors he received was election to the National Institute of Arts and Letters.
The co-exhibitor is Bill Mutter, 39, whose lifesize ceramic cowboys tackle the issue of violence. Seemingly hale, hearty and heroic, glazed in colorful Western garb, the sculptures reveal, on closer inspection, the frustration and fear that result when human communication is reduced to mayhem. "The Bully," "Death of the Poet," "Horse and Rider" and "Comin' Round the Corner" are some of the titles.
Nardin Galleries is a quarter of a mile north of the Elephant Hotel on Route 202, open Tuesdays through Sundays from 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Call 276-8485 for more information.
 
ROCK AND REGGAE
 Where Italian opera once reigned in the 68-year-old hall at 7 Willow Street in Port Chester, the beat of the 90's now prevails. Open from 9 P.M. to 4 A.M. and serving nothing but music and drinks, the nightspot named for its address is open Thursdays through Saturdays and on a random schedule the rest of the week.
This Friday's bill features the Sons, a classic rock group that has established a reputation in Manhattan at Wetlands, Tramps, Lone Star Roadhouse and other downtown venues. Bret Reilly is the leader, singer and songwriter; his brother Parker is the keyboardist; Stephen Murphy plays the guitar, and the percussion section is in the hands of Nick Varchaver and Peter Wilson.
Ripton Hylton, better known as Eek-a-Mouse, will be on stage Saturday night, performing reggae but with an imprimatur as off-the-wall as his name, which he took from a race horse. He draws inspiration from a childhood spent in Kingston, Jamaica, threading through his music an inexhaustible supply of personal and fanciful stories.
He manipulates his voice into improbable ranges and inhuman sounds, frequently decked out in get-ups as un-reggae as gladiator, pirate, coolie, Mexican bandit or Robin Hood.
The cover charge on Friday will be $7; on Saturday it will be $10 in advance, $12 at the door. For reservations or an information tape about performances other than those on Thursday through Saturday, call 939-1474.
 
TOPICAL TALKS
 Marcia Ann Gillespie, editor in chief of Ms. Magazine and former editor in chief of Essence magazine, will give a talk about "Racism and Sexism in the Media" at Sarah Lawrence College in Yonkers on Tuesday at 1:30 P.M. She is now serving as project coordinator and editor of a United Nations publication on the global impact of AIDS. The program will be held in Reisinger Auditorium, and admission is free.
Another free lecture, to be held in Titsworth Hall on Thursday at 8 P.M., is titled "1994 Challenges to Environmentalism: Science and Regulations." The speaker will be Frederic D. Krupp, executive director of the Environmental Defense Fund, based in Manhattan.
Mr. Krupp and his team of scientists, engineers, economists and lawyers seek solutions to the problems of global warming, ozone depletion, degradation of the tropical rain forests and the impact of acid rain and toxic chemicals on the water supply.
For more information, call 395-2411 or 395-2220.
 
HEALING POWER OF BEES
 The medicinal and therapeutic benefits of honeybees and the products obtained from them have not been proved within the American scientific community, but they are used widely in China and by some practitioners here. An introduction to the subject will be offered in a program titled "Honeybees and Health," to be conducted at the Greenburgh Nature Center on Saturday at 2 P.M. by Dr. Theo Cherbuliez. The center is on Dromore Road off Central Avenue.
Dr. Cherbuliez is a Scarsdale psychiatrist and master beekeeper who has employed bee-sting therapy on an experimental basis as a treatment for symptoms of arthritis and multiple sclerosis. The treatments have been in progress for two years, sometimes in conjunction with bee pollen and royal jelly.
Last year, he and his wife, Susan, who will assist in Saturday's program, visited China, attending an international Apimondia Conference in Beijing and an Asian bee-therapy conference in Nanjing. They also observed the use of beeswax in the treatment of burn victims at a burn clinic in Beijing. About 300,000 patients have apparently benefited.
Slides will accompany Dr. Cherbuliez's talk, and he will have samples of beeswax, bee glue (a waxy substance collected from buds of certain trees by bees), royal jelly and bee venom (which is contained in ampules).
Admission will be $3 and includes access to all the center's exhibitions. Call 723-3470 for more information.
 
ILLUMINATING PHRASES
 "Translucent Writings," opening today at the Neuberger Museum in Purchase, spans 30 years of that particular form of art in which words and language are combined with video and/or light. It was organized by the museum and Grita Insam, owner of Grita Insam Galleries in Vienna. It continues through April 3.
The 19 artists in the show represent 12 countries, including the United States, and each work is focused on words as art in conjunction with light beams, flashes, projections and neon. Complex meanings, symbols and philosophies inherent in the pieces may be lost on the viewer who is accustomed to straightforward oils and watercolors, but exploration of this new territory continues to expand.
One of the installations is by Peter Weibel, Austrian contributor to the 1993 Venice Biennale. Titled "Cultural Exodus From Austria," it consists of screens inscribed with the names of Austria's artists and intellectuals who fled the country during Nazi occupation.
Jenny Holzer, an American artist, uses words in lights, usually ironies or platitudes about sex and politics. Viewed as isolated moving signs, they assume a sudden importance.
The museum is on the campus of Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road. Visiting hours are Tuesdays through Fridays from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M., Saturday and Sunday from 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission is free. The number to call is 251-6100. ELEANOR CHARLES

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Death of the Poet" by Bill Mutter is on display at the Nardin Galleries in Somers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAMAICA (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: MS MAGAZINE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAMAICA (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (86%); SCULPTURE (79%); WRITERS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); HORSES (74%); POP & ROCK (70%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (69%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (69%); SONG WRITING (65%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (65%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (65%); WETLANDS (50%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM GROPPER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



774 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary: January 23-28

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring and Frederik Eliason

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
Pleasant Economic Surprises
The good economic news just keeps coming. On Friday, the Commerce Department said the economy grew at a 5.9 percent pace in the fourth quarter of 1993 -- better than the already upbeat projections of most private analysts. It was the best quarterly performance for the gross domestic product in six years. Perhaps as good as the strong and broad-based gain was that core inflation grew just 1.3 percent in the quarter, the best since 1967. Economists are predicting that growth in coming months will not be as powerful as last quarter's rate, but it should be strong enough to keep consumers upbeat about the future. In 1993 over all, the G.D.P. grew 2.9 percent. It was the best rate since 1988 and a better annual rate than in any year during the Bush Administration. Understandably, the number delighted the Clinton Administration. 

CBS Skates Near the Edge
Let's face it. With the possible exception of those guys bumping helmets today on a frightening number of television screens, figure skating is now the hot sport. It already is the Winter Olympics' glamour sport, but when you mix in a bitter rivalry that leads to a nasty conspiracy, everyone pays attention. But this creates an interesting problem for CBS. In ads promoting its coverage of the Games, it's dying to capitalize on the Kerrigan-Harding drama, but if it gets too sordid, it will turn people off. That would not please advertisers paying $250,000 or so for 30-second spots, like Coca-Cola, I.B.M. and Sears. The solution, for now: Skating will still figure big in ads, but CBS has dropped one that focuses on Nancy Kerrigan and will devote more attention to Ukrainian and German skaters.
 
Helping L.A. to Its Feet
Los Angeles took quite a hit in the Jan. 17 earthquake -- officials now say the quake just might become the costliest natural disaster in American history, exceeding the $30 billion tab for Hurricane Andrew in 1992. So last week President Clinton asked for a quick $6.6 billion in emergency aid -- just tack it onto the budget, he said; don't play games trying to find spending cuts to balance it. And he asked California to match just 10 percent of it, not the normal 25 percent. Only cynics would whisper that there is any link between this gesture and California's 54 electoral votes.
 
Shifting Sands on Health Care
Nobody in Washington seems able to get a grip on this health business. President Clinton vowed in his State of the Union speech to veto any bill that does not include universal coverage. Then Lloyd Bentsen said more companies might be allowed to bypass the huge purchasing groups. But they've said all along that unless most Americans belong to these groups, the whole thing won't work. And the No. 1 dart-thrower seems adrift too. Bob Dole devoted much energy last year to a Republican effort at radical health reform. But then after Mr. Clinton's speech he came up with a new line: There is "no health care crisis" -- although 84 percent of Americans say there is. What does this all add up to? One view is that the problem is so vast the politicians are addled. Then again, there's such momentum for change that political zigzagging can't stop it.
 
Of Clean Air and Cold Cash
 Clean-air advocates are forever promoting mass transit, but most commuters continue to vote with their gas pedals. Now, the Clinton Administration is including a proposal in the Federal budget that would use a most direct argument for taking the bus or train: cash. Where employers pay their workers' parking fees at non-company lots, the companies would be required to offer cash to workers who forgo the free parking. But it is far from certain that Congress will validate this parking bill. And even if it did, one benefits expert said, workers who do not get free parking would ask employers to cut their taxable income and provide tax-free parking instead.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Faith in Japan From Afar
Tokyo's stock market can't seem to decide whether the political turmoil is something to worry about. For more than a month, prices have risen, mainly because foreign investors have decided that despite a local recession and shaky Government, this is where they want their money. This momentum was jolted Monday when the market plunged nearly 5 percent, a reaction to Prime Minister Hosokawa's loss of a crucial vote the previous Friday. But it regained 2 percent by week's end, again fueled from abroad. Outsiders seem to think that East Asia is the place to invest and that Japan offers the bargains. Only time will tell whether the local or global view is right.
 
Tangled in a Spanish Mess
 The affairs of Banco Espanol de Credito, the big Spanish bank that was seized by the Government a month ago, provide yet another example of how the investing world has shrunk. An investment partnership set up by J. P. Morgan, the New York banking company, held an 8 percent stake in Banesto. And the U.S. Central Credit Union, which provides financial services for thousands of American credit unions, acknowledged this week that it had $255 million deposited in uninsured accounts in the bank. Just as American mutual fund investors are buying more and more foreign stocks for flashy returns, financial institutions have gone abroad looking not only for better yields but also simply for diversity.
 
Limiting Tiny's Vast Reach
 Roland W. Rowland is nicknamed Tiny, but he stands well over 6 feet tall. He heads a publicly traded British company, Lonrho P.L.C., but he has not bothered to meet with securities analysts in two decades. He now says he is an absolute equal with his co-chief executive, Dieter Bock, but nobody else seems to believe it. Lonrho announced that four allies of Mr. Rowland were retiring from its board, and Mr. Bock is believed to be eager to get rid of many of the 700 companies that Mr. Rowland, 76, has accumulated over the years.
 
Flying High in the Mideast
 The F-15 fighter jet emerged from a fierce dogfight with an order from Israel of about $2 billion for McDonnell Douglas. The loser in the battle for one of the biggest foreign arms orders in years was Lockheed, even though the company campaigned heavily in Israel.
 
Ready to Remove an Old Barrier
The embargo against trade with Vietnam has endured for nearly two decades, but it now seems certain to be lifted within months, if not days. The way has been eased for the President by a bipartisan Senate vote urging an end to the embargo. An official at the United States-Vietnam Trade Council estimates that American companies might share in as much as $9 billion of trade and investment.
 
COMPANIES
 
Greed at Green Point?
The whole idea of a "mutual savings bank" is that the little people own it -- a piggy bank here, a modest nest egg there. So when one such institution, Green Point Savings Bank, of Queens, outlined a plan to convert to stockholder ownership, it disturbed some depositors that executives and trustees stood to gain millions. Last week the New York State Banking Department, equally disturbed, barred the lucrative payments but said the conversion could go ahead. Then a Federal judge stopped the offering, but a panel overruled him. On Friday, the stock was sold, in the largest such sale in 20 years. Federal regulators said they were drafting rules to protect depositors in such situations.
 
Conde Nast Names Brit
Top American editors often speak with a British accent: Tina Brown at The New Yorker, for instance, and Harold Evans at Random House. Now, Conde Nast has named James Truman, 35, the editor of Details, to succeed Alexander Liberman, 81, as editorial director of Vanity Fair, Vogue and 11 other magazines.
 
Big Blue's Good News
A few short years ago, when I.B.M. reported profits, everyone yawned and said, "How many billions this time?" In 1990's fourth quarter, say, it earned $2.46 billion. Gone, long gone. Last week I.B.M. turned a profit in the mere millions, and it was big news -- because the $382 million it made in 1993's final quarter was its first profit in more than a year. "We are making progress," said Louis V. Gerstner Jr., chairman of this humbled giant, whose payroll is off by 45,000, to 256,000, in the past year. But the stock, which ran up on Monday after a favorable Barron's article, slipped on the news anyway, from $58.625 before the earnings report to $57.75 at week's end.
 
Big Buy for BankAmerica
For decades after World War II, the nation's largest banking company was BankAmerica, based in San Francisco. But in 1982, the New York-based Citicorp ascended to the top spot, and soon its total assets had far surpassed its closest rivals. Last week, however, BankAmerica said it would pay $1.9 billion to acquire Continental Bank of Chicago. It is the largest acquisition ever involving big money-center banks in different states, although the price is less than half of the $4.7 billion BankAmerica paid for Security Pacific in 1991. By the time BankAmerica digests Continental, its assets are expected to be above $200 billion, not far behind Citicorp's $216 billion.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cleaning up in Santa Monica (Associated Press); McDonnell Douglas's F-15 (United Press International)
 
Graphs showing daily closes of the Nikkei index of 225 stocks in January (Source: Datastream), annual change in gross domestic product from 1981 to 1993 (Source: Commerce Department) and daily closes of IBM in January. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); ICE SKATING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); OLYMPICS (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%); WINTER OLYMPICS (66%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (65%); VETO (65%); HURRICANES (61%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: ELIASON, FREDERIK BILL CLINTON (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



775 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3070 words

HEADLINE: The Designers Who Saved Chrysler

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
IN the old days at the Chrysler Corporation, Michael Santoro's curve would surely have died a quick death, and for the most prosaic of reasons: lack of a hinge.
You see, the curve may have profoundly moved an artsy car designer like Mr. Santoro -- light would bounce off it prettily, and it would make the sedan feel roomier -- but to a pragmatic engineer, faced with the grittier task of freezing the design in steel and then stamping out hundreds of thousands of durable duplicates, it was a migraine. No one could remember a sedan's sides curving so sharply (both front to back, like a horseshoe, and top to bottom, like parentheses). No hinge existed that would make the doors swing properly, the engineers assigned to the project said when they saw Mr. Santoro's clay model. 
 "Everybody was saying, 'No, no, no. It's too generous, it'll never work,' " said Mr. Santoro, 28.
That, a few years back, is where it would no doubt have ended. The engineers would have vanished with the design, and then sent it back with the curve made straighter, not incidentally putting that fast-talking New York kid in his place.
But the curve survived on the Dodge Stratus and Chrysler Cirrus compact sedans, which the company unveiled last month, accentuating a shape that provoked some rather strong reactions.
"It nearly moved me to tears," said John P. Wolkonowicz, a former product planner at the Ford Motor Company who is now senior automotive consultant for Arthur D. Little Inc. in Boston. "It's the best set of proportions I've ever seen on a sedan."
The curve survived because of a strategy Chrysler adopted in the late 1980's, as the company was sliding into yet another financial crisis: to develop designs that would make its cars as striking as possible. "Design," explains Tom Gale, the Chrysler vice president in charge of design, "can add value faster than it adds cost."
Sounds simple, but by automotive standards, and given Chrysler's parlous finances, gambling on design was like jumping with an untested bungee cord. The safe approach would have been to churn out conventional vehicles that filled a marketing niche, competed mostly on price and never risked bombing, like the Edsel or, more recently, the Chevrolet Caprice.
But thanks mostly to its design alchemy, Chrysler in less than three years has gone from being the basket case of the auto world to leading the resurgence of the American auto industry. The darling of car buyers, Wall Street and the auto enthusiast magazines, Chrysler is suddenly the most profitable auto maker in the country and the one most rapidly gaining market share.
This success has come even though the company still lags behind Ford and G.M., not to mention the Japanese, in controlling manufacturing defects, according to J. D. Power & Associates quality surveys. Just last week, for example, Chrysler recalled 115,000 1993 Jeep Grand Cherokees and Grand Wagoneers to fix a defect in the steering column. Analysts said such problems point to one long-term risk for Chrysler: If the buyers the company has successfully tempted back are disappointed with the cars' quality, they won't be fooled again.
Another question is whether Chrysler, which has already come back from the dead several times, can remain healthy. "Chrysler is terrific at adversity," Mr. Gale said. "We're not that good at success."
So far, however, buyers have been won over by the LH line of midsize cars -- the Chrysler Concorde, Eagle Vision and Dodge Intrepid -- which have sold as fast as Chrysler can make them, as have the redesigned Grand Cherokee and the Dodge Ram full-size pickup truck. The strong critical reception for the Stratus and its sister Cirrus, which begin selling in the fall, bode well for Chrysler's plan to use the cars to challenge the Honda Accord and the Toyota Camry, analysts say. Meanwhile, the design of the new Neon, a subcompact Chrysler is pushing in a Super Bowl ad campaign today, has also won critical raves. Analysts expect the Neon, which went on sale this month, to pose a serious threat to General Motors' Saturn and Honda's Civic. And Chrysler has even placed its sports car, the Viper, into a television show named for the car.
"In terms of what we used to call styling, they're probably leading the world's automobile industry," said David E. Davis, whose magazine, Automobile, named the Neon its car of the year.
How did they do it? If there is a consistent formula used by Chrysler's designers and engineers, it is to expand passenger space, lavish attention on the interior and increase the driver's feeling of control by pushing the cabin out over the front wheels, while shoving the wheels out to the corners of the car to give the sense that it clings to the road. Rather than trying to please all customers, Chrysler aimed to provoke love-it-or-hate-it reactions, since only an intense attraction was likely to draw buyers used to thinking of boxy Chryslers as toasters on wheels.
But just as important as designers' inspirations and the willingness of the company's top executives to gamble on them has been Chrysler's new process for developing vehicles. As it shifted to the design-oriented strategy, Chrysler began mimicking the Japanese approach of dividing workers into teams devoted to producing particular vehicles on a common budget, rather than separately financed departments performing one aspect of development in sequence. To help this approach along, Chrysler has been moving its product development staff into its new headquarters building in Auburn Hills, Mich., to put everyone under one roof.
 
Committee Approach
 Indeed, despite the importance of the designers' creative spark, the chief irony of Chrysler's daring designs is that they have succeeded because they were developed through committees. This is the sort of approach that auto enthusiasts always deplored because they thought it resulted in compromised, lowest-common-denominator cars. "We grump about committees, but the fact is there has to be a team," said Mr. Davis of Automobile.
The efficacy of using teams, which at Chrysler can number 700 people, has become conventional wisdom in the industry. "The product was not necessarily the master that was being served under the old system, whereas now everyone is basically accountable," said Mr. Wolkonowicz of Arthur Little.
Because it was smaller and closer to the brink financially, Chrysler switched more quickly than its domestic competitors to the team approach. But Ford has also embraced the system, and its first dividend, the new Mustang, has been a commercial and critical success. G.M., too, is trying to apply the concept, but analysts believe it lags its competitors.
At Chrysler's new design center, engineers, manufacturing specialists and even accountants review designs from the earliest days. As a result, they have more time to solve problems, like those posed by Mr. Santoro's curve. The designers have also become more sensitive to issues like manufacturability. And everyone involved has a greater desire to solve problems, in part because their careers depend on the overall success of the vehicle, rather than that of their particular piece.
So simply put, Mr. Santoro's curve survived, as did the radical elements in other recent designs, because Chrysler had decided it would. Once a "theme" is chosen, Mr. Santoro said, "there is a culture there that makes sure that the final product looks like the original design." Even the engineers who said the hinges could never be manufactured were committed to producing Mr. Santoro's design, as were Mr. Gale and the company's other top executives.
To solve the hinge problem, the team reached beyond its own members to bring in two older engineers ("two Yoda-type figures," according to Mr. Santoro) who specialized in hinge design. For three days, they puzzled on the problem, eschewing computer modeling for sketch after sketch with pencil, ruler and paper. And they came up with a solution.
Then, of course, the engineers had to find a way to make those curving windows roll down. But they were willing to try, said William A. Dayton, Mr. Santoro's boss and the design chief behind the new sedans, because they felt vested in the design, despite the old cultural barriers.
 
A New Stretch
 The radical "cab forward" look of the Chrysler cars, which other companies have experimented with over the years, is in many ways an engineering rather than a design triumph. On the Stratus and Cirrus, for example, the hood is actually wider than it is long; to permit that, the engineers first had to set a goal for themselves of packing the engine, the cooling system, the airbags and everything else that sits ahead of the driver into a much smaller space. Once the engineers, in consultation with designers, set such "stretch goals" for the skeleton of the vehicles, said Francois J. Castaing, Chrysler's engineering chief, the designers can begin sketching the skin of the vehicle.
"Between Tom Gale and I, we have an agreement that you don't design great cars by having a pure stylist isolated in a room, and he works at that for a few months, and at the end you hand it over to the engineers and manufacturing guys," said Mr. Castaing.
The fruits of this cooperation were the record earnings posted by Chrysler earlier this month -- $777 million in the fourth quarter of 1993 -- resulting in record profit-sharing checks for 65,000 employees. Chrysler gained more market share in North America in 1993 than any other auto maker, picking up 1.3 percentage points of the car and light truck market, to finish with 14.4 percent. That compared with a 0.7-point gain for Ford, to 25.4 percent, and a 0.6-point loss for G.M., to 33.1 percent, according to Ward's Automotive Reports.
 
Peculiar Breed
 Car designers are a peculiar breed -- artists who gush about Henry Moore or Martha Graham on the one hand but on the other must come up with practical devices with mass-market appeal, devices that, for mysterious reasons, they simply love.
Mr. Gale dresses and even talks like a stockbroker. But when he starts describing the look of a car -- the shapes he first doodled during class while growing up in Flint, Mich. -- his eyes light up. "Half the time to this day I can tell you by the tailights lit at night what kind of cars they are," he says.
Mr. Gale's key theme has been to strip away the gewgaws that used to adorn Chrysler vehicles -- and that most people think of when they think of design -- in favor of emphasizing unusual proportions.
"Look, I will give up the moldings and the vinyl roofs and the wire caps and the white walls and all of the nonsense, if you will, that really has no intrinsic value to the customer," Mr. Gale said. "But in exchange for that, we want the dramatic appearance, we want the larger wheels and tires, we want the wheels and tires at the corners."
Those sorts of changes, he said, helped the company make a "structural, strategic leap" in design that other companies would take years to match. As for design elements like a neat new Chrysler molding, he said dismissively, "Ford could do that tomorrow."
As a student sitting by a seventh-floor window of New York City's High School of Art and Design, Mr. Santoro wasn't thinking about details like moldings as he stared down at the rectangular shapes of cars lined up before the red light at Second Avenue and 56th Street. "You look out the window and all the cars look the same," he said. "I said, 'If I ever get the chance, my car's going to look different from the Second Avenue view.' "
To keep pushing designs, auto makers have long focused on hiring young people like Mr. Santoro, a graduate of the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, who joined Chrysler in 1988.
Having hired them, Mr. Gale lets these young designers fail extravagantly, as Mr. Santoro did when he submitted a design for the Neon. While it looked neat on paper, he admitted, had it been turned into metal the surfaces would have been "kind of amateurish."
He applied that lesson to the Stratus design. "It was great to be able to screw up that much," he said.
As they work, designers need constantly to keep in mind a large number of variables: Does this door permit enough side-impact protection? Will too much steel be wasted if the manufacturer tries to stamp this shape? Having team members from other departments regularly reviewing their work enforces discipline on such issues, resulting in scores of compromises, some painful.
"You have to negotiate for things, design versus engineering, and sometimes you have to give something up," said David Smith, 30, who came up with the original Neon design. "That's kind of hard."
Mr. Smith said that, because it would have been too costly, he could not jazz up the rear of the Neon as much as he had hoped. "I would have liked to have seen something as unique as the front end in the rear as well, but it worked out well given the cost considerations," he said.
Some of the compromises have worked out poorly. For example, the team that brought the LH cars to market decided to save a little money by not lighting the shift indicator on the console between the seats. The decision seemed to make sense, since there was another shift indicator on the instrument panel that was illuminated. Buyers, however, have been irritated by the shadowy shifter, and the LH team, which has continued to monitor the cars' performance on the road, has made plans to add one as part of the vehicles' redesign, which has not yet been scheduled.
In general, the group approach helps preserve the designer's intent, instead of undermining it. Consider the Stratus and Cirrus headlamps. Usually, a gap separates the headlamp edges from the car's surface, so the lamp can be moved to properly align the beams on the assembly line; on the LH cars, the gap can be as wide as four-tenths of an inch. But the Stratus and Cirrus design called for a tight fit, possible only if the beams could be aligned from behind, by reaching under the hood.
Neat idea, said the team's accountants. But the cost, they said, was prohibitive -- about $80 per car, more than Chrysler spent doing them the old-fashioned way.
But as the team discussed the old headlamp approach, they discovered it had hidden costs the accountants hadn't considered. For example, at the factory, workers spent a lot of time reworking the headlamp assembly to align the lights properly. Because the resulting front ends often looked crooked to buyers, the approach also drove up warranty costs once the cars were on the road.
As they talked it over, team members found savings in its preferred approach. They also brought in the headlamp supplier -- a very unusual move so early in the process -- and bargained down the price. In the end, said Mr. Dayton, the design chief, the headlamp system cost only about $10 per car.
Without a team to come up with the solution, he said: "We just would have said, 'We can't afford it,' and stayed with the old system."
 
 
 
WORKING ON THE INSIDE
 TO Trevor M. Creed, Chrysler's British-born head of interior design, little things mean an awful lot. Take American turn signals, which he first encountered when the Ford Motor Company brought him to the United States as a designer in 1982.
"I couldn't get over the effort required on the turn signal," he recalled. "I kept thinking, 'Maybe this is why Americans don't bother to use turn signals.' "
In 1985, Mr. Creed jumped to Chrysler, where he discovered that interior design had deteriorated so far that the company was considering using identical instrument clusters in all its cars and trucks. With budgets tight, interior design was first to suffer -- a foolish strategy, Mr. Creed argued, since the interior is where people pass most of the time they spend with their cars and trucks.
According to analysts, that insight, and the often-subtle changes to interiors that have flowed from it, have been an important part of Chrysler's new appeal to buyers.
Mr. Creed began asking some basic questions, like why does the interior of an American car have to be shiny? "European and Japanese cars all had a much lower gloss level," he said. "Low gloss level is synonymous with quality and good fit and finish. And traditionally, American interiors were shiny and greasy looking." So Chrysler's LH cars are positively dusky inside.
Similarly, the controls of Japanese and European cars had a silky feel.
One reason Chrysler's controls were so clunky, Mr. Creed discovered, was that the company never asked its suppliers for anything different. Specifications for a switch, for example, included "all sorts of written things that it has to meet, like it must function 5,000 times at this degree temperature, etc. and etc.," he said. But "there was never a paragraph that said, 'It shall feel like magic.' "
To demonstrate what they meant, Chrysler designers began mounting Honda and Toyota switches, levers and dials on wooden blocks, then asking suppliers to flick, click or twist them.
And the car and truck development teams began paying attention to whether suppliers delivered the magic they requisitioned. Recently, a Dodge Stratus, Honda Accord and Toyota Camry sat side-by-side in a brightly lit room at the Chrysler Technology Center in Pontiac, Mich. Members of the Stratus team climbed in and out of the cars, bouncing on seats, opening and shutting glove compartments, slamming doors.
The Stratus is supposed to be Chrysler's Japan-beater, so the team members meet weekly to see if the bits and pieces of their car measure up to the bits and pieces of the competition that serve as their benchmarks.
The good news this week is that, as they previously requested, the oil dipstick has been lowered slightly so that it no longer hits the prop rod. The bad news is that the hazard light button feels "notchy" -- it doesn't go up and down smoothly.
Marc Seguin, from program management, poses an existential question: "What do we want out of the switch?"
Ron Dean, from vehicle development, gives him a down-to-earth answer. "This is the target right here," he says, indicating the Accord. "It should feel like that." Mr. Seguin climbs in and pumps the Honda's hazard button. "Well," he says, "it doesn't."
And with that, Stephen Bartoli, the car's product planning manager, makes a note to talk to the supplier.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Santoro with a model of the car he helped design, the Dodge Stratus. (Alan Decker for The New York Times); David Smith, a key designer of the Neon, with a clay model. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 6); Tom Gale, Chrysler's vice president for design, with the Neon, the company's stylish new subcompact. "Design can add value faster than it adds cost," Mr. Gale said. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); ARTHUR D LITTLE INC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES SEDANS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); BOMBINGS (73%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); MARKET SHARE (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



776 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
Crashing, Temping, Coping, Sneering

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble

 BODY:
IN the opening pages of "Career Crash: America's New Crisis and Who Survives" (Simon & Schuster, $21), the book's sociologist-author Barry Glassner takes note of research revealing that a startling, and disproportionate, number of baby boomers are depressed. Well, of course they are. Janis Joplin is dead and Crosby, Stills and Nash are alive and playing gigs. It is not a just world. Who wouldn't be depressed?
But Mr. Glassner is no fan of Occam's razor, the philosophical imperative to explain phenomena as simply and elegantly as possible. He attributes the boomers' lack of joie de vivre primarily to dissatisfaction over work, and a tendency, as he calls it, to "crash out of their careers." Crashing, Mr. Glassner asserts, is not the same as burning out, being furloughed, fired or early-retired and it is not quite the same as having a midlife crisis, which many baby boomers are of an age to do. A crash seems to occur when a series of small unhappinesses and unfulfilled expectations become a pile of misery, causing the boomers to want to bolt careers most normal people would kill for. 
 A skeptical reader might view the so-called career crash as another instance of the baby boomer penchant for elevating common, everyday, even if challenging, experience to existential crisis. Only the experiences of Mr. Glassner's Vietnam veterans rise above the garden variety life hitch. If there is such a thing as a career crash, why won't Crosby, Stills and Nash have one?
Once mainly a domain of actors, musicians, macrame artists and other assorted free spirits, temporary work now beckons -- or snares -- people who don't really mind having a day job. For a while in the last couple of years, temporary work was the only lively growth sector of the economy, as employers learned the beauty and efficacy of the transitory worker, at all levels of employment. Hence, the two new titles considered here: "Workstyles to Fit Your Lifestyle: Everyone's Guide to Temporary Employment," by John Fanning and Rosemary Maniscalco (Prentice Hall, $11.95), and "Temp: How to Survive and Thrive in the World of Temporary Employment," by Deborahann Smith (Shambala Publications, $9).
"Workstyles" emphasizes the new, 90's kind of temp, the flexible, independent professional who can parachute into a job, work effectively and then disappear, before qualifying for any benefits, with a hearty "All in a day's work." The authors spend so much time arguing in favor of temping's legitimacy that readers must wonder if they are not protesting a bit too much. For many professionals, to temp is to turn a lemon into lemonade and nothing more. On the other hand, job hunting, like dating, is an arena in which unused skills atrophy. The detailed directions in "Workstyles," from what to expect from the temporary agency interview to how to assess opportunities, take the mystery out of the brave new economy.
Less frantically in pursuit of respectability is Ms. Smith, whose "Temp" emphasizes the Nietzschean, or will to power, dimension of temping. Her book appears to be written for the classic temp, a person who works to live, is not a refugee from a corporate downsizing and might, but most likely, doesn't want the temp job to evolve into something permanent. A person like her friend Sue, about whom Ms. Smith reports: "If someone asks what she does for a living, she says, 'I am a traveler, wandering through life.' "
No, leave "Siddhartha" on the back of the bookshelf. The advice in "Temp" is sound and in many ways more useful than lists of the benefits of temping, a la "Workstyles." Say yes when possible, say no when necessary. Get information up front. Hold the client to his or her assignment description. Be polite. Don't burn bridges. Bend an assignment to your advantage, using down time to learn new skills, or to job hunt, or whatever. The author wrote five children's books during one long assignment -- with the knowledge and support of her temp employer. In other words, in temping, as in much of life, at-tee-tude is all.
Indeed, almost everything a working mother needs to know, and a few things some working fathers need to know, are in "Everything a Working Mother Needs to Know," by Anne C. Weisberg and Carol A. Buckler (Main Street Books, Doubleday, $14.95). The book niftily surveys the early terrain of having a first child: the shift in identity, the evaporation of free time and the sometimes disconcerting responses at work. What, for example, does, "What will we do without you?" mean if you weren't planning to take much time off?
It advises impending mothers to learn the details of company leave policies before announcing the pregnancy, and it contains a survey of the various local, state and Federal protections for pregnant workers and their families, as well as discussions of finding child care and making flexible work arrangements. The book's anecdotes are especially good at revealing the pressures and ambivalence that drive pregnant women and new (and not so new) mothers bananas.
"Everything" does not -- cannot -- prepare you for the day -- and it will come, oh yes, it will come -- when your three-year-old tells you a story about a good mommy and a bad mommy. The good mommy plays "Hi Ho! Cherry-O" and brings books home from the bookstore. The bad mommy goes to work. How long until adolescence?
There is only one appropriate response to "Coping With the Male Ego in the Workplace": Must we? "The male ego is that manifestation of behavior that is a result of a strong need to maintain a sense of superiority and control," contend the authors, Sandra Grymes and Mary Stanton in this Long-
meadow Press book ($15.95). Coping with it, the book's anecdotes suggest, involves a great deal of tapdancing around a great many incivil men, most of whom would seem to need a sharp smack on the head from Miss Manners.
The authors take the fashionable position that men and women are different, and that women, who they say tend to be collaborative and cooperative, are more naturally constituted to lead in the diverse, late-20th century fin de siecle workplace. If the book encourages women to stop acting wussy and speak up for themselves, it may be useful.
The "white, male and worried" kind of worker is not much in evidence in "Coping." Read instead Michael Crichton's cynical new film treatment, "Disclosure" (Knopf, $24), a nightmarish vision in which all the women are dweebs or tramps, all the men were hired when there were standards and the only hint of wit comes when the wronged exec and his lawyer encounter the Cruella de Ville-ish villainess in a restaurant and order pasta puttanesca. You want a nightmare, guys? Starting now, Madonna is your CFO! Roseanne Arnold is head of human resources! Lorena Bobbitt is in charge of downsizing!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; BOOK REVIEWS BABY BOOMERS (90%); WRITERS (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); VETERANS (50%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



777 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: Obeying the Tax Laws: Small Business' Burden

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IN the grand scheme of a Federal tax system that collects more than $1 trillion a year, Dante's Restaurant Inc., a modest three-city chain in Pennsylvania, counts for little.
But to people like Lewis Kamin, Dante's controller, the Internal Revenue Code is a year-round headache. There are the biweekly remittances of Social Security and withheld income tax, quarterly reports of payroll and unemployment taxes, quarterly estimated corporate income taxes and, of course, the maintaining of various related records, including tips, Form W-4's for withholding and I-9 citizenship forms. 
 And this doesn't count the ubiquitous state and local levies that in Dante's case are complicated because liquor-license considerations mean each of its 10 restaurants must be separately incorporated.
"There's a lot to watch, a lot to worry about," Mr. Kamin grumbled.
But things are even worse for companies too small to afford a full-time financial staff, particularly if they have pension or profit-sharing plans.
"We get tax returns coming out of our ears," complained Ted Abrams, proprietor of The Emily Shop, a Birmingham, Ala., seller of women's apparel. He said it costs $1,500 to $2,000 in accounting fees each time Congress changes the law that covers profit-sharing, a steep price because his store's plan covers just 30 people.
"It's very expensive," Mr. Abrams sighed. "It's very burdensome."
This is the real-world side of American taxation, the Federal chunk of which is a system based on a monumentally complex set of laws and regulations that was just one-third its current size when Jimmy Carter called it "a disgrace to the human race."
The code is administered by a 115,000-member Internal Revenue Service army with a $7 billion budget. But that amount is dwarfed by what taxpayers themselves spend on meeting their obligations.
Estimates of what it costs American businesses to comply with Federal tax law reach into the hundreds of billions of dollars a year. The Tax Foundation, a nonpartisan, corporate-supported Washington research group, estimated the 1993 figure for American business at $123.4 billion. (Another $60 billion or so was paid by individuals.) This includes the cost of record-keeping, time spent studying changes in the law and the actual calculation and filing of returns, but not other, less direct costs such as litigation or bankruptcies resulting from penalties. Nor does it include the cost of compliance with state and local tax laws of all kinds.
Big companies are under almost continuous audit -- the 1992 return for one giant company ran to 21,000 pages and 30 volumes. But the heaviest burden by far falls on small business.
In fact, according to Arthur P. Hall, senior economist at the foundation, the local hardware store, delicatessen or gas station with assets of less than $1 million -- a category embracing 90 percent of the nation's corporations -- spends $390 for compliance for each $100 it sends to Washington. Put another way, the Government got just $4.1 billion from these businesses in 1990, compared with the $15.9 billion they spent producing the basic corporate forms, the 1120 and 1120S.
"What this means is that the corporate income tax is a very inefficient revenue source for the Federal Government," Mr. Hall said. "The extra money being spent on compliance could be liberated for a host of other things, whether payrolls or corporate investment, that would enhance economic growth."
Large companies also spend heavily on compliance, but economies of scale lighten their burden. Professional staffs mean top management is not diverted from its main task, unlike many owners of fledgling or struggling small businesses.
"Where it really becomes egregious and obnoxious is the guy who spends 12 hours a day in his store and then has to spend four more hours" burning midnight oil on tax-related paperwork, said D. J. Gribbin, tax policy analyst for the National Federation of Independent Business.
Mr. Hall's findings, striking as they are, pale in comparison with compliance estimates made by James L. Payne, an independent scholar who has taught at Yale, Wesleyan, Johns Hopkins and Texas A. & M.
Mr. Payne, defining costs broadly to include such things as emotional stress, puts total compliance costs at upward of $500 billion. One-third of this Mr. Payne attributes to work not undertaken and businesses not opened because of the tax system.
"Because of the overhead costs of running the tax system, every Federal program costs the country 65 percent more than the announced budgetary cost," he said. "The $10 billion housing program actually represents a sacrifice of $16.5 billion."
Although complaints about the tax system are often aimed at the I.R.S., business people and policymakers generally contend that the real fault lies with Congress and its frequent, often well intentioned tinkering with the law.
The resulting complexity is taking an ever-mounting toll on respect for the system, and thereby undermines the willingness of even the best-intentioned taxpayer to figure accurately what he or she should pay.
A public throwing up of its collective hands at the difficulty and expense of complying will, through sloppiness alone, deprive the Treasury of large sums, specialists contend.
"Eight decades of amendments and accretions to the code have produced a virtually impenetrable maze," said Shirley D. Peterson, the I.R.S. Commissioner under President Bush. "The current level of complexity undermines compliance and breeds disrespect for the law," she added, noting that it "imposes an undue burden on our citizens and on businesses who must divert scarce resources from productive activity."
Mrs. Peterson, now in private law practice, recommends that the entire statute book be scrapped and replaced either with a vastly simpler income tax or a different type of tax, such as a value-added or consumption tax.
Its concern mounting, the I.R.S. is now shifting more resources from nailing evaders to helping honest people who find compliance too difficult and expensive.
Even changes in the law aimed at helping employers can be more trouble to figure out than they are worth, according to some business people. One example was last year's reformulation of the rules covering the timeframe in which companies must send in employment taxes. One-third of businesses make mistakes in this area, according to Fred T. Goldberg Jr., I.R.S. Commissioner between 1989 and 1992.
Other changes illustrate the tax-policy truism that equity and simplicity are mutually exclusive. Paula Calimafde, head of the Small Business Council of America, cited the 300 pages of new regulations to carry out four lines of statute enacted last summer to minimize discrimination against lower-paid workers in benefit plans.
"It's Swahili to me -- and I do this all day long," said Ms. Calimafde, a tax consultant to smaller companies.
Another change this year involves cutbacks in permissible contributions to 401(k) and similar benefit plans. This is not only a complex calculation, said Gerald W. Padwe, taxation vice president for the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, but the change will probably hurt people earning as little as $60,000 a year, which "plainly was not the original intention." Many of those people are small entrepreneurs.
And while simplification was a main goal of reform efforts a decade ago that led to the landmark 1986 overhaul, almost nobody maintains it has made things easier for business. Companies both large and small -- and even many of the people who earn their living figuring taxes -- complain strenuously about constant revisions in the law.
Since 1981, Washington has put 10 major tax laws on the books, generating changes whose cumulative effect "is pretty staggering for the small-business person," said Edward Koos, a tax-policy lawyer at the Small Business Administration.
Harold Apolinsky of the Small Business Councilsays 9,371 code subsections have been amended since 1981, a total that owes much to the lobbying and campaign contributions of the powerful. "It appears to me that small business just has no clout," Mr. Apolinsky said. "Big business tolerates it," he added, referring to the resulting complexity. "Small business really can't."
 
 
 
PROPOSALS THAT WOULD GRANT RELIEF
 WHILE the overwhelming complexity of the tax system is increasingly recognized in Congress, specialists say simplification measures now on the table will probably be deferred as the proposed health-care overhaul and the tax issues related to it fill the 1994 calendar.
A bill cleared by the House Ways and Means Committee last year and still on the table would, among other things, simplify the treatment of large partnerships, subchapter S corporations and foreign taxes.
This measure, sponsored by Dan Rostenkowski, the committee's chairman, is one of those "at the mercy of larger forces," an aide said Friday. But a failure of the bill, H.R. 3419, to move along this year "should not be construed as an unfriendly attitude."
But ultimately, the United States may be driven to an entirely different system. A national tax on sales, or consumption, appears the leading candidate. Senators John C. Danforth and David L. Boren are expected to introduce a proposal soon. It aims to eliminate the corporate income tax, cut payroll taxes sharply and increase the standard deduction for individuals. It would also impose a single-rate levy on business activity.


GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Cost of Complying" shows a corporation's estimated cost of complying with the Federal tax code, for every $1,000 in annual sales. (Source: I.R.S.; The Tax Foundation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (52%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (52%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); SMALL BUSINESS TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX WITHHOLDING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (72%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); ACCOUNTING (70%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (51%); LITIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR JIMMY CARTER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



778 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Putting Money Behind Your Beliefs

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
MORE and more religions are getting mutual funds. Besides funds long available to Lutherans and Muslims, there are three new offerings from the Catholic Foundation, the Mennonite Mutual Aid Society and B'nai B'rith.
Some of them take their cues from sacred texts, others use guidelines on socially responsible investing. The two groups with track records have been mostly competitive so far. 
 "They're not sensational, but they've done their jobs," said John Rekenthaler, editor of Morningstar Mutual Funds in Chicago.
The brand-new Aquinas Funds, based in Dallas, avoid investing in companies that flout the teachings and social concerns of the Catholic Church, said Bernard DiFiore, executive director of the Catholic Foundation, the funds' sponsor, and they take a "pro-active approach." For example, the foundation, which has managed money for Catholic agencies since the mid-1980's, has filed resolutions to companies in which it owns shares to urge responsible management when those companies pollute the environment or produce violent television shows.
Unlike most funds tied to religious groups, the Aquinas Funds can invest in almost anything. They may even own shares in pharmaceutical companies that produce contraceptives if the company's full product line makes a "contribution to society," Mr. DiFiore said, adding that after all, "We're trying to produce a high level of return for our shareholders."
Started on Jan. 3, the group comprises growth, equity-income, balanced and fixed-income funds managed by five outside money managers selected with a consultant's help by the funds' directors, who serve as volunteers. Profits are used for grants to charitable, religious and educational groups.
The funds have $1,000 minimum investments and levy no sales charges. Shares will be marketed mostly through churches and Catholic publications, Mr. DiFiore said.
Similarly, the Mennonite Mutual Aid Society, in Goshen, Ind., started two mutual funds after 30 years of managing money for Mennonite institutions and wealthy individuals. Unlike the Aquinas group, however, the MMA Praxis Growth and Praxis Intermediate Income funds, on the market since Dec. 30, are managed by in-house money managers.
"Praxis," in this context, means combining belief and action, said J.B. Miller, the funds' president. "We believe faithful stewardship means using assets God has entrusted to us to promote economic results that are in harmony with Christian beliefs," the funds' brochure reads.
Both funds eschew companies that make military weapons or tobacco, alcohol or gambling products; thus, they avoid Treasury securities, used in part to finance the nation's military system. Stocks owned must "speak to issues of quality of life, like education and pharmaceuticals," Mr. Miller said. Shareowners can direct their investment earnings to charities, then deduct the contribution on their tax returns. The funds levy 5 percent declining deferred sales charges.
The five Leadership bond and money market funds sponsored by B'nai B'rith and managed by Bankers Trust started appearing in early January. The group comprises Treasury, tax-free and taxable money market funds, short-intermediate Government bond fund, and an intermediate-term tax-free bond fund. Expenses are capped well below industry averages. Equity funds are in the works.
A "small percentage" of Bankers Trust's management fees, will be donated to B'nai B'rith, said Kent E. Schiner, president of B'nai B'rith. The funds were conceived "as a service to our members," he said.
Among older funds, the Amana Income Fund, started in 1986 and holding $11 million in assets, is a no-load equity-income fund for Muslim investors. A growth fund is being planned, said the fund's manager, Nicholas Kaiser, of the Saturna Capital Corporation of Bellingham, Wash.
Because Amana -- meaning "trust" in Arabic -- invests according to Islamic principles, it cannot own shares in companies in the liquor, pornography or pork business, among others. And because Islamic investors must be partners in a venture, sharing in profit or loss instead of receiving interest, investments in interest-paying debt, and interest-dependent businesses like banks and brokerages, are prohibited.
The fund owns high-dividend stocks mainly in utilities. Its largest holdings now are USX, H & R Block, FPL Group, Washington Water Power and Bristol-Myers Squibb. All trustees except Mr. Kaiser are Muslim, and they must approve all investments as "halal," or acceptable under the Koran. For the last five years, Amana has returned 10 percent a year, compared with 12 percent for equity-income funds generally.
The Lutheran Brotherhood began investing in 1971 and has more than $3 billion under management in six funds -- stock, bond and money market -- managed by the brotherhood and sold only to its members. All have had five-year returns above the average for their groups.
The funds avoid "sin" stocks, like companies that produce or distribute alcohol, tobacco or firearms, but they are allowed to invest in Treasury securities. Profits are used to finance churches, disaster relief and scholarships, said Leslie Bendtsen, spokesman for the group.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Investing Religiously" shows total returns of funds tied to religious groups through Dec. 31. (Source: Morningstar)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (67%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (84%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (84%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); INDIANA, USA (67%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES RELIGION (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (91%); ETHICAL INVESTING (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BONDS (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%); BOND MARKETS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); AFFLUENT MARKET (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (52%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (52%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE JOSEPH C PAPA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



779 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: The World;
South Africa's Communists Arise, and the West Yawns

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG

 BODY:
SOUTH AFRICA may not be the only country where Communists are on the rise -- just ask Boris Yeltsin -- but it is probably the only one whose Communists arouse so little comment in the West.
Mainstream Western politicians who speak with foreboding of the Communists' resuscitation in Eastern Europe scarcely mention Nelson Mandela's partnership with the Communists in South Africa. American and European businessmen scouting opportunities here seem unfazed by it. Yet if the pollsters are even close in their forecasts for South Africa's first free elections, to be held April 27-29, South Africa will have a higher proportion of Communist Party members in its new Parliament than Russia has in its. 
 Among the 200 candidates on the African National Congress's list for at-large seats in the Parliament, 34 carry Communist Party cards. Many more are former party members or kindred thinkers, and the support for state ownership and wholesale redistribution of wealth grows more intense in the middle and lower levels of the liberation movement. Communists, union leaders and officials of several small parties, longtime partners against apartheid, have opted to run as A.N.C. candidates rather than mounting their own campaigns.
The Communists include some of the congress's leading intellectuals, notably the avuncular Joe Slovo, the Communist Party chairman and No. 4 on the election list. Last week, in a speech to Johannesburg businessmen, he reaffirmed his commitment to an eventual Marxist future in which "all the means of production are socialized to serve the interests of the whole of society." This would be achieved, he noted, not by a Leninist putsch but by "ideological contest in a genuine multiparty democracy." For decades the A.N.C shared with its Communist compatriots Moscow's financial aid, military accoutrements and outlook, applauding the subjugation of Eastern Europe and pooh-poohing the Soviet repression of human rights.
Does it matter any more? It does to President F. W. de Klerk, whistlestopping across the prairie for his reformed National Party. He has been a selective Red-baiter, fulminating against the Communist scourge when it served his purposes, minimizing their importance when he happened to be negotiating with them.
Now they make a useful monster. It is a tricky business campaigning against Nelson Mandela, an icon to most South Africans and, despite the two men's intensifying election rivalry, still a kind of co-president in this twilight of white rule. Mr. de Klerk finds it easier to portray Mr. Mandela, never a Communist Party member, as a decent man surrounded by a Communist cabal. Thus in the National Party it is de rigueur to refer, not to the A.N.C., but to "the Communist Party/A.N.C. alliance." If the conservative Inkatha Freedom Party and the Afrikaner nationalists of the right wing decide to join the campaign, which depends on the outcome of seemingly interminable negotiations, the chorus of Red-bashing is certain to become even more strident.
The fear of Communism galvanizes some whites, especially devoutly Christian Afrikaners for whom "Communist" is still synonymous with "Antichrist." It is also, Mr. de Klerk's party is convinced, a useful line in the swing communities of Indians and mixed-race voters. Though victimized by apartheid, these voters are just enough better off than blacks that they fear egalitarian social justice.
Most South Africans, though, like most Western spectators, find that South African Communists make an unconvincing bogeyman, especially in a country that offers such alternative menaces as right-wing whites in neo-Nazi regalia and black militants armed with AK-47's. The Communist Party itself is small -- 50,000 members is the probably inflated claim, compared with a million in the A.N.C. -- and disorganized and, since the dissolution of its Soviet sponsors, nearly penniless. The party is running under the banner of the A.N.C. partly out of devotion, but partly out of dependency.
Since it was legalized in 1990, the party has boasted two strengths: its ability to thrill township youngsters with revolutionary oratory, and the influence of several well-placed thinkers within the A.N.C. Their most important ideological impact had nothing to do with Marx: the Communists are generally credited with persuading the congress to switch from African nationalism to nonracialism in the 1950's.
But the party's following in the black townships suffered hugely from the murder last April of Chris Hani, the party's General Secretary and a figure second only to Mr. Mandela in popularity among blacks. And party intellectuals have had to sublimate their long-term goals to the compromises of negotiating a new constitution, wooing foreign investors, and running a country.
The congress's economic blueprint, published two weeks ago, calls for a mix of private enterprise and public regulation. It went through six drafts, and with each revision the authors planed away a bit more of the Marxist vision of state control and redistribution.
"It is not a socialist document, and it should not be," said Essop Pahad, a member of the Communist Central Committee. "At this stage, we need to unite vast numbers of people across lines of class and belief."
South African Communists still advocate what they call a "second phase," in which capitalism is erased. If it ever takes place, though, it is less likely to be the result of Communist inspiration than of the elemental yearning among ordinary blacks for a share of the wealth.
As Ahmed Kathrada, a congress executive and former Communist, points out, this kind of state intervention has a precedent in South Africa.
"The National Party itself nationalized several industries to reserve jobs for Afrikaners -- broadcasting, railways, telecommunications, iron and steel," he recalled. "We have a long way to go to match that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters celebrated the African National Congress's 82nd birthday earlier this month in Soweto. (David Brauchli/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (99%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (90%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (90%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA (99%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%); 

PERSON: MANDELA, NELSON; KELLER, BILL BORIS YELTSIN (74%); NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (72%); JOE SLOVO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



780 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: The World: Let's Play Geo-Monopoly;
Diplomacy Is Minding Other Nations' Business

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE Clinton Administration came to office stressing that henceforth foreign policy would be economic policy and economic policy would be foreign policy. Early on, the mantra had an almost soothing, new-age feel to it -- implying that NATO summits would now give way to job summits and warheads to work stations.
But as trips abroad this month by President Clinton and other Administration officials have shown, the credo has translated more and more into action in the diplomatic marketplace. As it has, the Administration and the American public are discovering just how difficult this new diplomacy can be. It may be the future, it may be necessary, but geo-Monopoly is not for the faint-hearted. 
 In the traditional realist school of foreign policy, which dominated the American outlook during the cold war, what happened inside the boundaries of states was for the most part not the United States' primary concern. American interests were defined largely by how states behaved externally. Countries were judged primarily by whether they were allied with the United States in the global confrontation with communism, or whether their military behavior threatened American interests in different regions.
But when American foreign policy becomes economic policy, the work of diplomats doesn't stop at another country's borders. To the contrary. It starts there and moves inward. Economic diplomacy requires the United States to get involved in the plumbing and wiring of other nations' internal affairs more deeply than ever before. When that happens, the notion of who is an ally and who is an enemy changes fundamentally. A Treasury official talking the other day about Japan kept using the phrase "our enemy there is the bureaucracy," which wants to maintain the status quo. American officials now frequently refer to the head of Russia's Central Bank as "our enemy," because he is not "tough enough" on inflation.
Consider American policy toward Japan today. It is dominated by the fact that Japan has a $50 billion trade surplus with the United States, in part because its economy is in recession and Japanese are not buying enough American exports. The Administration is demanding that Japan's Parliament cut taxes to spur domestic spending and the purchase of American goods. On his trip to Asia this month, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen told Japan's Finance Minister that the Administration opposed any new sales taxes in Japan for at least two years after a tax cut, in the interest of keeping up consumer spending. Too bad if tax-cutting required some deficit spending by Japan, went the American line. American officials said they realized that might further destabilize the shaky Government of their "ally," Prime Minister Morihoro Hosokawa, and undermine his efforts for political reform (which they support, and which made headway last week as Mr. Hosokawa reached a compromise with his foes). Still, the Americans are tired of hearing excuses from Tokyo.
American policy toward Russia, also dominated by the economic agenda, has an equally intrusive quality. American officials are actually advising President Boris N. Yeltsin on how he should restructure his fiscal 1994 budget, telling him to end subsidies to inefficient state-owned industries and use the savings to shrink his budget deficit, pay unemployment insurance and retrain workers.
With China, the United States is threatening to withhold trade benefits unless it permits Customs Service officers to visit some 30 prisons to insure that inmates aren't making products for the American market. Mickey Kantor, the United States Trade Representative, noted that in the cold war the United States largely failed to persuade Communist nations to permit on-site inspections of nuclear installations. But today it can demand on-site inspections of Chinese prisons because the Chinese "export 38 percent of their products to the United States and that creates a huge pressure point for us."
The United States has practiced this economic diplomacy longest with Japan, but the State Department often blunted its impulses to reorder internal Japanese affairs so as not to upset a cold-war ally. Those days are over. Today Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Mr. Bentsen lead the charge against Japan's closed markets, with scant concern for the political relationship. In fact, part of their strategy appears to be to deliberately cause a political crisis between the two countries so the leadership in Japan feels compelled to force changes on the conservative bureaucrats who have a viselike grip on the country's affairs. Political crises are now a tool of economic diplomacy rather than a restraint upon it.
America's experience with Japan teaches that the United States can effect some changes in Japanese economic life, from stronger anti-trust laws to an opening of selected markets -- so much so that the standard joke in Japan is that the United States is the only opposition party there.
The downside, said James Fallows, who has written extensively on Japanese-American relations, is that the two countries have developed a "codependency" in which the United States constantly hectors Japan and the Japanese almost rely on the badgering to be forced to make internal changes. This often leaves both sides unhappy and creates the potential for a political backlash.
"This more economically driven foreign policy may be necessary, but the lesson from Japan is that it is not easy," said Mr. Fallows. "You have to get into the very fiber of the other society in a way that the traditional security relationship never required. It only works when both sides agree on what the power relationship is. That is, it works better with a Korea, which is ready to submit to the United States, than with a Japan or Russia or China, which are not ready to acknowledge a submissive role."
Indeed, the risk of geo-Monopoly is that it can easily underestimate the power of nationalism. "The outside country giving the advice can become the scapegoat for what are often insurmountable economic problems in the host country," said Daniel Yergin, an expert on international economics. "That's why this diplomacy requires a real balancing act between being able to nudge, push, wink and shove other nations in directions that make economic sense -- without getting blamed for things that go wrong."
That will be the trick. In coming years America's far-reaching economic interests, and the intertwined nature of the global economy, will require that American diplomats more and more get under the hood of other countries. The diplomatic mechanic, the statesman-plumber, is the wave of the future. But how to be effective at this without being overbearing, without triggering nationalistic counter-reactions, will be the real challenge of American diplomacy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX LAW (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); SALES TAX (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); RECESSION (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



781 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
When Is Protest Not Protest? When You Call It Extortion

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

 BODY:
PROF. G. ROBERT BLAKEY of the University of Notre Dame law school was naturally discouraged when the Supreme Court held that anti-abortion protesters could be sued under the Federal racketeering law. He had argued their case before the Court. But there was more to it. As a Senate staff counsel 25 years ago, Mr. Blakey was a principal drafter of the law known as RICO, and last week he said it wasn't supposed to work out this way.
Two liberals on the Senate Judiciary Committee, Philip A. Hart of Michigan and Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, approached Chairman John L. McClellan, Mr. Blakey recalled. They supported the bill, with one reservation: "They said, 'Richard Nixon is going to use and abuse this law against antiwar demonstrators.' McClellan turned to me and said, 'Bob, change it.' " 
 RICO "wasn't just about organized crime," he added, "but it was not supposed to apply to organized political dissent."
Whatever retouching took place was apparently not enough to answer civil libertarians' concerns about the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. For years, Congress and the courts have extended the law's reach, particularly the provisions for civil suits by one private party or business against another. And now many who loathe the anti-abortionists' Operation Rescue are a bit jumpy about the possibility that last week's ruling will reach into very different quarters.
"We're suspicious whenever new powers are given to people who want to censor dissenting views," said Denny Lee, a spokesman for Act Up, the AIDS protest group, in New York.
Demonstrators have always been arrested, sometimes happily, for trespass, criminal mischief and other minor offenses. But RICO imposes penalties not available in the era of civil rights and antiwar protests, including triple damages and legal fees.
For now, the abortion protesters are not liable for anything. The Court's decision, which was unanimous, held only that a "racketeering" enterprise as defined by RICO need not be one motivated by economic gain. The plaintiffs, led by the National Organization for Women, must still establish that the defendants committed serious felonies -- in this case, extortion -- in service of a conspiracy to drive abortion clinics out of business.
For that reason, most advocacy groups say they are in no immediate danger. "You're talking about pretty serious felonies," said Steven Shapiro, legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union. Even Mr. Lee, while concerned that Act Up's skirmishes might subject the group to lawsuits, noted, "We've never been charged with extortion."
NOW's president, Patricia Ireland, said the defendants had gone well beyond the pale of civil disobedience. NOW maintains -- and the defendants deny -- that in besieging abortion clinics, Operation Rescue and allied groups have assaulted employees and patients, threatened reprisals and even planned bombings.
The clinics' employees, said Ms. Ireland, "are facing incredible physical violence in their practice of medicine, and it's literally mob-like activity."
"If we were looking at the sit-ins at the Woolworth's lunch counters in the '60's," she said, "the equivalent would have been marching in, setting fires and threatening the waitress with her life if she didn't quit her job."
As for the First Amendment concerns of groups who carry out civil disobedience, Ms. Ireland said: "Obviously, I've thought an awful lot about it. I'm also somebody who's been arrested several times in demonstrations. But it's never been for interfering in any way with anybody's rights."
Still, the case has engendered nervousness and some divisions among groups that are often partners in dissent. Those signing a friend-of-the-court brief in support of Operation Rescue's position included Greenpeace, Earth First and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. A long list of civil rights and women's organizations supported NOW.
"Think of this," said Mr. Blakey. "Here's this Irish Catholic Notre Dame law professor arguing a position that in effect would have protected Act Up when it went into St. Patrick's Cathedral and disturbed the mass. If I had been asked by the Court I would have said, no, they should not be subject to RICO either."
William K. Dobbs, a Manhattan lawyer who works with Act Up, chides gay groups for declining to take Operation Rescue's side. "The average liberal thinks RICO is awful," he said, "but if it's used against some group they don't like, they'll throw up their hands and say, 'Well, it's O.K.' We and lots of other groups are exposed to litigation, and you can be driven out of business just defending your rights."
The Court's opinion, written by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, said the Justices were not presented with a First Amendment defense. In a concurring opinion, Justice David H. Souter, joined by Anthony M. Kennedy, wrote: "I think it prudent to notice that RICO actions could deter protected advocacy and to caution courts applying RICO to bear in mind the First Amendment interests that could be at stake."
Meanwhile, RICO is not that simple a solution for plaintiffs, either. NOW filed suit eight years ago and has yet to spend a day in court.

GRAPHIC: Photo: 1972: An anti-war protester being arrested during a sit-in at the Pentagon. (George Tames/The New York Times); 1992: An Operation Rescue member being arrested during a sit-in at an abortion clinic, Buffalo, N.Y. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EXTORTION (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ABORTION (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); FELONIES (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (79%); LAWYERS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); RIOTS (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (73%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (72%); ARRESTS (68%); WOMEN (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (58%); 

PERSON: MANSNERUS, LAURA TED KENNEDY (56%); RICHARD NIXON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



782 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: France Tells U.S., 'I Oppose, Therefore I Am'

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
WHEN Charles de Gaulle wrote to Lyndon B. Johnson to announce France's withdrawal from the military command of NATO and to request the removal of American soldiers in France, Secretary of State Dean Rusk pointedly asked the French President, "Does that include the dead Americans in military cemeteries as well?"
Almost three decades later, the tetchiness between the United States and France has not disappeared. The exasperation that once led Eisenhower to inveigh against "those damn French" has recently erupted over issues as various as agricultural trade and suggestions that the "Jurassic Park" dinosaurs may be agents of marauding American cultural imperialism. 
 Last week, the fuse was Bosnia. After the French suggested that the Clinton Administration press Muslim-led Bosnia to acquiesce to a European peace plan that calls for dividing the country, the State Department accused France of employing a "strange moral calculus" in trying to enforce a settlement on the "aggrieved party" in the conflict. The French retorted that America was in no position to give morality lessons after washing its hands of the war.
Another lovers' tiff? Certainly, in the past, when the going got rough -- Berlin in 1961, Cuba in 1962, the Gulf War in 1990 -- France and the United States buried their differences. But with Bosnia the old reconciliatory glue seems to have turned to acid.
"I am appalled by the American attitude," said Pierre Lellouche, a Gaullist legislator who dined with Secretary of State Warren Christopher in Paris last week. "To accuse us of being immoral and anti-Muslim because we ask Washington to join us in putting pressure on the Bosnian Government to end this carnage is outrageous. Our boys are in Bosnia and right now they are hostages. The real issue is that, in the first major post-cold war conflict, the Clinton Administration has withdrawn from Europe."
Getting "les Yankees" out of Europe was, of course, precisely the obsession of de Gaulle, who complained equally of Russian and American hegemony. He envisioned Paris squarely at the center of civilization and relegated America to the role of uncultured imperialist. From today's Gaullist right to the leftist intellectual disciples of Sartre, such "anti-Americanisme" often persists just beneath the surface.
It was de Gaulle who first dreamed aloud of a Europe freed of the American yoke and united from the Atlantic to the Urals, noting that for this to occur, "the Soviet Union will have to become Russia once again." With Russia reborn, a Socialist President, Francois Mitterrand, promptly took up this Gaullist idea, proposing a nebulous and stillborn European confederation. But a crucial difference exists between De Gaulle's dalliances and those of contemporary France. As Dominique Moisi, the deputy director of the French Institute for International Relations, noted, "The General's game was a lot less dangerous because he knew that the United States, in the end, needed France for its confrontation with the Soviet Union."
 
Coming Unglued
 Today, this compulsion to stick together has disappeared. In the recent global trade talks, demands that France stop subsidizing its movie industry ignited a French crusade against what many artists, intellectuals and politicians portrayed as an America bent on lowering the world's tastes to the gags, gore and gimmickry of Hollywood. "It's 'Dallas' or French creativity," intoned the singer and actor Renaud. A silly remark but one widely applauded in a battle that confirmed some powerful stereotypes: Americans as vulgar and money-obsessed; the French as pompous and unrealistic.
"We are two nations with universalist pretentions," said Jacques Attali, an adviser to President Mitterrand. "America wants to export the idea of democracy and a free market; we believe France has a civilizing world mission rooted in the ideals of the revolution and the universal declaration of the rights of man. So we clash."
Mr. Attali continued: "France, in alliance with Germany, has long wanted Europe to find its place as a great power alongside the United States. But I have always seen one basic American strategy in Europe: Be strong in a weak continent."
For many Americans the French view is a peculiarly Gallic mixture of grandiloquence and impracticality. Europe as great power? But it still has no army. Hollywood movies as the agent for American cultural domination? But that's what people want to watch.
There is, of course, something absurd about the way each side seems to take pride in magnifying its differences. Much mutual fascination lurks beneath the friction. The French drool over the latest Robert Altman or Woody Allen movie, turning the directors into honorary French citizens, lauding their "European" sensibility. And what would the Upper West Side be without brie, champagne and Gerard Depardieu? Or France without Jerry Lewis and Mickey Rourke?
But with Bosnia, much more than movies are at stake. For the Clinton Admininistration -- focused on economic security, trade in the Americas, relations with Asia and reform in Russia -- the Balkan war is a faraway headache best relegated to Europeans. But to France, which has sent over 6,000 soldiers to Bosnia as United Nations peacekeepers, the American position seems myopic and cynical. However much Bosnia's Muslims have suffered, the recent vigor shown by their army and the brazen participation of Yugoslav Army units alongside Bosnia's Serbs, has made the French all the more eager to force a negotiated peace.
Clearly exasperated, Mr. Lellouche, said: "If I was being completely cynical, I'd say the current situation suits the United States. The Bosnian war cripples the European Union, which is shown as incapable of doing anything. Blame falls on the Europeans. We bear the cost of the thousands of peacekeeping soldiers we have there. And Clinton rides high in public-opinion ratings."
With the United States unwilling to take on its old European burden and with France unable to dispense with American support, the odd couple has been left groping for a way to work together once again.

GRAPHIC: Illustration: Sue Truesdell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (57%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (57%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LIBERALISM (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); DESERT STORM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CEMETERIES (57%); PEACE PROCESS (55%); AGRICULTURE (55%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (83%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



783 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-15
 
CRIME WAVE IN RUSSIA
A wave of organized crime gripping Russia is so severe, a Government report says, that 70 to 80 percent of businesses are forced to pay tribute to criminal gangs. 1
 
COMPROMISE IN JAPAN
News analysis: The Prime Minister of Japan, in order to pass his political reforms, was forced to compromise, with the result that the changes will not be the shock therapy that he had anticipated. 3 

CORRUPTION CHARGES IN ZAMBIA
Charges of drug trafficking and corruption among members of Zambia's Cabinet have been spreading in the 27 months since a President came into office with a mandate of political and economic reform. 10
 
SOUTH AFRICA HOLDOUTS RALLY
Both Zulu nationalists and white separatists held rallies in South Africa, reducing the possibility that they will agree to take part in the first free elections this spring. 10
 
ENVIRONMENTALIST SHIFTS FOCUS
Jacques Cousteau, 83, has shifted his focus as an environmentalist from the harmful effects of pollution on the ocean and its creatures to the effects on humanity as well. 12
 
North Korea denounced the plan to give missiles to the South. 4
 
Gunmen killed a Jordanian diplomat in Lebanon. 6
 
Talks reopened in Switzerland between Israel and the P.L.O. 7
 
India's election commissioner has been attacking corruption. 8
 
The rebels in Mexico have been promised political changes. 9
 
A U.N. official attacked U.S. plans to withdraw from Somalia. 10
 
After attacks, relief agencies left a Somali city. 11
 
A previously little-known candidate may win Finland's presidency. 12
 
Bosnian Serbs are expelling Muslims and Croats in the north. 13
 
Latvia is seeking U.S. help for Russian military withdrawal. 14
 
Bulgaria is prosecuting former officials for 1980's corruption. 15
 
National 16-28
 
WHAT PRICE WELFARE JOBS?
President Clinton's pledge to make welfare recipients work could require a much larger public jobs program than previously acknowledged, according to a confidential calculation that is the subject of sharp dispute inside the Administration. 1
 
ISOLATION FALLS IN QUAKE
In addition to destroying homes and offices, the Jan. 17 earthquake knocked down walls, figurative and literal, that had long separated neighbors in Los Angeles. 1
 
Three aftershocks rattled buildings and nerves in Los Angeles. 24
 
Experts say that Tokyo, while quake-prone, has been lucky. 25
 
A CONTROVERSY OVER GENETICS
Scientific ethics and entrepreneurial verve are colliding in the Human Genome Project, a quest to spell out the sequence of the three billion letters in the human genetic code. 1
 
PIED PIPER OF PROZAC
If people in Wenatchee, Wash., self-annointed Apple Capital of the world, seem unusually content, credit may be due Dr. James D. Goodwin, the town's pied piper of Prozac. 16
 
2 BROTHERS, 2 WASTED TRIALS
After six months of effort, expense and high emotion collapsed in a mistrial for both Menendez brothers, and no one is happy about the prospect of starting all over again. 16
 
STATES SEEK HEALTH CARE OPTION
Leaders of the National Governors' Association are seeking new power to tax and regulate the health plans of large companies so states can forge ahead on their own if the Federal Government fails to act. 20
 
G.O.P. TAKES ON THE SIMPSONS
Testimonials from former Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush attest to the importance Republicans attach to their new television program, G.O.P.-TV. 20
 
REVIEW OF SCIENTIFIC ETHICS
An ethics professor from Johns Hopkins University has been assigned to review the ethical practices of American doctors and scientists in the last 50 years. 26
 
Metro 29-40
 
A TRIUMPH OF SCIENCE AND LIFE
Being named a finalist in the nationwide Westinghouse Science Talent Search is a remarkable achievement for even the most fortunate high school students from the best of schools, which Jamel Oeser-Sweat, 17, certainly is not. 1
 
JOB CUTS AS A BARGAINING TOOL
The Giuliani administration intends to use its plans to cut New york City's municipal work force by 14,000 to 18,000 jobs as a bargaining tool for union concessions on productivity and work rules, an administration official said. 29
 
TRENTON'S NEW BUDGET RULES
During the four years Jim Florio was Governor, local officials in New Jersey received billions in state aid to stabilize local property taxes even as local spending rose. Now Gov. Christine Todd Whitman makes it clear things are changing. 29
 
A RARE TRIAL FOR PERJURY
A homeless woman went on trial for perjury after her testimony about the murder of a friend. Such prosecutions are highly unusual, but there are special reasons for the Brooklyn's district attorney's office to be acting with such vigor. 29
 
MAYOR HECKLED ON HOMELESSNESS
Speaking in the face of bitter heckling, Mayor Giuliani appealed for new approaches to the problem of homelessness, saying that it was wrong to lump all homeless in a single group. 31
 
FINGERPRINTS FOR WELFARE?
Louis Jeanty had his fingerprints taken last week, part of a pilot program for those seeking public assistance under New York State's home relief program. Supporters say fingerprinting will fight fraud; critics see it as demeaning to clients. 33
 
Neediest Cases 30
 
Obituaries 38
 
Richard R. Falk, Broadway publicist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); SOMALIA (92%); ZAMBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); BULGARIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); INDIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CROATIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); LATVIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); SOMALIA (92%); ZAMBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); BULGARIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); INDIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CROATIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); LATVIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); EARTHQUAKES (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); GENOMICS (77%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (76%); ETHICS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%); MISTRIAL (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (56%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



784 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Woman Favored as Finland President

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HELSINKI, Finland, Jan. 27

 BODY:
When Elisabeth Rehn joined a televised debate among Finland's 11 presidential candidates last month, a questioner demanded to know what she was doing there. As the nominee of a tiny party composed mostly of Swedish-speaking Finns, Mrs. Rehn surely did not believe that she had a serious chance of winning, she was told.
But this month she confounded political experts here by finishing a strong second in the first round of balloting. She is now the odds-on choice to win the runoff on Feb. 6 and become Finland's first woman to serve as president, after serving as the country's first female Defense Minister. 
 Her Swedish People's Party, the junior partner in the governing center-right coalition, counts barely 6 percent of the electorate. But Mrs. Rehn, who is 58, has opened more than a 10-point lead in public opinion polls over Martii Ahtisaari, a 56-year-old career diplomat who had the most votes in the first round of balloting. Mr. Ahtisaari, who has never held political office, is the candidate of the much larger, center-left Social Democratic Party.
At a campaign rally on Tuesday in Rauma, a struggling port city on Finland's west coast, Mrs. Rehn was mobbed by young people and supporters who gathered in 20-degree temperatures. Several of them hugged her and held out autograph books covered with her press clippings.
"She's different from other politicians I've seen in Finland," said Anne Aronen, a caterer who brought her three children to see Mrs. Rehn, who is married and has four children and nine grandchildren. "I don't know, but I feel like I know her."
 
An Unpredictable Campaign
 With Finns getting their first chance ever to vote directly for a president, as opposed to casting ballots for competing slates of presidential electors, this winter's campaign has been the most unpredictable in memory.
In large part, the campaign reflects doubt and uncertainty among voters over Finland's troubled economy -- the unemployment rate last month topped 22 percent, the highest in Europe -- as well as renewed anxieties about instability along Finland's long border with Russia.
"Like everywhere else, people here just don't seem to trust the old politicians," said Jaakko Iloniemi, the former Finnish Ambassador to the United States and now the director of the Center for Finnish Business and Policy Studies in Helsinki. "In that sense, I think this campaign has had more to do with personalities than issues."
But in winnowing the selection to Mrs. Rehn and Mr. Ahtisaari, voters have made one clear policy choice: Whoever wins, they will get a president committed to pushing for Finland's membership in the European Union.
Finland is looking to redefine its role in Europe after the collapse of the Soviet empire. For decades, Helsinki pursued a policy of studied neutrality that assured harmony with Moscow and also guaranteed Finland a market for nearly a quarter of its exports.
 
Divided on Joining Union
 While public opinion polls say most Finns are still divided on the question of joining the European Union, they appear to be increasingly receptive to arguments that European unity holds the best prospect of new jobs and markets. In the primary, candidates who campaigned on a platform opposing the European Union finished in the bottom half of the vote count.
At the same time, Finns are more anxious about security, given the growing instability across the Russian border. While neither candidate yet favors joining NATO, Mrs. Rehn has asserted that she would be "the best guarantor of security for Finland" because of her experience as the Defense Minister.
"The main job, after all, of the president is security policy," she said.
In 1992, she led the campaign to acquire 64 American-built Hornet jet fighters for Finland's Air Force, a decision that would have been unthinkable in the days when Finland was loath to offend Moscow by buying American weapons. She even donned a flight helmet before cameras and rode shotgun in one plane.
Until a few weeks ago, most public opinion polls predicted that Mr. Ahtisaari was the favorite to succeed President Mauno Koivisto, who decided not to run for re-election after serving two six-year terms. Mr. Ahtisaari is one of Finland's best known diplomats, having worked with the United Nations on issues like the former Yugoslavia and Namibian independence.
 
Economic Trouble Cited
 Because Mrs. Rehn is a Cabinet member, Mr. Ahtisaari has repeatedly tried to tie her to Finland's economic malaise.
"If people make a rational choice," he said in an interview, "I should win in a landslide."
But since the Finnish president has no constitutional responsibility for domestic or economic affairs, she has been able to sidestep the issue. Talking to reporters in Rauma, where unemployment tops 25 percent, Mrs. Rehn said Finnish economic performance was improving, given recent increases in exports and industrial production.
But she quickly reverted to more familair themes, describing herself as part of a "new wave" that is putting aside old prejudices about Swedish-language speakers and gender.
While women make up a third of the Cabinet and a third of Parliament, Mrs. Rehn likes to remind voters that she is the first to run for president.
"It is quite obvious now that we could really think that there is real equality in Finland," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elisabeth Rehn, 58, waiting to meet political supporters outdoors last week on a cold day in Rauma, Finland. She is running for President under the banner of the tiny Swedish People's Party of Finland. (Markku Ulander/Lehtikuva, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: FINLAND (97%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); SWEDISH PEOPLE'S PARTY OF FINLAND (59%); SWEDISH PEOPLE'S PARTY OF FINLAND (59%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (55%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SWEDISH PEOPLE'S PARTY OF FINLAND (59%); SWEDISH PEOPLE'S PARTY OF FINLAND (59%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (55%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FINLAND; RUSSIA; FINLAND (97%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; WOMEN POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TRENDS (76%); WOMEN (76%); CATERING SERVICES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E; REHN, ELISABETH (MIN)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



785 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Graft and Gangsterism in Russia Blight the Entrepreneurial Spirit

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 28

 BODY:
While most Russians are not surprised to hear that criminal gangs seem to be taking over the country, a top-level Government report has laid out the gangs' reach in stark terms: organized crime has Russia by the throat, squeezing the life out of the fledgling private sector and holding the Government itself hostage.
The report, prepared for President Boris N. Yeltsin, says 70 to 80 percent of private enterprises and commercial banks in major cities are forced to pay a tribute of 10 to 20 percent of their turnover to organized crime. 
 The report estimated that such crime -- through payoffs, kickbacks, debt collection, money laundering or monopoly pricing -- accounts for about a quarter of the inflation rate, which last year averaged 20 percent a month.
This is the environment that confronts international lenders and investors considering crucial economic commitments to Russia in its fitful steps toward a free-market economy.
 
In Cahoots
 In a five-page summary, published this week in the newspaper Izvestia, the report gave a glimpse of the collusion between criminal gangs and local law enforcement.
In the provincial city of Tver, the report said, police officers tip off local gangs when a vehicle with valuable cargo passes by a checkpoint, and entrepreneurs have to get the gangs' permission to open a store or a restaurant. Outside Kazan, racketeers have begun to extort payoffs from farmers. In St. Petersburg, the report estimated, there is an army of 10,000 full-time hoodlums, of which 500 are considered hardened criminals.
"There is no doubt that the heads of Russian organized crime are gathering detailed dossiers on all top-level officials and politicians," said the report, which was prepared by the Analytical Center for Social and Economic Policies.
Describing the pervasiveness of organized crime, the report continued: "The situation in our country differs from the situation in Western Europe and the United States. There, organized crime controls only 'criminal' activities like prostitution, drugs and gambling. In our country, it controls all types of activity."
 
Squeezing the Banks
 This conclusion echoes other reports by Russian officials about the spreading tentacles of free-wheeling criminal organizations, some of which are said to have links with the West.
Aleksandr Gurov, who heads a research and development institute at the Interior Ministry, recently told a business conference that organized crime has infiltrated Russian banks by blackmailing, threatening and, in at least a dozen cases, killing bankers to gain access to their books.
Loosely regulated banks have been used to launder and embezzle money from state and commercial accounts, with losses running in the hundreds of millions of dollars, the Interior Ministry says. Local business executives say racketeers get information from bank accounts to select which companies to exploit and how much to demand in payoffs.
The report to Mr. Yeltsin was based on "dozens, even hundreds" of interviews with entrepreneurs in major cities, said Pyotr S. Filippov, an economist and former parliamentary deputy who heads the Analytical Center, which is part of the President's administration.
"Over the last six months, the situation has become much worse because it has met with no resistance," said Mr. Filippov, who said President Yeltsin's aides had not responded to the report, which was sent to them on Jan. 17.
 
Trying to Fight Back
 In the last two years, the Government has made several attempts to fight crime and corruption, which have contributed greatly to public discontent. But none of the various commissions have managed to curb the criminality and lawlessness that now pervade life and business in Russia.
Moreover, overtaxation, heavy regulations and haphazard enforcement have all reinforced the criminal atmosphere, the report said. In the absence of a functioning court system, and confronted with the indifference and even hostility of a corrupt police force, even law-abiding entrepreneurs find themselves getting sucked into the criminal world as they look to private security agencies for their own protection and as a means of collecting debts.
"An entire generation is growing up for whom this situation is normal and who in such circumstances will not turn to official authorities, but to unofficial ones," the report said. "These people are more likely to hire a murderer to punish a guilty or even an unpleasant partner than to go to court or arbitration."
Mr. Filippov made a series of sweeping proposals, including an elite anti-crime unit answerable only to the President, whose members would get exceptionally high salaries -- $250 to $300 a month -- and would be granted special police powers to undertake such measures as preventive arrests.
 
Fear of Rightist Populism
 But his most emphatic recommendation was that the anti-crime unit not hire anyone who had worked in either the old Interior Ministry or in the Security Ministry, both of which have been rendered ineffective by their complicity in illegal activities.
If decisive and systematic measures are not taken, and if the political will to do battle with crime is not shown soon, then "the populist promises of Zhirinovsky to restore law and order could gather tens of million of Russians -- and what is most dangerous, hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs -- under the banner of the Liberal Democratic Party," the report said. The Liberal Democrats, led by the ultranationalist Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky, won 25 percent of the vote in the December parliamentary elections.
The Interior Ministry says criminal organizations committed 355,500 crimes last year, a 27.8 percent rise from 1992. But the report to President Yeltsin uses the term "organized crime" loosely, including mafia racketeers, shady business executives and corrupt bureaucrats.
Mr. Filippov said in an interview that the term applies to different groups: some are strictly criminal, engaging in racketeering, debt collection and other activities familiar to the police in the West. Others are made up of interlocking networks of corrupt officials who have made fortunes by manipulating low-cost bank credits, export licenses, quotas and other levers of the state's economic power.
 
Erosion of Business
 It is this vise, with bribe-taking bureaucrats on one side and racketeers on the other, that is making business in Russia an increasingly daunting affair. Name the business, and insiders will tell tales of the steady infiltration of a criminal element.
An Eastern European businessman who had wanted to open a sausage and meat-processing plant in Moscow recently recounted how he was warned off by a Russian colleague.
"Just to get space we need, he said I would have to pay fantastic bribes," the businessman said. "And then once business opened, he said we would surely be hit up by the mafia, which would want 30 percent of our turnover or more."
From television advertising to automobile imports, from restaurants to kiosks, organizations with big money and mean-looking security guards have made their moves and are inching toward total control.
 
Shootout in St. Petersburg
 Guns and bodyguards are now part of Moscow life, showing up in unlikely places like the Bolshoi Theater.
There are periodic shootouts. On Thursday in St. Petersburg, the police reported that after the collision between a car and a van, the occupants of the car jumped out, gunned down the van's 10 passengers, picked up their bodies and drove off -- all on a city street in broad daylight. News reports said the police suspected gang warfare.
In Moscow this week, the police caught hoodlums as they were holding up the deputy director of a joint venture for $10,000. In another operation, the police moved in as other racketeers were making a 7-million-ruble collection from an "unemployed" man.
"According to information available," the Interior Ministry said in a year-end statement, "about a third of organized-crime groups specialize in large-scale embezzlements, financial and property manipulation and the laundering of illegal profits." In general, it said, organized crime controls about 40,000 businesses, including 2,000 in the state sector.
The report said criminal groups had moved aggressively into new commercial operations where they employ their old methods of racketeering, kidnapping and murder to intimidate competitors. In all, 94 entrepreneurs were murdered last year, the ministry reported, adding, "The process of the criminalization of the economy has not been stopped."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Crime in Russia has permeated all levels of society and has eroded many people's confidence in the Government. In Moscow last year, suspects arrested for possessing handguns were lined up at a police station as officers checked their identification papers. (Associated Press)
 
Table: "Russia's Crime Wave" shows number of reported crimes (delineated by type) in 1993 and the percent change from 1992.. (pg. 12)
 
Map shows the location of Moscow. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MONEY LAUNDERING; KICKBACKS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); BRIBERY (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%); EXTORTION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); TRENDS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); INFLATION (69%); FOREIGN LENDING (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (60%); EMBEZZLEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



786 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: In I.B.M. Deal, State Offers A Loan to Create 700 Jobs

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
New York State will provide $40 million in low-interest loans to a computer-chip company from California if it concludes a manufacturing agreement with I.B.M. that could create more than 700 jobs in the economically troubled Mid-Hudson Valley, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo announced yesterday.
The computer-chip company, Cirrus Logic Corporation, based in Fremont, Calif., produces software and integrated circuits for desktop, portable and hand-held computers, as well as telecommunications and consumer electronics equipment, according to the company's 1993 annual report. 
 If it concludes its joint-venture agreement with International Business Machines, the company would convert an existing I.B.M. plant in the Dutchess County community of East Fishkill and, by early next year, employ about 700 workers, said Steve Vitoff, a spokesman for Vincent Tese, New York State's director of economic development.
International Business Machines has long been the linchpin of the Hudson Valley economy and the dominant private employer in three counties: Dutchess and Ulster, where it has manufacturing plants, and Westchester, home to its corporate headquarters.
 
A Harsh Year
 In the last year, however, in the first layoffs in its 79-year history, I.B.M. has cut 7,700 members of what in 1992 was a Mid-Hudson work force of 21,500. And in East Fishkill alone, where the proposed joint manufacturing venture would be located, the work force has been reduced to 5,200 from 9,200.
In a prepared statement, Governor Cuomo said yesterday: "New York State is committed to helping the talented and hard-working men and women laid off by I.B.M. in the mid-Hudson Valley find new jobs, and to helping the area's economy recover. We expect that laid-off I.B.M. employees will find many of the new jobs created by the Cirrus Logic-I.B.M. venture."
Lee Webb, executive vice president of the State Urban Development Corporation, described Cirrus Logic as a rapidly growing computer-chip company. "Sales go up 20 to 30 percent a year," Mr. Webb said. "It's on the cutting edge of all of the new technologies." The company's total net sales in the fiscal year ending March 1, 1993, were $354.7 million.
Asked if the state expected the company to eventually create more than the initial 700 jobs at the East Fishkill plant, Mr. Webb said, "Certainly we believe that if this venture is successful, there's no reason to stop at this."
The founder of the company, Suhas Patil, was traveling yesterday and could not be reached for comment.
 
Stock Offering Due
 Mr. Vitoff said Cirrus Logic and I.B.M. are close to finalizing their agreement. "The reason the state aid package is being announced on a Saturday," he said, "is that Cirrus Logic is in the process of a secondary public stock offering, and is therefore required by Federal law to disclose the existence of its discussions with I.B.M.
"That disclosure was made public by them in a prospectus they filed Friday with the Securities and Exchange Commission," he said. "The timing seemed propitious for state officials to come forward and disclose that the assistance package is ready to go."
The state assistance is expected to include a $15 million loan from the State Urban Development Corporation and a $25 million loan from the State Job Development Authority. The U.D.C. loan requires approval of the State Legislature, as part of the Governor's executive budget.
After the I.B.M. layoffs, Mr. Cuomo formed a task force of public officials and business executives to coordinate job-creating efforts for the region. The connection between Cirrus and I.B.M. came out of that effort.
One of the factors that favored a Cirrus operation in Dutchess County, Mr. Webb said, "was the quality of life in the area, and that Mr. Patil had lived in the Hudson Valley 15 to 20 years ago when he worked at I.B.M."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (91%); IBM (NYSE) (91%); IBM (LSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CIRRUS LOGIC INC; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM) INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CIRRUS LOGIC INC; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; EAST FISHKILL (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); CREDIT; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WOMEN WORKERS (72%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) ; HEVESI, DENNIS ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



787 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
G.O.P.-TV: New Image In Appeal To Voters

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29

 BODY:
"There are a lot of choices on TV," says Ronald Reagan, staring into the camera. "But my choice is 'G.O.P.-TV.' "
Unlike many ordinary Americans, former President Reagan does not tune in to "The Simpsons" at 8 P.M. on Thursdays. He says he watches the Republican Party's new show.
George Bush heartily agrees with his Presidential predecessor's viewing habits, saying, "I also make time for 'G.O.P.-TV.' " 
 Both men, of course, were fibbing. Their testimonials, which appeared during the debut of G.O.P.-TV on Thursday night, were taped long before the broadcast. But their cameo appearances attest to the importance the party attaches to its new show.
 
Folksy-Talking Host
 For 60 minutes every Thursday evening, Republicans will broadcast the program, "Rising Tide," by satellite, available to any one, or any group, with a dish. Like the door-to-door precinct captains in the old days, they see satellite technology as the best new way to drum up grass-roots enthusiasm and to raise money. (They also hope to make converts out of the independents and to get wavering Republicans back into the fold.)
The show, broadcast from the party's headquarters here in a television studio that underwent a renovation at a cost of more than $1 million, was modeled after the news magazines that have proliferated on the networks. The host is Haley Barbour, the folksy-talking party chairman who campaigned for his job on a platform that he looked good on television.
Other party-officials-turned-broadcasters break in during the fast-paced show with "news updates" and reports from the field. One guest on Thursday night, Senator Bob Dole, the Republican leader, took calls from viewers at an estimated 1,000 sites around the country where local Republican Parties had set up viewing parties.
"It's just like Larry King," Anne Gavin, a party spokeswoman, said in the studio, moments before Mr. Barbour went on.
Well, not quite. The live "news" reports had a decidedly Republican tilt.
 
Wave of Parties' Future
 Republicans and Democrats are increasingly turning to satellite technology to spread their political messages unfiltered by the news media -- and even to announce political campaigns. President Clinton's aides have discussed starting a Bill Clinton-TV network.
Last year, Paul M. Weyrich, a leading conservative, started the 24-hour National Empowerment Television, which is available by satellite and on cable. Also last year, Lamar Alexander, a former Tennessee Governor and Secretary of Education, began the Republican Exchange Satellite Network. The program, broadcast once a month, is intended to raise the Republican perspective on issues (and also raise the image of Mr. Alexander, who is considering a campaign for President in 1996).
But until Thursday night, no political party had ever produced its own weekly television program, slick graphics and all. It was more like a 60-minute commercial for the Republican Party, interrupted by solicitations for money.
 
Questioning Credibility
 Here is how Mr. Barbour led into the main segment: "He talked the talk, but will he walk the walk? Republicans are wondering whether Bill Clinton's action will match his words. We're talking about Tuesday's State of the Union speech. Dan Leonard was on Capitol Hill for the speech and reports Republicans have several questions about Clinton's credibility."
The picture switched to Capitol Hill, where Mr. Leonard, a Republican staff aide who has the blow-dried look of a young television reporter, said, "In his first State of the Union, President Clinton was quick to take credit for job creation and a revived economy, an economy which began rebounding even before he was elected."
Between segments there were taped pleas for viewers to send in $25 to join the party ("Operators are standing by," the announcer says), or to call an 800 number for party bumper stickers.
One promotion urged people to watch next week for "live exclusive coverage" of a Republican fund-raising gala featuring Mr. Reagan and Margaret Thatcher, the former Prime Minister of Britain. "Tickets are $1,000 a plate," the announcer said, "but you can see the event free on G.O.P.-TV." (That is, if you can afford your own satellite dish.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Haley Barbour, the Republican Party chairman, on the set of the party's new television show, "Rising Tide." The weekly satellite television show is intended to raise money and grass-roots enthusiasm. (Vincent Ricardel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: RISING TIDE (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY NATIONAL EMPOWERMENT TELEVISION (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); POLITICS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); FUNDRAISING (71%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; BUSH, GEORGE RONALD REAGAN (94%); HALEY BARBOUR (77%); BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



788 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Fingerprints-for-Welfare May Widen

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: POMONA, N.Y., Jan. 27

 BODY:
Louis Jeanty did something this morning that some say could save the state welfare system millions of dollars but that others see as demeaning to him.
He had his fingerprints taken. 
 It happened under a 14-month-old pilot program ordered by the State Legislature here in Rockland County, in the lower Hudson Valley, and in upstate Onondaga County, which includes Syracuse. Mr. Jeanty and several thousand others who seek public assistance under the Home Relief program must have their fingerprints recorded to insure that they have not used assumed names to apply for multiple benefits. Home Relief, a state welfare program, is aimed primarily at single individuals and childless couples.
At the welfare office here, recipients place their index fingers on a scanner and their prints are recorded electronically. Mr. Jeanty, a 31-year-old unemployed shipping clerk from Spring Valley, said he had "no problem" being fingerprinted if it meant that the integrity of the welfare system would be assured. And he shrugged off a central criticism of the program -- that it makes welfare applicants feel like criminals.
"I've been fingerprinted lots of times," said Mr. Jeanty, who moved to the state from Haiti 12 years ago. "To get my passport to come here. My green card picture. It's no big deal for me."
If officials can curtail cheating in the welfare system, he added, "the more I'm going to get."
 
Savings for the State
 The fledgling fingerprint program received renewed attention this month when a Cuomo administration study determined that it had saved the two counties nearly $500,000. The savings, the report found, came from the 4.3 percent of Home Relief recipients who chose not to reapply for welfare after being informed they would have to be fingerprinted. When that figure was extrapolated across the entire state, the study projected an annual savings of $46.2 million in welfare benefits.
Aides to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo said that at the least, he would probably ask the Legislature to expand the fingerprint program later this year to several counties that surround Rockland, and Onondaga.
Proponents of fingerprinting contend that the savings in the two counties justify broader implementation across the state. But critics emphasize that the program has yet to catch a single welfare recipient in the act of cheating, and may have deterred some legitimate recipients from reapplying.
Patricia Feeley, the co-leader of the Rockland County Coalition for the Homeless, said she saw the program as a violation of applicants' privacy and worried that their prints might someday be shared with other agencies, including law enforcement. Ms. Feeley said she wondered whether a stipulation in the current statute that bars the social service system from releasing such information would eventually be discarded.
"To me it seems almost Orwellian," she said. "Any time we want to amass large amounts of information about individuals, I just question the ultimate purpose."
 
No Control Group
 The study assumes that many of those who did not reapply for benefits had hoped to cheat the system, or were perhaps already cheating it, and were scared off by the fingerprint request. But it cannot say so conclusively because researchers did not employ a control group, which would have allowed the state to compare an office that uses the fingerprint system to one that does not. Michael J. Dowling, the state Social Services Commissioner, said not using a control group was a mistake that would be corrected in future research.
Nevertheless, social service officials in Rockland County said they had learned enough to recommend that the program be expanded. They said they had demonstrated that the computer equipment that runs the system works properly -- it includes an optical scanner tethered to a data bank that can compare a fresh set of prints to thousands of others on file in a matter of minutes. The process, which involves no ink, electronically converts a print into a mathematical formula.
Rockland County officials said they were also encouraged that few applicants had objected to having their prints taken.
"We make an effort to explain to the clients what we're doing, why we're doing it and that the information is retained within our offices and not shared," said Norman Garfield, systems coordinator for the Rockland social services department. "It's been surprisingly well received."
The program's ultimate goal is to catch individuals who use phony documentation, like fake driver's licenses, to collect multiple benefits from several welfare offices near their homes. But because the two counties in the pilot program are across the state from each other and have only one welfare office each, officials said they could not yet judge the program's full potential for intercepting fraud. Expanding the program to surrounding counties would help measure its effectiveness, they said.
 
'Have to Do Something'
 Andrew P. O'Rourke, the Westchester County Executive, said he was eager for the state to bring the program to his county, which is directly across the Hudson from Rockland. But Mr. O'Rourke, a native of New York City whose family was on welfare for much of his childhood in the 1940's, said he empathized with those welfare applicants who might be skittish about participating.
"I would not have liked to have been fingerprinted," Mr. O'Rourke said. "It would truly have been demeaning."
"But conditions have changed," he added, referring to the ease with which people can drive from one county to the next. "We really have to do something."
Officials in Suffolk County were so eager to emulate the pilot program that the County Legislature adopted a law last October that would require fingerprinting of all Home Relief recipients. Regardless of whether the state includes Suffolk, the county is willing to implement fingerprinting on a "go-it-alone basis," said Paul Sabatino, counsel to the County Legislature.
While Governor Cuomo said he was unsure whether the program should be implemented statewide, he said during a news conference last Wednesday that he disagreed with those who said the process made welfare applicants seem like criminals.
"I'll give you a list today of all the people in this society that are fingerprinted," said the Governor, who by virtue of his office would be on such a list. "Every judge is. Every parole officer. Every bus driver."
"We think," he added a moment later, "that anything that helps identify will be good for the honest people on welfare."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Norman Garfield recording the fingerprints of Louis Jeanty, a welfare recipient, at the Rockland County Department of Social Services. "I've been fingerprinted lots of times," said Mr. Jeanty, who moved from Haiti 12 years ago. "To get my passport to come here. My green card picture. It's no big deal." (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); HAITI (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (90%); HAITI (87%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); FINGERPRINTING; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING FINGERPRINTING (92%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



789 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Some Good Out of Chiapas

 BODY:
Mexico's peasant rebellion has brought death, reports of grave human rights abuse and serious embarrassment to President Carlos Salinas de Gortari. It has also created some awkwardness for Washington, which identified itself with the Salinas Government on the North American Free Trade Agreement, and which lent Mexico helicopters for drug interdiction only to see the aircraft used in early operations against the rebels.
But the Chiapas revolt has also yielded some positive results. It woke up a political system whose backward and authoritarian ways clashed with Mexico's efforts to build a modernized economy. It brought long-overdue dialogue between Mexico City and the peasants of Chiapas. And now it has brought agreement between all of Mexico's main parties on ground rules for fairer, less money-tainted presidential elections this August. 
 In an added benefit, it has also brought two key governmental appointments that could be important to Mexico's political health down the road. The first is the appointment of Jorge Carpizo McGregor to the Ministry of Interior, or Gobernacion, which is responsible not only for internal security but also the supervision of elections.
When the revolt broke out, the Interior Minister was Patrocinio Gonzalez Garrido, a former Governor of Chiapas with a reputation for aloofness and repression who clearly had to go. To replace him, Mr. Salinas chose a respected human rights advocate and crusader against official corruption. Mr. Carpizo gives Mexicans and interested outsiders reason to believe that this year's election will be more credible than the fiasco six years ago, when computers mysteriously halted, ballots disappeared, and many thought that fraud had denied the presidency to the leading opposition candidate, Cuauhtemoc Cardenas.
The other significant appointment assigned Manuel Camacho Solis to negotiate with the rebels. Several months ago, President Salinas came close to naming Mr. Camacho, a longtime associate, as his designated successor. Instead, he chose Luis Donaldo Colosio Murrieta. But since the peasant revolt, Mr. Camacho, a man who established special credibility among disaffected sectors of Mexican society, has all but eclipsed Mr. Colosio. There is now even talk of reviving his presidential candidacy before formal ballot positions are decided in March.
Dazzled by his own economic reforms and diplomatic triumphs, Mr. Salinas was humbled by the surprise guerrilla offensive that began New Year's Day. But since then, he has moved with impressive political skill. One way or another, the events of this month are likely to accelerate overdue democratic change. That is good for Mexico and for the U.S.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; CHIAPAS (MEX); MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); CORRUPTION (73%); FARM LABOR (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); HELICOPTERS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (68%); GOVERNORS (68%); 

PERSON: CARLOS SALINAS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



790 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Minorities and Adult Education Give Women's Colleges a Boost

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Women's Colleges Find a New Popularity" (front page, Jan. 15): Two other drivers of the enrollment surge at women's colleges are adult women and women of color. 
 In regard to adult education, women's colleges were well ahead of the curve in the mid-1980's with the introduction of such now-conventional programs as weekend colleges and other forms of untraditional education. Adult women flock to these programs because they provide access to education that fits the juggling act of most women's lives, and with pedagogy that is appropriate for such students, such as cooperative learning.
At Trinity in Washington, one of the oldest Roman Catholic women's colleges, more than two-thirds of our undergraduate students are adult women, and many other women's colleges can cite similar statistics. Moreover, such women are some of our most challenging students, consistently earning high academic honors and membership in honor societies such as Phi Beta Kappa.
Minority women are also increasingly finding access to education in women's colleges, particularly in urban centers. Minority student enrollment at Trinity has more than doubled in 10 years, from 15 percent to more than 30 percent of our weekday undergraduate population, and more in the weekend program.
Such demographic changes have not been without controversy at our profoundly traditional women's colleges. Yet, they are wholly consistent with the mission of most of our institutions to make a higher education accessible to women who could not otherwise gain access.
Those women today might be 45, working, single parents, women of color and often economically disadvantaged. But they share with their traditional classmates and predecessors those two great characteristics of great students: a great thirst for knowledge as the key to empowerment and self-fulfillment, and a vision of a future society better for their education.
 
PATRICIA MCGUIRE
President, Trinity College
Washington, Jan. 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TRINITY COLLEGE (WASHINGTON, DC) PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRINITY COLLEGE (WASHINGTON, DC) PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (75%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ENROLLMENT; WOMEN; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (95%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (90%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (90%); WOMEN (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RELIGION (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: MCGUIRE, PATRICIA MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



791 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 26; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: January 30, 1994

 BODY:

 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction	 	 	 	 	 1	1	2	DISCLOSURE, by Michael Crichton. (Knopf, $24.) A computer-industry executive rejects the advances of his boss and is accused by her of sexual harassment.	 	 	 	 	 2	2	77	THE BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY, by Robert James Waller. (Warner, $16.95.) A photographer and a lonely farmer's wife in Iowa.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	13	SLOW WALTZ IN CEDAR BEND, by Robert James Waller. (Warner, $16.95.) From Iowa to India: the romance of a professor and a colleague's wife.	 	 	 	 	 4		1	FATAL CURE, by Robin Cook. (Putnam, $22.95.) A series of mysterious deaths haunts a couple who practice medicine in a sylvan Vermont town.	 	 	 	 	 5	6	2	BAD LOVE, by Jonathan Kellerman. (Bantam, $22.95.) The psychologist-detective Alex Delaware tracks a series of violent deaths.	 	 	 	 	 6		1	HONOR BOUND, by W.E.B. Griffin. (Putnam, $22.95.) Three American servicemen on a mission to sabotage German activities in Buenos Aires in 1942.	 	 	 	 	 7	4	42	LIKE WATER FOR CHOCOLATE, by Laura Esquivel. (Doubleday, $17.50.) Frustration, love, hope -- and recipes -- sampled by a woman on a Mexican ranch.	 	 	 	 	 8	5	46	THE CLIENT, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $23.50.) A deadly secret, revealed by a lawyer just before he kills himself, presents problems for an 11-year-old boy.	 	 	 	 	 9	7	23	WITHOUT REMORSE, by Tom Clancy. (Putnam, $24.95.) John Kelly becomes involved in a Pentagon project to rescue prisoners held in North Vietnam.	 	 	 	 	 10	9	16	NIGHTMARES & DREAMSCAPES, by Stephen King. (Viking, $27.50.) Twenty stories (mostly about the macabre), a teleplay, an essay and a poem.	 	 	 	 	 11	10	7	THE BOOK OF GUYS, by Garrison Keillor. (Viking, $22.) A collection of stories about American men and the strains of contemporary life.	 	 	 	 	 12	12	8	THE HOPE, by Herman Wouk. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) The story of Israel from the war of independence, in 1948, to the 1967 war.	 	 	 	 	 13		1	GRAND PASSION, by Jayne Ann Krentz. (Pocket, $22.) A romantic encounter between a small-inn keeper and the man behind a large hotel chain.	 	 	 	 	 14*	8	12	MR. MURDER, by Dean Koontz. (Putnam, $23.95.) A mystery writer's happy family life is endangered by a madman determined to kill him and take his place.	 	 	 	 	 15	13	6	SMILLA'S SENSE OF SNOW, by Peter Hoeg. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $21.) In Copenhagen and Greenland, a woman investigates a child's mysterious death.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	38	EMBRACED BY THE LIGHT, by Betty J. Eadie with Curtis Taylor. (Gold Leaf Press, $16.95.) A woman's near-death experience.	 	 	 	 	 2	2	6	THE BOOK OF VIRTUES, by William J. Bennett. (Simon & Schuster, $27.50.) Moral stories adapted from the Greeks, the Bible, folklore and elsewhere.	 	 	 	 	 3	4	11	SEE, I TOLD YOU SO, by Rush H. Limbaugh 3d. (Pocket, $24.) More comments on the state of the nation by the talk show host.	 	 	 	 	 4	3	23	THE HIDDEN LIFE OF DOGS, by Elizabeth Marshall Thomas. (Davison/Houghton Mifflin, $18.95.) An analysis of canine behavior.	 	 	 	 	 5	7	21	SEINLANGUAGE, by Jerry Seinfeld. (Bantam, $19.95.) Observations on life's pleasures and ordeals by the star of the television show "Seinfeld."	 	 	 	 	 6	6	17	WOULDN'T TAKE NOTHING FOR MY JOURNEY NOW, by Maya Angelou. (Random House, $17.) Essays about life and death, good and evil.	 	 	 	 	 7	8	9	HAVING OUR SAY, by Sarah and A. Elizabeth Delany with Amy Hill Hearth. (Kodansha, $20.) Two black sisters, both of them over 100, reflect on their lives.	 	 	 	 	 8	12	3	SOUL MATES, by Thomas Moore. (HarperCollins, $25.) A psychotherapist discusses love and relationships.	 	 	 	 	 9	5	15	PRIVATE PARTS, by Howard Stern. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) The memoirs of the radio and television personality.	 	 	 	 	 10	11	17	FURTHER ALONG THE ROAD LESS TRAVELED, by M. Scott Peck. (Simon & Schuster, $21.) Discussions of love, self-esteem, relationships and spiritual growth.	 	 	 	 	 11*	10	77	WOMEN WHO RUN WITH THE WOLVES, by Clarissa Pinkola Estes. (Ballantine, $23.) How myths and folk tales can enable women to understand their psyches.	 	 	 	 	 12		26	REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION, by Michael Hammer and James Champy. (Harper Business, $25.) A manifesto for business innovation.	 	 	 	 	 13		2	FLY FISHING THROUGH THE MIDLIFE CRISIS, by Howell Raines. (Morrow, $22.) A journalist looks at middle age through the prism of his favorite sport.	 	 	 	 	 14	9	8	LOVE CAN BUILD A BRIDGE, by Naomi Judd. (Villard, $24.) The country singer's memoirs, with an account of her relations with daughters Wynonna and Ashley.	 	 	 	 	 15*	13	3	A HISTORY OF GOD, by Karen Armstrong. (Knopf, $27.50.) The development of monotheism over the past 4,000 years in Judaism, Christianity and Islam.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 	 1	1	14	STOP THE INSANITY! by Susan Powter. (Simon & Schuster, $22.) A prescription for women to achieve physical and psychological health and fitness.	 	 	 	 	 2	2	27	AGELESS BODY, TIMELESS MIND, by Deepak Chopra. (Harmony, $22.) A physician's advice about aging.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	36	MEN ARE FROM MARS, WOMEN ARE FROM VENUS, by John Gray. (HarperCollins, $20.) Communicating.	 	 	 	 	 4	4	2	MAGIC EYE, by N.E. Thing Enterprises. (Andrews & McMeel, $12.95.) Designs in color that take on new qualities when scrutinized at length.	
 
Rankings reflect sales figures, for the week ending Jan. 15, at 3,050 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 28,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
And Bear In Mind
(Editor's choices of recent books of particular interest)
 
BEYOND DESPAIR: Three Lectures and a Conversation With Philip Roth, by Aharon Appelfeld. (Fromm, $17.50.) The Israeli novelist argues that literature can and must deal with the Holocaust or give up its pretensions to be a vehicle of spiritual apprehension.
 
THE BINGO PALACE, by Louise Erdrich. (HarperCollins, $23.) Three decent people look for love on a windblown prairie in this novel whose daily life is enriched by supernatural events and the presence of Indian spirits.
 
A DRINKING LIFE: A Memoir, by Pete Hamill. (Little, Brown, $21.95.) Mr. Hamill's drinking is the organizing theme for the 37 years covered here, but the more fundamental matter is a fine portrait of the emerging artist, boy and man, in a New York that is no more.
 
FRAUEN: German Women Recall the Third Reich, by Alison Owings. (Rutgers University, $24.95.) Ms. Owings hoped, by interviewing German women 70 and older, to find they had been nobler than German men in the Nazi era. They weren't, but the excursion is fascinating.
 
A FROLIC OF HIS OWN, by William Gaddis. (Poseidon, $25.) Mr. Gaddis's fourth novel, easier to like than his previous work, constructs a harsh, misanthropic but hilarious comedy from the language of law and litigation.
 
GOING NATIVE, by Stephen Wright. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) A road novel that explodes the conventions of the genre as a weird, dangerous shape-shifting protagonist remakes his identity on the way to California.
 
JOHN MAYNARD KEYNES. Volume 2: The Economist as Saviour 1920-1937, by Robert Skidelsky. (Allen Lane/Penguin, $37.50.) How Keynes reshaped the world's economy, made a lot of money and married a ballerina, by an economics professor whose mastery of many subjects seems to match Keynes's own.
 
LEAVING HOME: A Memoir, by Art Buchwald. (Putnam, $22.95.) What he's really trying to do with his humor, Mr. Buchwald says, is get even for a dark, poverty-stricken childhood. Most readers would agree his revenge is complete.
 
LIVE FROM THE BATTLEFIELD. From Vietnam to Baghdad: 35 Years in the World's War Zones, by Peter Arnett. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) A lean, engrossing memoir of reporters and war by a correspondent who was among the first to arrive and the last to leave in Vietnam, and virtually the only voice from Baghdad during the gulf war.
 
PADDY CLARKE HA HA HA, by Roddy Doyle. (Viking, $20.95.) This luminously written Irish novel, winner of the 1993 Booker Prize in Britain, is about the life force incarnate in its narrator, an unforgettable 10-year-old boy in the brilliantly realized world of 1960's Dublin.
 
SARAJEVO: A War Journal, by Zlatko Dizdarevic. (Fromm, $19.95.) A lament for Bosnia and for civilization, by a newspaper editor who celebrates the endurance and heroism of ordinary people caught in an insane conflict.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (56%); VIET NAM (52%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (56%); VIET NAM (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (78%); MURDER (76%); HOMICIDE (76%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (72%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); MEN (65%); HOTEL CHAINS (60%); FAMILY (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (58%); STEPHEN KING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



792 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: THE MYTH OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

 BODY:
On Martin Luther King Day, the President and I launched our community empowerment program ("The Myth of Community Development," by Nicholas Lemann, Jan. 9). We issued a call to all Americans to come together to help distressed communities and their residents to realize the American dream. Our challenge is not simply another "revitalize-the-ghetto scheme," based solely on trying to create "a lot of new economic activity in poor neighborhoods."
The principles underlying our community empowerment initiative focus on both economic growth and the development of a sustainable community. Our program is dedicated to expanding economic opportunity by involving the private sector throughout each local region in revitalizing its communities. It is also committed to creating communities where the streets are safe, the air and water are clean, housing is secure, human services are accessible, learning is a lifelong commitment and the residents' civic spirit is nurtured -- the types of investments that Lemann himself appears to embrace. 
 We could not be more enthusiastic about this initiative. On May 4, 1993, the President announced the empowerment legislation from the Oval Office. In September, he asked me to chair a Cabinet-level committee -- the Community Enterprise Board -- to develop the program. I have personally met with dozens of community and business leaders to broaden our thinking on these important issues. In short, our attention to this effort has been far from "modest."
No doubt, some past Administrations have tried and, in many respects, failed to turn around the cycle of decline at the core of too many of our urban areas. Others have not even tried. Under our program to rebuild this country together, we will empower communities and their residents -- our most valuable resources -- to become full partners in America's future. We all certainly have an obligation to try.
 
AL GORE
Vice President
Washington

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); LEMANN, NICHOLAS AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



793 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 12; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: THE BIG CITY;
She Knows Her Lines

BYLINE: By John Tierney; John Tierney is a reporter on the metropolitan staff of The Times. His column will appear in this space every three weeks.

 BODY:
Some of Helen Quinn's fans think that Communism could have survived if there had been line-management experts like her in the Soviet Union. That is debatable. But there's no disputing her accomplishments in New York. I can't think of anyone who has brought so much comfort, discipline and leisure time to the waiting masses.
She has been doing it for a quarter-century without any salary or office or formal title (although she is sometimes called the Queen of Standees). At age 68, Quinn works out in the cold and relies solely on her own devices: a lawn chair, a clipboard, some scraps of paper and a voice that sounds like Ethel Merman as a drill sergeant. "If you don't like the way the line is run," she explains, "go home!" 
 The line is run by Quinn outside the Metropolitan Opera House every Saturday morning, which is when standing-room tickets go on sale for the following week's performances. The box office doesn't open until 10, but the buffs start arriving before dawn. These are highly unusual people -- willing to wait six hours to pay $10 to stand through six hours of Wagner -- yet in some ways they're perfectly representative New Yorkers. Here is a microcosm of life in Manhattan: a crowd of compulsives competing desperately for the privilege of renting pathetically tiny pieces of real estate.
This competition at close quarters is generally assumed to turn New Yorkers belligerent -- all these stressed-out rats squeezed into one cage, all these rude natives who take pride in their reputation for unruliness. When Mayor Giuliani demanded during his inaugural speech that cynics stop calling New York unmanageable, the cynics delighted in watching the Mayor's son uphold the city's traditional image. But the boring truth -- the reason that seven million people can live so close together -- is that New Yorkers actually are meekly manageable most of the time, particularly when someone like Helen Quinn is doing the managing.
Quinn has been a student of lines since 1943, the year she finished high school, started working as a key-punch operator in Manhattan and saw "The Magic Flute." Soon she was up to four or five operas a week, a habit affordable only by lining up for standing-room tickets, and eventually she realized something -- a great insight that continues to elude the gatekeepers at attractions like Disney World rides, rock concerts or Shakespearean plays in Central Park. She realized that standing in line is a stupid and unpleasant way to pass time.
So in 1966 she instituted a system that survives, thanks to popular support and the Met's tacit acquiescence. As people arrive, starting at 4 or 5 in the morning, they write their names on a numbered list on her clipboard. Then they leave the waiting to her. Some go back to bed, others to a coffee shop across Broadway to gossip about singers' throat ailments and reminisce about the days when you could easily bribe the ushers to get into standing room. ("Don't say the Met back then was corrupt. Say it was friendly.")
Everyone returns at 9, when Quinn faces the shapeless throng and puts her instrument to use. Her voice is most impressive when it's challenged, like the miserably cold, wet morning in December when tickets went on sale for three performances by Luciano Pavarotti. Quinn was bundled up and ready for trouble.
"The Pavarotti people can be a little ferocious," she confided. "If I had to live with a group of people the rest of my life, I would pick the Wagnerites. They're the most patient. Domingo people are a close second. The Pavarotti people are at the bottom of the list. I don't mix with them personally. They're loud in their deportment, they talk among themselves and they want extra places for their friends."
She was prepared for them, though. Quinn has her soft side -- she goes through a package of Kleenex every time Louis Quilico loses the soprano to the tenor in "Adriana Lecouvreur" -- but she hid it beautifully when she addressed the crowd of 200:
"Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please! I'm going to read down the list, and I want you to call out when you hear your name. There comes a point in the list where you'll have to come up and identify yourself because the handwriting is so bad. That's got to stop! There's a limit. Will you please learn how to write!"
People raised their hands and called "Here" as she went down the list. "Quiet back there! You're making entirely too much noise," she said, and in the hush that followed a single giggle was heard from the back. Quinn looked up from her clipboard and scanned the crowd.
"Laugh all you want," she said. "You'll laugh all the way to the end of the line."
There was no more giggling.
Even the Pavarotti people politely formed a single file as she handed out numbered slips of paper. "When I see someone crashing the line, I pounce," she explained. "I'll say to everyone, 'Ladies and gentlemen, this person is crashing the line.' Believe me, it works. It's the most humiliating experience for anyone."
After the line started moving at 10, Quinn stood by the door collecting the numbered slips along with $1 tips. "I tell everyone that they get the same consideration whether they tip or not," she said. "For a long time I wouldn't take tips. I figured that running the line was my contribution to the Met. But people kept saying to me, 'Helen, wise up. You're performing a public service.' "
Perhaps half the crowd didn't bother to tip, and a few people muttered resentfully about her making a profit off something that should be free -- a populist sentiment that sounds nice until you consider a "free" attraction like Shakespeare in Central Park. The summer festival is touted as a great democratic institution, but it's actually one of the most discriminatory forms of entertainment anywhere. To be assured of two tickets to a hit, you must wait with nearly 1,000 others from 10 until 6 on a summer day, which the vast majority of people can't or won't do.
And the ones who do wait aren't getting free tickets, at least not if you value time the way economists do. When they calculate, say, how much Exxon should compensate Alaskans for being deprived of recreation in Prince William Sound after the oil spill, they typically value lost leisure time at half the average local wage. That works out to roughly $10 an hour in New York City, which means each pair of Shakespeare tickets costs $80 and each performance entails $80,000 in lost time.
Meanwhile, operating without any foundation grants, Quinn is providing hundreds of productive hours each Saturday. I conservatively estimate that in her career she has saved humanity a total of 156,000 hours, worth $1,560,000, and my conclusion is: Don't stiff her on the tip. It's money well spent, especially when you consider what it's being used for. Quinn, who's now retired, has been saving since last March for an extravagance this spring: buying an orchestra seat at every performance of her favorite opera, "Otello."
"My theory has always been that going to the opera should be a pleasant experience, not a test of physical endurance," she said. "Otello's not that long to stand through, but I figure for this one I want to sit down and relax like a human being."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN OPERA

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN OPERA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION OPERA (90%); REAL ESTATE (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); POP & ROCK (50%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN; QUINN, HELEN RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



794 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 13; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1672 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Bringing You a Musical . . . With No Music

BYLINE: By JAMIE DIAMOND

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
James L. Brooks did not want to make just any old movie about the movie business.
Not the man who won three Academy Awards for "Terms of Endearment" (writer, director, producer) and went on to make the crowd-pleasing "Broadcast News" in 1987. Not the man who spent the last 25 years working on television classics like "The Mary Tyler Moore Show," "Rhoda," "Taxi," "Lou Grant" and "The Simpsons." 
 Mr. Brooks thought there was something so unreal about Hollywood that he wanted to push the envelope further and make a musical comedy, called "I'll Do Anything." Why not have actors break into song and dance while they stab one another in the back, glad-hand and lie?
With a $40 million budget from Columbia Pictures, Mr. Brooks hired high-profile talent like Prince, Sinead O'Connor and Carole King to write music and Twyla Tharp to choreograph dance sequences. Then he shot a musical about an unemployed actor (Nick Nolte) who suddenly gets custody of his precocious 6-year-old daughter (Whittni Wright), who is herself seduced by the Hollywood game.
The film community sat up. Was it true? Was the Hollywood musical back? Disney had reaped impressive profits with its animated musicals "Aladdin" and "Beauty and the Beast." True, Disney had taken a bath two years ago with the live-action "Newsies," but if anyone could pull off a Hollywood musical, people said, it was Jim Brooks.
At test screenings in August, however, when the actors started crooning, audiences were confused. Worse still, the press found out about the confusion (Time magazine reported that some members of the audience walked out). And the alarm was raised: The roughly 2 1/2-hour cut of the movie was in trouble. This was not going to be a private matter.
Scheduled to be one of Columbia's big Christmas films, "I'll Do Anything" was pushed back two months to give Mr. Brooks time to reshape the film -- to drop all but one of the musical numbers, shoot a few new connective scenes and generally make the plot move smoothly without the songs. The movie, now two hours long, opens on Friday.
"I'll Do Anything" also stars Albert Brooks (no relation to the director) as a growling movie mogul, Joely Richardson as a fickle movie executive who is Mr. Nolte's love interest and Julie Kavner as a down-to-earth marketing expert. In between trying to take on the duties of a parent and win a part in a movie, Mr. Nolte's character becomes entangled with the others when he is hired as the movie mogul's driver.
Jim Brooks, a tall, bearded man who resembles a Giacometti bear, looked shellshocked one recent afternoon as his handlers led him into a hotel suite for an interview. He and the cast of "I'll Do Anything" had just endured a three-hour "press event" promoting the movie. Mr. Brooks seemed undone by the persistent question: What happened to the musical?
The 53-year-old writer and director understood the curiosity. "Everybody is fascinated," he said, "and properly so, that this movie started out as a musical. But I've been working on this movie a long time, and I've processed through it, and it's hard to deal with the fact that no one else has."
The word "process" comes up often as Mr. Brooks speaks, not as it relates to words or food but as a series of decisions that precede a final artistic statement.
Ms. Kavner has had significance experience with Mr. Brooks's "process," having worked with him on "Rhoda" and "The Simpsons," 2 of the 10 television series he helped create. (His tenth, an animated show called "The Critic," had its premiere on Wednesday on ABC and is already shaping up as a hit.)
"In making a movie," Ms. Kavner said, "the word 'process' means there are a lot of surprises along the way. You have to go wherever the story takes you." She took voice lessons for a year to prepare for her musical debut; her song was cut from the movie.
There is no question that tackling a big-budget musical implies risk. (See "Sarafina," or Peter Bogdanovich's "At Long Last Love" or the disastrous attempt at a musical television series, "Cop Rock.") The last singing-and-dancing musical that made any real money was "Grease," in 1978.
Nevertheless, the idea appealed to Mr. Brooks. "I thought the musical form would get me to more of the truth," the director said in an apologetic tone. "For example, I wanted to make a sad ballet out of the table-hopping in Hollywood." The reference was to a scene choreographed by Ms. Tharp in which Ms. Kavner was to have sung her song, "I Can't Love You Anymore," written by Prince.
"I thought music would articulate that which you couldn't legitimately articulate in dialogue," Mr. Brooks added, "like a child talking about her loneliness, something you don't express at that age." This reference was to another song, "This Lonely Life," written and performed by Ms. O'Connor, that was also cut.
"But the music broke the sense of reality instead of enhancing it. I lost sight of my goals, and then I got them back, for which I'm really grateful. I feel like I made three movies. The first was a musical, the second was the compromise, and the third is what you see now." Mr. Brooks believes that the final version should not be considered, in effect, a circus without a clown: the movie as it is now, he said, is closest to the script he wrote, the one that simply said, "Add musical number here."
No one involved with the movie denied there were enormous changes at the last minute. In fact, advance criticism of the film has been so widespread -- Entertainment Weekly referred to the film's "mega-bad buzz" -- that Peter Bart felt it necessary to take the press to task last week in his column in Variety. "I have personally been involved with many movies, going back to the first 'Godfather,' " he wrote, "that previewed badly but were ultimately honed into hits."
The actor Albert Brooks said he doesn't understand why people would criticize a film still in progress. "Making a film is like guiding in a big jet on a foggy night," he said. "If you look at the jet 10 minutes before it lands, it's nowhere near the runway. If that was your final judgment, you'd run out and get the ambulances. Whatever happened to opening night?"
Was making the film a waste of money? "I don't know," he answered. "People always try things that don't work. Bravo to Jim for trying, I say."
Thanks to the director's impressive track record, Columbia allowed him to pursue his dreams, all three of them, and continue editing up to the day before the press screening two weeks ago.
It does not escape Mr. Brooks's notice that the movie mogul in "I'll Do Anything" has his confidence shaken by test screenings. Nor does Mr. Brooks think it ironic that he fell victim to the system he made fun of.
"If you write about a process you're about to go through, market research," the director said, "and you go through it and it doesn't echo what you've written about, you've failed."
Failure is a word that rarely appears in any sentence about Mr. Brooks's career. His approach to comedy is sometimes dark, yet it appeals to the mainstream. He said his greatest challenge in adapting Larry McMurtry's novel "Terms of Endearment" for the screen was that he "wanted to get a laugh on the word cancer." He did.
"Jim is both sad and funny at the same time," said Mr. Nolte, who spent two months "in process" with Mr. Brooks while the director was deciding whether to cast him.
"He's not mono at all," Mr. Nolte said of the director. "He's very much stereo."
It is Mr. Brooks's trademark approach to shine light on that place where conflicting emotions exist simultaneously.
"I talk to people in Los Angeles," said Albert Brooks, speaking from Mexico, where he is filming a new movie, "and they're all petrified about the earthquake. I say something funny and, in between laughter, they're wondering if they're going to die. That's the sort of thing Jim tries to capture. The embarrassing, human, ignoble things we're really thinking underneath."
Allan Burns, who was Mr. Brooks's partner on "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" and its spinoffs, suggests that Mr. Brooks's comedy is funny because it focuses on the aspirations of the underdog: "Look at that sorry bunch on 'The Mary Tyler Moore Show.' That gang was one of the greatest sets of losers of all time -- a television station that remained mired in last place for seven years. They were screamingly funny because they were so sad."
LIKE MANY WRITERS WHO make people laugh, Mr. Brooks did not have a particularly hilarious childhood. Born in North Bergen, N.J., he was raised by his mother and saw little of his father, a salesman who left for good when Jim was 12. "It was just your regular American dysfunctional life," said Mr. Brooks.
After attending New York University briefly, he worked his way up at CBS from copy boy to news writer, then moved to Los Angeles to work on documentaries for David Wolper. Six months later he was laid off. A latecomer to television ("We didn't have one when I was growing up," he said), he nonetheless began writing sitcom scripts on speculation and fairly quickly had a successful series on his hands in "Room 222."
Mr. Brooks has steered through Hollywood with a steady hand, writing hit television shows, directing hit movies and producing hit films like "Big" and "The War of the Roses." After writing about a television newsroom in "Broadcast News," Mr. Brooks decided he wanted to make a film about what he knew best from firsthand experience (Hollywood) and what he knew least (being raised by a father).
"I had no road map for fatherhood; I had no personal history to draw from," said the director, who has a 22-year-old daughter from his first marriage, and three children under 10 with his second wife, Holly.
"When Nick says in the movie to his daughter, 'Just know I'm there for you whenever you need me,' that was an amazing thing for me. He says the words we all want to hear."
Did Mr. Brooks hear those words as a child?
"No," he answered. "Most of us didn't."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Whittni Wright and Nick Nolte in "I'll Do Anything," a film by James Brooks about a failed actor and his daughter, who are both caught up in the Hollywood game. (Columbia Pictures)(pg. 13); James Brooks, the dilm's director -- "I thought the musical form would get me to more of the truth." (Steve Goldstein for The New York Times)(pg. 23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: I'LL DO ANYTHING (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA PICTURES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM GENRES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); WRITERS (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CHOREOGRAPHY (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); 

PERSON: DIAMOND, JAMIE; BROOKS, JAMES L; NOLTE, NICK; BROOKS, ALBERT NICK NOLTE (69%); MARY TYLER MOORE (57%); SINEAD O'CONNOR (56%); TWYLA THARP (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



795 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: POP CULTURE;
The New Colossus: American Culture As Power Export

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL

 BODY:
Spielbergian Dinosaurs devouring entire national film industries at a single gulp! Silver-haired villains and sloe-eyed ingenues setting new soap-opera standards for political incorrectness as half the world watches! Teen-agers from Bangkok to Beirut wearing Chicago Bulls caps backwards and lamenting Michael Jordan's retirement! Smoke bombs and lasers and thrusting pelvises and outraged clerics and intellectuals from Paris to Teheran to Beijing denouncing Michael Jackson and Madonna!
As the millennium approaches -- "Angels in America" is also big worldwide, but rather higher of brow -- American popular culture has never been more dominant internationally, nor more controversial. American cultural exports swell at least some of us with pride and help reduce the trade deficit. Serious money is involved; this is America's second-biggest export after aircraft. But just as some Americans have doubts about our pop culture -- its propensity to celebrate violence, sexual stereotyping and sheer lowest-common-denominator crassness -- those doubts multiply abroad, especially when the imports are seen as a threat to local cultural identity. 
 A survey of American pop-cultural influence by New York Times correspondents around the world reveals many things, from the quirky to the amusing to the troubling. But the results also raise larger questions: Is America's dominance due to intrinsic strengths of its culture -- its sheer flair and energy, its incarnation of democracy itself as marketable entertainment, its forging of a new international language? Or, as foreign critics lament, is it merely a function of American military and economic domination? Or capitalism run amok, a "pure monopoly in the worst sense," as Jacques Toubon, the French Minister of Culture, put it in the recent debate over world trade barriers?
Statistically, America's impact is overwhelming. Of the world's 100 most-attended films last year, 88 were American, Variety reports. The highest-ranked competitor, France's "Visiteurs," was No. 27. That's not even counting pop music, television, novels and the more nebulous, all-pervasive imagery of American street fashion.
But such dominance can breed insensitivity to other cultures' fears that their traditional values may be lost. Indeed, the insistence at the trade talks by Jack Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America, and by Mickey Kantor, the American trade representative and Hollywood lawyer, that such fears were simply a smokescreen for protectionism may have pushed the rest of Europe into siding with the French to erect still more barriers to American films and music. Elite culture has nearly always been protected, even in the United States, and to eliminate that would be to fulfill de Tocqueville's worst fears that a culture's excellence can be leveled by the common taste.
Few could deny that some of America's success is due simply to aggressive marketing. The popularity of a seven-year-old minor soaper like "The Bold and the Beautiful" in countries like Lebanon, Egypt and India is a case in point. For Americans abroad, a troubling aspect of our popular culture is that so much of it, especially in Eastern European and third-world countries, is inferior. Instead of the best films and television -- best here meaning "Roseanne," not PBS -- foreigners get second-tier shows like "The Bold and the Beautiful" and "Baywatch" marketed on the cheap. For executives in search of a deal, and audiences eager for any glimpse of American opulence, it may not matter much. But in the not-too-much-longer run, it tarnishes our national image.
Rampant piracy -- the illegal copying of films, television programs and albums -- contributes to this debasement of America's best popular culture. But while piracy is a big issue for outraged executives in New York and Los Angeles, it is less of one for those interested in the sheer impact of American culture abroad. Yes, companies lose royalties and foreign buyers may get grainier images or muddier sound. But whether Clint Eastwood and Janet Jackson get their cut, their Americanizing influence still spreads from bazaars in Nairobi to stalls in Guangzhou.
In decades past, America's chief cultural exports were debonair crooners and stalwart upholders of truth, justice and the American way. Today, a different America exports products that reflect a chilling propensity for cartoon-like, bone-crunching, eyeball-popping violence. That seems to suit much of the world, if a report from Lebanon below is any indication. There, Islamic fundamentalists, rather like American puritans of whatever political stripe, deface posters of semi-clothed women but ignore lurid images of slaughter.
In the United States, pundits fret about children aping Beavis and Butt-head and about violence on the screen provoking violence in the streets. Abroad, those are real worries, too. But for Americans, another worry should be that foreigners may take our films and our rap literally, as an unexaggerated report on our state of affairs. In Brazil, for example, the police justify atrocities by saying they've seen American judges lead mobs of nightriders on "Dark Justice."
American intellectuals complain that American high culture is ignored in the face of this onslaught of action-heroics and indecent proposals. In fact, it enjoys a pretty heady reputation abroad. In Paris this fall, for instance, it was hard to avoid American painters, architects, authors, dancers, composers and theater directors traipsing through town.
But popular culture remains America's signal cultural contribution to the world. Its dominance today is not all bad -- commercially, morally or imagistically. The picture of multicultural acceptance our films and television purvey, for instance, may be more liberal wish-fulfillment than reality, but it still serves well a world riven by ethnic hatred. That the Fresh Prince of Bel Air can be popular in Spain or Whitney Houston beloved in Egypt may say far more to the world than one more punch in the snoot from Sylvester Stallone.
Then again, maybe "Hollywood" is itself no longer all that American, and its success abroad may be a testimony to its cosmopolitanism. When our supposedly national film industry boasts an Austrian named Schwarzenegger as its biggest star, a Belgian named Van Damme close behind in action films and a Chinese, Bruce Lee, as an honorable ancestor, when the French and the Japanese own studios or invest heavily in "American" films, when Hollywood gets half its profits from outside the U.S., when the new star of the Chicago Bulls is a Croatian named Toni Kukoc, then just how parochially American is our entertainment industry, anyway?
It may be that the world is being inexorably transformed from old to new, from narrow to broad, from kayak to jet. Maybe Western suits worn by Saudi or African businessmen, maybe even the English language itself, are not so much emblems of American superiority as the simple acceptance by a developing world of a single international standard of discourse.
On that model, periodic eruptions of religious and nationalist resentment are mere spray on the sweeping wave of history. On that same model, "Hollywood" and America itself may be more metaphors than velociraptors. They may represent not the monopolistic invasion by one country of all the others but the focal point of an international mass culture forming before our eyes.
No wonder French intellectuals are afraid. What they see is not some alien marauder but the inevitable consequences of their own revolution, the ones de Tocqueville himself found so alluring and terrifying: liberty, equality and, even, maybe, fraternity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (91%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); LEBANON (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SPAIN (77%); THAILAND (73%); POLAND (73%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (73%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (73%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO BULLS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BULLS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; BRAZIL; CANADA; CHINA; CZECH REPUBLIC; GREAT BRITAIN; ; EGYPT; FRANCE; GERMANY; INDIA; INDONESIA; IRELAND; ISRAEL; ITALY; JAPAN; LEBANON; ; MALAYSIA; MEXICO; POLAND; RUSSIA; SOUTH AFRICA; SPAIN; THAILAND; UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (91%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); LEBANON (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SPAIN (77%); THAILAND (73%); POLAND (73%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (73%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION; MUSIC EXPORT TRADE (90%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PROTECTIONISM (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POP & ROCK (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN MADONNA (79%); MICHAEL JORDAN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



796 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 5; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Recalling a World's Fair

 BODY:
A century ago, more than 200 structures were built in San Francisco's Golden Gate Park for the California Midwinter International Exposition, which drew 1.5 million visitors in just over five months. After the event, one building was allowed to remain, eventually becoming the M. H. de Young Memorial Museum, which is celebrating the fair's centennial with a special exhibition scheduled to open Jan. 27.
In the midst of a severe recession in 1894, the world's fair was orchestrated by the museum's namesake, M. H. de Young, who was inspired by the gargantuan World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago the year before. The San Francisco and Chicago expositions were among the few world's fairs to turn a profit since the tradition began in London in 1851. 
 On view at the museum through April 17 will be objects from its charter collection, including Greek, Egyptian and Roman antiquities, wood carvings from the South Sea Islands, 19th-century ladies' fans, bronzes by Troubetzkoy and Makovsky's painting "The Russian Bride's Attire." In addition to banners, medals and other memorabilia, some 40 folio-sized photographs of the fair taken by the exposition photographer Isaiah West Taber will be on display.
The museum is open Wednesday through Sunday, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. On the first Wednesday of every month, the museum remains open until 8:45 P.M. Admission is $5, $3 for senior citizens and children 12 to 17, and free for 11 and under. Information: M. H. de Young Memorial Museum, Golden Gate Park, San Francisco, Calif. 94118, (415) 863-3330.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Grand Court, San Francisco, 1894. (The Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: YOUNG, M H, MEMORIAL MUSEUM (SAN FRANCISCO)

ORGANIZATION: YOUNG, M H, MEMORIAL MUSEUM (SAN FRANCISCO)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD'S FAIRS; NYTRAVEL; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



797 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 31; Column 4; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: POP CULTURE: Channel-Surfing Through U.S. Culture in 20 Lands;
Nigeria: Bruce Lee Is No Fresh Prince

BYLINE: By Kenneth B. Noble

 BODY:
In Nigeria, recent releases like "Jurassic Park" are impossible to find: the few theaters that exist offer low-budget horror films and Bruce Lee retreads. On bootleg video, just about anything by Sylvester Stallone or Arnold Schwarzenegger sells well. Television shows with well-to-do black Americans occupy a secure niche: "Fresh Prince of Bel Air," "A Different World" and "The Cosby Show." By contrast, while T-shirts with the "X" from Spike Lee's film about Malcolm X were ubiquitous, the movie itself did not find much of an audience for its sober message.
Elsewhere in black Africa, one sees sharp contrasts: In Zaire, after 20 years of economic turmoil, there is not one movie theater left in Kinshasa, the capital. The public television station relies heavily on South African nature documentaries, month-old European soccer matches, horror films and Government news. Among Zaireans, eager for any cultural stimulation from abroad, American evangelical programs have become tremendously popular. Jimmy Swaggart, dubbed in French, is a star here; his foot-stomping, hellfire-and-damnation sermons are an electrifying alternative to the straitlaced crusading by local missionaries. 
 In the better-off Ivory Coast, the cult following is Hulk Hogan's. The Saturday afternoon World Wrestling show, dubbed in French, is one of the country's longest-running programs. Young Ivorians also love jazz and rap. Recently, the host of a local dance show, just back from New York, handed his studio audience icons of hip-hop culture: Mets caps, Nike sneakers and fake gold chains.
 KENNETH B. NOBLE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316219 OTHER FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS316211 RUBBER AND PLASTICS FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS315239 WOMEN'S AND GIRLS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS315228 MEN'S AND BOYS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (54%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (54%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (54%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); NIGERIA (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (91%); AFRICA (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (54%); 

COMPANY: BEL AIR MARKETS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA; UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); NIGERIA (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (91%); AFRICA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (54%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; TELEVISION; MOTION PICTURES HORROR FILMS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); RELIGION (67%); RAP MUSIC (64%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (53%); SOCCER (53%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



798 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2581 words

HEADLINE: Tapping Home Equity to Cushion Old Age

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
BERNICE STUART, a Minneapolis suburbanite, worked hard most of her life and still didn't know how she was going to make ends meet when she retired in 1988 at the age of 73. Widowed when her only child was just a year old, Mrs. Stuart "didn't owe anybody a dime" and had managed to put aside savings in an I.R.A. But the retirement money all went to nurse her mother through a final illness, leaving her with little apart from Social Security.
"The handwriting was on the wall," Mrs. Stuart recalls: She would have to sell her three-bedroom house and move into an apartment that lacked space to put up her beloved nieces and nephews. 
 But the story has a happy ending. In 1991 she obtained through a local mortgage broker a $40,000 line of credit, which she uses to cover property taxes and insurance along with the unexpected expenses that wreak havoc on the budgets of those living on modest fixed incomes.
Like the home-equity loans taken out by millions of other Americans, this line of credit was backed by the value of a house. But there is one big difference: Mrs. Stuart is not obligated to pay back a dime until she moves.
Mrs. Stuart is one of a few thousand Americans who have borrowed through an insured "reverse mortgage," the broad term for a loan agreement that gives the elderly a way to tap the equity in their houses without worrying that the sheriff will show up some day with an eviction notice.
Reverse mortages have had a hard start, never quite making the widely anticipated splash. That may be about to change, however, as more lenders enter the field and terms become more flexible. At the moment, it is possible to find a reverse-mortgage lender in all but a handful of states. Anyone who is over the age of 62 and owes little or nothing on his or her home is eligible.
But if reverse mortgages are as good as they sound -- if they are indeed the best thing to happen to older homeowning Americans since the invention of the early-bird special -- why have so few people made use of them? And if reverse mortgages represent a lucrative and nearly virgin trillion-dollar market for lenders, why has the otherwise go-go financial-services industry generally ignored them?
One reason is that the terms of a reverse mortgage are harder to understand than those of a conventional loan. And in many cases they may simply be beyond the comprehension of the older retirees in the best position to make use of them.
"It is very expensive to identify and gain the confidence of customers," says William Texido, president of the San Francisco-based Providential Corporation, which is one of the very few specialized lenders that makes reverse-mortgage loans without financial backing from the Federal Government.
Another is that an insured reverse mortgage is neither a straightforward loan agreement backed by real estate nor a simple life insurance policy or annuity funded with cash. This means that both banks and insurance companies have to stretch their expertise beyond traditional boundaries to design and market the product, an exercise that is bound to be expensive and risky for the pioneers.
"Everyone is waiting for everyone else," laments Mr. Texido.
By the same token, reverse-mortgage loans raise eyebrows at government agencies that were caught looking the other way when savings and loans collapsed in the late 80's.
"There is folklore that some banks tried to get into the market but were turned down by their regulators because banks are prohibited from underwriting life insurance," notes David S. Bizer, formerly an economist with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This dam may be about to burst, however. Congress has expanded the number of reverse mortgages it is prepared to have the F.H.A. guarantee, and several private financial institutions are now taking a fresh look at their own prospects.
Equally important, suggests Ken Scholen, head of the nonprofit National Center for Home Equity Conversion, lenders in the Federal program are making good use of their limited experience, learning to write reverse-mortgage agreements at lower costs and offering the more flexible terms that borrowers seem to crave.
THE idea of allowing house-rich, cash-poor older Americans to have their cake and eat it too is not new. The first reverse-mortgage loan was made in 1961 by a little savings and loan in Portland, Me. And just two years later the State of Oregon began allowing the elderly to defer property-tax payments, using public-employee retirement funds to finance the loans.
But the market has sputtered and popped ever since, with a handful of private companies leaving most of the action to state and local agencies that make loans to needy homeowning elderly people solely to cover property taxes and critical repairs. As of 1991, 143,000 of these public-sector loans had been made -- a seemingly impressive number until it is realized that the total amount of housing equity encumbered by the loans was just $720 million.
Much of what is still the infant reverse-mortgage market dates from 1989, when the first were made under a Federal pilot program that insured their repayment. To date some 5,500 of these Home Equity Conservation Mortgages, with a maximum value of $560 million, have been created, and the Federal Housing Administration has been authorized to guarantee a total of 25,000 through September 1995.
The nuts and bolts of the federally insured program are relatively simple. Banks, savings and loans, mortgage brokers and other finance companies make the loans, just as they offer F.H.A.-insured conventional mortgages.
To get past the preliminaries, applicants must agree to accept mortgage counseling from a federally approved counselor -- typically a nonprofit social service agency specializing in housing and/or the elderly.
"We encourage them to bring a friend, attorney, child, someone who will help them make the decision," says Carol Greifer, the head of Counseling for Home Equity Conversion, a state-financed service for Nassau County.
This protects the borrower: "Seniors are vulnerable," Mrs. Greifer emphasizes. It also shields the lender from later claims of fraud by disappointed heirs.
Houses of any value can be used as loan collateral. But the amount of equity backing a reverse mortgage is limited to the maximum the Federal Housing Administration can insure, locality by locality. This maximum ranges from $67,500 in most rural areas to $151,725 in the highest-cost housing markets. And the largest lump sum that can actually be borrowed is considerably less than this maximum claim against equity since the debt keeps rising as interest accumulates until the borrower leaves the house.
The interest terms on F.H.A.-insured reverse mortgages are negotiated between the lender and borrower. Only adjustable-rate mortgages linked to United States Treasury rates are currently available, however. This is about the same rate as on a conventional self-liquidating mortgage.
Once in place, an F.H.A.-insured reverse mortgage can be tapped in a host of ways. The simplest, and probably the most popular, is a line of credit like the one created for Mrs. Stuart. Alternatively, a borrower can opt for a monthly payment for a fixed term -- say 10 years. Or the borrower can choose the "tenure" option, which sets a fixed monthly payment as long as the borrower occupies the home.
F.H.A.-insured reverse mortgages are flexible. For a minimal fee, the borrower can change from one option to another. It is even possible to mix and match, combining a line of credit with a regular monthly term or tenure payment. And in no circumstance is repayment due before the departure of the resident. That guarantee applies to couples as well as to individuals.
Perhaps this all sounds too good to be true, And for some potential borrowers it is. One catch is that equity spent is equity spent.
"I tell them you can only go to the well once," says Mrs. Greifer.
AFTER the borrower moves or dies, the accumulated debt -- the lender's cash outlays, plus interest, insurance and any deferred mortgage closing fees -- comes due. Thus someone counting on home equity to cover, say, nursing-home costs of a spouse or to finance the education of a grandchild must choose among priorities. If the owner dies, the estate sells the house and must pay the money owed to the lender before distributing whatever remains to the heirs.
By the same token, it should not be forgotten that lenders are in the reverse-mortgage business to make a profit and the F.H.A.'s insurance program is meant to be self-financing. Thus borrowers must expect to pay a hefty origination fee ("points"), closing costs and the mortgage-insurance premium, along with interest.
Mr. Scholen of the National Center for Home Equity Conversion notes that these costs are generally no greater than those associated with a conventional F.H.A.-insured home mortgage. But many people who borrow against their homes don't need insurance to get a mortgage on good terms. And even at the F.H.A.'s standard rates, the insurance premiums are not trivial: A flat 2 percent of the maximum claim amount is charged when the mortgage is granted, along with another half-percent annually on the loan balance. Neither, of course, is actually collected until the entire loan is due.
A third, not-so-obvious drawback to F.H.A.-insured reverse mortgages is the cap on the maximum claim amount. For those with houses appraised at less than the F.H.A. maximums, this does not matter. But in other, not-so-rare circumstances, the cap can pinch -- especially where the borrower is still relatively young.
Take the hypothetical case of a 65-year-old with a very valuable house, who is nonetheless limited by F.H.A. rules to a maximum claim amount of $151,725. If he (more typically, she) wants to draw a regular sum as long as he stays in the house, the fixed monthly payment, at rates authorized by the F.H.A., will be just $402. A 75-year-old would collect more, receiving $584 a month because he has a shorter life expectancy. But only a relatively old borrower could cash in quickly: an 80-year-old with the same amount of housing equity would receive $723 a month.
THE typically modest payout on federally insured reverse mortgages goes a long way toward explaining the lure of privately insured ones. Robert and Mary Wilson of Ventura, Calif., for example, "had enough to get along" from savings and Social Security.
But in 1991 they opted to borrow against the $225,000 in equity on their house, making it possible for them to receive $927 a month from Providential as long as either of them lived there. The $927 figure was based on Mrs. Wilson's age, 74. If she had been as old as her husband (85) they could have borrowed considerably more.
Thus far, Providential makes loans only in California, where housing prices are exceptionally high and the property tax laws give homeowners enormous incentives to borrow against their equity rather than selling. Moreover, limited access to capital has prevented the company from marketing more aggressively: Through 1992, the company issued just a shade more than 1,000 reverse mortgages, virtually all of which were "tenure" mortgages with lifetime monthly payouts.
Both the availability and flexibility of reverse mortgages are likely to improve, however, and soon, predicts Mr. Scholen. For one thing, mortgage brokers are beginning to think of F.H.A.-insured mortgages as a serious source of profit. Several are offering reverse mortgages in several states, thereby cutting costs and gaining experience in marketing. Among them are Directors Mortgage of Riverside, Calif., ARCS Mortgage of Calabasas, Calif., Amerifirst Mortgage of Hempstead, L.I., and International Mortgage of Owings Mills, Md.
For another, new players are arriving on the scene with competitive privately insured products. Two lenders, Transamerica HomeFirst of San Francisco and Freedom Home Equity Partners of Irvine, Calif., are offering reverse mortgages in several states. And a third, the giant Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) is widely expected to issue its own next year.
Fannie Mae already plays an important, if passive, role in reverse mortgages, buying all the F.H.A.-insured mortgages issued by banks and brokers. But the more active role it is contemplating could prove the breakthrough Mr. Scholen has been waiting for.
WHILE Fannie Mae will not confirm it, there is little doubt that its reverse mortgage would carry a considerably higher insurance cap than the F.H.A. limit. Nor is there much doubt that the giant mortgage broker and investor would be able to match the flexibility of the F.H.A. product, providing lines of credit as well as term and tenure mortgages.
What's more, Fannie Mae has a wide network of banks and other financial agents that are eager to serve as its retailers. And last but not least, Fannie Mae has deep pockets.
"It wouldn't be difficult to fund very large numbers" of reverse mortgages, says Larry Dale, executive director of Fannie Mae's Housing Impact Division.
Oddly, perhaps, the question about reverse mortgages that has gotten the least attention is whether easy access to reverse mortgages is a good thing -- whether reverse mortgages serve broader social interests.
At first look, the answer seems an obvious yes. Society's welfare, after all, is the sum of individuals' interests. And "in a well-planned world," notes Paul Samuelson, the Nobel-prize winning economist, "a lot of people would like to die exactly broke."
But on second look, the answer is more elusive. Americans already save far less than their counterparts in Europe and Asia. If what Mr. Samuelson calls the "inadvertent savings" of the elderly were sharply reduced, the national savings rate would be even lower.
What's good for the elderly may not be good for their grandchildren.
 
 
 
HELPFUL NUMBERS
 Following are sources of further information on reverse mortgages:
 
NEW YORK
Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, Mortgage Credit Unit (for names of all certified counseling agencies in New York providing reverse-mortgage counseling): (212) 264-0871,
 
 LONG ISLAND
Family Service Association of Nassau County, (516) 485-5600.
Suffolk County Department of the Aging, Julia Titus, (516) 853-3626.
 
 CONNECTICUT
Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development: (203) 240-4582.
Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Connecticut, (203) 233-4471.
 
 NEW JERSEY
Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development: (201) 622-7900, ext. 3417
David M. Stephens, Community Outreach Coordinator, Urban League of Essex County, N.J., (201) 746-7725.
The Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) supplies an information pamphlet on F.H.A.-insured reverse mortgages and a list of F.H.A.-insured lenders. There is no charge. Call (800) 7-FANNIE.
The American Association of Retired Persons offers an extensive list of reverse-mortgage lenders (including privately insured lenders), along with agencies in many states that provide counseling services to prospective borrowers. Call (202) 434-6030
The National Center for Home Equity Conversion publishes an easily understood nuts-and-bolts guide to reverse mortgages called "Retirement Income on the House" It costs $24.95. Write National Center for Home Equity Conversion, 7373 147th St. West, Suite 115, Apple Valley, Minn. 55124.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Retiree Taps The Value of Her Home -- Bernice Stuart at home in Minneapolis. She has been able to use the equity on her three-bedroom house by taking out a $40,000 reverse mortgage in the form of a $40,000 line of credit. (Steve Woit for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Carol Greifer counsels reverse-mortgage seekers in Nassau County. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 
Chart: "How a Reverse Mortgage Works" lists how a reverse mortgage works. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PHIP (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (78%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PROVIDENTIAL CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; AGED REVERSE MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); BUDGETS (76%); AGING (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); HOME PRICES (69%); EVICTION (69%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (68%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); SHERIFFS (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



799 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BROOKLYN HEIGHTS;
Keeping a Vista in the View

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

 BODY:
The view. Along with the brownstone, it is the defining quality of Brooklyn Heights, an improbable sweep of urban beauty fiercely loved and protected through years of development talk.
Now, state and local officials have taken a significant step toward preserving the neighborhood's treasured visual link to lower Manhattan. They have reached an understanding that would discourage high-rise development of five piers along 64 acres of prime waterfront. 
 But because the agreement is on guidelines, rather than on a specific plan, and because any real action is likely to be years -- and possibly governors -- away, Brooklyn Heights residents are still concerned about how much say they will have in preventing major commercial development.
Anthony Manheim, co-chairman of the Brooklyn Bridge Park Coalition, offered guarded praise about the agreement. Members of the coalition, along with Brooklyn Borough President Howard Golden and Assemblywoman Eileen C. Dugan, a Brooklyn Democrat, drew up the principles.
"The engine has been running, but the brakes have been on," Mr. Manheim said. "Now, the brakes are being released and the project is being allowed to move forward. We just hope that the focus will be more on parkland."
Spurred by economic pressures in 1992, the Port Authority was prepared to sell the dilapidated piers to private developers because the concrete slabs with hulking warehouses had become too costly to maintain. Port Authority officials wanted to devote the land to a profit-making commercial venture, like office buildings.
Local officials and residents protested bitterly, saying that such buildings would obscure their views of lower Manhattan and New York Harbor. The state Urban Development Corporation, intervening on behalf of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, halted the sale and asked the community to draw up guidelines for development.
Mr. Cuomo announced the agreement during his State of the State message on Jan. 5, saying: "The U.D.C. will take the lead in implementing a plan developed by the city and Brooklyn Borough President Golden's office and long supported by Assemblywoman Eileen Dugan to create a mixed-use development on the Brooklyn waterfront, at Piers 1 through 5."
But the Cuomo administration later admitted that the agreement involved only the guidelines, not a specific plan.
"There has always been suspicion that the Urban Development Corporation was not committed to moving forward on the project despite the fact we were able to forestall commercial development of the piers," said Alan C. Sullivan, executive deputy director of the State Department of Economic Development and chief of staff for Vincent Tese, head of the Urban Development Corporation. "The message the Governor tried to convey was that the Urban Development Corporation is in fact committed to implementing a plan to be developed by the community."
The guidelines, submitted more than a year ago, consist of 13 principles that the state must adhere to in developing the piers, including a sprawling park and low-rise development, Mr. Sullivan said.
Development of the piers is more than seven years away, he added. Meanwhile, officials are scrambling to find money for the $25 million in repairs the piers must undergo. And crucial details, like how the multimillion-dollar plan would be financed and how the piers would be acquired, are still being worked out, he said.
 LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lower Manhattan, seen from the Brooklyn Heights Promenade. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BROOKLYN HEIGHTS (NYC); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: PORTS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (88%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); 

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1994



800 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3151 words

HEADLINE: That Mess on Hudson Street;
Infrastructure Blues: When Neighborhood Improvement Becomes Neighborhood Plague

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

 BODY:
ASK people in Greenwich Village to name the best thing to happen along Hudson Street since the heavy machinery moved in two years ago, and they're likely to tell you about the chilly Sunday morning last April when Jacqueline Slivko decided she had had enough.
A backhoe was backing and bobbing on her corner -- Hudson as it trundles across Horatio -- its plaintive mechanical beeps jerking her from a deep sleep. It was 7 A.M., too early for the crew to be working, and on a weekend, no less. She called the police, who refused to respond, she said. Then she ran downstairs -- in her nightgown, according to local legend, though Ms. Slivko insists she was wearing street clothes -- and planted herself near the backhoe. Evoking, albeit in a far more parochial vein, the Chinese protester who held off a column of tanks near Tiananmen Square, Ms. Slivko remained there for more than an hour while the backhoe operator yelled at her, a construction supervisor tried to intervene and a neighbor brought her some warm gloves. 
 "It just became a typical New York City situation, which was ridiculous," says Ms. Slivko, an account manager for a small banking-technology company. She was arrested on charges of disorderly conduct, though they were later dropped amid neighborhood outrage. "When the police asked me to move, I said no, move him. He doesn't have a right to be here. I do."
Ms. Slivko's Sunday-morning stand was the crowning moment of a community fury that had been gathering since January 1992, when the city's Department of Transportation began the $23.6 million job of tearing out old trolley tracks, installing a giant water main, replacing antiquated sewer pipes and rebuilding curbs and sidewalks along the three dozen blocks of Hudson Street between Chambers and 14th Streets.
Today, just five months shy of the original deadline and after a long procession of delays -- some planned, more produced by labor strikes, subterranean surprises and the city's attempt to dismiss the contractor for falling behind on the job -- the complicated, attenuated and obstreperous reconstruction of Hudson Street is perhaps half finished. By the most generous forecasts, the street will not return to normal until the end of the year. For now, with most of the work stalled by bad weather, Hudson Street is a boulevard broken by open pits and obstructed by orange and white barricades, its paving uneven and its surface slimed with mud, a vehicular purgatory and a pedestrian hell.
The mess on Hudson Street, of course, is a catastrophe only in the narrowest terms, a plague on a neighborhood that has had the good fortune, and the money, to be spared the most harrowing urban cataclysms. Still, the entire affair is what Ms. Slivko would call "a typical New York City situation," the kind of maddening annoyance that can assault the civic, economic and emotional spirit of a community in a crescendo of small injuries.
Since the work began, bakeries, delis and boutiques accustomed to a drop-in pedestrian clientele have seen that slow to a trickle as sidewalks and corners became impassable. At places like Taylor's bakery on Hudson near West 10th Street, the regulars are regulars no more. The local cafe society has abandoned cafes that had thundering generators parked alongside them, and restaurants normally jammed at lunchtime have had customers walk out in mid-meal because of construction noise.
"For the first time in 30 years, I almost went broke," said Barry Cullen, owner of the Sazerac House, a New Orleans-style restaurant at Hudson and Charles Streets, who founded a merchants' association in desperation after seeing four other businesses fold.
St. Luke's School converted its parking lot into a drop-off area so children wouldn't have to dodge construction vehicles to get inside, then it got flooded by a broken sewer pipe.
"At this point, you give up hope because no one will say when this thing will end," said D.K. Pascarelli, who has a house on Greenwich Street, one block west. "It's just too long to have the street torn up. This was a neighborhood."
Where blame is due, it should be spread around. But while Hudson Street is far from the best project in the tortured history of New York City street repairs, it is also not the worst. And so it offers a graphic portrait of what can happen when one contractor, a half-dozen subcontractors, another half-dozen utility companies and suppliers, monitored by a handful of city agencies and Federal and state inspectors, come together around a very big hole in the ground -- especially one that has thousands of people living and working beside it.
Hudson Street also shows the potential, and the limits, of community activism and municipal public relations. And, finally, in its twists and turns and starts and stops, the story is a guide to what to expect, and how to cope, when the backhoes come to your neighborhood.
 
Great Expectations
 The reconstruction of Hudson Street began with high hopes, even though the local community board had opposed the project in 1990, arguing that other streets were more in need of attention. But the Department of Transportation pressed its case, saying heavy traffic on Hudson was wearing the street away, and went ahead.
Still, wary of the local resistance and wounded by recent public-relations disasters on 14th Street, Mosholu Parkway in the Bronx and Eastern Parkway in Brooklyn, the department resolved that this time it would be a more benevolent occupying force.
"Hudson Street was something that we went into with great expectations of this being a good project from the point of including the community, and improving control over the relationship between the contractor and the utility companies," said Lisa Daglian, a department spokeswoman.
To take care of the utilities, the department had the contractor negotiate a price for moving the lines ahead of time, instead of stopping work several times to head to the negotiating table, as had been the custom. To include the community, it printed up newsletters; the first one, issued in March 1992, cheerily declared, "Hello Everybody!" and went on to itemize what would be happening during the reconstruction. A community-liaison specialist, Kahli D. Yaba, was hired to roam the neighborhood and inform people about the project.
The first pick hit the old pavement on Jan. 6, 1992; all work was to be finished by June 1994. And for the first 10 months, work went according to plan. Holes were dug the length of the street to pull out the trolley remnants and make way for the new water main. In late November as scheduled, work stopped for the "Christmas embargo," intended to keep merchants from losing holiday business.
Shortly after workers reported back to the job in January, however, inspectors found flaws in sections of the new water pipe, manufactured by a subcontractor. "We can't put them in out of order," said Sam Sette, president of Sette Juliano, the Queens company that is the lead contractor on the job. So everything stopped until the pipe was replaced.
Mr. Cullen said the construction workers hanging around his restaurant told him they would be done working in his block by the end of February. But instead, they were outside his door until May 6. "They were there for 17 weeks," he said. "The whole thing just smelled."
By now, more than a year into the job, the Department of Transportation's communications efforts were starting to wear thin along Hudson Street.
The newsletters, people complained, did not say when certain parts of the project would start and how long they would take. And the repeated re-excavating of the street -- necessary to put in different kinds of plumbing and utilities at different stages -- caused widespread misunderstanding, despite several newsletters that said, "This means we will be coming back several times to the same block." Even the best explanations cannot smooth over the basic fact of street reconstruction, which is that most people hate it.
Last April, when Ms. Slivko confronted the backhoe, Hudson Street resembled a battle zone, residents said. And her arrest triggered a torrent of complaints, voiced at meetings of a task force assembled by Community Board 2, which includes SoHo and the West Village.
Couldn't the contractor stop his workers from leaving their lunch wrappers all over the street? Why wasn't there better lighting at night to protect people who had to navigate the wreckage on their way home? How about those rats? Couldn't there be a little more notice if the water was going to be shut off? Could they please park their trucks and other huge equipment somewhere else?
"You don't mind that the city has to be rebuilt, but somehow or other they have to do it more efficaciously," said Mr. Cullen. "The feeling you get is one of ineptitude on the part of the city."
He got no argument from his local officials.
"Things should only get to a point," said Rita Lee, district manager of Community Board 2. "It shouldn't be so horrendous that people can't live with it." A sprightly champion of the city dweller who wields her telephone in the manner of Martha Mitchell, she calls Hudson Street "a very sloppy job."
In an effort to prop up the Hudson Street economy, the neighborhood's Assemblywoman, Deborah J. Glick, asked the Dinkins administration to waive or reduce the 6 percent city surcharge on the rent businesses pay. Though her proposal was turned down, she plans to press her cause with the new administration. Ms. Glick gripes about the "deplorable" temporary paving of the street and adds, "I cannot understand how, if there is proper oversight, that is viewed as an acceptable road condition."
Oversight comes in several forms on Hudson Street: from the contractor, the Transportation Department's project manager and a resident engineer, hired by the city to make sure the work is done according to plan. Then there are the inspectors, from various city agencies, like the Department of Environmental Protection, and from the state, representing the Federal Department of Transportation, who weigh in from time to time.
"There's no getting around the fact that construction is a very intrusive operation," Ms. Daglian said. "It's always going to have an impact. We're trying to mitigate the negative effects."
The more people are affected, the more complaints you get, says Mr. Sette, the contractor. He is sympathetic, he says, to the neighborhood angst.
"You can't blame the people," he said. "They want you to get in and get out. But we're not building a watch."
 
The Spaghetti Bowl

The next delay didn't really have a lot to do with problems on Hudson Street. In July, concrete-truck drivers all over the city went on strike; a few days later, the backhoe operators followed. Once again, a disheveled quiet settled over the street.
In August, the Transportation Department and the local community board sponsored a weekend "promenade" in an effort to draw shoppers and reinvigorate local commerce. There were banners and posters and a visit by Mayor David N. Dinkins. But it flopped, Ms. Lee said, because everyone was so depressed.
Steve Kelczewski is the resident engineer for Hudson Street. He works out of a third-floor office on Harrison Street in TriBeCa, full of muddy bootprints and blueprints showing the city's subcutaneous complexities, and the job, with all of its New York nuances, has clearly taken its toll on him as well.
Ms. Lee and her constituents can take the credit for that. "When people complain to me, I always ask them, 'Did you call Steve?' " she said.
Actually, he finds the whole situation kind of puzzling.
"I've worked in lower-income areas where the people were thrilled that their neighborhood was getting fixed up," he said. "Here we hear, 'I don't drive. I don't care about Hudson Street.' "
Many of the callers ask when the job will be finished, an increasingly embarrassing question. "It's hard to project the future because of all the difficulties we encounter," Mr. Kelczewski said. "We think it will take us one week to do a block, but we get down there and find ourselves in a big spaghetti bowl and it takes us a lot longer."
Such surprises are what every reconstruction expert fears and expects on a major project like Hudson Street. While blueprints do exist for many of the utilities buried beneath the street, they are often incomplete or inaccurate. Even the advance soundings taken by workers toting arthroscopic-type equipment attached to microphones and video cameras are not totally reliable.
Chief among the surprises on this job was the discovery -- soon after the strikes ended around Labor Day -- of an orphaned oil-static network, used for high-voltage electricity. With records sparse and incomplete, Con Edison and the Transit Authority have both denied owning the network and so have refused to pay to have it moved out of the path of the water and sewer pipes, as required by city law. The dispute continues to this day, but after three months with little new work done, the Transportation Department decided to foot the bill, pending a resolution.
Another surprise was wood-encased pipes of bright green brine that run between a refrigeration plant on Gansevoort Street and the meat-packing warehouses on the Village's western edge. After a brief delay, workers went around the brine lines to preserve them.
In November, increasingly battered by public anger over the project, the city began proceedings to dismiss Sette Juliano.
"We felt he was not meeting his mandate to finish the job within the required time frame," Ms. Daglian said. "We were concerned. We had heard there was a possibility he was financially insolvent." Last month, the action was dropped, and the contractual deadline for completion was extended indefinitely. "He's assured us that he's solvent," she said. "We're going to be watching him very carefully."
But even if a contractor is in dire straits, the heavily bureaucratic bidding process makes it quicker to stick with him than start over.
"The city is its own worst enemy," said Samuel I. Schwartz, a former Deputy Transportation Commissioner and chief engineer in the department, who is now a consultant and director of the Infrastructure Institute at Cooper Union. "It reinforces bad hiring practices. One thing the city ought to do is to have its own construction crew. Then they could say, 'We're going to finish this job.' Otherwise it's at the mercy of the contractors."
 
The Road to Wisdom

The Transportation Department says it hopes to finish by December; Mr. Kelczewski thinks June 1995 is more realistic. Many people on Hudson Street feel as if the work will simply start and stop forever.
In retrospect, Ms. Daglian says, distributing more information would have been helpful: "We've certainly learned things from the Hudson Street project, about bringing the community in even earlier and having a lot of public information resources."
Around the neighborhood, there may be depression, but there is also a sense that the community's activism kept the project from flying completely out of control.
"I think they have a big job," Ms. Lee said of the Transportation Department, "and I think we did salvage it."
Work stopped again in late November, as the second Christmas embargo was observed. Now, the job is proceeding sporadically through a harsh winter. The trolley tracks are gone, but sections of the new water main have yet to be installed. Sewer pipes are partly laid, and the whole job -- covered intermittently with temporary asphalt -- awaits a final paving with 3 inches of asphalt over a 10-inch concrete base. About 150 new trees will be planted, a triangular park near Chambers Street will be renovated, and sidewalks in historic areas will be replaced with concrete tinted to match the old 19th-century bluestone.
And what, Ms. Daglian was asked, will Hudson Street ultimately look like? "Pretty much the same as it did before."
 
 
 
LIVING WITH STREET REPAIR
 Road reconstruction is reasonably democratic. At some point, nearly every New Yorker can expect to encounter it, near home, school or office. And face it, it's never pleasant. Still, there are some things you can do that may make living with it a little less unbearable.
* Generally, a community board is a sort of one-stop outlet for the mystified, frustrated and fed up. Ask to speak to the district manager. The manager and staff will, at the least, give you basic information about the project and probably make you feel that you are not the only one with a problem. They can also put you in touch with the resident engineer hired by the city to make sure the project is done without hazard or unnecessary hardship. Also worth calling: your City Council member.
* If your tap water suddenly looks like last week's coffee, you can call the Department of Environmental Protection's 24-hour hot line: (718) 699-9811.
* If the noise from the jackhammers outside drowns out anything but a shout, call the Department of Environmental Protection hot line. At night or before 7 A.M. on a weekday, a call to the local police precinct is also in order.
* If customers in your store or restaurant complain that construction has made parking impossible, call the Department of Transportation's director of customer service, Elliott Jacobson, at (212) 566-6380. He's in charge of protecting business interests. Ditto if customers complain about construction noise. Or call your local merchants' association, if there is one.
"You can really get action out of this city if you know who the players are," said Rita Lee, the district manager of Community Board 2, which includes Hudson Street. "And you have to know when to yell."
 
 
 
ALSO AROUND TOWN: WHERE THE BACKHOES ARE
 In addition to Hudson Street, the Department of Transportation has eight street-reconstruction projects under way or planned for this year. Here they are, with projected schedules and costs.
* Avenue of the Americas, Manhattan, end to end, $43 million. Started in 1990. To be completed this fall.
* Malcolm X Boulevard, Manhattan, end to end, $42 million. To begin this spring and end in the spring of 1996.
* Columbus Avenue, Manhattan, from 59th Street to 110th Street, $75 million. To begin this fall and end in the fall of 1996.
* Frawley Circle (Fifth Avenue between 109th and 111th Streets), Manhattan, $5.9 million. To begin next month and end in the summer of 1995.
* Dean and Bergen Streets, Brooklyn, $20 million. To begin this spring and end in the fall of 1996.
* Boston Road, the Bronx, $35 million. To begin this spring and end in the fall of 1996.
* Hook Creek Boulevard, Queens, $7.3 million. To begin next month and end in the fall of 1995.
* Sayres Avenue, Queens, $5.6 million. To begin this spring and end in the fall of 1995.

GRAPHIC: Photos: 'When the police asked me to move, I said no, move him . He doesn't have a right to be here. I do.' -- JACQUELINE SLIVKO, Neighborhood Resident. 'You don't mind that the city has to be rebuilt, but somehow or other they have to do it more efficaciously.' -- BARRY CULLEN, Owner, Sazerac House. 'We think it will take us one week to do a block, but we get down there and find ourselves in a big spaghetti bowl and it takes us a lot longer.' -- STEVE KELCZEWSKI, Resident engineer (pg. 12); The repair of Hudson Street is only half done. Workers replaced sewer pipes at Duane Street. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Diagram: "Under the Pavement" shows a cross-section of Hudson Street. (Source: New Youk City Department of Transportation)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HUDSON STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: STREETS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); ARRESTS (70%); STRIKES (68%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1994

 
