

201 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: Arabic-Speaking Pop Stars Spread the Joy 

BYLINE:  By JON PARELES 

 BODY:
Half a dozen languages drifted across a music studio in West Chelsea last week. Hakim, a singer from Egypt, was sharing a duet with Olga Tanon from Puerto Rico, their voices rising and twining as they traded verses in Arabic and Spanish, while the Palestinian oud player Simon Shaheen plucked hints of flamenco. Khaled, from Algeria, had finished rehearsing John Lennon's "Imagine" with Noa, an Israeli singer. Youssou N'Dour, from Senegal, had just arrived. 
 It was the dress rehearsal for last Friday's World Economic Forum music showcase, overseen by Quincy Jones. It was also a rightfully polyglot preamble to a long-delayed tour that will take Hakim and Khaled, with Mr. Shaheen sitting in, to theaters across the United States and Canada. The New York show, this Friday at the Beacon Theater, had originally been scheduled for Sept. 16. 
 Khaled and Hakim are major stars in their home countries and in Arabic-speaking communities from Paris to Brooklyn, which is where Hakim recorded a jubilant concert last year for his most recent album, "The Lion Roars: Live in America." Each singer has merged the North African music he grew up on -- rai (which means opinion) for Khaled, shaabi (of the people) for Hakim -- with an international assortment of rhythms and instruments that reflect and reach out to the wider world. "Technology is not just for making weapons and bombs," Hakim said in Arabic after the rehearsal, speaking through a translator. 
When air travel was halted on Sept. 11, the singers and their 33 musicians -- about to fly in from Egypt, Algeria, and France -- were among the thousands of passengers who could not reach New York. Their first American concert together had been scheduled for Sept. 13 in Washington, and tour stops were expecting full houses. 
The tour was a sign of growing Western interest in music from the Arabic-speaking world. Dance music and hip-hop producers have long been sampling music from North Africa and the Middle East, and Sting's hit "Desert Rose" featured guest vocals from the Algerian rai singer Cheb Mami. While Western pop was dipping into their music, singers from North Africa and the Middle East were devising their own fusions, working with European and American producers to annex funk, reggae, rock and electronica. 
Last year American labels, including Putumayo World Music, Stern's, Six Degrees and Ark 21/Mondo Melodia (the label that represents Khaled, Hakim and Mr. Shaheen), released albums of Arabic-language pop. The cover headline on the Aug. 11 issue of Billboard, the music-business barometer, was "Arabic Music Moves West." 
Then came Sept. 11. The tour went into limbo. Even if they could have gotten to the United States, Khaled and Hakim would have considered their upbeat music inappropriate during the 30-day Muslim mourning period. But they did not want the tour to be another casualty of Sept. 11. 
"The extremists are a select group of bad people," Khaled said through a translator. "We are not what Americans have seen of these extremists who are covered from head to toe and who preach this completely monastic life. We drink, we party, we live, just like everybody else."
Concert promoters remained eager to present the tour. "A lot of them, from a pure business standpoint, said there were people who wanted to see this music, so let's put it on at a more appropriate time," said Miles Copeland, president of Ark 21. After Sept. 11, he said, more Americans became curious about Islamic culture. "It's one of those curious times when negatives become positives," he said. "The Koran started selling like hot cakes. Arabic lessons sold out. And we certainly saw interest in the music increase. This has added another dimension. There's now a political significance to this tour."
Both Khaled and Hakim have had cosmopolitan ambitions from the start. Khaled, widely recognized as the king of rai, is a pivotal figure in the music: the singer and songwriter who carried rai from the privacy of parties to the public realm of recordings and broadcasts. But rai's ascent eventually brought grim consequences.
Rai arose in Oran, Algeria, a Mediterranean seaport where Arabic, European and Jewish music were in the air. The songs were plainspoken and uninhibited, most often sung at weddings at which the singer could improvise bawdy lyrics about love and drinking. By the end of the 60's rai was already mixing its traditional flutes and drums with accordion, piano and bongos; influences from Spain and Morocco mingled with Algerian melodies. 
Khaled (whose last name is Brahim) was born in 1960 and started his first group, the Five Stars -- "like the Jackson 5," he said with a laugh -- when he was 10, singing on the streets for spending money. He was 14 when a record producer discovered him and recorded a song, "Trigue Lycee," that expressed teenage perspectives on girl watching and skipping school. At a time when approved Algerian pop was circumspect -- never mentioning a woman by name, for instance -- Khaled was determined to speak openly.
"What really propelled everything I did was that I wasn't going to fall for hypocrisy," he said. "If I wanted to say the name of the girl, or say I didn't like school, or anything about what was happening in my day-to-day life, I was going to sing about it, and I wasn't going to let anybody stop me. The thing that bothered me the most was that they would play this music at weddings, but it was never allowed on to be spread through the television or the radio."
Khaled's first recordings were 45-r.p.m. singles, but in the mid-70's cassette tapes transformed rai. Suddenly music could be recorded and distributed cheaply, and singers and producers proliferated, meshing rai melodies with tinny electric keyboards and ad hoc combinations of Western and Arabic instruments.
A generation of pop-rai singers emerged, most taking the honorific Cheb (for men) or Chaba (for women), which means young. Government radio stations ignored their music, worried that it might incite debauchery. Yet cassette distribution made Cheb Khaled and Chaba Fadela full-fledged recording stars. By the 80's, when fans were writing letters to broadcasters demanding to hear the music, rai finally made its way to Algerian radio and television. And in 1985 Cheb Khaled organized the first official Festival of Rai in Algeria. A year later Algerians in Paris sponsored a rai festival there.
But the political situation in Algeria was deteriorating. Khaled left for France in 1986, in part to escape mandatory military service. "They said that if you went in the army, Khaled, all the young boys would want to serve, too, just like Elvis Presley," he recalled. By 1988, when Algeria was racked by riots, many other rai stars had left the country.
A fundamentalist regime took over Algeria's government in the early 90's, imposing harsh restrictions. "They would tell people that it was the music of the devil, of Satan," Khaled said. During the 90's factions carried out random killings. One rai singer, Cheb Hasni, accepted an offer to return and perform at a stadium in 1994. Afterward members of the Armed Islamic Group shot him dead, reportedly because he let girls kiss him on the cheek during the televised concert. 
"We kept the music alive in other countries," Khaled said. In 1992 his "Didi," with a strong funk undercurrent, became an international hit. Expatriates like Cheb Mami and a generation of rai singers born in France have produced a glossier, more worldly version of rai.
Under its current government, Algeria has become more hospitable to rai. An 8 p.m. curfew has been lifted, and cabarets have reopened in Oran "every 200 meters," Khaled said. An Algerian rose wine has been named Cuvee Khaled, and he has gone back to play stadium shows. "They look at me as the treasure of Algeria now," he said. 
Hakim's music, shaabi, could be a cousin of rai: another streetwise homegrown style with a pop makeover. Songs often begin with a mournful vocal improvisation called the mawal before leaping into melodies with a galloping beat. In early years shaabi's irreverence and amorous metaphors sometimes faced censorship; lately it has been accepted as mainstream Egyptian pop.
Hakim is part of shaabi's modern generation. After singing in shaabi groups as a teenager, he earned a degree in communications before defying his parents to go back into music. In the early 90's he became one of the first shaabi singers to add electric instruments to the traditional drums, flutes and violin. "For me it was a musical challenge, and I didn't care if it was going to succeed," he said. "I was 99 percent sure I was not going to make it, but I succeeded 101 percent." 
Hakim most often sings about love and longing. His favorite among his current songs is a letter from an expatriate son to the mother he dearly misses. But a listener who does not speak Arabic might not notice the sadness of the words. 
"I sing everything with happiness," Hakim said. "Some of my songs, with the words that I sing, I could have tears in my eyes, but I will be dancing at the same time. We came to this world to be happy and peaceful and not to fight. So we are here to make people happy, and to make them understand that there is hope and life." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hakim, left, and Khaled are big recording stars in their home countries. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. E3); Khaled, left, from Algeria, and Hakim, from Egypt, are touring North America. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); RECORD RELEASES (73%); MUSIC GENRES (73%); RAP MUSIC (73%); RECORD INDUSTRY (72%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (72%) MUSIC; ARABS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%) WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM 

PERSON: JONES, QUINCY; PARELES, JON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); ALGERIA (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (90%); ISRAEL (90%); SENEGAL (79%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



202 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2086 words

HEADLINE: This Time, Chocolate Takes a Powder 

BYLINE:  By REGINA SCHRAMBLING 

 BODY:
COCOA has always had an image problem.
 For years it was considered the poor substitute for chocolate, the pallid powder that needed major help from margarine and still could not produce a decent brownie. Then it became scorned as the low-fat but sad alternative to chocolate used by so many pastry chefs during the recent reign of nutrition terror. It even lost its cachet as a hot drink once it was replaced by melted Callebaut and cream. 
 But lately cocoa has been turning up on all the best shelves. High-end chocolate producers like Val rhona, Christopher Norman and Fauchon now make cocoa powders that leave Hershey's in the dust. I first noticed the phenomenon a couple of years ago in France, where every good chocolatier sells bags of cocoa, but lately even supermarkets here carry Ghirardelli alongside the Nestle's and the house brand. Natural food stores known for carob now offer a choice in cocoa: organic Ah!laska or Green & Black's Fairtrade Organic Cocoa. 
Last week, in a whirlwind of shopping and baking, I was able to buy and try no fewer than 15 varieties. I made shortbread, muffins, two kinds of cookies and many cakes, using powders that cost as little as $2.50 and as much as $16 for about half a pound.
What I found would surprise any baker accustomed to starting a dessert recipe by melting a pound of pricey chocolate with a stick or two of equally extravagant butter. Cocoa, even inexpensive cocoa, has a deep, dark intensity of flavor and an amazing versatility that even the best brands of 77 percent cacao chocolate lack. It cannot replace chocolate. But in recipes designed to make the most of its sharp taste and chemical capabilities, nothing works better than cocoa.
Some brands, particularly La Maison du Chocolat and Fauchon, are so thick and rich that they almost turn into ganache if you do nothing more than blend them with sugar and a little water. They are far too strong just to brew into hot chocolate, but then most of these new cocoas do not seem to be intended for something so common. There are dozens of other, lesser cocoas for that, the kind mixed with sugar, powdered milk and unknown flavorings. The best cocoa for baking is just cocoa.
The explosion in the cocoa category is all the more surprising considering how completely the powder fell out of favor in the age of excess that followed the era of fat fears, as Americans traded Snackwells for molten chocolate cakes. Death by chocolate was not going to come in powdered form. If a pastry chef picked up a container of cocoa at all, it was only to dredge chocolate truffles or sift over tiramisu. Today, cookbooks by pastry wizards like Claudia Fleming do not even mention cocoa in the index.
But in their rush to melt high-quality chocolate in increasingly extravagant quantities, chefs and recipe writers lost touch with a remarkable ingredient. It was as if they had abandoned mushrooms after discovering black truffles. One is not better than the other. They just have to be treated differently.
Maury Rubin, the owner of City Bakery, acknowledges that several versions of his deep, dark, rich cookies are made with cocoa. Combined with chocolate, it creates an intensity neither component can provide on its own. And even at the high-priced end of the spectrum, it is an extremely economical addition to a baker's bag of tricks. As little as a tablespoon can flavor a dessert.
Chefs brave enough to admit they use cocoa tend to sing its praises in florid terms. Amy Scherber, the owner of Amy's Breads, said Valrhona in particular adds a special color and depth to baked goods. "You get a chocolatey chocolate flavor," she said.
Richard Chirol, a French-trained pastry chef, agreed in explaining why he uses cocoa lavishly in pear tarts and other desserts at Musette, a takeout shop on Third Avenue (19th Street). "It's like you get two different flavors," he said. "For some reason, cocoa leaves more bitterness in the mouth." And that's a good thing.
But in my experience, cocoa does more than intensify flavor and sharpen edges. It also creates a moist, perfect crumb in a cake, a crisp bite in a cookie. Ms. Scherber likens it to "black flour." As it blends into dry ingredients, it transforms the results no less than baking powder does.
The big lie of baking is that three tablespoons of cocoa powder combined with one tablespoon of fat can replace an ounce of chocolate. Every basic cookbook repeats it, but I learned at any early age that Betty Crocker was fooling. Nothing replicates the richness of chocolate.
Cocoa works best in recipes that are designed for it. Buttermilk brings out its tanginess, and the two combine to produce a springy texture in a cake. Even something as simple as the classic Amazon, or black-bottom, cake found in so many cookbooks uses no dairy products or eggs, only vegetable oil and vinegar with cold water. The cocoa reacts to the combination to produce the darkest, moistest cake seen outside the photo on a box of mix.
Some cocoas, particularly the dark, strong ones from Fauchon and La Maison du Chocolat, are vital in a recipe like a crisp shortbread or plain cookie in which the chocolate flavor is all important. But you can fudge if the cookie or cake recipe calls for a tiny bit of real chocolate, or chocolate chips, and use a lesser brand. The whole will be greater than the chips.
Until last week, I always thought the type of cocoa made a difference. I had switched to Droste, a Dutch brand, about 18 years ago after discovering how much better it worked in baking than Hershey's, which has a harshness that no amount of sugar can temper. Now the cocoas on the market are almost evenly divided between Dutch style and natural, like Hershey's.
Step 1 of producing any cocoa powder is always the same: after cocoa butter is extracted from cacao, the pods are pressed again to make a cake with no fat, just flavor. What happens next separates the sharp from the mellow. If the cake is just converted into a powder, it is considered natural and has a more aggressive, unadulterated chocolate taste. If it is first Dutched, or treated with an alkali like potassium carbonate (similar to sodium bicarbonate), the color and flavor are enhanced. Alkalization makes a mellow cocoa, but it can also be a way of camouflaging inferior cocoa beans.
Not all labels disclose the processing, but you can guess a brand is natural if the box says "100 percent cocoa." Many either say Dutch process or list alkali as an ingredient.
Some of the newly available cocoas have a powerful chocolate taste even though no alkali is involved. But the Dutched varieties are almost uniformly exceptional. In particular, I could discern no difference in texture, taste or color between a cake baked with Valrhona natural and one made with Master Choice alkalized cocoa, a house brand from Food Emporium for less than half the price.
Chefs tend to use Valrhona. Amy Scherber adds it to her dough for chocolate bread for Valentine's Day because it contributes chocolate flavor without any sweetness; the contrast is that much sharper when she kneads chocolate chunks in.
At Payard on the Upper East Side, Francois Payard uses cocoa as a flavoring agent in the crisp phyllo dough that forms the foundation for napoleons and mille-feuilles layered with chocolate mousse. He said he liked the "crunch and bitterness" the cocoa added. It's like the dusting of cocoa powder seen on so many dessert plates, but it lets a diner savor the flavor as much as the effect.
Wayne Harley Brachman, who is famous for pulling dessert ideas out of a 50's oven, simply likes how cocoa performs in his respectfully retro creations. As consulting pastry chef at the new Lawrence Scott Restaurant on the Upper East Side, he uses it as the foundation of the chocolate pudding that is in turn the base of his banana cream pie. He also mixes it into the mocha filling for his mocha icebox cake. But he said his biggest revelation came when he tried it in ice cream, after finally reading the label on Haagen-Dazs chocolate and realizing that it was cocoa, not chocolate, that contributed the singularly intense taste and texture.
Mr. Brachman also pointed out that cocoa has a huge advantage over chocolate for a home cook because it is simply so easy to work with. No melting is required, only a little sifting at most. It will never seize up or turn bitter as chocolate can.
Those are no small virtues, but to me there's one more advantage. Cocoa is tidier. Chocolate leaves a kitchen looking like a crime scene. After working with cocoa, you only need to dust.

CHOCOLATE QUAKES
Adapted from "Got Milk? The Cookie Book" by Peggy Cullen (Chronicle Books, 2000)
Time: 30 minutes, plus 1 hour's chilling

3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1/2 cup sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
3 tablespoons cocoa, preferably Dutch process
1/2 cup flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup finely ground pecans or almonds
1/4 cup semisweet chocolate chips
About 3/4 cup confectioners' sugar.
1. In a medium bowl using an electric mixer, beat the butter, sugar, egg and vanilla on low speed until pale yellow in color and thickened, about 1 minute. Sift the cocoa, flour, baking powder and salt into the bowl, and mix on low speed until incorporated. Fold in the nuts and chocolate chips. 
2. Cover, and chill until dough is firm enough to handle, about 1 hour.
3. Heat oven to 350 degrees. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or foil. Place confectioners' sugar in a medium bowl.
3. Form the chilled dough into 1-inch balls. Place in confectioners' sugar, and roll to coat completely. Place on a baking sheet, leaving about 1 1/2 inches between each cookie. Bake 12 minutes, or until the cookies are puffed and the sugared surfaces have cracked apart. The centers will appear underdone. Remove from the oven and let sit for 5 minutes, then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.
Yield: About 2 dozen.

CHOCOLATE BANANA CREAM PIE
Adapted from Wayne Harley Brachman
Time: 30 minutes, plus about 2 hours for cooling and refrigerating the pie filling

For the filling:

4 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1/4 cup unsweetened Dutch process cocoa
1/2 cup sugar
2 1/2 cups milk
1 large egg
2 large egg yolks.

For the pie:

1 prebaked 9-inch pie shell or 9 1/2-inch tart shell
2 ripe bananas, peeled and sliced 1/4 inch thick
1/2 cup confectioners' sugar
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa
2 cups heavy cream.
1. Prepare the filling: Using a microwave oven or double boiler, melt together the chocolate and the butter. In a medium bowl, combine the cornstarch, cocoa and 1/4 cup of sugar. Add 1/4 cup of the milk, and stir to blend. Add the eggs and yolks, and whisk until smooth.
2. In a medium saucepan, combine the remaining 2 1/4 cups milk and the remaining 1/4 cup sugar. Place over medium heat until scalded. Slowly drizzle the milk into the cocoa mixture, stirring gently with a whisk to blend the mixture without aerating it.
3. Return the mixture to the saucepan, and cook over medium heat until tiny bubbles boil up for 3 seconds. Remove from the heat, and strain into a clean bowl. Add the melted chocolate mixture, and stir until thoroughly blended. Place wax paper directly on the surface of the pudding and let cool at room temperature 1 hour, then refrigerate until completely chilled.
4. To assemble, spoon half the pudding into the baked pie shell (reserve the remainder for another use, or eat it plain). Arrange the banana slices evenly and decoratively over the top. Sift the confectioners' sugar and cocoa together into a bowl, and add the heavy cream; mix well. Whip until the cream is the consistency of shaving cream. Spoon over the bananas in the pie shell, and serve.
Yield: One 9-inch pie (8 servings).

AMAZON CAKE
Adapted from "Cafe Beaujolais" by Margaret Fox and John S. Bear (Ten Speed Press, 1984)
Time: 40 minutes

1 1/2 cups flour
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
5 tablespoons corn oil
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
1 tablespoon cider vinegar
Confectioners' sugar.
Heat the oven to 350 degrees. Whisk together the flour, cocoa, baking soda, sugar and salt. In a separate bowl, whisk together the oil, vanilla and vinegar with 1 cup cold water. Whisk in the dry ingredients, blending until completely lump-free. Pour into a greased 9-inch round cake pan. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, or until the top springs back when pressed gently. Cool before removing from the pan and dusting with confectioners' sugar, or frosting if desired.
Yield: 6 to 8 servings.

GRAPHIC: Photos: REVISIONIST PASTRY -- A mocha icebox cake at Lawrence Scott Restaurant is flavored by cocoa and served with halvah whipped cream. (Michael Rogol for The New York Times)(pg. F6); A BIT BITTER -- At Payard, cocoa flavors the phyllo dough of a mille-feuille with chocolate mousse. (Michael Rogol for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (89%); CONFECTIONERY (79%); OILS & FATS (78%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (78%); BAKED GOODS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (76%); FLAVORANTS (69%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (54%) CHOCOLATE; COCOA; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: MARS INC (92%); NESTLE SA (56%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (56%)

PERSON: SCHRAMBLING, REGINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (56%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



203 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1948 words

HEADLINE: A Taste Of the Town, Or Letdown City? 

BYLINE:  By AMANDA HESSER 

 BODY:
SMITH & WOLLENSKY, the steakhouse, is not a place I would usually choose for lunch. But it was Restaurant Week, and for $20.02, it seemed the perfect time to try it.
 "Here you go, young lady," the waiter said as he handed me the menu, clearly angling for a good tip. He was off to a good start. 
 Three courses later, I left, having paid $58. How, you ask? The add-ons. I ordered a $9 side of sauteed spinach with my lonely fillet. I had a $5.25 cup of coffee and a $10.75 glass of wine, the cheapest red on the list. 
Then I stomped back to work. 
It was the beginning of an odyssey shared by thousands of New Yorkers, who descend on the city's restaurants during Restaurant Week. Forget the World Economic Forum. Commerce and traffic more likely slowed over the last week because diners were skipping out of work and filling up the restaurants offering $20.02 lunches and $30.02 dinners. Many diners, foodies and novices alike, are taking advantage of the two-week promotion, which ends Friday, trying restaurants they couldn't normally afford or wouldn't want to dole out $100 to try. And the restaurants are showing off, trying to convert the newcomers into full paying devotees. 
That's the theory, at least. And it is so popular that other cities, including London and San Francisco, have begun their own Restaurant Week. And New York restaurants like Gotham Bar and Grill and Nougatine have adopted the $20.02 lunch formula year round.
But while I listened to other diners recall each exquisite course at Chanterelle, my batting average plummeted. This year, the 10th anniversary of Restaurant Week, I set out to dine at as many places as I could, to see what $20.02 would buy. I had 156 restaurants to choose from, up from about 100 the first year. The range of experiences was stunning. 
There were menus, like the one at San Domenico, that seemed to have nothing in common with the regular menu or the style of the chef. There were schemes that managed to double and even triple the menu price. At Nougatine, a request for chardonnay brought a $14 glass of wine. More than once, I got the eye roll from waiters when I asked for the $20.02 menu and had my courses slung at me as if at a diner.
But I was also delighted. A restaurant I had dismissed as passe was transformed before my eyes as I savored a splendid lunch. Another, which I had considered a tourist trap, presented a sensible and delicious menu.
It took me a few tries, however, before I reached such high notes. On the way to my table at Michael Jordan's: The Steak House in Grand Central Terminal, I commented to the hostess how pleasant it must be to work in such a beautiful space. "It just pays my bills," she told me. "I don't get all psyched up about it." I was, however, psyched up about my meal. I was hungry. A friend and I began with chopped salad with corn, peas and a tomato vinaigrette. Only it had that sad leaf quality of a salad forgotten in the hot sun. Sauteed halibut was pleasant, with tender slivers of eggplant beneath the fish, but I was distracted by my friend's filet mignon sandwich. Could I trust a steakhouse that serves a flavorless cut like filet mignon as its special? Dessert answered that. A single scoop of tangerine sorbet arrived in a giant round bowl. I peered in, and it reminded me of a pebble at the bottom of a well. 
It made me think of what Tim Zagat, a founder of Restaurant Week, said. "It's in the interest of the restaurant to do it well," he said. "If the restaurant goes cheap, the restaurant is just damaging its own image."
Indeed. Next time, I'll buy a hot dog and take in the view from the terminal steps.
I forged onward. I hadn't yet spent what I might have at just one expensive restaurant on a normal night. Which is exactly what Restaurant Week is about. 
Restaurant Week grew out of a 1992 promotion meant to impress the thousands of delegates and journalists who came to New York for the Democratic National Convention. Joe Baum, then the owner of the Rainbow Room, and Mr. Zagat, forged the plan. "A lot of restaurants were shocked that someone would ask them to do a meal for $19," Mr. Zagat said. "We explained that it was just for four days." The response was nothing they ever expected. After an advertisement in The New York Times announced the event, restaurants drowned in calls for reservations, not from visiting delegates, but from New Yorkers. Bouley received more than 2,000 calls in a single day.
It was such a success that Restaurant Week became an annual event and eventually a biannual event to boost business in the slow weeks of summer and winter. This year, after the attacks on the World Trade Center, a third week was added in October, to bolster restaurants whose business had nearly halted. In many cases, it worked.
"What it really turned out to be," Mr. Zagat said, "was a kind of insurance policy for people from getting burned when they go to a fancy restaurant. It was saying you could walk in and out with dignity for $20."
It's also a chance to compare apples with apples, said Danny Meyer, the owner of restaurants like Gramercy Tavern and Tabla, and the director of the restaurant committee at NYC & Company, the convention and visitors bureau, which organizes the promotion. "For the same price, for the same amount of courses," he said, "you get an expert's view of how a restaurant approaches cooking, hospitality and service."
The restaurants must be invited by NYC & Company -- they cannot volunteer. The restaurants are chosen by Mr. Zagat and a committee of five restaurateurs: Mr. Meyer, Rita Jammet of La Caravelle, Steve Hanson of Ruby Foo's, Tony May of San Domenico and Tracy Nieporent of the Myriad Restaurant Group. The criteria, Mr. Meyer said, are quality and diversity.
For the restaurants chosen, Mr. Meyer said, "It's almost impossible to make money at $20.02 -- 1992 to 2002 does not represent the rate of inflation. If it was a good deal in 1992, it's a stupendous deal now."
Such is the case at Gotham Bar and Grill, where you almost feel guilty for the deal you get. I went to Gotham for a simple reason. Its fashionable days are past, and I wasn't sure I wanted to spend $85 on a meal there. Now I will. 
There were two choices for each course. Their Caesar salad came as it always has, in a generous portion with the inner romaine leaves slicked with a garlicky dressing and stacked on top of one another like logs. The soup was a hearty celery root puree. In the center of the bowl was a small pile of braised short ribs ringed with thin swirls of olive oil. Pappardelle with duck sausage and broccoli rape was a spray of color with bits of carrot, green broccoli rape, dark green herbs and pink pieces of duck. It was sweet, bitter and a touch spicy. The salmon lay on a fluffy pillow of potato puree. Slices of leek, mushrooms and carrot filled in the gaps. Desserts, especially chocolate cake with espresso ice cream, silenced us and made me sorry I had agreed to share. 
Perhaps better than the food was the deal on wine. For $20.02 more, you may choose 3 wines from a list of 10 to match your meal. For mine, that included a 1997 Zind-Humbrecht Muscat Gueberschwihr Goldert, normally $78 a bottle, and a 1996 Verset Cornas from the Rhone Valley, which would have cost $62 a bottle (The reds included a valpolicella from a $105 bottle or a $110 Corison cabernet sauvignon). That kind of special could keep me coming daily, if I didn't have a job to keep.
Our waiter didn't flinch when we ordered the $20.02 menu and never urged us to hurry. When we were ready to leave, he packed up our extra petits fours.
At this time of year, filling a restaurant for lunch is a distinct challenge -- something readily apparent as I marched into Artisanal. The restaurant was just half full. It took almost my entire meal to get bread delivered to my table, but in the meantime, many delicious dishes arrived. There was raclette with bacon and fingerling potatoes, speckled with flakes of sea salt. And chicken paillard, branded with grill marks, with a chestnut dressing. It looked like a crepe covering the plate. For a moment, the idea of being able to dine on a well-prepared old-fashioned dish like this was moving. Restaurant Week and its good intentions made their imprint. 
The next day, I was back in the ring, fighting for a spot at Rock Center Cafe, which hummed along, with lines of people waiting for tables. I was led to one in the center of the room, right in front of the windows by the skating rink. I was handed a regular menu, and when I asked for the Restaurant Week menu, the waiter paused, suspicious. "Did you specify Restaurant Week when you reserved?" 
"No," I said. And, of course, I wouldn't have. Had I, given this reaction, I might not have gotten a prime table. It's something I encountered all week long. Many restaurants quietly discourage you from ordering by not letting you know they have these menus. As a result, at restaurants like Rock Center Cafe, an average of only 15 percent of guests order from the Restaurant Week menu. 
Experienced Restaurant Week diners told me they often order from the prix-fixe menu anyway or order an expensive bottle of wine. But it is difficult to feel such liberty when you sense the restaurant is hiding something from you. Meanwhile, at Gramercy Tavern, it is the only menu you are offered and you have six appetizers, six entrees and six desserts to choose from. The only problem is that you can't get in unless you speed-dial the morning the ad appears in the paper.
Still, my lunch at Rock Center Cafe was quite good. I made my way through a large fluffy salad with celery, fennel and tender pieces of roasted tomato, while an ice show unfolded before me. Then there were short penne, called bomboloni, huddled in a bowl under a light, sweet Bolognese with tiny cubes of beef. I chose it over roasted salmon and roasted Amish chicken. There was Key lime pie, chocolate mousse parfait and apple crumb cake for dessert.
By the time I went to One C.P.S. in the Plaza, I was unafraid to ask for the menu. In a brazen moment, I mentioned to a man sitting alone that there was a special $20.02 menu they weren't telling him about. He nodded and smiled in the careful, controlled manner of someone trying both to appease and dismiss a crazy person on the subway. (He ordered lamb chops and a creme brulee and left.) 
Given my lunch -- onion soup with an impenetrable bulge of cheese on top, a salade nicoise that was plenty for four and creme brulee, which came out completely cold -- perhaps he knew better. 
My last lunch was at Patria. After I ordered scallops ceviche for my appetizer, it arrived so quickly I wondered if the cook were telepathic. Ceviche takes a few minutes to marinate, for the citrus to "cook" the scallops. What I got was something more like prefab ceviche, delivered less than a minute after ordering. 
A similar thing happened at San Domenico, where after I asked for the Restaurant Week menu, which offered no choices, it was delivered to our table in a cafeteria style rush.
The food, however, was good. Next, I got a piece of mahi-mahi, perfectly cooked, perched on top of a circle of coconut rice with dabs of chimichurri sauce. The plate was blue-green glass, and the fish and rice took up such a small part of it that they looked like an atoll in the middle of the sea. I ate every last drop of my dessert -- chocolate cake on skewers, which you dip into a hazelnut sauce. An hour later, I was ready for dinner. 
These are quibbles, of course. But I am not quibbling when I mention that the coffee I ordered with my dessert cost $6. 
For $20, you can become a regular. But for just $6, you can become a detractor spreading the bad word.

GRAPHIC: Photo: THREE COURSES, $20.02 -- Gotham Bar and Grill's celery-root puree, roast salmon and cake. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. F3) Drawing (Peter Horjus)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); MENU PRICES (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) RESTAURANTS 

COMPANY: SMITH & WOLLENSKY RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%) MICHAEL JORDAN'S STEAK HOUSE (NYC RESTAURANT); GOTHAM BAR AND GRILL (MANHATTAN RESTAURANT); ARTISANAL (NYC RESTAURANT); ROCK CENTER CAFE (NYC RESTAURANT); ONE CPS (NYC RESTAURANT); PATRIA (NYC RESTAURANT) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: HESSER, AMANDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



204 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Economic Reports Bolster Caution by Fed 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Factory orders rose 1.2 percent in December, bolstering recent evidence that manufacturing may be poised for a recovery. But a separate survey showed that growth in the service sector stalled in January.
 Together, the data helped solidify a view outlined by the Federal Reserve last week, when it left interest rates unchanged, that despite hopeful signs of improvement in recent months, there are significant risks of further economic weakness. 
 "There are still major risks to the U.S. economy as today's data clearly show," said Drew Matus, financial economist at Lehman Brothers. "We expect the Fed will remain on hold throughout most of the year."
The Commerce Department said yesterday that factory orders climbed to $322.2 billion, after a revised 4.3 percent decline in November. It was the second rise in the last three months and was mostly in line with forecasts.
Transportation equipment orders had the largest gains, rising 3.6 percent, to $49.8 billion, largely because of increased orders for missiles, space vehicles and parts.
Orders for computers and electronics parts were up strongly, gaining 3.1 percent in December, to $33.2 billion, bolstered by a 12.7 percent rise in orders for semiconductors.
In a hopeful sign for future production, inventories fell 0.6 percent in December, to $448.8 billion.
The outlook for the service sector, however, dimmed somewhat last month. 
The Institute for Supply Management, formerly the National Association of Purchasing Management, said yesterday that its nonmanufacturing index edged lower to a reading of 49.6 in January from a revised 50.1 in December. That followed two consecutive months of increases. Economists had forecast a rise to 52.
A reading below 50 indicates contraction in the services sector, which includes everything from transportation to legal and financial services. The institute's more closely watched manufacturing index has been mired below 50 for the last year and a half, but rallied to 49.9 in January, spurring recovery hopes.
Another report from the outplacement firm of Challenger, Gray & Christmas showed that layoff announcements surged 32 percent, to 212,704 in January from 161,584 in December, raising concerns a recent stabilization in first-time unemployment claims could to be fleeting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); INVENTORIES (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (61%); INTEREST RATES (57%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT; CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



205 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: After Closing, Longing for the Old School 

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS 

DATELINE: ARMONK, N.Y., Feb. 5 

 BODY:
There was considerable strife in affluent Armonk when, in the 1980's, the Byram Hills Central School District decided to sell the Bear Ridge School, one of its three elementary schools. A big notion held the day: the district's enrollment was declining and the decline would not reverse itself in the foreseeable future.
 And so the 23,500-square-foot school on 15 hilly, leafy acres was sold to the Y.M.-Y.W.H.A. for $2 million. The sale closed in 1987, right about the time when the district's population began to cycle back up. In the past 10 years, in fact, enrollment has risen every single year, and many times the $2 million made from the sale of Bear Ridge has been spent to add back the space that was sold, leaving a legacy of raw feelings. 
 "Anyone with any sort of vision or brains," said Merril Sobie, who sent two children through the district, "could have seen that all that open land in Armonk would be built on and the school district's population would eventually go back up." 
Armonk has not been alone in its botched forecast. Other suburbs in Westchester County -- as well as ones across the country and in cities like New York, which sold off 65 school buildings in the fiscally painful 1970's, have been proven embarrassingly and expensively wrong after they shuttered or sold off schools that seemed unneeded.
While the decision to shutter, sell or build a school is often the biggest emotional and economic decision in the life of a community, it is often made on little more than a hunch.
The process casts the district's superintendent, a career educator, in the unlikely role of real estate mogul, a job for which he may have no training.
"You have this local guy, and he's trying to do his job, but as he's doing it, he has to read the tea leaves of all these national trends," said Dr. Saul Cooperman, the former commissioner of education for New Jersey and author of "How Schools Really Work: Practical Advice for Parents From an Insider" (Open Court Publishing Company).
A sense must be developed for birth rates, housing starts, economic trends, everything, Dr. Cooperman added, "right down to the question of how many old Coopermans are going to move out of the community and how many new Coopermans will move in."
Intuiting such matters, "five years out is always a cinch. But 10 to 15?" Dr. Cooperman laughed. "It ain't easy."
And then there are the school boards. "Politics can get very devious," Dr. Cooperman said.
He said there are plenty of sincere school board members everywhere who have legitimate concerns that the old buildings in question are "dogs" and will drain their district financially. There is also a healthy supply of board members who have political ambitions and want to avoid raising school taxes in the short term, no matter what the costs might be later on.
As the population grew in the suburban ring around New York City during the 1950's and 1960's, school growth followed. But by 1974, when Dr. Cooperman sat for an interview to be superintendent of schools in Madison, N.J., the district's population had been decreasing for several years. "During my interview, the board told me that the Green Village Road School was way under functional capacity, so I said, 'Why haven't you closed it?' They smiled and said they were waiting for the new superintendent to give his view."
Thomas Maguire was the superintendent of the Byram Hills Central School District at the time of the Bear Ridge sale. "It was a good decision at the time," said Mr. Maguire in a recent interview. "We might have held onto the property, if we could have used it for any other purpose." This was difficult, however, in a neighborhood zoned residential and faced with community opposition to many other uses. "The building would have had to just sit there for 10 years," he said. 
When the Parkway Elementary School in Greenwich, Conn., which was built in 1959, was closed in June 1981, enrollment in the Greenwich Public Schools had fallen to 8,570 students, down about 15 percent in just two years, and the district sought a buyer for the school.
"Parkway was marketed as a corporate headquarters," said John H. Spang Jr., the assistant director of business for the Greenwich School District, "but there were no takers." As a plan B, the 52,000-square-foot building, which sits on 17 acres in a prime location of town known as "backcountry Greenwich" was used by the town for everything from voting machine storage to emergency medical service space.
Holding onto the building proved to be a lucky choice. In the summer of 1990, another school in the district burned down and Parkway was brought up to code and recommissioned by fall. The major challenge:
"The lawn around the school had not been mown by the town," Mr. Spang said, and the grass "was full of snakes."
By this school year, the district's population had returned to the level it was at when Parkway was originally closed. The district is anticipating an increase to 9,469 students (from 8,800 this year) by the 2011-12 school year.
During flush economic times, schools are built and added onto with little hesitancy. In 2000, after the economic expansion of the late 1990's, for example, construction of new buildings and add-ons for elementary, middle and high schools in the United States, topped $21 billion, according to American School and University magazine, representing a doubling in such activity since 1995. .
But in slow economic climates, districts tend to scale back -- as in the era in which New York City closed the 65 buildings during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's.
"Theoretically there was still going to be enough capacity in the future," explained Noreen Connell, the executive director of the Education Priorities Panel, a coalition of 24 civic organizations that monitors schools.
Enrollment projections made when the schools were closed in the 1970's "were not based on the premise that there would be a big new wave of immigration into the city," Mrs. Connell said. But there soon was. Nor, she added, did the projection allow for the fact that new immigrants might settle in areas of the five boroughs where previous waves of immigrants had not settled before.
"Queens was always the borough of the stable, working middle class," said Mrs. Connell. 
Today, as its school system struggles with serious issues of overcrowding and a sagging economy forcing cutbacks in the capital budget, the city misses those buildings it scuttled. "Repairing a plumbing system will not increase academic achievement, but reduce overcrowding and you might," said Mrs. Connell. 
Overcrowding wasn't the problem, however, when Dr. Cooperman took that superintendent's job in Madison, so one of his first acts was to go on a "dog and pony" show to explain why the Green Village Road School should be closed. Community reaction? "They wanted to run me out on a rail," Dr. Cooperman recalled. Residents had favorite teachers, a favored principal and some had chosen their homes specifically because they were near the school. "People were saying, 'If my little Alfie can't go to that school, I'm going to move.' And some did. It was pretty darn emotional and I didn't blame the people one bit."
A quarter of a century later, the fate of the Green Village Road School is still an open question. It was closed in the mid-1970's and has been used to house a nursery school, a theater group and for other community purposes. "But it's getting more and more difficult to keep, especially in this economy," said Art Travlos, the current superintendent of Madison schools. "We've been spending a good amount of time deciding what to do with the school."
Demographic studies have been commissioned, consultants have been brought in to do comparisons of how much it would cost to renovate the building versus building a new one. And its sale value has been appraised.
"We're trying to foretell the future," Mr. Travlos said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students at Wampus Elementary School in suburban Armonk file out of a new wing built to fill growing enrollment years after the school district sold what it considered surplus classroom space. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION SIZE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); TRENDS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (75%); PARENTING (69%); WRITERS (60%); PUBLISHING (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ENROLLMENT 

PERSON: FUCHS, MAREK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) ARMONK (NY); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



206 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: CUNY, Short on Faculty, Is to End Free Term for Seniors 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
Trying to raise money to hire more full-time professors, the City University of New York plans to end a 10-year-old policy of not charging four-year college students for their last semester of school.
 The plan also calls for a new student technology fee and greater administrative and operating efficiencies. 
 CUNY abandoned its century-old policy of free tuition in the mid-1970's during New York City's fiscal crisis, and tuition for state residents is now $3,200 a year at the four-year colleges. But in 1992, as a salve to compensate for tuition raises of $600 imposed that year, CUNY adopted a policy that gave students on the verge of graduation their last semester free. The first class to benefit graduated in 1996. 
The CUNY trustees' fiscal affairs committee approved a plan late Monday that includes an end to the free-last-semester policy, and the full board is expected to do the same later this month. The student representative on the fiscal affairs committee protested that the higher charges conflicted with the university's mission of "keeping the costs of higher education affordable."
"We will never support measures that only provide pain for students and their families and put the interests of a few ahead of the needs and dreams of thousands of New Yorkers," said the student, Valerie Vazquez, who recalled CUNY's long tradition of free tuition.
CUNY officials predicted that the plan would save nearly $45 million a year when phased in over the next few years, and pledged that the savings would go directly to the campuses. Ms. Vazquez called the technology fee "a back-door tuition hike."
CUNY's chancellor, Matthew Goldstein, said that by ending the free-last-semester program the university would raise $9 million in tuition revenues each year, which would pay for 150 additional full-time professors. And he said that those professors would help more students than the approximately 6,000 students each year who benefit from the free last semester.
Because of budget pressures, the number of full-time professors at CUNY has fallen below 6,000, from the 11,268 on the payroll in 1975; they have been replaced by part-time adjunct professors who are paid significantly less. Many educators feel a college without a sufficient proportion of full-time faculty members loses its cohesiveness and mission.
In some academic departments, the number of full-time teachers has plummeted strikingly. At City College, for example, there are 31 full-time education professors now, down from 69 in 1981, while the English department, which now includes speech and theater, has fallen to 33 from 68 in the same period.
Dr. Goldstein said that because of state and city budget stringencies, CUNY was short $150 million a year needed to implement its master plan, which was approved by the trustees and the New York Board of Regents. The university has a $1.5 billion budget this year. Tuition has not been increased since 1996.
Several CUNY trustees applauded the money-raising proposals and called them an example of "thinking outside the box."
"This is not the old way of doing business," said Joseph J. Lhota, a trustee who served as a deputy mayor and city budget director under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and is now chairman of CUNY's fiscal affairs committee.
Dr. Goldstein said that a technology fee of $150 a year for full-time students and $75 for part-time students would allow CUNY to provide badly needed computer services and longer computer hours for students.
CUNY also provided a chart showing that the proposed fee was far lower than the fees of $238 to $1,400 a year charged by the various campuses of the State University of New York.
Sherry Brabham, CUNY's vice chancellor for budget, finance and administrative computing, said that New York City high school graduates who maintain at least a B average now have access to a Peter F. Vallone academic achievement scholarship, which provides close to half of the cost of tuition for up to five years. She said the scholarships, which did not exist when the free-last-semester program was set up in 1992, are potentially worth more than the last-semester tuition break.
Allan Dobrin, CUNY's senior vice chancellor and chief operating officer, outlined some of the ways that CUNY could save money through operating efficiencies. They include using a specialized consultant to scour university phone bills for billing errors, adding four digits to ZIP codes on mailings and centralizing telephone and other services.
He also said that CUNY planned a pilot project that would combine administrative services at its three campuses in the Bronx -- Lehman, Hostos Community College and Bronx Community College -- by looking at which campus handles which services most efficiently..
"For backroom personnel processing," Mr. Dobrin said, "I assume that no student really cares where we do this."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Making the Grade at CUNY"The City University of New York is expected to change a tuition policy and add some fees at its senior colleges. Graphs track tuition per semester (adjusted for inflation) and full-time faculty from 1975-2000.(Source: City University of New York) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROVALS (71%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; TUITION 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



207 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL; 
A Long-Sought Rally Takes the Chill Off a Boston Winter

BYLINE:  By JULIE FLAHERTY 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
Like color rushing back to the cheeks of a weary patient, a parade of red, white and blue flushed the winter-gray landscape here today. The Patriots' victory lap, along a two-mile downtown route before an estimated 1.2 million people, could not have arrived at a better time for Gail Chamberlain, who just received a pink slip from her employer, Lucent Technologies. 
 "I'm losing my job in 60 days," she said, "but the Patriots won the championship!" 
 With the economy trying to get a grip, the pain of Sept. 11 still tangible, and Boston dour with February cold, "it's a depressing time of year," said Chamberlain, 44, of Salem, N.H. "But people here are happy. We needed this." 
Her co-worker, Karen Kemp, 44, of Nottingham, N.H., said their bosses thought it suspicious that they called in sick -- a day in advance. "We have the New England flu!" she declared to the crowd around her.
Even Paula Reynolds, 50, the third in their party, could be only mildly upset when she spied her 16-year-old daughter among the throng of fans, instead of at school. "Her father is going to be mad he's the only one who didn't come," she said with a laugh. 
Patriots fan or not, it was a holiday. One lawyer said her firm told employees either to stay home or join the fray, because no clients were willing to brave the traffic and subway congestion. Those few businessmen who were trying to cross the financial district on foot were all but swallowed by the masses. Acting Governor Jane Swift gave nonessential state employees an hour leave for the occasion, although there was no need to pad the audience.
Students organized their own field trips. Mark McDonnell, 17, and two friends skipped out of classes at Winnacunnet High School in Hampton, N.H. "This is the first championship of our generation," he said, adding that he was only a toddler when the Celtics won.
Slightly older-timers in the crowd debated the comparison: Was this five times as big as the parade for the Boston Celtics when they won it all in 1986? Maybe 10 times? 
The parade route ran from Copley Square to the rally at people-drenched City Hall Plaza. Fans climbed walls, lampposts, trees, vehicles and each other, aching for a better view of the procession. Many saw only a glimpse of Coach Bill Belichick and the players as they passed.
Men who, in the football tradition of pain and painted chests, went without shirts today said that adrenaline was keeping them warm. (Fans joked that skeptics had said it would be a cold day when the Patriots won the championship.)
Someone decided the statue of Samuel Adams that stands outside nearby Faneuil Hall needed to wear team colors, and stretched a T-shirt over his bronze frame. He was a patriot, after all. 
Supposedly, spectators lacked alcohol to warm themselves, it being banned by the Boston police along with backpacks and bags.
Some voices were hoarse from Sunday night's revels and Monday's water-cooler talk, but the roars began early in the morning and kept going into the evening. David Lustig, 19, from Roslyn, N.Y., came along with friends, and was stunned by the spectacle. 
"I've been to every Yankees parade in the last decade, and this is completely different," he said. "Everyone here wanted it that much more."
The actual rally show was brief but spirited. "City of Boston, it's been a long time coming, huh?" cried defensive back Lawyer Milloy, who then led the crowd in a chant of "We're No. 1!"
Quarterback Tom Brady, who slapped hands with fans and signed footballs throughout the event, did not speak. But after being urged on by cornerback Ty Law, he did a victory dance on stage with the team's owner, Robert K. Kraft.
Noticeable by his absence from the parade was Drew Bledsoe, the veteran quarterback who lost his job to Brady this season but did come to the rescue in the playoff game against Pittsburgh after Brady was injured. Bledsoe apparently went home to Montana.
There were equal sightings of Brady and Bledsoe jerseys, and every face with Bledsoe's "11" painted on one cheek turned to show a Brady "12" on the other. Eric Park, 29, a Bostonian who owns a sports collectibles business, said that no matter where Bledsoe may go from here, "he's always going to have a place in the hearts of Patriots fans."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Patriots' owner, Robert K. Kraft, dancing with Ty Law (holding microphone) at the rally. (Jared Leeds for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (66%); BASKETBALL (65%) FOOTBALL; SUPER BOWL; PARADES 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); ST LOUIS RAMS (59%) NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS; ST LOUIS RAMS 

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (72%); ALU (NYSE) (72%); ALU (BIT) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (72%)

PERSON: FLAHERTY, JULIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) BOSTON (MASS)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



208 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Baseball Won't Drop Teams in 2002

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Unable to hurdle legal roadblocks, Major League Baseball yesterday abandoned its plan to eliminate the Minnesota Twins and the Montreal Expos for the coming season. Commissioner Bud Selig strongly stated his intention to shed at least two teams and as many as four for the 2003 season, but circumstances, including more legal challenges, could also short-circuit the new plan.
 Members of the Twins were elated with the expected development. Members of the Expos were silent. "We have no comment on any aspect of contraction since at no point in time have the Expos been said to be one of the teams," Claude Delorme, an Expos vice president, said. 
 The Expos, however, as the major league team with the lowest revenue, have been the No. 1 target of the contraction plan the owners approved last Nov. 6, only to have it challenged immediately by the operator of the Metrodome, the Twins' home, and the players' union.
Despite the challenges, Selig had steadfastly refused to scuttle the plan, that is, until the Minnesota Supreme Court refused Monday to hear baseball's appeal of an injunction that forced the Twins to fulfill their lease by playing the 2002 season.
"While the clubs would have preferred to contract for 2002 and begin addressing the economic issues immediately," Selig said in a statement, "events outside of our direct control, including yesterday's court decision in Minnesota, have required us to move the date of contraction to 2003."
Baseball's economic state makes contraction "absolutely inevitable," Selig added, "as certain franchises simply cannot compete and cannot generate enough revenues to survive." According to figures Selig gave to the House Judiciary Committee in December, the Expos had $34.2 million in operating revenue last year and the Twins the next lowest total, $56.3 million.
In his statement, Selig mentioned the negotiations for a new labor agreement with the players, which expired last November. The results of those talks, he said, will be "important to our ongoing effort to achieve economic reform and competitive balance."
Many clubs, Selig said, favor elimination of four teams. He did not rule out that possibility but said baseball "will continue to evaluate our weakest franchises to determine how much contraction is warranted and in the overall best interests of baseball and its fans."
The Twins, whose owner, Carl Pohlad, was prepared to sacrifice his team because he wanted to get out of baseball, could be salvaged by a number of developments before 2003. The Expos have fewer possibilities of rescue.
Donald Watkins, a Birmingham, Ala., banker and energy entrepreneur, has initiated talks with Pohlad about buying the Twins. He has also indicated a willingness to finance a new park, which baseball has considered a requirement for the Twins to remain in business. The Minnesota Legislature, which in the past has rejected providing any money for a new park, is prepared to reconsider the idea. 
The Expos, whose attendance of 619,451 was less than half of the next lowest attendance in the majors last season, cannot survive in Montreal, but prospective ownership groups in Washington and northern Virginia are eager to acquire a team and may be willing to pay enough to make it worthwhile for baseball to sell the Expos rather than extinguish them.
Jeffrey Loria, a New York art dealer who currently owns the Expos, is buying the Florida Marlins, whose owner, John Henry, heads a group that is buying the Boston Red Sox, and Major League Baseball will acquire the Expos. The owners are expected to approve these transactions next Tuesday.
Loria plans to take a large number of his Montreal employees to Florida, including Manager Jeff Torborg, the interim general manager, Larry Beinfest, and assorted scouts and player development people. He is giving a $5,000 bonus to each Expos employee who accepts his offer to work for the Marlins.
The Expos, meanwhile, will be operated by people baseball hires.
"The commissioner and the executive council are committed to ensuring the Montreal operation will be independent," Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief lawyer, said yesterday, "and the management team, once assembled, will be given full discretion to run the team as any other major league team would be run."
That team is expected to be put in place in the next few days. Tony Tavares, until recently the president of the Anaheim Angels, is considered the leading candidate to be the Expos' No. 1 business executive.
The general manager could be named from a group including Doug Melvin, who held that position with Texas; Gord Ash, who was Toronto's general manager; and Omar Minaya, senior assistant general manager with the Mets. Frank Robinson is expected to be named manager. The Expos will also have a full complement of minor league teams.
The Twins have their management team intact, including Ron Gardenhire, who was named manager last month. Carol Gardenhire said her husband was on a fishing trip and might not even know that he would have a team to manage this season. "I don't know if he knows or not," she said by telephone from their home in Little Canada, Minn. "I haven't talked to him. But it's very exciting. I'm so happy."
Terry Ryan, the Twins' general manager, said the team's employees had been working toward this moment despite the uncertainty.
"Now we can move forward without 2002 being affected," he said by telephone. "We have an opportunity to see what transpires over this season. There's a lot of optimism and energy in this market. There will be a lot of people who will be relieved around these offices."
Dave St. Peter, senior vice president for business affairs, said that despite the question about the team's existence, he expects the Twins to surpass last year's season-ticket total of 5,500 by 1,500. "We can get the focus back to where it should be," he said, "selling tickets and getting ready for spring training."
Twins outfielder Torii Hunter told The Associated Press: "It's the front-office people who needed to know in case they had to find other jobs. And the beer vendors and other workers."
In the news release announcing the contraction decision, Paul Beeston, baseball's chief operating officer, criticized the players' union for challenging baseball's right to eliminate teams unilaterally.
"I, personally, had hoped that the union had an interest in helping us solve our economic and competitive balance problems," said Beeston, baseball's principal labor negotiator. "It is evident now that they have no such interest and that is a great disappointment to me."
The union's "vigorous opposition" to contraction, Beeston added, was inconsistent with discussions the two sides held last spring and summer. Donald Fehr, the union chief, welcomed the contraction decision but said, "It is regrettable that the clubs continue to assert that they can and will act unilaterally, rather than by negotiation and agreement." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (73%); INJUNCTIONS (71%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) BASEBALL; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS 

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (94%); MONTREAL EXPOS (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MINNESOTA SUPREME COURT (55%) MONTREAL EXPOS; MINNESOTA TWINS 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; SELIG, BUD 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (88%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (88%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (51%) MINNESOTA, USA (95%); QUEBEC, CANADA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



209 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
New-School Dinner Raises $1.3 Million

BYLINE:  By Karen W. Arenson 

 BODY:
 Demonstrating some of his legendary drawing power, BOB KERREY, below, president of New School University and former senator from Nebraska, attracted a host of luminaries to the university's annual La Guardia Award benefit dinner last week, which raised nearly $1.3 million for scholarships and to support the university's Milano Graduate School of Management and Urban Policy. Benefit chairmen included PETE PETERSON, chairman of the Blackstone Group; BRIAN ROBERTS, president of Comcast Inc.; and JOHN L. TISHMAN, chairman of Tishman Realty and Construction and chairman of the university's board. GOV. 
GEORGE E. PATAKI delivered the keynote address. The 2002 Fiorello H. La Guardia award was given to FELIX G. ROHATYN, the former United States ambassador to France. Mr. Royatyn took the lead in helping to bail New York City out of its mid-1970's financial crisis. Karen W. Arenson

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BUSINESS SCHOOLS; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; PHILANTHROPY 

COMPANY: TISHMAN REALTY & CONSTRUCTION CO INC (57%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW SCHOOL UNIVERSITY 

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (57%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (57%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (57%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%)

PERSON: BRIAN L ROBERTS (58%); PETE PETERSON (58%) ARENSON, KAREN W; KERREY, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



210 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Britain: EMI Expects Lower Profit 

BYLINE:  By Suzanne Kapner (NYT) 

 BODY:
 The EMI Group said full-year profit would fall 42 percent, as music sales faltered. Pretax profit will be about $:150 million ($214 million), less than analysts had expected and down from the $:260 million the company earned the previous year. 
EMI and rivals have been hurt by the soft economy, slowing sales of compact discs and the ability of customers to copy music from the Internet free. Since Alain Levy took over at EMI in October he has dropped artists like Mariah Carey and reorganized management. Last week, EMI said its Virgin Records unit would move to New York from Los Angeles and would be led by Matt Serletic. EMI also named Roger Faxon as chief financial officer. David Munns, who Mr. Levy hired after he came on board last October, will be the chief executive of EMI Recorded Music North America. Suzanne Kapner (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Graph shows EMI Group share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); RECORD REVENUES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); MUSIC (88%); APPOINTMENTS (85%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); INTERNET AUDIO (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%) FINANCES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: EMI GROUP LTD (98%)

ORGANIZATION: EMI GROUP PLC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (98%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (98%)

PERSON: MARIAH CAREY (58%) FAXON, ROGER; MUNNS, DAVID; KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



211 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Truck Maker's Profit Falls 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: BELLEVUE, Wash., Feb. 5 

 BODY:
 The truck maker Paccar Inc. said today that its earnings fell 20 percent in the fourth quarter. 
Cost controls partially offset reduced sales in a weak economy, higher insurance costs and declining used-truck values. The company, which makes Kenworth and Peterbilt trucks, said profit fell to $50.4 million, or 65 cents a share, in the quarter ended Dec. 31, from $62.7 million, or 82 cents, in the period a year earlier. Revenue fell to $1.54 billion, from $1.67 billion. Still, earnings were well above the average 49 cents a share expected by Wall Street analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call. Paccar's stock rose $2.98, or 5 percent, to $66.36 a share. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (88%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: PACCAR INC (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%)

ORGANIZATION: PACCAR INC 

TICKER: PCAR (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (96%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



212 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
PayPal and Other Post-Bubble Signs of Life on the Internet

BYLINE:  By ADAM COHEN 

 BODY:
PayPal has all the trappings of a classic dot-com bubble story. The company, based in Palo Alto, Calif., was conceived in 1998 by Peter Thiel, a smooth-talking hedge fund operator, and Max Levchin, a Russian-immigrant computer geek. It started out with the dubious business model of helping people "beam" money from one Palm Pilot to another. When the market for beamed money proved elusive, it switched to enabling people to e-mail each other cash. Mr. Thiel and Mr. Levchin, who declared that their little start-up would revolutionize commerce, persuaded venture capitalists to pour in more than $225 million.
 Unlike many such dot-com escapades, this little start-up has survived -- and thrived. PayPal has been enthusiastically adopted by the online community. In a single four-month period in 2000, registered users shot up from 10,000 to one million. The company now has over 13 million users, and annual revenues, generated by taking a small percentage of each transaction, of more than $100 million. PayPal isn't a sure thing. It's still not in the black, and it's had trouble with fraud. But it so dominates the fast-growing online payments business that Salomon Smith Barney is expected to take it public tomorrow in one of the most eagerly anticipated Internet I.P.O.'s in nearly two years. 
 Eagerly awaited Internet I.P.O.'s seem hopelessly late-1990's. The dot-coms, we have been told repeatedly, were an end-of-the-century bubble, a "mania" unequaled since the Dutch tulip mania of the 1630's. Many in the news media have been harsh, particularly just after the April 2000 dot-com crash, reveling in the lost fortunes and even the layoffs. The publishing industry has been worse. Last year saw the arrival of a slew of books with titles like "Dot.bomb" and "Boo Hoo," a lacerating look at the upscale clothing retailer Boo.com. Headed to bookstores this year are two books whose titles turn "Dot.com" into "Dot.con."
But despite the consensus that dot-coms are dead, there have recently been some intriguing signs of life. Amazon made headlines last month when it announced that it had been profitable in the fourth quarter of 2001, a first for the e-commerce giant. Priceline, the online travel site, was flailing last year -- the joke on Wall Street was that its "name your own price" policy applied to the company's stock. But last week Priceline, which has done an impressive job of cutting costs, surprised Wall Street by announcing that it, too, had been profitable last quarter. And e-commerce appears to have surged this past holiday season. The 51 million weekly visitors to online shopping sites were a 50 percent increase over the same period in 2000.
Those shopping numbers underscore a critical factor that dot-com skeptics overlook: that even if the pundits have cooled on the Internet, the public has not. The Commerce Department reported yesterday that the number of Internet users in America surged 26 percent last year. Some 143 million Americans, or 54 percent of the nation, used the Internet in 2001, the first time a majority of the country was online. Many parts of cyberspace are booming, both obvious ones like online news sites, which are attracting millions of visitors a week, and less expected ones like photo editing and sharing, software for which is now installed on 21 million wired computers nationwide. 
The worst excesses of the dot-com era are gone. We will probably never again see business models based on the belief that people will buy all of their canned pet food online (and pay the shipping costs). And investors are unlikely to be won over, in the future, by the old dot-com rallying cry that being first is more important than being best, or that dominating a space is more important than turning a profit. 
But companies that take advantage of the unique efficiencies of the Internet show more promise than ever. PayPal caught on because it did just that. It allows users to send money from their credit cards or bank accounts to other people, who can receive the funds, by wire transfer or check, starting with a visit to PayPal's Web site. The great majority of those first million users were eBay buyers and sellers who were miffed that after having conducted a sale online, they had to make the payment by sending a check through regular mail. PayPal made the payment as easy as the auction.
Amazon is holding its own because the service it provides -- offering millions of books and other items quickly and easily from home at any hour of the day or night -- is a real one, and one that was impossible before there was an Internet. The auction giant eBay leverages the Internet the most. There is no way 42 million people could trade with each other except through an online network like eBay's. And it is doing best of all. Profitable from its first month, eBay is on track to pull in $1 billion in revenues this year, and it's growing at an annual rate of 70 percent. It had real net income of $25.9 million in the fourth quarter of last year. 
When tulip mania dies down, all that remains are pretty flowers. When bubbles burst, nothing is left but soapy residue. But the Internet revolution, for all its speculative excesses, really is changing the world. We are beginning to see quiet signs that despite all the naysaying, dot-coms will be back, better than ever. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); INTERNET CRIME (73%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); BOOKSTORES (66%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (63%); PUBLISHING (63%); RETAILERS (61%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: PAYPAL INC (90%); PALM INC (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PAYPAL 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: MAX LEVCHIN (89%) COHEN, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



213 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: A CASE STUDY; 
Enron Is Grist for Business School Courses

BYLINE:  By SANA SIWOLOP 

 BODY:
Business school professors across the country say they are latching onto the Enron scandal as a way to make courses on everything from Accounting 101 to crisis management come alive.
 Some teachers are treading cautiously, partly because business-school case studies usually focus on historical events, not unfolding dramas, and partly because the Enron collapse is so complicated. 
 But the revelations about the maneuverings of Enron Corporation executives and the actions of the company's auditor, Arthur Andersen, are too tempting to pass up, professors say.
Roger D. Martin, an assistant accounting professor at the business school at Indiana University, says he introduced a graduate accounting class on the company early in November, when Enron had to restate its earnings and "things started smoking." 
Professor Martin said he planned to use Enron's financial meltdown for years to come as a case study in his advanced accounting class. "This is a classic case in almost everything related to accounting," he said. "If anything, it might make it tough to keep the conversation going in just one direction because there are so many angles."
Other business school professors say they are eager to use Enron to enliven business cases that too often focus on old examples like the Ford Pinto gas tank of the 1970's. "Students now are largely unimpressed if something is more than four to five years old," said Al Hartgraves, an accounting professor at the Goizueta Business School at Emory University in Atlanta.
Before his students left for their Christmas break in the second week of December, Professor Hartgraves promised to e-mail them a summary of the company's situation, and did so at the end of the month. Then a couple of weeks ago, he created a computer bulletin board about Enron over the internal e-mail system that connects roughly 1,000 Emory business students. Within 24 hours, he said, more than 100 students had asked him for bulletin board access.
"We've seen audit failures before with companies like Waste Management and Sunbeam," Professor Hartgraves said, "but never anything as big as this."
At Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass., Alfonso F. Canella, an adjunct professor who teaches a class in financial modeling, said he planned to use Enron to illustrate the mechanics, as well as the riskiness, of putting together limited partnerships, especially when the deals were not listed on a company's balance sheet.
Not everyone is convinced that Enron's troubles belong in every classroom. Jan Barton, an assistant accounting professor at Emory, thinks that it is appropriate to use Enron in an introductory course on financial statement analysis, but that its accounting and energy-trading practices may be too complicated for most students.
Even when it comes to teaching more advanced students, Professor Barton said, he preferred to focus on companies like Dell Computer, Sears Roebuck, Wal-Mart and Microsoft, whose financial statement practices and products are easier to understand.
"I don't want to talk about a company that operates in a funky industry, like utilities, and whose transactions involved things like financial derivative contracts," Mr. Barton said.
Still, Diana C. Robertson, an associate professor of organization and management at Goizueta, in time concluded that the Enron case could not be ignored.
In December, she decided to stick to well-documented cases like the antitrust charges against Microsoft and Nike's foreign labor practices for her business ethics classes. But as Enron unraveled, she decided that using a business story in the making, rather than one that is years or decades old, was too "wonderful" to pass up.
Raymond D. Horton, chairman of the Columbia University Business School's management division, said he would allocate plenty of time to the subject this winter in his course on the modern political economy. "We're all itching to discuss it," he said, pointing to a pile of Enron news clippings on his desk. 
Robert Rupe, a second-year finance student at Columbia, said one lecture for a course on corporate turnarounds he just signed up for is titled simply "Enron."
A useful point in the Enron case, business professors say, is the light it sheds on the evolution of the American corporation into unexpected forms. For example, Anne Carter, an economics professor at Brandeis, says it helps illuminate the nature of the modern corporation, which often bears little resemblance to the "mythical" manufacturing and farming companies that appear in many textbooks. For one thing, she said, Enron is a good way to show students just how much of an imbalance there is in the information investors typically receive, and how a company can exploit that imbalance.
Professor Carter plans to devote three classes to Enron this semester in an undergraduate course she teaches. "I really think that Enron shows students that the market now is very different from the market that was shaped by Adam Smith's invisible hand," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Al Hartgraves, an Emory University accounting professor, created an Enron computer bulletin board. (Robin Nelson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CASE STUDIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (79%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); HISTORY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ETHICS (73%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (69%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (65%); ENERGY MARKETS (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (65%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); CHRISTMAS (64%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (64%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (92%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (57%) ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: SIWOLOP, SANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



214 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Choosing The Right Enemies 

BYLINE:  By Michael O'Hanlon; Michael O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In his State of the Union address, President Bush took aim at what he called an "axis of evil" -- countries like Iraq, Iran and North Korea together with their terrorist associates. He implied that the United States might take strong action against all parts of this global collection of unpalatable actors.
 However, Mr. Bush is wrong to lump these countries and terrorist groups together. We will harm our security if we fail to appreciate the great differences among them. 
 This is particularly true of North Korea and its tyrannical ruler, Kim Jong Il. North Korea remains heavily armed and threatening, and largely as a result of its excessive military spending, its citizens are extremely poor. But for all its flaws, the North Korean regime is not like Saddam Hussein's Iraq. We can work with Kim Jong Il -- provided that we are smart about how we do it.
Consider how much things improved in the years before Mr. Bush took office. Until 1994, North Korea appeared on its way to developing a sizable nuclear arsenal. In 1998, it fired a three-stage rocket over Japan, suggesting it might soon develop an intercontinental missile capable of delivering weapons of mass destruction against the United States. Not long ago, American intelligence officers considered Korea the world's most dangerous flash point, with the likelihood that any outbreak of war would lead to thousands of American deaths and hundreds of thousands of Korean casualties.
By the end of 2000, the situation had improved on almost all fronts. In 1994, the Clinton administration worked out a deal for shutting down and monitoring North Korea's major nuclear facilities. That "agreed framework," which has held to this day, called for South Korea, Japan and the United States to provide North Korea with fuel oil to replace the energy that the nuclear reactors would have produced -- and, eventually, to build North Korea new nuclear reactors with less capability for contributing to a nuclear weapons program.
More recently, the United States convinced North Korea to impose a moratorium on long-range missile testing in exchange for a lifting of most trade sanctions and an improvement in diplomatic contacts. That moratorium also continues to hold. And a process of detente began as well, including a meeting in 2000 between the leaders of the two Koreas.
North Korea's support for terrorism has declined drastically in recent years; there is no evidence the regime actively supports major terrorist organizations. Even so, all is not well on the Korean peninsula. North Korea remains hypermilitarized; it still exports missiles and other arms, though in far smaller quantities than a decade ago; it may still be quietly working on its long-range missile program; it might even have a "basement bomb" project to develop nuclear arms. Its economy remains a shambles. And, since Mr. Bush took office and showed little support for the "sunshine policy" of South Korea's president, Kim Dae Jung, toward the North, the process of detente has essentially been frozen.
What to do? The Bush administration resists the idea, preferred by some in the Clinton administration, of simply buying out North Korea's missile programs. For this administration, that smacks of blackmail and could encourage extortionate behavior from Pyongyang. But the Bush administration has failed to offer a serious alternative to Mr. Clinton's policy. Threatening rhetoric does not amount to a policy and may actually increase the chances of war on the peninsula.
Rather than merely buying out North Korea's missile program, the United States and its allies should insist that North Korea accept an arms control regime that would scale back conventional weaponry on the peninsula. If North Korea were willing to begin economic reform, perhaps along a Chinese model, the United States, Japan and South Korea should commit to providing substantial economic assistance -- not as bribery, but as genuine aid to help convert the North Korean economy. 
What will not work is treating Kim Jong Il like Saddam Hussein or Mullah Omar. As bad as Mr. Kim may be, he has displayed some recognition that he needs to improve relations with the outside world. He can possibly be coaxed, but probably not bludgeoned. As he prepares for a trip to South Korea in less than two weeks, Mr. Bush needs to make sure that he wields both a carrot and a stick in his dealings with Pyongyang -- a combination that has worked well in recent years.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Heath Hinegardner) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (88%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (87%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (74%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (72%); ARMS TRADE (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (61%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TERRORISM; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); KIM JONG IL (88%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) O'HANLON, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KIM JONG IL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) NORTH KOREA; IRAQ; IRAN

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



215 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Planning Gradual Curb On Emissions, Taking Years 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
After months of internal debate, the Bush administration has outlined a climate policy that calls for a far more gradual approach to global warming than the one in a 1997 treaty endorsed by most nations.
 White House officials said yesterday that President Bush had still not settled on details. But a report on the economy published by the White House yesterday spelled out its philosophy on the contentious issue of limiting emissions of gases linked to global warming. 
 In contrast to the hard targets and short timetable in the 1997 treaty, the Kyoto Protocol, the administration's policy calls for technology and incentives that would lead to a decades-long decline in emissions, according to officials involved in the policy debate and experts consulted by the administration. 
Pressure has been rising on Mr. Bush to come up with specifics as the Senate develops bills aimed at controlling power-plant emissions -- including carbon dioxide, the main gas that traps heat in the atmosphere, warming Earth like a greenhouse.
The president is planning to visit Asia late next week, and Japan is eager to see some indication of climate policy in view of Mr. Bush's rejection of the Kyoto Protocol.
While most nations have endorsed it, few have ratified it. Japanese officials have said they will be most likely to pursue ratification if they see signs that the United States may eventually act to limit warming.
The administration's approach is described in six pages of the 440-page Economic Report of the President, released by the White House Council of Economic Advisers. 
"The uncertainty surrounding the science of climate change suggests that some modesty is in order," it reads. "We need to recognize that it makes sense to discuss slowing emission growth before trying to stop and eventually reverse it." (The report is available on the Web at www.whitehouse.gov/cea/pubs.)
The report also discusses the merits of measuring countries' production of greenhouse gases against their economic production. This reflects Mr. Bush's first speech on climate change, in June, in which he admitted that the United States is by far the biggest source of greenhouse gases (about 20 percent of the total) but defended that rate as a reflection of the country's enormous output of goods and services (about 25 percent of the world's total).
In a speech in December, R. Glenn Hubbard, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said the science remained too equivocal to pursue "a premature Kyoto-style agreement." 
The report yesterday echoed that theme: "The current uncertainty surrounding climate change implies that a realistic policy should involved a gradual, measured response, not a risky, precipitous one."
Many environmental groups and economists have called for limits on emissions, combined with a system that allows companies to exceed the caps by "trading" with other companies. For example, a power company that emits carbon dioxide might buy credits from a paper company that is growing forests, which absorb carbon dioxide. 
The administration has long been divided over such a system, with some cabinet members and senior White House officials favoring it and others, led by Vice President Dick Cheney, strongly opposed.
The new document said such a system sometimes made sense, pointing to the trading system for reducing sulfur releases linked to acid rain. But it also said greenhouse gases would be much more difficult to measure, monitor and trade. "It would be dangerous to make any serious U.S. policy or commitment dependent on newly designed and untried international institutions," the report said.
Some environmental groups challenged assertions in the document. The World Resources Institute, for instance, said setting emission rates as a percentage of economic growth would never reduce overall emissions, only slow their increase.
But Dr. John M. Reilly, an economist at the M.I.T. Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change, who analyzed various scenarios for the White House, said the general approach made sense.
"Starting slow and building up is a well-established economic idea," Dr. Reilly said. "You don't want to suddenly shock the economy by saying you have to reduce by 30 percent tomorrow."
Under the Kyoto plan, by 2012 the United States would have had to cut emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases to roughly 30 percent below projected levels.
But in the absence of stringent requirements, Dr. Reilly said, the government needs to offer strong incentives if companies are to seek out innovations that might solve the problem. In the end, he said, some limit on emissions must be set if emissions are to drop. 
As he put it, "The basic story is, if a problem is going to solve itself, then it's not a problem." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POWER PLANTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%) WEATHER; AIR POLLUTION; GLOBAL WARMING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); REVKIN, ANDREW C 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



216 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Politics Keep Shifting in the Gas-Mileage Debate 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
Over the weekend, Tom Brady, the quarterback of the New England Patriots, won a new pickup truck, the first model ever made by Cadillac, for being named the Super Bowl's most valuable player.
 A decade earlier, the Washington Redskins quarterback Mark Rypien earned a Buick sedan for the same feat. 
 Between Super Bowl XXVI and Super Bowl XXXVI, federal fuel economy standards were left largely untouched while the popularity and sales of sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks surged, causing the average mile per gallon for vehicles to drop. By 2000, the fuel economy of the average new automobile sold in the United States fell to its lowest point in more than 20 years, and cars had been eclipsed to the point that Cadillac is now making pickup trucks.
How the vehicles on American roads will shift in this decade will be determined in part by a debate over fuel consumption under way in Washington. Senate Democrats are circulating an ambitious preliminary proposal that would raise fuel economy standards by about 50 percent by 2013, but many legislators and lobbyists wonder whether this latest plan has any better chance of success than previous Democratic plans, considering the Republican House and White House. 
Last Friday, the Bush administration sought to pre-empt the Senate when Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta sent a letter to Congress that asked for the authority to revamp the current system of regulations.
Over the years, authority on fuel economy has been passed between the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, a branch of the Transportation Department, and Congress, depending on where concerned parties thought they could get the best hearing. 
"Now, because Congress is closely divided and run by Democrats in the Senate, and they control the administrative strings, they want N.H.T.S.A. to do it," said Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the Commerce Committee hearings into the issue. He added that the president's chief of staff, Andrew Card, pushed for the Republican Congress to handle fuel economy issues when he served as General Motors' top lobbyist during the Clinton administration.
Bush administration officials counter that they are serious about increasing automotive fuel economy, though they have offered no details on how much oil they intend to save and when they want to start saving it. Because N.H.T.S.A. has been prevented by Congress from looking into the issue for much of the 1990's, the agency's new administrator, Dr. Jeffrey W. Runge, said he did not know enough to offer any specifics yet. 
The agency is reviewing a recent study from the National Academy of Sciences that suggested significant fuel economy increases were achievable but also cautioned that previous improvements led manufacturers to make lighter vehicles that could be less safe. But that review is "going to take us a lot of time," Dr. Runge said. 
The safety issue has been the focus of Detroit's criticism of increasing the existing fuel standards. Environmentalists and Democrats contend that improvements are already being made with technologies that do not lighten vehicles, from more efficient tires to hybrid engines that use a combination of electric and gasoline power.
"We are very serious about supporting and improving fuel economy," Dr. Runge said. "We're also very serious about the safety effects of whatever the fuel economy standards look like, and that frankly is my No. 1 priority."
The differences between Democratic and Republican approaches already on the table are significant. The current Senate proposal, circulated by Democratic staff members, seeks to save 2.6 million barrels a day by the model year 2019, when its effects are fully phased into the automotive fleet roughly a third of the amount of gas consumed today by passenger vehicles and more than the United States imports from Saudi Arabia. The House energy bill sought to trim gas use by five billion gallons of oil, or two weeks of consumption, between model years 2004 and 2010, about 47,000 barrels of oil a day.
A renewed focus on oil consumption since Sept. 11 has some Senate Republicans, like John McCain, talking up energy security. The United States has about 3 percent of the world's oil reserves and consumes a quarter, a disparity that widened last year when sales of light trucks, minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups exceeded passenger cars for the first time ever. The record was a potent symbol of how much more gas American automobiles consume than those sold in Europe and Asia. 
But with Afghanistan, Enron and the economy, fuel consumption is not at the top of many agendas. Ford, Chrysler and G.M. have all become increasingly dependent on sales of light trucks for their survival and, in a year when overall industry sales are expected to shrink, there is apprehension about tougher regulation. Ford and Chrysler, a unit of DaimlerChrysler, both project breaking even as their goal this year, and many analysts are skeptical even that can be achieved.
When corporate average fuel economy standards, called CAFE by regulators, were first enacted after the energy shocks of the 1970's, about one of every five new vehicles sold was a truck and the standards were split between trucks, considered work vehicles, and passenger cars, which included station wagons.
Under current CAFE standards, each automaker's light truck fleet is required to average 20.7 miles a gallon, compared with 27.5 miles a gallon for their passenger car fleet. The Big Three oppose any increase in these fuel standards. The United Automobile Workers union would accept an increase in standards under certain conditions and Honda and Toyota are more amenable because they are already further ahead.
So far, the administration's positions have been in sync with the Big Three. The Energy Department scrapped a Clinton administration research consortium into highly fuel efficient vehicles, which had mixed results, and replaced it with a program that will finance one of the furthest-off areas of research, hydrogen-powered fuel cells that would replace internal combustion engines. While environmental groups agree with the industry that fuel cells offer a solution, there is concern that the auto industry is pushing a very futuristic answer as a way to avoid near-term fuel economy improvements. 
The outcome of the latest debate will have a significant effect on the kinds of cars and trucks on the road, how many of each there will be, and whether emerging technologies like hybrids will be more than niche products. 
At the recent North American International Auto Show here, several possible futures were on display. From G.M., there was the Hummer H2, a dressed-up but still hulking version of the Hummer military transport. From Ford, there was the Mighty F-350 Tonka, a concept vehicle that offers a Pinocchio-like transformation of one of Hasbro's Tonka toys into a real life, 350-horsepower pickup.
Among the giants was also a new version of Honda's Civic that will be sold in April, little different to the naked eye from previous Civics save for a chunky orange cord curled around the engine. The Civic Hybrid will get nearly 50 miles a gallon, 35 percent more than a normal Civic. It will also be about $3,000 more expensive than a comparable gas Civic. Though Toyota and Honda are already selling hybrids, the Civic Hybrid will be the first of several hybrid versions of brand-name vehicles released over the next couple years, including at least one from each of the Big Three. 
One proposal on the table, supported by Senator Kerry, is to provide consumers thousands of dollars in tax credits to make up the difference for buying a hybrid. Policy makers on both sides agree that under the current system, hybrids will probably remain niche vehicles and trucks will continue to rule the road.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Debating Fuel Consumption"With the average fuel economy of new vehicles at its lowest level in 20 years, Washington is debating how best to trim fuel consumption. Graph shows VEHICLE FUEL MILEAGE and GASOLINE CONSUMPTION since 1975 (Average fuel economy of all new light cars and trucks sold, by model year). (Sources: Environmental Protection Agency; Energy Information Administration)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); ATHLETES (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); SEDANS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%) AUTOMOBILES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FUEL EFFICIENCY 

COMPANY: T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (66%); WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (82%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (58%) TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (66%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (58%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%) HAKIM, DANNY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MINETA, NORMAN Y (SEC); KERRY, JOHN F (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



217 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: IRAQ; 
Terror Acts By Baghdad Have Waned, U.S. Aides Say

BYLINE:  By JAMES RISEN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
The Central Intelligence Agency has no evidence that Iraq has engaged in terrorist operations against the United States in nearly a decade, and the agency is also convinced that President Saddam Hussein has not provided chemical or biological weapons to Al Qaeda or related terrorist groups, according to several American intelligence officials. 
 The officials said they believe that the last terrorist operation tried by Iraq against the United States was the assassination attempt against the first President Bush during his visit to Kuwait in 1993. That plot was disrupted before it could be carried out. American intelligence officials believe that Mr. Hussein has been reluctant to use terrorism again for fear of being detected. 
 George J. Tenet, the C.I.A. director, is to testify Wednesday before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence to review the global threat. During his appearance, his first before Congress since Sept. 11, Mr. Tenet is likely to be asked about a wide range of terrorism issues, including Iraq.
Since Sept. 11, there has been widespread speculation about possible Iraqi links to the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, based largely on reports of a meeting in Prague between Mohamed Atta, a leader of the hijacking teams, and an Iraqi intelligence officer. The reports about that meeting have been the subject of intense analysis and debate within the American intelligence community, and some officials even questioned whether the meeting took place. 
Now senior American intelligence officials have concluded that the meeting between Mr. Atta and the Iraqi officer, Ahmed Khalil Ibrahim Samir al-Ani, did take place. But they say they do not believe that the meeting provides enough evidence to tie Iraq to the Sept. 11 attacks.
United States intelligence officials say they do not know what was discussed at the meeting. But some experts on Iraq say that even if Iraq were somehow involved in the Sept. 11 attacks, President Hussein would never have entrusted such a sensitive matter to a mid-level officer like Mr. Ani.
American officials say Iraqi intelligence now focuses most of its resources on finding ways to evade trade and economic sanctions that were imposed on Iraq after President Hussein invaded Kuwait in 1990.
Instead, American intelligence officials say their greatest concern is Iraq's continuing development of chemical and biological weapons, covert programs that have resumed since United Nations weapons inspectors left in 1998. 
Mr. Hussein apparently feels that such weapons will help his government deter any military attack by the United States and its allies. 
A C.I.A. report released last week noted that Iraq is probably continuing low-level nuclear weapons research as well, and that its inability to obtain enough fissile material is the biggest obstacle to becoming a nuclear power.
The major threat to the United States from Iraqi efforts to develop weapons of mass destruction would come instead from Baghdad's parallel efforts to develop long-range missiles, which could be tipped with chemical or biological warheads, the C.I.A. believes.
In his State of the Union address last week, President Bush described Iraq as part of an "axis of evil," which includes Iran and North Korea, that the United States must confront in order to maintain global stability. 
Mr. Bush said Iraq "continues to flaunt its hostility toward America and to support terror," but the section of his speech devoted to Iraq focused primarily on Baghdad's efforts to develop weapons of mass destruction. In fact, some American intelligence officials say, the Bush administration does not have enough evidence of Iraqi complicity in anti-American terrorism to justify making Iraq the next target in the war on terrorism.
Some signs have emerged in recent years that President Hussein might consider terrorism as a tool against the United States in the long-running duel over the inspection of suspected chemical and biological weapons sites. In 1998, American and Middle Eastern intelligence agencies discovered that Abu Nidal, the Palestinian who had been one of the most feared terrorists of the 1970's and early 80's, had moved to Baghdad.
Abu Nidal had been ousted from his previous haven in Libya, after Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi decided he wanted to end Libya's ties to terrorists in order to get out from under international sanctions. But Abu Nidal does not appear to have engaged in any anti-American operations since his arrival in Iraq, and he may have ended his terrorism activities, officials said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (97%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); AL-QAEDA (84%) ;CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY; AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) ATTA, MOHAMED; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); RISEN, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%); KUWAIT (92%) IRAQ; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



218 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Failing to Save For Bad Times During Boom 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
For years, New York has ranked near the bottom among the states in saving money to pay unemployment claims, setting aside less than one-third of what the federal government recommends to guard against an economic downturn.
 Experts warned of impending trouble, but state officials refused to take the politically unpalatable steps that would have built up the reserve: either raise the payroll tax that pays for unemployment insurance, or curtail benefits. In fact, in 1998, the Legislature and Gov. George E. Pataki did the opposite, lowering the tax and raising benefits. 
 Now, with waves of layoffs brought on by the recession and the Sept. 11 attack, New York is being forced to increase payroll taxes by $300 million a year so the unemployment fund so does not go dry. And the state is about to start borrowing about $350 million monthly from the federal government to pay surging unemployment claims. Most states are nowhere near having to take either of those steps, and only one state, Texas, is in as bad a situation as New York.
President Bush and Congressional leaders have proposed extending unemployment benefits at federal expense, a role Washington has played in past recessions, but those plans would not reduce the states' burden.
Many legislators in New York say they were not aware of the state's situation until the state labor commissioner, Linda Angello, informed them at a hearing Monday, and some Democrats were quick to blame the Pataki administration.
"They don't respond to a problem until there's a crisis," said Assemblyman Alexander B. Grannis, a Democrat from Manhattan and chairman of the Insurance Committee. "This should have been dealt with, but they didn't want to raise the tax. Well, now we're raising the tax."
But for administration officials and independent experts who monitor states' finances, the fund's depletion is no surprise, and they questioned how lawmakers could have failed to see it coming. Even a moderate recession would have depleted the fund, they say, and Sept. 11 merely made it happen faster.
Ms. Angello said New York's system resulted from policy choices that governors and Legislatures have made for decades: not to stockpile unemployment money during good times. "We have said to businesses, 'We don't think that money should be charged to you to put in what is, in essence, a bank account,' " she said. " 'We would rather see you using that money.' "
New York, like most states, has a law that triggers an automatic payroll tax increase when the trust fund balance dwindles, and rates rose 12 percent to 16 percent on Jan. 1. The added burden falls most heavily on small and low-wage businesses, because the tax is assessed only on the first $8,500 per year of a worker's income, and because employers with high turnover pay higher rates.
The United States Department of Labor advises states to keep an unemployment fund balance equal to one year's worth of claims during a severe recession, and most states keep that much and more. For years, New York has ranked last, or close to it, on that measure.
New York had just 31 percent of the recommended amount in its fund, or $1.34 billion, as of June 30, when the recession had just begun and before the World Trade Center attack, according to a Labor Department report. Only two states, Texas and North Dakota, had less. Connecticut stood at 96 percent of its reserve target, and New Jersey at 115 percent.
Experts fault states like New York that kept their trust funds low, in part because the inevitable result is a tax increase during a downturn.
That outcome runs counter to Mr. Pataki's oft-stated view that the state should lower taxes, particularly when the economy is weak, and his pledge not to raise taxes during this recession. "Tax cuts will go forward," he said last month in his annual State of the State address. "They must go forward, because we know that tax cuts create jobs."
Many states build up reserves in their unemployment trust funds when times are good, then use the surplus to temporarily raise unemployment benefits during recessions.
"Raising benefits is one of the most powerful economic stimulus measures available, because it gets a lot of money, quickly, into the hands of consumers who you know will spend it," said Cheye Calvo, who heads the employment and insurance program at the National Conference of State Legislatures.
He called a system like New York's, in which the tax rises during a recession but the benefits do not, "the worst possible."
New York's payroll tax is near the median among the states, about six-tenths of a penny for every dollar in wages. But the state's eligibility rules are more lenient than most, and its benefits are above the national average. In New York, benefits are capped at $405 a week, and averaged about $270 last year.
Starting later this month, the state will borrow up to $350 million a month to pay claims, from a federal fund created for just that purpose. The federal government charges interest on such loans -- the rate fluctuates around 6 percent -- unless they are repaid within six months.
The borrowed money is repaid entirely through the payroll tax and would not come out of the state budget. But it could take a long time to repay the debt, because the tax increase generates less in a year than the state plans to borrow in a month. That means that the increased payroll could remain in place for a long period.
New York, like nearly every other state, pays up to 26 weeks of unemployment benefits, and for people who lost their jobs in the immediate aftermath of Sept. 11, that coverage expires in March. 
The proposals in Washington would cover an additional 13 weeks at federal expense, but the states would still be responsible for the first 26 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); TAX LAW (76%); RANKINGS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INSURANCE (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); GOVERNORS (58%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%) PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



219 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Powell Says Nuclear Pact With Russia Is On Track
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, testifying before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said the United States expected to meet Russia's demand for a "legally binding" deal on reducing nuclear warheads. A1

Military Aid Plan for Colombia
The Bush administration is proposing to expand military aid to Colombia by training the Colombian Army to protect a 500-mile-long oil pipeline from leftist rebels, senior American officials visiting Colombia said. A6

Pakistani Leader's Anger
President Pervez Musharraf, making a high-profile visit to the disputed territory of Kashmir, denounced India's refusal to accept his efforts at reconciliation. A8

World Briefing A6

NATION CHALLENGED A10-12

Yemen Says It's Pursuing 2 Men Wanted by the U.S.
President Ali Abdullah Saleh said Yemeni security forces were closing in on two suspected Qaeda terrorists sought by the United States, but that he was depending for the moment on tribal chieftains to locate the men and persuade them to surrender. A10

Arrests in Kidnapping Case
The Pakistani police said they had arrested two men suspected of sending e-mail messages with photographs of the missing American reporter Daniel Pearl. A11

Iraq Terror Link Seen to Ease
The C.I.A. has no evidence that Iraq engaged in terrorist operations against the United States in nearly a decade nor provided chemical or biological weapons to Al Qaeda or related terror groups, officials said. A10

Iranian Discusses Border Effort
Iran's foreign minister said his country, which President Bush included in an "axis of evil," was trying to control its lengthy border with Afghanistan and had arrested many people, "among whom could be members of Taliban or Al Qaeda." A10

Lindh Complains of Treatment
Lawyers for John Walker Lindh, the American captured in Afghanistan with the Taliban, said he was harshly treated in "coercive conditions" by his American captors after being abused by their Afghan allies. A1

Warning System for Bioterror
President Bush said he envisioned an emergency alert system to warn the country of biological attacks. A11

A Domestic Military Command
The Pentagon is preparing to recommend creation of a command to coordinate the military's response to domestic terror attacks. A11

NATIONAL A14-19

Mayor Opposes Rehiring Los Angeles Police Chief
Mayor James K. Hahn said he opposed giving a new contract to the police chief, Bernard Parks, angering many black leaders who helped Mr. Hahn win election last year. Chief Parks is black, and he enjoys solid support from the city's black leadership. Mayor Hahn is white. A14

House to Vote on Campaign Bill
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert said the House would vote next week on a long-stalled campaign finance bill. A18

Congressman's Trial Opens
Representative James A. Traficant Jr., who is acting as his own counsel at his racketeering trial, was warned by the judge at the opening session that his signature pugnacious oratory would not be tolerated. A16

SPORTS D1-7

Flag Dispute at Olympics
The Olympics will allow an American flag pulled from the World Trade Center to be raised during the opening ceremonies in Salt Lake, a compromise that followed its refusal to let American athletes carry it. A1

OBITUARIES B8

Claude Brown
The author of "Manchild in the Promised Land" was 64. B8

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Mayor Looking to Business To Shore Up City Finances
Mayor Bloomberg, seeking ways to help the city narrow a budget gap, wants to offer corporate naming rights for city parks and and stadiums, loosen restrictions on business improvement districts, and court wealthy donors, foundations and corporations on behalf of the city. A1

Money Needed to Pay Jobless
The state must increase payroll taxes $300 million a year to keep its unemployment compensation fund solvent during a wave of layoffs brought on by the recession and Sept. 11. B1

Hale House Ex-Leader Charged
Lorraine E. Hale, who once led the children's charity Hale House, and her husband, Jesse L. DeVore, were arrested and charged with stealing or misappropriating about $1 million from the Harlem charity. They pleaded not guilty and were released. B1

View From Inside Trade Center
CBS said it would broadcast a two-hour documentary on March 10 culled from the videotape footage shot inside the World Trade Center by two young French filmmakers on Sept. 11. B4

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Quiet Corporate Connections
A survey of medical experts who write guidelines for treating various conditions found nearly 9 of 10 had financial ties to the pharmaceutical industry that are rarely disclosed. A17

EDUCATION B7

End of a Break at CUNY
The university, looking for money to hire more professors, plans to end a policy of not charging four-year students for their last semester. B3

ARTS E1-10

Cast Change for 'Producers'
March 17 will be the last performance for the two stars, Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Enron Blocked Employee Sales
Enron executives said that before they temporarily barred employees from selling company stock in their retirement accounts last fall, they debated delaying the moratorium because employees could suffer losses from a plunging stock price. A1

Two Congressional panels issued subpoenas to Kenneth L. Lay. C1

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu announced accounting and consulting changes to bring it in line with those made by other Big Five accounting firms in the wake of the Enron collapse. C1

2 Had WorldCom in Their Sights
Verizon and SBC Communications, the two biggest local telephone companies, each considered bidding to acquire WorldCom in recent months but backed out amid concern that WorldCom's core long-distance businesses faced continued difficulties. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

DINING F1-12

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: The Pentagon spending spree; circling the mammography wagons; Adam Cohen on the post-bubble Internet.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); ARMIES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DISASTER PLANNING (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); AL-QAEDA (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (68%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (56%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); YEMEN (92%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



220 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Passes Hat, Aiming at Corporate Help 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
As he seeks to close what is estimated to be a $4 billion budget gap, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is turning his attention toward the private sector -- including offering corporate naming rights for areas in city parks -- to help New York City get through the crisis, several of his aides say.
 Mr. Bloomberg has also decided to loosen the restrictions governing business improvement districts, which supplement city services, to encourage their expansion across the city. And he plans to begin a personal campaign to enlist wealthy donors, foundations and corporations to direct their largess toward the city, city officials said. 
 In recent years, many cities have looked to corporations for financial support through corporate naming of buildings like sports stadiums, museums and zoos. In New York, the trend has caught on somewhat along Broadway, where theaters have opted for the lucrative practice of taking on corporate names; rechristening, for example, the Selwyn Theater on 42nd Street the American Airlines Theater -- for $8.5 million over 10 years. 
Partnerships with businesses and donors have played a role in city government -- in housing built during the Koch administration, private companies aiding schools, or individuals paying for park benches. 
But a fear of undue corporate influence and control has limited the practice.
However, the city's desperate financial situation, coupled with a mayor with longstanding ties to chief executives, big donors and charitable foundations, has resulted in new attention on partnerships between the city and private groups.
"There is an orientation here that says that government does not have to exercise control over every great idea," said Daniel Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development. 
"You will see examples of partnerships in varied ways," he said. "In many cases, you will look back and say, 'Yes the private sector played a significant role in creating things that would not have occurred otherwise.' " 
The Parks Department has long been an area of government in which the private and charitable worlds have been able to help in rocky economic times. Neighborhood groups have taken over the care of gardens, and private donors have lent their names, and dollars, to build things like skating rinks. 
But the new parks commissioner, Adrian Benepe, said he would like to see this taken much further, offering, for instance, corporate naming rights to the track and field complex under construction on Randalls Island in exchange for a sum that would help pay for its completion and its maintenance.
The Heather Garden at Fort Tryon Park, which is being restored, would be another example, he said. "We would not turn our noses up at a corporation that wanted to give $4.5 million," to maintain the gardens in exchange for attaching their name to it, Mr. Benepe said. 
Should the idea catch on and entire parks become renamed, something Mr. Benepe conceded was not out of the question, critics are almost certain to abound, as they did along Broadway when faced with a practice that was not long ago anathema. 
The practice is not without risks: sports and cultural institutions in Houston, for example, are reeling over their financial dependence on the recently collapsed Enron Corporation. Page C9. 
"People do not need to worry that there will be a grotesque commercialization of public spaces," Mr. Benepe stressed. "We are not selling off our parks to the highest bidder. We would rather go without than do something that is inappropriate." 
The city is also considered extending the adopt-a-park concept, to institutions like senior centers and to social service programs.
In his address to the City Council last week, Mayor Bloomberg indicated that his administration would focus on courting businesses and helping them develop in the city, ideas he expanded on yesterday in a speech at the Association for Better New York breakfast. 
"I ask you all to rally to the city's cause," Mr. Bloomberg said to the room of business leaders gathered at the Regent Hotel on Wall Street. 
The mayor has also given a nod to groups that have already dug into their pocketbooks for New York, like the Ford Foundation, which added $10 million in grants to cultural and social organizations in the city after Sept. 11, and the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, which has earmarked $15 million for New York's cultural organizations and, in an unusual move, also plans to give money to the city's parks and libraries. 
His aides say the mayor, a large and longstanding donor to many cultural and social institutions, will lean on his friends in the philanthropy world to help New York. "He has been in the position of donating at a high level and is approached to support causes all the time," said William Cunningham, the mayor's communications director. "In those conversations, he will suggest to people that," when they think of giving, "they should consider New York."
Further, the Bloomberg administration has already begun to aggressively court chief executive officers to keep their companies in New York, something that many real estate developers and business leaders have complained was not done during the boom years of the Giuliani administration.
Mr. Doctoroff has been racing across the city calling on large developers and chief executives, trying to stem the flow of businesses that are choosing New Jersey and other areas over the city, and Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday that he would assist him. 
"If you haven't been called yet, you will be," the mayor said. "Let me tell you, we're not going to take no for an answer."
While the Giuliani administration focused heavily on tax-free bonds and other incentives to keep corporations from fleeing, what many corporate leaders and developers really need, they say, are the easing of zoning regulations, a municipal commitment to transportation and roadways and the personal attention of City Hall. 
"It is like a weight has been lifted," said one business leader who has met with Mr. Doctoroff. "The leadership in the city has a lot to do with the retention of businesses and jobs."
Mr. Bloomberg said his administration would reorganize the city's Economic Development Corporation with a "client-centered" approach. Further, the mayor will regroup the Department of Business Services, offering a large room with representatives from city agencies across the city with the goal of helping small businesses quickly navigate their way through the myriad laws, regulations and requirements needed to get started in business.
The success of business improvement districts -- organizations paid for by businesses in neighborhoods that supplement city services like street cleaning and security -- has been hampered, Mr. Doctoroff said, by convoluted restrictions about the number of property owners who must vote in favor of forming a new BID and the way they raise money. He said the Bloomberg administration would seek to lift some of these restrictions and encourage the growth of BIDS in the boroughs outside Manhattan.
Deputy Mayor Patricia E. Harris led the efforts of Mr. Bloomberg's corporation in its philanthropic efforts, and several aides to the mayor said that she would now turn the tables, helping foundations and corporate and private donors direct their volunteers and money to areas that will be hurt in budget cuts. 
The mayor's office is considering how to press private citizens into volunteerism, such as getting people to check in on the elderly, in a program similar to one at Bloomberg LP. The mayor's aides have said Mr. Bloomberg will agree to lend his face to public service announcements to generate such services. 
Michael Clark, president of the Citizens Committee for New York City, has already made calls to City Hall, he said, and other foundations and citizens' groups are also looking for ways to help, mayoral aides say. 
"These donations were made specifically to cope with the financial implications of Sept. 11," said T. Dennis Sullivan, a vice president at the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, of its pending gifts to libraries and parks. "We hope to help these groups fulfill their basic mission as best they can."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fire Commissioner Nicholas Scoppetta, left, with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who asked business leaders yesterday "to rally to the city's cause." (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); THEATER (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TRENDS (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); TRACK & FIELD (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CORPORATIONS; PHILANTHROPY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; FOUNDATIONS; GRANTS (CORPORATE AND FOUNDATION); PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R; STEINHAUER, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



221 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; 
Investigators Buying Time For Inquiry

BYLINE:  By DON VAN NATTA Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
Kenneth L. Lay backed out of his date with Congress this week, but his refusal to testify voluntarily only served to increase the resolve of politicians to get the truth about the fall of the Enron Corporation, even if they never get the opportunity to hear the former Enron chairman's side of the story.
 Two panels sent subpoenas today to Mr. Lay, but lawmakers said they were almost certain Mr. Lay would refuse to answer their questions and would instead invoke his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination. Two other former Enron executives, Andrew S. Fastow and Jeffrey K. Skilling, are also expected by lawmakers to decline to testify. 
 Yet in the end, the former Enron executives' refusal to cooperate may represent little more than a speed bump to the 11 Congressional inquiries focusing on the many strands of the largest bankruptcy case in American history, Congressional leaders and staff members said today.
The extension of the Congressional inquiries is a mixed blessing for the White House because the Enron examination on Capitol Hill will continue to be a distraction from the Bush administration's war on terrorism and its efforts to invigorate the economy.
Congressional staff members say the Enron executives' refusal to testify now will allow staff members more time to comb through more than two million Enron documents and assemble the many pieces of a very complex corporate puzzle.
"It helps us more than it hurts us," Ken Johnson, spokesman for the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, said of the delay in hearing from the former executives. "The game plan was always to bring in the underlings first and set the stage for an appearance by Mr. Lay and the other senior executives when we have more evidence."
In 1994, as a House panel inquiry on the tobacco industry was just beginning, seven tobacco executives voluntarily testified and swore under oath that nicotine was not addictive and they did not market cigarettes to children. Later in the inquiry, the panel obtained a slew of documents that undercut many of the statements made by the tobacco executives. But when Republicans seized the leadership of the House in 1995, the executives were not required to testify again after the Republicans closed the inquiry.
Mr. Lay's refusal to testify served as a reminder on Capitol Hill that the Bush administration has refused to cooperate with a related Congressional inquiry. Several Democratic leaders on Capitol Hill aimed their anger over Mr. Lay's refusal to cooperate squarely at the White House.
The Bush administration has rejected a request by the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, for a list of energy industry executives, including some from Enron, who met with Vice President Dick Cheney's energy task force last year. The accounting office is expected to file a lawsuit against Mr. Cheney and the administration.
"The appearance is awful," said Philip M. Schiliro, the chief of staff for Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California. "Lay is reversing himself and refusing to voluntarily testify, and at the same time the administration is continuing to refuse to cooperate with the Congress. It's hard to believe that's a combination the administration wants."
Mary Matalin, counselor to the vice president, portrayed some Democrats' anger at the White House as "playing politics with Enron."
"As we've been saying from the beginning, we are greatly saddened by the Democrats who prefer to play politics with this difficult issue as opposed to joining the president to form policies that will ensure this will never happen again," Ms. Matalin said.
Another senior administration official scoffed at the idea that the Enron collapse was anything but a corporate scandal. "People think Ken Lay is Satan," the official said. "They don't think we are and they don't think some G.A.O. process story is the equivalent of lying and robbing people."
Mr. Lay had agreed in December to appear on Feb. 4 before the Senate Commerce Committee. But his offer occurred before many of the most damning revelations about Enron, which was capped over the weekend by a highly critical report by a committee of Enron's board.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Ernest F. Hollings, left, listened as Senator Byron L. Dorgan, in glasses at right, said he favored issuing a subpoena to Kenneth L. Lay. At right, a copy of the subpoena issued by a House committee. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); WITNESSES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ETHICS (72%); WAR ON TERROR (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); HISTORY (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); TERRORISM (66%); LITIGATION (64%); ACCOUNTING (62%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (62%); TOBACCO MFG (62%) BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; FIFTH AMENDMENT (US CONSTITUTION); SELF-INCRIMINATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: BYRON DORGAN (73%); DICK CHENEY (57%) VAN NATTA, DON JR; LAY, KENNETH L; FASTOW, ANDREW S; SKILLING, JEFFREY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HOLLINGS, ERNEST F (SEN); DORGAN, BYRON L (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



222 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Bush Budget's Low Growth Rate for Medicare Is Questioned by Lawmakers 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
President Bush's new budget shows extraordinarily slow growth in Medicare over the next decade, puzzling members of Congress and health policy experts, who say the numbers appear to be unrealistic.
 Reasons for the slow growth remained something of a mystery today as lawmakers pored over the budget that Mr. Bush unveiled on Monday. 
 Assuming a slower rate of growth for Medicare has the same effect as cutting the Medicare budget; it saves money. But it avoids the political uproar that would surround a proposal for large cuts in Medicare. 
The White House estimate of total Medicare spending in the next decade, assuming a continuation of current policy, is $300 billion less than estimated by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. That figure represents about 10 percent of what Medicare is expected to spend in the next 10 years, according to the administration.
The budget office, the official scorekeeper for Congress, estimated last month that Medicare spending would double in the next decade under existing laws. By contrast, Mr. Bush said that Medicare spending would grow 73 percent in the next decade, even though the rolls would begin to swell with the addition of the first baby boomers in 2011 and 2012.
In the last decade, Medicare spending doubled, to $238 billion last year.
The president's budget does not explain why the administration expects slower growth of Medicare in coming years. Robert D. Reischauer, who was director of the Congressional Budget Office from 1989 to 1995, called the prediction puzzling.
Trent D. Duffy, a spokesman for the White House Office of Management and Budget, said the estimates were based on projections by experts at the Department of Health and Human Services. "The administration follows the nonpartisan Medicare actuaries' estimates," he said. 
A Bush administration official acknowledged that the growth in Medicare assumed in the budget "does seem pretty modest, compared with prior years," but cited several reasons for the differing estimates. The Congressional Budget Office, he said, expects greater use of health care by Medicare beneficiaries and more inflation in the prices of goods and services used by hospitals.
In the last decade, Medicare grew an average of 7.6 percent a year. But with no change in existing law, the White House says, the program will grow an average of just 4.6 percent a year in the next five years.
If White House estimates are correct, Medicare would grow more slowly in the next decade than it has in any 10-year period since its creation in 1965. It would also grow more slowly than projected spending by private health insurance plans, and Medicare spending for the average beneficiary would not keep pace with medical inflation.
The estimates have major fiscal and political implications. Medicare, which provides health insurance to 40 million elderly and disabled people, is one of the largest programs in the federal budget.
Rapid growth in Medicare worsens the overall budget picture, raising a deficit or reducing a surplus. Conversely, if Medicare is growing slowly or moderately, it will be easier for Mr. Bush and Congress to keep commitments to add new benefits, like prescription-drug coverage.
With no change in existing law, Mr. Bush said, Medicare will cost the government $3 trillion in the next decade, after taking account of premiums paid by beneficiaries. By contrast, the Congressional Budget Office puts the cost at $3.3 trillion.
Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, said he saw no signs of a slowing of Medicare growth. On Capitol Hill, he said, "most people are talking about spending more, not less -- about putting back money for doctors and hospitals" cut in 1997. 
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, asked how Medicare growth could slow when "health care costs are going up and the number of seniors is on the rise?"
The Congressional Budget Office sees Medicare growing an average of about 7 percent a year in the coming decade, while the Bush administration foresees increases averaging about 5.5 percent a year. 
John C. Rother, policy director of AARP, which represents millions of Medicare beneficiaries, said that "the administration produces a more favorable overall budget picture by forecasting lower rates of growth in Medicare."
President Bush has called for sweeping changes in Medicare, to give beneficiaries a wider choice of private health plans, like those available to federal employees.
A federal advisory commission recommended last month that Medicare payments to doctors, hospitals, home care agencies and health maintenance organizations be raised. Many lawmakers said they would try to do so this year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (94%); BUDGETS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; AGED; HEALTH INSURANCE 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



223 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
Social Security Pledges May Haunt Both Parties

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
Ever since Bill Clinton greeted the new era of surpluses in 1998 with the pledge to "save Social Security first," Republicans and Democrats alike have made ever more fervent pledges to use the taxes collected for Social Security solely for retirement benefits or paying down debt.
 The parties ran campaign advertisements on the issue. They fashioned baroque legislative "lockboxes" to protect the Social Security trust fund. George W. Bush said in his 2000 campaign that "for years, politicians in both parties have dipped into the trust fund to pay for more spending -- and I will stop it." 
 Now all those pledges are a memory. With the surplus drained by recession, last year's $1.35 trillion, 10-year tax cut and the war on terrorism, the president's new budget uses Social Security surpluses to pay for other programs every year through 2013, ultimately diverting more than $1.4 trillion in Social Security funds to other purposes.
This year alone, $262 billion in Social Security funds are to be tapped. In 2003, the budget envisions using $259 billion.
"The lockbox is gone," said Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana. That, to differing degrees, poses a political problem for both parties.
For the moment, Democrats are on the offensive. In one hearing today, Senator Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, told Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the president's budget director, that if he had put forward such a plan to use pension money for other purposes in the private sector "you'd be headed for a federal correctional authority."
Republicans today were somewhat ill at ease. Until they made their recent pledges of allegiance to the preservation of the Social Security trust fund, they ran well behind Democrats when Americans were asked which party they most trusted to handle Social Security. In recent years they nearly closed the gap.
"What's fundamentally different today in 2002 is that Republicans have fought their way to even," said Terry Holt, a spokesman for Representative Dick Armey, the House majority leader. But that also means the Republicans have the most to lose if earlier perceptions return.
So Republicans are hoping that President Bush's sky-high approval ratings, and his emphasis on his budget as a war-time necessity, will prevent them from paying a price with the voters for the use of the Social Security money.
As Senator Pete V. Domenici, the ranking Republican on the Budget Committee, put it, "So I say to the seniors of this land, you would join us in saying the most important thing is winning this war." Republicans are also arguing that tax cuts will stimulate the economy and that growth will return the era of surpluses.
Republican pollsters say that for now at least voters are in a forgiving mood and believe that Sept. 11 brought a shift in priorities. "In the short run people understand there will have to be resources devoted to putting together the required elements of dealing with terrorism," said David Winston, a pollster for the House Republican conference. "You have an understanding electorate."
But the debate over Social Security is also coming at a time when the Enron collapse has given people second thoughts about the security of their 401(k) plans and put the issue of retirement security front and center. Democratic pollsters say that even if Mr. Bush will not suffer for his budget priorities, he is not up for election this year. Congressional Republicans are.
"Bush is at 85 percent," said Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster, referring to the president's approval rating. "If he loses 10 points over Social Security he'll still be a very popular president. But some of these marginal House and Senate members who are at 55 percent, if they lose 10 points, they lose."
To help shield their members and reassure older voters, House Republican leaders are planning a vote soon on a measure that would require the Social Security Administration to give out certificates to people guaranteeing all the retirement benefits for which they are qualified.
Behind the scenes some conservatives, including Representative Tom DeLay, the House majority whip from Texas, have argued vociferously in recent private meetings that they do not want their party associated with deficits, lawmakers say. But most Republicans say they would not be able to cut spending enough to produce a balanced budget.
For all their criticism of the Bush budget, Democrats themselves will quickly face political difficulties of their own, since they have a one-vote majority in the Senate and will have to produce their own budget plan. Their protests will sound hypocritical if they, too, dip into the Social Security reserves.
But if anything, their ideas would make the deficits worse. Most Democrats want to support Mr. Bush's calls for robust new spending on the military and domestic security. Most are reluctant to take any step to freeze or roll back the tax cut. Democrats also want to add back money Mr. Bush proposed cutting from popular domestic programs for the environment, highways or job-training.
Of course, despite the debate about dipping into the Social Security surplus, current benefits are not imperiled. Social Security payroll taxes, plus the interest Social Security accrues on its trust fund, exceeds what is needed to pay benefits for the next 14 years, projections show. And in the 1980's the use of the Social Security surplus to pay for other programs was routine.
When President Bill Clinton coined the phrase "save Social Security first" in his 1998 State of the Union Message, part of the rationale was that if federal debt could be significantly reduced or even eliminated before 2016, it would help the government pay the Social Security benefits it will owe the large baby boom generation, without having to impose crushing new payroll taxes on younger workers in those years.
But Mr. Clinton was also employing a stratagem to prevent Republicans from passing large tax cuts in a time of surpluses. And when the Republicans embraced the idea, they did so partly because they realized that it would also stop Democrats from having big surpluses to finance new spending. Now both sides have to deal with the political price of breaking their promises. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (95%); BUDGETS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (64%); TERRORISM (54%) SOCIAL SECURITY (US); BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); KENT CONRAD (58%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); MITCH DANIELS (58%) MITCHELL, ALISON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



224 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Economic Recovery Package on Brink of Dying in Senate 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
With the economic outlook brightening and the two parties at loggerheads over tax cuts, the Senate moved today to the brink of abandoning efforts to pass an economic recovery package.
 Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic majority leader, said he would call for a vote on the package on Wednesday and would shelve it if it could not get the 60 votes needed to overcome procedural hurdles. He added that he did not expect the plan to reach the threshold and that the effort to give the economy a lift would therefore die. 
 President Bush said he was disappointed and repeated his position that the economy needed help to make sure a recovery took root and generated new jobs. 
"I still think we need to pass a bill that will help workers and help stimulate the economy," Mr. Bush told reporters this afternoon.
The plan under consideration in the Senate has elements both parties support, including a 13-week extension of unemployment benefits beyond the 26-week limit most states impose; a one-time payment of up to $300 for low-income workers; and tax incentives for business investment.
It excludes, however, most of the individual and business tax cuts sought by Republicans, including an acceleration of the individual income tax cuts in the tax bill Mr. Bush signed into law last year. The Senate version also left unresolved a growing dispute between the parties over how best to provide health insurance to the unemployed.
Late last year, the House passed a Republican-sponsored stimulus bill that gave the administration most of what it wanted. Since then, Mr. Bush has portrayed the Democratic-controlled Senate, and Mr. Daschle in particular, as obstructing efforts to help workers and revive the economy. 
Senate Republicans joined in that criticism today, suggesting that Mr. Daschle would be responsible for any economic trouble ahead.
Mr. Daschle then hurled the obstructionist label back at Republicans, saying they had done "a disservice to the American people who so badly need our help."
Some of the impetus behind the legislation had dissipated in recent weeks as new figures showed that the economy was starting to heal and that the recession might even be over. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said last week he was "conflicted" about whether a stimulus plan was necessary.
The administration itself painted an upbeat picture of the economy today, but sought to do so in a way that did not undermine its case for new and accelerated tax cuts.
"I believe we will return to prosperous economic growth rates of 3 to 3.5 percent, as soon as the fourth quarter of this year, especially if we are able to pass still-needed economic security legislation," Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill told the House Ways and Means Committee this morning before Mr. Daschle said the legislation was likely to fail.
But Democrats said Republicans in the Senate had proven unwilling to compromise and had continued to try to weigh down a stimulus package with tax cuts that would do little or nothing to help workers and employers today. They cited an amendment today by Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, to make permanent the repeal of the federal estate tax included in last year's tax bill.
"They don't want a stimulus package unless it's their stimulus package," Mr. Daschle said.
Republicans said Mr. Daschle had refused to set aside the Senate's 60-vote requirement for cutting off debate to allow a straightforward majority vote on a Republican-leaning compromise that was supported by two or three Democrats.
"I'm wondering if they would really like to have a genuine compromise," said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa.
The administration pushed for enactment of a stimulus plan in the budget proposal it sent to Congress on Monday, and had set aside $89 billion in the current fiscal year and $73 billion next year to pay for it. Assuming that a stimulus bill of the size it supported would be enacted into law, the administration projected that the government would run a deficit this year of $106 billion and a deficit next year of $80 billion.
The seeming collapse of the economic stimulus legislation prompted some House Republicans to call for Congress to adopt a balanced budget this year, and there were indications that the Republican leadership and the White House might go along with them.
Representative John Shadegg of Arizona, chairman of the Republican Study Committee, a group of 70 conservatives, said he would have been willing to tolerate a deficit to help the economy. But, he said, if the money was not going to a stimulus package, it should not be available for more government spending.
"If we could pass a strong stimulus package that would create jobs, that would be the best thing for America," Mr. Shadegg said. "If we can't do that, then we not only can but should balance the budget."
Still, it is by no means clear that Mr. Bush will be able to hold back pressure for more spending from either party, especially in a Congressional election year. Administration officials fanned out across Capitol Hill today to sell the president's plan to squeeze spending on much of the rest of government to pay for a sharp increase in spending on the military and domestic security programs.
They ran into a torrent of criticism from Democrats, who said that the tax cuts in Mr. Bush's plan would cripple the government financially in the long run and that the spending cuts the president was seeking were out of step with the nation's priorities.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, left, and Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, in a tete-a-tete yesterday before a hearing of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee on an economic stimulus plan. Mr. Greenspan has said he is "conflicted" about such a plan. (Agence France-Presse); Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the White House budget director, at a Senate hearing yesterday in which he defended President Bush's 2003 budget. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); TAX LAW (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TOM DASCHLE (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); MITCH DANIELS (55%) DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



225 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS; 
Linking Infant Mortality To Schooling and Stress

BYLINE:  By Richard Rothstein; E-mail: rrothstein@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AT a Martin Luther King's Birthday speech in Harlem, New York's mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, repeated a pledge to make education his priority, saying that if schools improved, "a lot of what Dr. King wanted to accomplish in our society will take care of itself."
 It was a bold, if commonplace, claim, yet policy makers rarely examine their theory that school improvement alone can drive progress in health care, housing and income inequality. 
 If the idea is true, then the mayor and others (President Bush, for example) are smart to focus on schools. But if it is false, it is dangerous to ignore social and economic problems in the hope that, with better schools, the problems will take care of themselves. 
Three days after the mayor's speech, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported on racial disparities in health. Blacks' infant mortality, for example, is more than twice that of whites (14 deaths per 1,000 live births for blacks; 6 per 1,000 for whites). The rate of low-birth-weight babies for blacks is also twice the rate for whites (13.2 percent versus 6.6 percent) and barely changed in the 1990's.
Low birth weight for so many black children itself impedes improved education. Children born with below-normal weight get lower average I.Q. and achievement test scores, have more frequent learning disabilities and attention disorders, are more often asthmatic (with more school absences) and are less likely to graduate from high school. Higher academic standards alone cannot undo the physiological hurdles.
Mayor Bloomberg's theory could be correct if better schooling led women to take more steps to prevent difficult pregnancies. Until recently, most health professionals believed that inadequate prenatal care was the most important cause of low birth weight and infant mortality. If so, black women who were better educated and more aware of the need for prenatal care would have healthier births.
But it now seems that education cannot explain much about the racial gap in the outcome of pregnancies. The infant mortality rate experienced by black women who are college graduates is higher than that for white women who are high school dropouts. This is not because of racially linked genetic differences -- the babies of black women born in the United States die at a higher rate than than those of black immigrant women in similar economic circumstances.
The idea that education about prenatal care would eliminate disparities is also a doubtful one because virtually every state now provides Medicaid to low-income pregnant women, with no consequent drop in the incidence of low birth weight or infant mortality for blacks.
Although the poor use medical care less than the middle class, sometimes because of less flexible work schedules or because poor women are less informed about their health benefits, education about prenatal care is now sufficiently widespread that the number of black women without care in the first trimester of pregnancy has declined significantly. Even so, the infant mortality rate experienced by black middle-class women is much higher than for poor white women.
In examining the causes of problem pregnancies, medical researchers increasingly study lifetime stress, not only stress during pregnancy. Dr. Michael C. Lu, an obstetrician-gynecologist and community health specialist at the University of California at Los Angeles, puts it this way: "You can't cram all the good things into nine months of pregnancy. You've got to start early, when the mother is still a fetus, and an infant, and a child, and an adolescent."
Many experts now conclude that stress causes release of hormones that weaken the uterus, leading to premature delivery or mortality. The hormone changes can occur over a lifetime, not only in pregnancy. They may build up from fear of violence, from worries about paying for food or housing, from job insecurity or from having to stand for long periods at work. One study found that problem pregnancies were more frequent among black women who reported more experiences with racial discrimination in employment or housing. 
If pregnancy crises are exacerbated by all the socioeconomic conditions that make life more difficult for black women, better education alone -- even education about health -- cannot undo these stresses. And because women who themselves were born prematurely are more likely to have problem pregnancies, even an approach that involved schools as well as economic programs could take more than a generation. 
Mayor Bloomberg's passion to give minority children better schools is admirable. But to create the society of Dr. King's dreams, school improvement must link to a broader strategy for improving the social and economic circumstances of black communities. Expecting other problems to take care of themselves only assures failure on all fronts.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANT MORTALITY (91%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); WOMEN (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (76%); MEDICAID (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); FLEXTIME (74%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; WOMEN; BLACKS; INFANT MORTALITY; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS; STRESS (HUMAN) 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) ROTHSTEIN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002 



226 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Forum More Local Than Worldly 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: PORTO ALEGRE, Brazil, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
The 40,000 people who gathered here for the World Social Forum, the antiglobalization alternative to the World Economic Forum in New York, had adopted the motto, "Another world is possible."
 By the time this meeting concluded, though, it was clear that the refrain, "Politics is local," won out. 
 Brazilian leftist organizations seized control of the event, which closed today, making it more than anything a campaign stop for the country's coming presidential election. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, the presidential candidate of the socialist Workers Party, acted statesmanlike at a leisurely lunch on Saturday with representatives of the French left. 
A procession during the forum appeared scripted to describe this city's populist legacy, with a crowd of people marching in the hot sun in penitence for their sins, a group of political dignitaries on a shaded platform and a historical sketch by performers of this frontier region, which was a battleground for centuries between Portugal and Spain. 
The politicians included Gov. Olivio Dutra, a Workers Party leader who was asked by a young man in the crowd to sign a copy of "Empire," the book by Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri that is a kind of diagnosis of 21st-century global capitalism.
"It would be my pleasure," Mr. Dutra said.
Many of the visitors came here for political reasons too. Three French presidential candidates and half a dozen cabinet ministers attended. In fact, French politicians and their aides seemed more numerous than members of organizations like Attac, the Paris-based group seeking a global tax on financial transactions.
Those elements clashed on Monday, when French students threw a pie in the face of Marie-George Buffet, the minister of youth and sports, who is a Communist Party member. 
All this did not stop several vague declarations from being signed supporting world peace, opposing free trade in the Americas or condemning United States military action. 
Anti-American sentiment abounded even as the number of delegates from the United States this year, the forum's second, climbed to several hundred from a dozen last year. One popular T-shirt among fringe groups compared Osama bin Laden to Ernesto "Che" Guevara and Jesus. No American flags were burned, though, apparently out of respect for the victims of the Sept. 11 attacks.
"The forum is not strong in proposing ideas," Mr. Hardt, who took part in a national sovereignty debate here, said in an interview. "My perception was that one position represented by the Brazilians and French wants to weaken globalization with strengthened national power while others from a North Atlantic mindset aren't interested in that at all."
As at the World Economic Forum in New York, which concluded on Monday, this forum's debates included much on Argentina's crisis but not much on the collapse of Enron, which has extensive interests in big developing countries like India and Brazil. A notable exception was a column in the newspaper Zero Hora by Luis Fernando Verissimo, who called Enron a "learning shock against all the neo-liberal arguments for our wallets and our minds." 
"Neo-liberalism" and its proponents' aspirations to construct an economy with fewer tariffs and less regulatory malfeasance was the subject of much ire. So were global institutions like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which were barred from the meeting. Others moved past anti-globalization attacks, though, and set about using the event for networking.
"I was amazed at how the concept of corporate responsibility has grown in Brazil," said Mark Ritchie of the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy in Minneapolis. "Meeting those people was invaluable in my efforts to better understand the ambitions of big Brazilian agricultural players."
In the end, however, little of substance was accomplished. There was some talk about scheduling next year's meeting in another part of the developing world, perhaps in Africa, but local political interests won out. The next forum will again be in Porto Alegre, though it is not certain if the socialists will still be in control of the local government a year from now.
More than anything, the event seemed to illustrate democracy's strength in this nation of 170 million, which emerged from military rule a decade-and-a-half ago. The federal government did not interfere with the meeting, organized by the socialist opposition. There were few violent incidents or protests. Some considered the variety of ideas swapped here a healthy illustration of the debate over global capitalism.
"No one in New York or Davos or Porto Alegre or anywhere else for that matter is really capable of anything more than a diagnosis of the contemporary situation," the Brazilian novelist Moacyr Scliar said in an interview. "The political horrors of the twentieth century taught us that it's better we don't leave here with a magic formula." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TERRORISM (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (56%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (77%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%) BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); SPAIN (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



227 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: When PC Still Means 'Punch Card' 

BYLINE:  By DAVID L. MARGULIUS

 BODY:
EVERY day more than 23,000 employees of the Los Angeles County Department of Health Services come to work and punch in -- literally. Their timecards are good old-fashioned punch cards that are collected, sorted and used to generate the biweekly payroll.
 The county's timecard system, in place since the 1960's, survives because to upgrade it would require the rewiring of too many hospitals and local clinics for data transmission and would be too costly. And because it still works. 
 "We are so used to it -- everybody's trained on this system," said Dolores Flores, staff services analyst for the department. She estimated it would require $5 million or more "to change from the keypunch to something more modern." 
As unlikely as it sounds in today's digital era, some punch-card-based information systems are clinging to life. These hardy pieces of paper were so pervasive for so long that they linger on in the form of betting slips, ballots, timecards, image-storage cards and other applications.
Invented in the 1880's by an engineer named Herman Hollerith to automate the United States Census, punch cards were the earliest widely used mechanical system for processing large amounts of data. The cards, punched with holes representing numbers or other data, were fed into a machine that converted the holes into electromechanical impulses for further tallying or processing.
At their height in the 1960's, when computing was synonymous with big mainframe computers from the likes of I.B.M., punch cards were everywhere. In 1967 an estimated 260 billion were consumed in the United States, or 1,300 for every American. As the primary means of writing programs, storing data, running a payroll and issuing checks, they became a symbol of big-company automation and government bureaucracy ("Do not fold, spindle or mutilate"). Social Security, the Internal Revenue Service, railroads, banks and insurance companies all ran on them. They were used to track everything from turnpike tolls and library books to personnel records and business inventory.
Today just three companies in the United States still make and sell punch cards. "I'm one of the last of the Mohicans, I guess," said Bob Oliver of National Card West in Long Beach, Calif. His company sells 100 million punch cards a year, mostly to racetracks in California and sports betting operations in Las Vegas that use them as betting slips.
"All this equipment that's out there has to use something that's the same size as the original punch cards," said Mr. Oliver, who also sells punch-card lunch tickets to the San Diego school district and time cards to a few private companies. 
The U.S. Card Corporation in Tiffin, Ohio, produces 30 million punch cards a month, including a few that its president, John Hoyda, said he believed were used for such business applications as inventory control. 
"You can tell by the headings and stuff on them -- quantity in, quantity out," he said. He speculated that economics played a role in deterring the last few holdouts from switching to digital media.
"The automotive industry still punches a few cards," said Mr. Hoyda, who said he sold through distributors to companies like Ford and Chrysler. (A spokesman for Chrysler, Michael Aberlich, said that the company's use of punch cards was "almost nonexistent" and limited to "some isolated facilities"). 
The Government Printing Office is a big customer, printing advertising messages on the cards and mailing them with Social Security checks. Because the checks themselves used to be printed on punch cards, Mr. Hoyda explained, the inserting machines are still set up to work with the cards.
Another government application for punch cards, voting machines, drew national attention in late 2000 during the dispute over counting ballots with "dangling" or "pregnant" chads in the presidential election.
These Votomatic-style punch-card machines are still widely used, said Douglas W. Jones, an associate professor of computer science at the University of Iowa and chairman of that state's Board of Examiners for Voting Machines and Electronic Voting Systems. Mr. Jones said that the cities of Los Angeles and Chicago were especially committed to retaining the punch-card system. 
The dangling-chad problem is unique to punch-card ballots, he said, because they are prescored so that they can be punched by a person with a stylus. That makes it possible for a chad to stick to the card if the hole is not punched cleanly. Punch cards for other applications are not prescored and are punched by keypunch machines, which do not leave dangling chads.
Other surviving applications preserve the punch card's shape but add a more modern storage mechanism, like the magnetic stripes used on airline tickets. One derivation, the aperture card, holds a square of 35-millimeter film and is still widely used to archive technical drawings, especially those used by public utilities and aerospace companies like Boeing, which has an archive of 40 million cards.
The Bonneville Power Administration, a federal energy marketing agency in Portland, Ore., has a collection of more than 200,000 cards documenting its power plants, substations and transmission lines.
"At different times we've thought we need to get rid of these, this is old technology -- yet we still have them," said Mike Johns, a manager. "It's partly security -- we still are nervous about some of the record-keeping -- and partly the cost to transfer all that information." 
In some industries like real estate, aperture cards survive because federal and state regulations mandate a nondigital medium for archival storage. But the punch card's days are clearly numbered.
"It's died big time," said Terry DiLorenzo, a saleswoman for Globe Ticket and Label, a ticket manufacturer and distributor in Warminster, Pa. 
Ms. DiLorenzo gives the cards another five years of use at most, although she said that current customers range from helicopter manufacturers (cards preprinted with the words "work sequence code") to uniform companies ("linen control route number"). "We ship them all over the place," she said, "but the volume's not there -- 10,000 of this, 3,000 of that."
The 1980's were the beginning of the end, said Mr. Hoyda of U.S. Card, explaining, "That's when we really started seeing a decline in volumes." Magnetic computer tapes started eating into sales volume in the late 60's, but it was the rise of the disk drive in the 70's and 80's that dealt the mortal blow.
Large companies still routinely discover forgotten punch-card archives and then scramble to decipher them and convert them to electronic format. A large insurance company is inviting bids on a project to convert 90 million cards with data on old policies, said Bob Swartz, founder of Cardamation in Phoenixville, Pa., which rents out vintage punch-card readers for that purpose. (While many mainframes still in service work with punch cards, the actual reader and sorter machines have become relics and are typically refurbished or rented.)
Mr. Swartz recently rented equipment to the University of Chicago to convert a half-million cards containing 1930's research on ancient Mayan dialects, and to the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California to convert 7,500 punch cards carrying the results of a 1974 nuclear weapons experiment. 
"They were thrilled they could find somebody that could read them," Mr. Swartz said.
Although data in many different formats was encoded on punch cards over the years, much was encoded in the standard Ascii text format and can easily be transferred to modern computer files with the right equipment. Mr. Jones of the University of Iowa has posted software routines on the Internet to help developers decipher common punch-card patterns. A Web site created by Mr. Jones, www.cs.uiowa.edu/jones/cards, offers an illustrated history of punch cards and pictures of dozens of vintage examples.
Mr. Jones started collecting punch cards in the 1980's when he realized they would eventually disappear. He recently donated a substantial portion of his collection to the Smithsonian Institution and continues to trade "bricks" of the cards with other collectors.
"As far as I know, I'm the only market-maker in antique punch cards," Mr. Jones said. His inventory includes cards preprinted with the logos of Bell Labs, Carnegie Mellon University, the Girl Scouts and dozens of other institutions.
He has also found a compelling personal application for the cards: scrap paper for shopping lists. "It's the common final use," Mr. Jones said. "They're long and thin, fit well in your pocket, and they hold a lot of groceries."

Stacking the Deck
From Piecework To Paycheck, In Perforations
So when your work depends on punching cards, how many cards does it take? That, of course, depends on the task. 
"The classic application example was in the garment industry -- piecework payroll," said John Patrick, I.B.M.'s former vice president for Internet technology, whose first customer when he joined I.B.M. in 1967 was a beer distributor that used punch cards to generate invoices. 
"People who worked on the cutting floor or sewing floor were paid by the 'piece part,' " he said by e-mail. "Every operation for every person resulted in a punched card. One hundred operations per day times five days would have been 500 cards per week per person. A garment manufacturer with 500 employees would have hundreds of thousands of cards."
And just how high a stack would that make? "The metric I remember so well is 150 cards is a stack one inch thick," he said. 
With 500 cards each for 500 employees -- or 250,000 cards -- a tower of cards just short of 140 feet high would generate each weekly payroll. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: COLLECTOR -- Douglas W. Jones, an associate professor of computer science at the University of Iowa, with some of his punch cards. (Mark Tade for The New York Times)(pg. G4); HOLDOUTS -- Punch cards became an endangered species when the disk drive took hold in the 1970's. Yet many remain in use, like these from the U.S. Card Corporation. (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. G1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (70%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (67%); GAMING (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (61%); INSURANCE (61%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (61%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



228 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW; 
Making a Killing in Real Estate Is One Thing, Murder Is Another

BYLINE:  By NEIL GENZLINGER 

 BODY:
It would not be a good idea to arrive late to "Finder's Fee," a new play at the Rattlestick Theater, given what happens in the first 60 seconds. Which is odd, because the play itself feels as if it has arrived a bit late.
 "Finder's Fee," by Wesley Moore, is a briskly paced drama about big-money machinations in the New York real estate market, and it's impossible to watch it without thinking that it seems out of sync with the post-Sept. 11 economic chill. Oh, probably there is still wheeling and dealing of this sort taking place in the city, and the script offers a line now and then to try to justify the story in the current situation, but basically the play feels like something from the go-go 90's. Or was it the go-go 80's? In any case, something from a time and mind-set that seem a distant memory. 
 That said, "Finder's Fee" makes for an entertaining 90 minutes, with three very watchable lead performances and a guessing-game plot. As the play opens, a banker named Susan (Linda Powell) and a real estate broker named Mat (Christopher Duva) are at dinner with a financial kingpin who immediately meets a gruesome end. The adrenaline rush off that quick scene carries for a good 45 minutes as the characters and the audience try to figure out what they saw and who might have been responsible.
Mat, we learn, had been working for years on a major development project in Hell's Kitchen, and Susan was trying to put together the financing. Did one or the other arrange the killing, and for what motive? Along comes Ted (Rob Sedgwick), a compliance officer at Susan's bank (or is he?), and the intrigues really start piling up.
Ms. Powell seems to relish her role as the stereotypical businesswoman, driven and wanton; she has the kind of voice that can make a line like "You can't commingle the credit lines" sound sexy. 
Mr. Duva has a Conan O'Brien look that nicely fits his character, a fringe player who can never quite pull off the big deal. Mr. Sedgwick, though, gets the best role, a slippery chameleon who pursues the other two like a revved-up Columbo, turning up everywhere, never quite asking direct questions.
"Finder's Fee" loses its juice about an hour in as you realize you don't really care who the "who" of the whodunit is and you start to wonder whether there is a broader point to the fun and games. Mr. Moore seems to hint at something involving the nature of trust and the various types of failure, but essentially this is an opportunity to get caught up in a real estate mystery and see some hard-charging acting (under the direction of Leigh Silverman).
Perhaps it's no coincidence that all three lead performers have "Law and Order" credits. Like that television hit, "Finder's Fee" is good viewing but destined to linger in the mind only until next week's episode.

FINDER'S FEE
By Wesley Moore; directed by Leigh Silverman; sets by John McDermott; lighting by Jeffrey Lowney; costumes by Austin K. Sanderson; sound by Eric Shim; original music by Mr. Shim and Josh Atkins; fight choreographer, Caitlin Gibbon; assistant director, Beth Raas; production stage manager, Lori Ann Zepp; technical director, Jeff Duer. Presented by Rattlestick Productions. At 224 Waverly Place, Greenwich Village.

WITH: Christopher Duva (Mat), Linda Powell (Susan), Tom Reynolds (Waiter) and Rob Sedgwick (Ted).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linda Powell and Rob Sedgwick in "Finder's Fee," at the Rattlestick. (Jack Vartoogian for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MURDER (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%) THEATER; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (53%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: GENZLINGER, NEIL; MOORE, WESLEY; SILVERMAN, LEIGH; DUVA, CHRISTOPHER; POWELL, LINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: FINDER'S FEE (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



229 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: Profit Off at Temporary-Labor Supplier 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: TACOMA, Wash., Feb. 6 

 BODY:
Labor Ready Inc., a provider of temporary manual labor, said today that its fourth-quarter earnings fell 29 percent on declining sales. 
 Labor Ready reported net income of $1.5 million, or 4 cents a share, compared with $2.1 million, or 5 cents a share, a year ago. 
Revenue declined 17 percent, to $214.3 million, from $258 million a year earlier. 
 Labor Ready, which is based here, said it expected to post a net loss in the first quarter of 11 cents to 13 cents a share, with revenue of $164 million to $168 million. It projected full-year earnings in the range of 12 cents to 18 cents a share. 
It said it expected a revenue decline year-over-year in the first half of 2002, given the current economic uncertainty. 
The company, which closed 56 branches and opened one branch in the fourth quarter, said it planned to open about 10 branches in 2002. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: TRUEBLUE INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: LABOR READY INC 

TICKER: TBI (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (98%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (59%) WASHINGTON, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



230 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Increases As Companies Eliminate Jobs 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
Worker productivity increased briskly in the fourth quarter of last year, the Labor Department reported today, as businesses dealing with a slowed economy sharply cut workers' hours and eliminated jobs.
 The Labor Department said that productivity -- the amount of output for each hour of work -- increased at an annual rate of 3.5 percent from October through December, up from a 1.1 percent rate in the previous quarter. 
Analysts had expected a 3.2 percent increase. 
 The cutback in payrolls, causing the total number of hours worked to drop at a faster pace than output, thus created the rise in productivity.
Workers' hours in the fourth quarter fell at a 3.7 percent rate -- the biggest drop since the first quarter of 1991 -- while output declined at a 0.4 percent rate. Job losses averaged 311,000 for the final three months of last year.
"Corporations are still choosing to cut costs as a means to improve productivity as opposed to investing in human or technological capital," said Carl Tannenbaum, chief economist at LaSalle Bank/ABN Amro.
For all of last year, productivity rose 1.8 percent, the weakest showing since 1995, and a deceleration from the increase of 3.3 percent in 2000.
The rise in productivity in the fourth quarter helped to moderate unit labor costs, a gauge of inflation. Unit labor costs fell at an annual rate of 1.1 percent, after rising at a rate of 2.6 percent in the third quarter.
For all of 2001, unit labor costs rose 3.9 percent, the biggest gain since 1990. In 2000, these costs increased 3.1 percent.
The 3.5 percent productivity growth rate in the fourth quarter was the biggest increase since the second quarter of 2000, when productivity rose at a 6.7 percent pace.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "U.S. Productivity"Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses. 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted. Quarterly Change At Annual Rate4th qtr.: +3.53rd qtr.: +1.12nd qtr.: +2.1 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%) LABOR; PRODUCTIVITY; WORKING HOURS; UNEMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: RBS HOLDINGS NV (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) LABOR DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



231 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Empty Airport Hurts Operators Getting the Rent 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

 BODY:
When the soaring new Terminal 4 opened last spring at Kennedy International Airport, the mantra of its operators was "passenger service" -- a nod to the wide array of shops, restaurants and other services that would cater to a growing surge of air travelers.
 They were so confident of that surge that rather than setting fixed rents in their leases with tenants, they took the unusual step of letting the rents float, based solely on the number of passengers passing through the terminal. 
 But what happens when the passengers don't show up?
That is the question now facing the operators -- a consortium of the Dutch firm Schiphol, the Wall Street financial company Lehman Brothers and the real estate company LCOR Inc. 
In the last year, the number of passengers going through Terminal 4 has plummeted 22 percent, largely because of the economic downturn and jitters among the nation's air travelers after the Sept. 11 terror attacks.
Suddenly the consortium is suffering from falling revenue from leases for the airlines, shops and other tenants in Terminal 4, which was one of the first in the nation to be managed by a private concern other than an airline. Last week, Fitch Ratings downgraded the consortium's bonds to speculative levels.
As if that were not enough, the consortium continues to be besieged by the effects of bitter political disputes between New York City, which owns Kennedy, and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates it under a lease. (The consortium, in turn, leases the terminal from the Port Authority.)
Because these disputes have made the fate of the airport's operations uncertain after the Port Authority lease with the city expires in 2015, the consortium has had to make provisions to repay its debt earlier and take on financing costs 40 percent higher than it originally envisioned.
The bond issue in 1997 that financed Terminal 4, which replaced the International Arrivals Building, totaled $1 billion. 
In downgrading the bonds, Fitch analysts stressed that they thought the consortium could probably rebound, given its combination of an experienced airport operator, Schiphol, and the financial acumen of LCOR and Lehman Brothers. But they were concerned, they said, about the passenger-based leases.
"This is not your normal arrangement," said Jessica L. Soltz, an analyst with Fitch, noting that most other airport leases set a minimum rent that allows terminal operators to recoup basic costs. "It is an arrangement that is good when things are good, but the real problem is on the downside."
Back in the late 1990's, when the consortium took on operation of Terminal 4, trends in the airline industry were pointing to larger numbers of foreign travelers using Kennedy. With the airways crowded and the resulting delays, the consortium predicted that people would spend more time in the airport, and spend more money. 
Of course, Terminal 4 is not the only airport business feeling the pinch. David Z. Plavin, president of the Airport Council International of North America, said that bond rating and financial companies have put nearly all of the nation's airport operators on watch lists in the wake of the economic downturn and the Sept. 11 attacks. 
"But mostly what this is," Mr. Plavin said of the plight of the Terminal 4 consortium, "is a blow to all of the people going around trying to sell privatization of airport operations of the kind you have at Kennedy."
Terminal 4 was intended to be the Port Authority's showpiece of privatization's promise of efficient and profitable airport management. But it suffered from Rudolph W. Giuliani's criticism of the Port Authority's stewardship of the airport from early on in his mayoralty. 
He said the agency lavished capital improvement and marketing resources on Newark International Airport at the expense of Kennedy and the city's other major airport, La Guardia, stunting city revenues under the lease. In his second term, Mr. Giuliani set out to hire a company to monitor Port Authority airport operations -- a move the agency greeted with defiance.
According to one of Mr. Giuliani's economic advisers at the time, John Dyson, and to officials of the consortium, the Port Authority would not let the consortium disclose to the city the terms of its lease for Terminal 4 as it was being developed. 
Authority officials say it is standard operating procedure to keep terms of leases secret while they are being negotiated. But Mr. Dyson and others pointed out that the authority had provided such details for at least two other airport tenants that led to the city's granting them extensions beyond the 2015 expiration of the Port Authority's lease. Because it could not see the terms, Mr. Dyson said, the Giuliani administration refused to extend the consortium lease into the time when the city would regain control over the airports.
As a result, said David A. Sigman, development general manager for the Terminal 4 operators, the consortium had to structure bonds based on a repayment schedule of 15 years rather than 30. This meant a "dramatic increase" in debt payments between 2000 and 2009 -- $11 million to $32 million more a year, he said.
"It was something we put in place to get the deal started," Mr. Sigman said. "No one expected that we would live with this arrangement for the whole time."
Back when projections for passenger traffic were optimistic, the consortium saw itself meeting even these onerous debt burdens in the short term, as well as making a profit. So, too, did analysts. But with the decline in passengers, the consortium was unable to pay the additional debt for 2001 and will not be able to cover it this year, Mr. Sigman said. Instead, that debt will accrue to a large balloon payment by 2015.
Victor Van Der Chijs, president and chief executive of Schiphol USA, concedes that the passenger-based leases are "very sensitive to downturns," but he and others insist that long-term trends will smooth out what seems like a roller coaster ride now. 
One hopeful sign, he said, is that the Port Authority and the new administration of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg are getting along. The consortium has entered into serious negotiations with the city to extend its lease on Terminal 4 beyond 2015, enabling it to spread out its debt payments. But city officials caution that those negotiations depend on resolving broader issues with the Port Authority. 
For its part, the port agency has allowed the consortium to share lease and other financial information with City Hall.
Still, the recent drop in passengers, and revenue, comes as a bit of a shock to Schiphol, which has been known for efficient and profitable operation of airports in Amsterdam and elsewhere.
"We at Schiphol have not experienced any decline in passengers in 80 years until now," Mr. Van Der Chijs said. "The hiccup in the economy is just a little deeper and a little longer than most forecasted. But we still believe in the New York market as one of the most important in the world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An empty check-in area in Terminal 4 at Kennedy, where rent is tied to passengers. (Kevin P. Coughlin for the New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); AIRLINES (90%); BONDS (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (87%); CREDIT BUREAUS (87%); RESTAURANTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TERRORISM (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); BOND ISSUES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NYC); AIRPORTS; STOCKS AND BONDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING; PRIVATIZATION 

COMPANY: LCOR INC (70%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SCHIPHOL INTERNATIONAL; LEHMAN BROTHERS; LCOR (REAL ESTATE COMPANY); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (70%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (70%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



232 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Lessons for Nation-Builders 

 BODY:
Nation-building aided by outsiders is a project many believe is doomed to fail. Yet international attempts to create a society from the ground up have sometimes succeeded. A recent example is East Timor, which offers a few lessons for future efforts in places like Afghanistan. 
 In 1975 East Timor was forcibly annexed by Indonesia in a brutal invasion. Over the next two decades, a fifth of the population was killed. In 1999, Indonesian troops and their allied local militias went on a spree of destruction, burning much of the area's infrastructure to the ground and holding a civilian U.N. mission hostage. The carnage was stopped only by a coalition of United Nations troops led by Australia. 
 Remarkably, East Timor today is secure and peaceful, with much rebuilt infrastructure. It has the institutions of democracy and will hold presidential elections before it becomes an independent nation on May 20. The U.N. has been training Timorese to take over administrative posts.
One important lesson to be drawn from East Timor is the need for a strong peacekeeping force with robust rules of engagement. The U.N. forces were able to stop militia raids into East Timor from West Timor, which is part of Indonesia, by getting permission for their peacekeepers and police to aggressively protect themselves and the Timorese people. They can shoot first if threatened. After independence, 5,000 peacekeepers will stay.
Problems faced by the U.N. in East Timor are also worth noting. The process would have benefited from less rivalry between departments. All hiring was done from New York, much of it based on little information. The mission was slow to put local people in positions of authority, hiring them only as drivers, guards or interpreters. After much criticism and World Bank help, the U.N. began to hire and train more local people. 
Whoever takes on the enormous task of nation-building in Afghanistan and elsewhere needs to learn from these lessons. The most important job is not to run the country, but to enable its citizens to do the job themselves. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); TERRORISM (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); HIJACKING (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); POLITICS (69%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; EDITORIALS; FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) UNITED NATIONS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) TIMOR-LESTE (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%) EAST TIMOR; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AUSTRALIA; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



233 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Lawyer's Warnings to Enron On Deals Went Unheeded
In a series of memos to senior Enron executives that began nearly a year before the company's collapse, a senior lawyer warned about the appearance of sweetheart deals and dubious transactions.
 The lawyer proposed several ways to correct the problems, but his warnings were largely unheeded, committee investigators say, and his memos, provide fresh evidence about when top Enron officials knew that there were problems with transactions. Page A1. 

Wall Street is calling it the Enron effect. The business of mergers and acquisitions has fallen off a cliff. C7.

Quaker Drags Down PepsiCo Profit
PepsiCo posted a 4.4 percent decline in fourth-quarter earnings, largely because of costs associated with its acquisition of Quaker Oats. While the task of integrating Quaker has presented Pepsi with a few pitfalls, questions about its overall benefits have started to emerge more forcefully. Shares of PepsiCo fell $1.71, or 3.37 percent, to $49.10. C2.

Cisco Beats Wall St. Expectations
Cisco reported second-quarter earnings that beat Wall Street's expectations by 4 cents. Recovering from a steep loss in the first quarter, Cisco reported a profit of $660 million, or 9 cents a share, for its fiscal second quarter, which ended Jan. 26. C4.

More Millionaires Pay Less in Taxes
The number of Americans with million-dollar incomes nearly tripled from 1995 to 1999, government figures show. The percentage of their income that went to pay federal income taxes, however, fell 11 percent. The incomes of all other Americans grew as well, though by far less, and the share of their income that went to taxes rose slightly. A22.

Tyco Backs Away From a Deal
Tyco International said that its earnings would fall short of its previous forecasts and that it would not complete a takeover previously announced. Market Place. C9.

Computer Associates Shares Plunge
Shares of Computer Associates fell about 14 percent after Moody's Investors Service said it might lower the rating of the company's bonds because its cash flow is falling, which raised questions about its long-term health. C4.

Stocks Continue Downward Slide
Stocks fell for a fourth consecutive session on concern about corporate profits. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.51 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,083.51. The Nasdaq composite index lost 25.81 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,812.71. The Dow Jones industrial average slid 32.04 points, or 0.3 percent, to 9,653.39. C9.

Dubai Airline Overcomes Adversity
The Sept. 11 attacks and the fighting in Afghanistan did not slow down Emirates Airlines in Dubai. In November, it ordered new jetliners and it plans to add routes to North America. "There was a kind of perception that, despite appalling evidence to the contrary, the closer you are to Afghanistan, the greater the risk," Maurice Flanagan, the airline's top executive. "But business has come back already." World Business, Section W.

Flat-Rate Calling Plan From AT&T
AT&T will allow its residential long-distance customers to place unlimited domestic calls to one another for $19.95 a month in an effort to stanch the bleeding in its consumer unit. C4.

Can Volunteers Pick Up the Slack?
The president wants Americans to volunteer to pick up the slack in social services. One economists questions if that will be enough.
Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,653.39 down 32.04Nasdaq composite -- 1,812.71 down 25.8110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.88% down 0.02The euro -- $0.8685 up 0.0011The dollar -- 133.56 yen down 0.30 Graph: "TODAY" shows Consumer Borrowing since June.December figures due at 3 p.m. Eastern Time.Expected: +$8.1 billion Graph tracks PepsiCo share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BONDS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); TAX LAW (77%); MERGERS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); CASH FLOW (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); INCOME TAX (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (66%); AIRLINES (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); PEPSICO INC (83%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (64%); CA INC (53%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (53%); EMIRATES GROUP (50%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (83%); CA (NASDAQ) (53%); TYC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (83%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (53%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (86%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (86%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



234 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL; 
Contraction Plans? Anyone's Guess

BYLINE:  By Murray Chass 

 BODY:
What evil lurks in the hearts of men? If the Shadow knows, he should tell Jeffrey Loria whether anyone in Major League Baseball's hierarchy has any evil thoughts about contraction.
 Loria, for a few more days, is the owner of the Montreal Expos, the team most likely to be eliminated if contraction occurs. But Loria is selling the Expos to baseball for that very reason and buying the Florida Marlins. 
 What if during the course of the next six months or so officials decide that the Marlins should be eliminated along with the Expos? That would place Loria in double jeopardy. He would become the only owner in baseball history -- sports history -- to lose two teams in one year. 
The fate of Loria and the Marlins, however, awaits further deliberation. Here, meanwhile, are the current secret thoughts of the contraction planners 2003:
The Minnesota Twins are off the list because they have been sold to a banker from Birmingham, Ala., they are getting a new ballpark and the stadium commission lawyers are in court again making legal life difficult for our lawyers.
The Expos are still the No. 1 contraction candidate, but they are also the No. 1 candidate for relocation. Think of how many hundreds of millions we could get from those guys salivating for a team in the Washington-Northern Virginia region. We could kill off the Expos and move another team in there, but we own the Expos and we can decide what to do with the money they would bring.
So let's look around and see who else would be probable contraction candidates.
*Marlins: Last year, they had the third lowest revenue, behind the Expos and the Twins, and in the last four years they have lagged behind every team in revenue except the Expos, the Twins and the Kansas City Royals. They will never make it without a new park, but Loria seems to feel he has a decent chance of getting a new park.
Plus we've done economic somersaults to enable him to buy the team, which we had to facilitate because how else could we make it possible for John Henry to buy the Red Sox? So we have to give Loria a chance to make it work there. If only Wayne Huizenga hadn't undermined the chances for a new park by decimating the team four years ago. But we can't go back and get a do-over.
*Royals: They are in the same economic boat as the Marlins and do not have the prospect of a new park or new revenue. Unlike the Marlins, they have not developed a band of good young players who, if kept together, could become a contender. Ewing Kauffman's money sustained them, but his memory won't.
*Oakland Athletics: They have shown a surge in revenue, but the increase has matched the improvement of the team. Billy Beane has been responsible for that improvement, but without increasing their spending significantly they will not be able to keep him as their general manager. To keep the Athletics viable for the long haul, we might have to let them move to the San Jose area, and the Giants will kick and scream about that possibility.
*Tampa Bay Devil Rays: A disaster, just a disaster, but we have to share the blame because we put a team in that dreadful park in that poor location. But how were we supposed to know they would be run so poorly? They should be No. 1 on the list of other candidates, but we would have to contend with the 25 years that will be left on their stadium lease and a court battle with the Florida attorney general.
Random thoughts: It's good that the Cincinnati Reds are only a year from moving into their new park because they could be in trouble otherwise. We would hate to have to even consider eliminating them, given their history.
What about the Anaheim Angels? Disney wants to sell them. Given their revenue in wealthy Southern California, you'd think they were a small-market team.
Talk about a team having a bizarre appearance, the Philadelphia Phillies have done a good imitation of a small-market team. Their revenue last year was the 10th lowest among the 30 teams, and their revenue the last four years was 9th lowest. Well, we can't exactly make them disappear.
If the San Diego Padres encounter any more lawsuits that block construction of their new park, they could still be a contraction contender. So could the Toronto Blue Jays if they do not figure out how to become a division contender again. Their revenue last year was only 2 percent higher than it was in 1995.
Maybe that's an idea. A lot of owners, including our wealthy brethren in New York, think we should lump four teams in our contraction package. We could wipe Canada and Florida off the baseball map and shrink our problems as well as our geography. We could go back to our pre-1969 borders.
Hmmm, if only we could go back to our pre-1969 payrolls. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); LAWYERS (68%) BASEBALL; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

ORGANIZATION: MONTREAL EXPOS (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); FLORIDA MARLINS (90%); MINNESOTA TWINS (83%) MINNESOTA TWINS; MONTREAL EXPOS; MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (69%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (56%) QUEBEC, CANADA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (70%); MISSOURI, USA (69%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



235 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: JOURNALISTS; 
Prominent Muslim Militant Is Named a Suspect in Pearl Case

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
Pakistani and American officials identified a leader of a Pakistani militant Muslim group today as the chief suspect in the disappearance of the American journalist Daniel Pearl, saying that he came to their attention because of his role in the kidnapping of four Western tourists in India in 1994.
 The suspect, Ahmed Omar Sheikh, a 28-year-old born in Britain, was imprisoned by India in connection with the 1994 case. But he was freed in Afghanistan in 1999 in a prisoner-release deal related to the hijacking of an Indian Airlines jet. Pakistani security officials said they lost track of him after his release. 
 Mr. Sheikh's group, Jaish-e-Muhammad, was founded by one of his fellow kidnappers in the 1994 case, and is thought to have close allies in Pakistan's intelligence service.
According to officials familiar with the Pearl case, American law enforcement officials began considering Mr. Sheikh a potential suspect just days after the kidnapping of Mr. Pearl, a reporter for The Wall Street Journal. The officials noticed similarities between the 1994 case and the disappearance of Mr. Pearl, 38, on Jan. 23 in Karachi after he did not return from a meeting with a source.
Despite those suspicions, Pakistani authorities were not so willing to focus on Mr. Sheikh and his group, which has broad support in Pakistan. It was not until today, after three suspects arrested in the case Tuesday implicated Mr. Sheikh, that he was first mentioned by Pakistani and American officials as a focus of the investigation.
One of those three suspects was a low-ranking member of a special branch of the Karachi police with responsibilities that include counterterrorism. That suspect, identified by the Pakistani police officials only as Adeel, is believed to have delivered photographs of Mr. Pearl in captivity to a confederate identified as Fahad at an Internet cafe in Karachi late most month. It was there that the photographs were apparently scanned and e-mailed to news organizations.
The involvement of a leader of a well-established Islamic militant group, rather than a criminal gang, in the kidnapping of Mr. Pearl would mark a bold and direct challenge to the president of Pakistan, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, who has promised to crack down on terrorism. Although his government has arrested hundreds of militants, many others have remained free.
Mr. Sheikh and the Jaish-e-Muhammad group have links to another, older Islamic extremist organization, the Harkat ul-Mujahedeen, or Movement of Holy War. That group has been on the State Department list of terrorist organizations since 1997.
Many of its former members, including Mr. Sheikh, are believed by Pakistani intelligence to have re-established themselves as Jaish-e-Muhammad, which was founded in 2000 by Maulana Masood Azhar, an even more prominent figure among those freed by India in the 1999 release of prisoners. On that occasion, Mr. Sheikh, Mr. Azhar and one other prisoner were freed at the airport in Kandahar, Afghanistan, after being flown there by the Indian government and released in exchange for 155 hostages who had ended up there aboard a hijacked passenger jet.
After his release, Mr. Azhar returned to Pakistan and became an outspoken champion of the militant cause, leading rallies in the port city of Karachi. But he ran afoul of the authorities in Pakistan, who later moved to restrict his activities. Since late December, Mr. Azhar has been in Pakistani custody.
Pakistani officials said today that Mr. Sheikh, however, essentially dropped out of sight after his release, although there were reports from time to time that he had been sighted in Afghanistan and had moved into a leadership role in Jaish-e-Muhammad.
It was not until last December that the group was added to the American list, despite its members' links to the 1994 kidnappings and other attacks. The decision to list Jaish-e-Muhammad was driven by India's contention that the group was among those who carried out a fatal Dec. 13 attack on the Parliament in New Delhi.
Under pressure from the United States, General Musharraf banned the group and several others as part of the crackdown against terrorism that he promised last month. Despite that, support for Jaish-e-Muhammad among some members of the Pakistani intelligence service is widely seen as having been translated into relatively gentle treatment for the group. Several dozen or so members of the group who have been arrested in recent weeks have reportedly been charged under an internal security statute that allows them to be held in prison for no more than three months.
Mr. Sheikh was born in London, the son of Pakistani clothes merchants. He studied mathematics and statistics and was fluent in English, French, Urdu, Hindi and Pashto, members of his family have said. 
He studied at the London School of Economics for a year beginning in 1992, then left to join in the fight for the independence of Kashmir, the only Muslim-majority state in predominantly Hindu India.
He was arrested in the kidnapping of four Western tourists in India in 1994 near the site where one hostage, an American, was being held. Three other hostages, who were British, were held in a separate location and were freed by the police in a gun battle that left two policemen and one kidnapper dead.
In recent days, a number of Pakistani and Indian experts have pointed out similarities between the 1994 kidnapping and last month's abduction of Mr. Pearl.
In both cases, the victims were apparently lured by their kidnappers to a clandestine meeting rather than being abducted by force.
Both may also have been part of attempts to secure the release of fellow militants. In the 1994 kidnapping, Mr. Sheikh sought to exchange the Western tourists for the freedom of 10 jailed Islamic militants.
In the Pearl case, kidnappers who have issued their claims in the name of a previously unknown group have also demanded concessions, including the release of Pakistani prisoners from the Afghan war and of Mullah Abdul Salam Zaeef, the former Taliban ambassador to Pakistan who is now being held in an undisclosed location.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ahmed Omar Sheikh, 28, shown in an undated photo, is a leader in the group Jaish-e-Muhammad. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); AIRLINES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); TERRORISM (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); RELIGION (78%); ARRESTS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%) NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; KIDNAPPING; HOSTAGES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HIJACKING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: JAISH-E-MOHAMMED (91%) JAISH-E-MUHAMMAD (MILITANT GROUP); INDIAN AIRLINES; WALL STREET JOURNAL 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (59%) JEHL, DOUGLAS; PEARL, DANIEL; SHEIKH, AHMED OMAR 

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) INDIA (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) PAKISTAN; INDIA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



236 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 6; Circuits; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Parolees and Security 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Although satellite tracking for parolees ("Putting Parolees on a Tighter Leash," Jan. 31) may sound liberating to some chronic offenders, and its ease, economy and efficiency appeal to the authorities and tax groups, this new technique should cause the rest of us great concern. 
 Real-time monitoring will likely "widen the net" (and extend the duration) of control to include misdemeanor drug users and other minor offenders who otherwise would be left to informal surveillance or none at all. 
This undermines our safety and diminishes our freedom.
Genuine security comes from self-restraint and voluntary compliance. Without adequate rehabilitation, job training or proper after-care -- not to mention a change in the structure of employment opportunity for released offenders -- satellite tracking becomes a behavior modification tool that is sure to backfire, fostering more clever avoidance and augmenting prisons as schools of crime.

ROBERT P. WEISS
Plattsburgh, N.Y.

The writer is a professor of sociology and criminal justice at the State University of New York at Plattsburgh.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAROLE (93%); PRISONS (88%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (75%); WRITERS (73%); MISDEMEANORS (72%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



237 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 52 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Middle East: Egypt: Aid Package Approved 

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 Donors pledged $10.3 billion to Egypt over three years. Most was pledged by the United States, the European Union, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Saad Nassar, governor of the Faiyum region and a delegate to the donors' conference, said about half would be low-cost loans and the rest grants.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (85%) FOREIGN AID 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%) EGYPT

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



238 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: DaimlerChrysler Dividend May Be Cut More Than Half 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
The management board at DaimlerChrysler proposed today that the company's dividend be cut by more than half in the first reduction since the merger of DaimlerBenz and Chrysler in 1998.
 The company also announced that earnings this year would be much less than previously forecast. And it reported a net loss for last year. 
 But a spokesman said the company was sticking to previous projections that its Chrysler Group unit, the third-largest United States automaker, would break even this year. Still, analysts expect it to lose more market share and continue to be a drag on DaimlerChrysler's earnings. 
In Frankfurt, shares of DaimlerChrysler fell 1.94 euros, to 42.81 euros. In New York, its shares fell 97 cents, to $37.01.
The company made the announcements after a meeting today of its management board in Stuttgart, Germany. Further details will be released at its formal earnings announcement on Feb. 20, and a final decision on its dividend will be made at its annual shareholders' meeting in Berlin on April 10.
DaimlerChrysler has yet to emerge as the dynamic global powerhouse envisioned at the time of the merger by the chief executive, Jurgen Schrempp. The ouster of Chrysler's United States executives was followed by an aggressive corporate revival strategy, announced early last year by Chrysler's new German executives. But in the last year, a variety of external market forces have weighed on the industry and clouded the projections of Chrysler and its parent.
"The reality is that the fundamentals have become more uncertain and the task more challenging," the company said in a statement.
Specifically, incentive costs soared further for the Big Three after Sept. 11, when General Motors started an interest-free financing binge that Chrysler and Ford Motor matched. Chrysler has tried to resist the extent to which it is pulled into the price war but said last week that it would increase rebate spending to be more competitive with G.M. and Ford.
"They're going to struggle," said Michael Bruynesteyn, an analyst at Prudential Securities, referring to the Chrysler unit, which he also expects to continue to lose market share this year. Sales of the Ram pickup will soften and the company has only a limited number of new car and truck models, he added. 
United States auto sales figures for the entire industry in January fell from a year earlier but were better than expected. Still, despite continued heavy incentive costs, demand for passenger vehicles is expected to narrow this year.
DaimlerChrysler also faces shrinking demand for its commercial trucking operations. Eckhard Cordes, the head of commercial trucking, was quoted at a European trade show today as saying that the company would cut 6,500 workers, or 7 percent of its commercial trucking work force, through voluntary buyouts. Daimler officials neither confirmed nor denied the figures.
Financial analysts had expected DaimlerChrysler to revise its 2002 projection down and to reduce the dividend, but they were somewhat surprised by the extent of both. The dividend would be lowered to 89 cents from about $2.09. Ford has also sharply cut its dividend in an effort to return to profitability. 
DaimlerChrysler said today that it had a net loss of $589 million, or 59 cents a share, last year, including one-time charges. Operating profit, excluding the charges, was $1.2 billion, the company said.
DaimlerChrysler said it expected to more than double its operating profit this year. But last year's results were drained by red ink from Chrysler, and the company had projected a year ago that DaimlerChrysler would have a profit of as much as $5.8 billion in 2002. 
The company said it was confident it would reach those profit levels but "at slightly later dates."
 --------------------

A Plea to Washington
 (By Reuters) -- Top executives of the Big Three auto manufacturers have sent a rare joint letter to the White House, asking President Bush to appeal to the Japanese government to stop weakening the yen to lift the profits of Japanese automakers, industry officials said yesterday.
The chief executives of General Motors, Ford Motor and the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler, which together account for nearly 4 percent of the United States economy, said in the letter sent last week that the weak yen was a threat to recovery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MERGERS (89%); TRUCKING (84%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRUCKING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SALES REBATES (75%); MARKET SHARE (75%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (73%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%) FINANCES 

COMPANY: DAIMLER AG (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); FORD MOTOR CO (74%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

TICKER: DAI (FRA) (91%); DAI (BIT) (91%); FORDP (PAR) (74%); F (NYSE) (74%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (74%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: ECKHARD CORDES (52%) HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



239 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: WALL STREET; 
Looking Very Hard Before They Leap

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

 BODY:
Wall Street is calling it the Enron effect.
 The business of mergers and acquisitions, so often an indicator of confidence in the stock market and the economy, has fallen off a cliff. Merger activity in January had its slowest start in the United States since 1988, and deal makers, already contending with a shaky market, do not expect the first half of the year to fare much better in the post-Enron environment. 
 The lessons of Enron may have already helped scuttle a couple of sizable deals. According to one investment banker, a pharmaceutical company pulled out of a $10 billion acquisition at the 11th hour two weeks ago over concerns about the seller's accounting practices and coming drug disclosures. Another deal in the energy sector has been postponed, and a $5 billion telecommunications deal was also delayed, a lawyer involved in both deals said. 
"Before Enron happened we were already in an environment where C.E.O.'s were much more cautious," said Donald Meltzer, global head of mergers and acquisitions at Credit Suisse First Boston. "Enron and the accounting issues are now just another leg in the stool of C.E.O. insecurity."
Deal makers said that the due diligence that acquirers conduct -- the thorough review of the financial and commercial soundness of a pending deal -- might also become more stringent. When Dynegy canceled its proposed acquisition of Enron -- a deal that came together in less than 10 days in November before Enron filed for bankruptcy -- it said it had been unable to uncover all of Enron's troubles in the short time it had to conduct due diligence.
Potential acquirers or investors also want to know if a company has hidden liabilities.
For example, Bristol-Myers Squibb may have missed crucial deficiencies in ImClone's application to the Food and Drug Administration for its colorectal cancer drug before it agreed to invest $2 billion in ImClone last fall. In December, the drug agency refused to consider ImClone's application for approval of the drug, Erbitux, and on Tuesday, Bristol-Myers said that it wanted to restructure its agreement with ImClone. But it defends the quality of research it did before investing in ImClone.
Other issues of unexpected liabilities also make potential deal makers nervous. Shares of Halliburton, for example, have fallen more than 70 percent in the last 12 months because of fears that it could be overwhelmed by asbestos-related judgments. While Halliburton knew about asbestos liabilities when it bought Dresser Industries in 1998, a later court ruling swelled the number of claims.
Dennis S. Hersch, who heads the mergers practice at the Davis Polk & Wardwell law firm, said, "You can't get around the fact that people will now work more closely with accountants and look more closely at the balance sheets."
"People used to do a deal over the weekend in the late 90's," Mr. Hersch added. "That's probably over."
Most acquirers have long relied on the audited balance sheets of the seller as sufficient evidence, but some bankers and lawyers expect that audited balance sheets may not be enough now to make boards feel completely comfortable. Acquirers may even begin hiring accountants to re-audit the companies they plan to buy.
But Stephen Munger, Morgan Stanley's co-head of global mergers and acquisitions, said he thought that companies would cut off the acquisition process if accounting questions were raised. "I don't think you're going to buy a company if you have to redo their audit," he said.
Still, Mr. Meltzer said, boards may be more likely to shoot down a merger proposal or at least require management to negotiate more ways out of a deal in case accounting irregularities surface. 
Steven Baronoff, head of global mergers at Merrill Lynch, said, "Representations and warranties as they relate to financial statements will be much tighter."
Deal makers predict that the effect of Enron's troubles may make it a buyers' market, giving them much more latitude to find out more information about prospective acquisitions.
But until a little confidence is restored, it is not clear that there will be that much research to do. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); MERGERS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); ETHICS (71%); US FDA REVIEW (70%); CANCER (70%); CANCER DRUGS (70%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (61%); ASBESTOS (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (54%); COLORECTAL CANCER (50%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); DYNEGY INC (90%); DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (83%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (72%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

TICKER: DYN (NYSE) (90%); BMY (NYSE) (72%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



240 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED; 
Tenet Testimony: 'A Nation at War'

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the testimony of George J. Tenet, director of central intelligence, to the Senate Select Intelligence Committee yesterday as transcribed by the Federal News Service Inc. The full text is available at The New York Times on the Web at nytimes.com/world:
 Sept. 11th brought together and brought home literally several vital threats to the United States and its interests that we have long been aware of. It is the convergence of these threats that I want to emphasize with you today: the connection between terrorists and other enemies of this country; the weapons of mass destruction they seek to use against us; and the social, economic and political tensions across the world that they exploit in mobilizing their followers. 
 Sept. 11th demonstrated the dangers that arise when these threats converge and remind us that we overlook, at our own peril, the impact of crises in remote parts of the world. . . . 
These threats demand our utmost response. The United States has clearly demonstrated since Sept. 11 that it is up to the challenge. But make no mistake: Despite the battles we have won in Afghanistan, we remain a nation at war. Last year I told you that Osama bin Laden and the Al Qaeda network were the most immediate and serious threat this country faced. This remains true, despite the progress we have made in Afghanistan and in disrupting the network elsewhere. 
We assess that Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups will continue to plan to attack this country and its interests abroad. Their modus operandi is to continue to have multiple attack plans in the works simultaneously and to have Al Qaeda cells in place to conduct them. 
We know that the terrorists have considered attacks in the U.S. against high-profile government or private facilities, famous landmarks and U.S. infrastructure nodes such as airports, bridges, harbors and dams. High-profile events such as the Olympics or last week's Super Bowl also fit the terrorists' interests in striking another blow within the United States that would command worldwide media attention. 
Al Qaeda also has plans to strike against U.S. and allied interests in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Southeast Asia. American diplomatic and military installations are at high risk, especially in East Africa, Israel, Saudi Arabia and Turkey. Operations against U.S. targets could be launched by Al Qaeda cells already in place in major cities in Europe and the Middle East. Al Qaeda can also exploit its presence or connections to other groups in such countries as Somalia, Yemen, Indonesia and the Philippines. 
Although the Sept. 11 attacks suggest that Al Qaeda and other terrorists will continue to use conventional weapons, one of our highest concerns is their stated readiness to attempt unconventional attacks against us. As early as 1998, bin Laden publicly declared that acquiring unconventional weapons was a religious duty. Terrorist groups worldwide have ready access to information on chemical, biological and even nuclear weapons via the Internet, and we know that Al Qaeda was working to acquire some of the most dangerous chemical agents and toxins. 
Documents recovered from Al Qaeda facilities in Afghanistan show that bin Laden was pursuing a sophisticated biological weapons research program. We also believe that bin Laden was seeking to acquire or develop a nuclear device. Al Qaeda may be pursuing a radioactive dispersal device, what some call a dirty bomb. 
Alternatively, Al Qaeda or other terrorist groups might also try to launch conventional attacks against the chemical or nuclear industrial infrastructure of the United States to cause widespread toxic or radiological damage. . . . 
The terrorist threat goes well beyond Al Qaeda. The situation in the Middle East continues to fuel terrorism and anti-U.S. sentiment worldwide. Groups like the Palestinian Islamic Jihad and Hamas have escalated their violence against Israel, and the intifada has rejuvenated once-dormant groups like the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. If these groups feel that U.S. actions are threatening their existence, they may begin targeting Americans directly, as Hezbollah's terrorist wing already does. 
We're also watching states like Iran and Iraq that continue to support terrorist groups. Iran continues to provide support, including arms transfers, to the Palestinian rejection groups and Hezbollah. Tehran also has failed to move decisively against Al Qaeda members who have relocated to Iran from Afghanistan. Iraq has a long history of supporting terrorists, including giving sanctuary to Abu Nidal. 
The war on terrorism, Mr. Chairman, has dealt severe blows to Al Qaeda and its leadership. The group has been denied its safe haven and strategic command center in Afghanistan. Drawing on both our own assets and increased cooperation from allies around the world, we are uncovering terrorist plans and breaking up their cells. These efforts have yielded the arrest of nearly 1,000 Al Qaeda operatives in over 60 countries and have disrupted terrorist operations and potential terrorist attacks. . . . 
That said, I must repeat that Al Qaeda has not yet been destroyed. It and other like-minded groups remain willing and able to strike at us. Al Qaeda's leaders, still at large, are working to reconstitute the organization and resume its terrorist operations. We must eradicate these organizations by denying them their sources of financing, eliminating their ability to hijack charitable organizations for their terrorist purposes. We must be prepared for a long war and we must not falter. . . . 
We have already seen in Afghanistan and elsewhere that domestic unrest and conflict in weak states is one of the factors that create an environment conducive to terrorism. More importantly, demographic trends tell us that the world's poorest and most politically unstable regions, which include parts of the Middle East and sub-Saharan Africa, will have the largest youth populations in the world over the next two decades and beyond. Most of these countries will lack the economic institutions or the resources to effectively integrate these youth into their societies. . . . 
Let me underscore what the president has affirmed. Islam itself is neither an enemy nor a threat to the United States. But the increasing anger toward the West and toward governments friendly to us among Islamic extremists and their sympathizers clearly is a threat to us. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); HIJACKING (75%); POLITICS (73%); AIRLINES (62%); RELIGION (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (76%) TENET, GEORGE J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); INDONESIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



241 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
TBWA/Chiat/Day Undergoing Changes

BYLINE:  By Bernard Stamler 

 BODY:
Three offices of TBWA/Chiat/ Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group, are undergoing changes.
 Almost half the 90 employees at the agency's San Francisco office are being laid off after the loss of the Levi's jeans account from Levi Strauss & Company. 
An additional five or so employees are being laid off at the offices in Playa del Rey, Calif., and New York. 
 Carisa Bianchi, 43, president at the San Francisco office, will become a managing partner at Playa del Rey, overseeing the Sony PlayStation account for Sony, which is accompanying her from San Francisco. Robert LePlae, president at Playa del Rey, will now also oversee San Francisco.
At the New York office, the account of Orbitz, the online travel agent operated by five airlines, is leaving after two years. Spending was estimated at $12 million for the first nine months of 2001, according to CMR, a unit of Taylor Nelson Sofres that tracks ad spending.
Carol Jouzaitis, a spokeswoman for Orbitz in Chicago, confirmed a report of the change in Advertising Age. Orbitz is considering working with Fusion Idea Lab in Chicago for the creative part of the account, she said, adding that a decision would be made soon. The airlines that own Orbitz are American, Continental, Delta, Northwest and United.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); AIRLINES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%) ADVERTISING; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ACCOUNT CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (93%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (93%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (90%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (84%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: TBWA/CHIAT/DAY; ORBITZ 

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (93%); OWW (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (90%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (90%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD; BIANCHI, CARISA; LEPLAE, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



242 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: German Unemployment Is Growing Problem for Schroder 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
The German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, suffered an expected but still stinging political blow today when it was announced that German unemployment figures rose sharply in January, above the psychologically important four million total.
 Four years ago, Mr. Schroder made one of his few campaign mistakes, promising to hold the number of unemployed below 3.5 million by the next election, which is scheduled for Sept. 22. If not, he said, "we don't deserve to be re-elected." 
 His opponent in that election, Edmund Stoiber, a conservative from Bavaria, is concentrating his fire on Mr. Schroder's handling of the economy. He accuses Mr. Schroder of being too dependent on labor unions and failing to reduce labor market rigidities that hamper the creation of new jobs.
In what could be even worse news for Mr. Schroder, economists say they expect unemployment to keep rising through much of the summer.
The influential daily Bild, which generally supports Mr. Schroder, had a huge front-page headline today with the unemployment total and the question: "Chancellor, What Now?" A front-page article ended: "Chancellor, what are you doing for us?"
The figures come on top of a budding scandal about the falsification of job-creation figures by state employment offices. The Federal Audit Office issued a report on Monday that found serious procedural violations and concluded that employment offices had filled far fewer positions than statistics showed. The offices "outwardly created a better picture of labor-market structures and job placements" than the reality, the report said.
The labor offices said they had found jobs for 3.8 million people last year, half of all those who found jobs during that period. The auditors, however, said that only 20 percent found jobs through the offices; another finding was that only 22 percent of the jobs listed with the offices were filled, not the 76 percent as claimed. The auditors said officials drove up placement totals by using a computerized job-listing system to "fill" jobs more than once. 
Mr. Schroder is also trying to face down another challenge to his reputation for economic stewardship, this time from the European Union. 
The union has said it wants to issue formal cautions to Germany and Portugal because their budget deficits are approaching the limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product set for members of the euro zone.
The limit was originally urged upon the European Union by Germany under Chancellor Helmut Kohl. At the time, Germany feared that the fiscal indiscipline of countries like Italy and Greece could make the new euro currency unstable. But the spending cap now makes it impossible for Mr. Schroder to create jobs through large public works, as the United States might do.
Mr. Schroder has said he sees political motives, not just economic ones, behind the move for a formal caution, and he may succeed in avoiding it.
But today Mr. Schroeder's coalition partners, the Greens, broke ranks to say that the European Union was fully entitled to warn Germany. "We as Germans should have the necessary humility to accept this caution from Brussels -- it is only an early warning," said Oswald Metzger, the Greens' financial spokesman.
Germany's economy is heavily dependent on exports from traditional industries like engineering and car manufacture, and the worldwide economic slowdown has hit hard. But German officials hope that the American recession will be short, and that its end will quickly improve the climate here.
The seasonally unadjusted unemployment figure was 4.289 million, a two-year high, bringing the rate to 10.4 percent, from 9.6 percent in December. Adjusted for factors like seasonal hiring and weather, the unemployment figure increased by 31,000, to 3.978 million. But the newspapers here concentrate on the unadjusted numbers.
At the same time, the total number of unfilled vacancies rose to 422,425 from 389,145, which supported industry's complaint that many of the unemployed prefer to get generous benefits rather than take low-paying or unpleasant jobs.
Mr. Schroder's efforts to get employers and unions to agree to voluntary reforms of Germany's inflexible labor market have not been successful, and the unions are currently asking for pay increases more than two times the inflation rate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EURO (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); EURO ZONE (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (74%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); AUDITS (70%); ETHICS (66%); MONETARY UNIONS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); CURRENCIES (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) LABOR; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; ELECTIONS 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (93%) ERLANGER, STEVEN; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); PORTUGAL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (66%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



243 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Senate Abandons Effort to Boost the Economy 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
The Senate today abandoned its effort to pass a plan to boost the economy, but then briefly put aside partisan recriminations to approve a narrow measure extending unemployment benefits for 13 weeks beyond the current 26-week limit.
 After months of maneuvering for political advantage and sporadic negotiations, Democrats and Republicans found themselves no closer to agreement on how best to help the economy and used procedural votes to kill each other's plans. 
 To the end, Republicans insisted on a sizable package of tax cuts that they said would create jobs, and said the Democratic proposal would do little but add to government spending. For their part, Democrats called for an emphasis on temporary measures to help unemployed and low-income workers, and said the Republican plan would dig the government into a deeper budget hole. 
Both parties agreed that the issue had lost some urgency in recent weeks as the economy began to perk up. But neither wanted to be cast in the role of blocking the stimulus plan, especially because there is no guarantee that the economy will continue to recover and because unemployment is likely to continue rising for months even if the recession ends quickly.
With many Americans facing the loss of their unemployment benefits, the Senate agreed unanimously to extend the benefits at federal expense for 13 weeks, a step Congress has routinely taken in past downturns. Most states limit benefits to 26 weeks, although a few have extended them. The 13-week federal extension is expected to cost about $8 billion.
The fate of the benefit extension now rests with the Republican-controlled House. Republican aides said there was some division within the party about whether to try to package some tax cuts with the extension of the unemployment benefits or pass the extension as a stand-alone bill.
The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research organization, said up to two million people might exhaust their benefits in the first half of this year. About 7.9 million people are unemployed, and the unemployment rate in January was 5.6 percent.
President Bush said extending unemployment benefits was necessary but not enough.
"They need to take care of the workers, at the very minimum," Mr. Bush told reporters on a visit to New York. "But it's important for Congress to realize that our economy has not yet fully recovered. And, therefore, I believe we still need to provide stimulus for economic growth so there's jobs."
Both sides said they were open to renewed efforts at compromise, and members of both parties were clearly aware of the political risks should they be blamed as failing to address an issue that has continued to top voters' lists of concerns even during the war on terrorism.
But they lambasted each other all day, with Republicans focusing their criticism on Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the majority leader.
"The Senate majority leader has put politics ahead of people," said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa.
Mr. Daschle said it was Republicans who had been obstructionist, in part by trying to load up what was intended to be a short-term stimulus bill with tax cuts that would not have any economic impact for years.
"The Republicans killed the economic stimulus bill today, just as they attempted to kill it now for the last three weeks," Mr. Daschle told a news conference.
The plan offered by Mr. Daschle and the Democrats sought to bridge the differences between the parties by including only those elements that both sides agreed on: a one-time payment of up to $300 for low-income workers, a tax incentive for businesses to invest in new equipment, money to help states weather the economic downturn and the extension of unemployment benefits.
Republicans responded that the Democratic plan would not do anything to create jobs and get the economy rolling again. They said the best way to do that was to cut both business and individual taxes. 
Mr. Daschle brought the debate to a climax today by subjecting both plans to the requirement that they win 60 votes to cut off debate on the Senate floor. His package received 56 votes, four short of what was necessary to keep it alive, with 39 senators voting against it. The Republicans then offered a plan based on the bill passed by the House last year, a package close to the plan sought by the Bush administration. It got 48 votes, 12 short of what was necessary, with 47 senators voting against it.
Mr. Daschle then pulled both bills from the floor, effectively killing them.
The development led Republicans in the House and Senate to say there was one benefit from the death of the stimulus plan: the money that would have been used to boost the economy could now be put toward narrowing or perhaps even eliminating the projected federal budget deficit for next year.
Based on the White House's figures, the projected deficit would shrink to $3 billion next year from $80 billion if the money allocated to the stimulus plan was not used for anything else.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Republican senators prepared to criticize the majority leader, Tom Daschle, yesterday after votes on the economy. From left are Kay Bailey Hutchison, Charles E. Grassley and Don Nickles. An aide is at the far rear. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); APPROVALS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POLITICS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (62%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



244 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Cisco Recovers, Reporting Profit in Quarter

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
Showing a return to the steady performance that made it a favorite among investors, the technology bellwether Cisco Systems reported second-quarter earnings today that nearly doubled Wall Street's expectations.
 Citing a misdirected e-mail message that tipped off some 12,000 employees to the results, Cisco foreshadowed the earnings report with an unusual announcement early this morning that it would beat estimates when it released results later in the day. 
 Recovering from a steep loss in the first quarter, Cisco reported a profit of $660 million, or 9 cents a share, for its fiscal second quarter, which ended Jan. 26.
Profit was down sharply from the $874 million earned in the comparable period a year earlier, but surpassed Wall Street's expectation of 5 cents a share, as compiled by the market research firm Multex. 
Cisco shares fell $1.39, or more than 7 percent, in after-hours trading today as investors wondered if business would continue to improve. In regular trading before the earnings report, shares of Cisco rose 11 cents, to $18.61. 
In the late 1990's, Cisco, the leading maker of networking equipment, earned a reputation for consistently beating the goals set by Wall Street. But sharp cutbacks in spending by corporations, especially Internet and telecommunications providers, sent Cisco into a decline.
After a year of declining sales, Cisco, based in San Jose, Calif., said in November that its sales had finally improved over the previous quarter for the first time in 2001. The company repeated that today, when it reported revenue of $4.8 billion, an 8 percent increase from the $4.4 billion in the first quarter. In the comparable period last year, Cisco had sales of $6.7 billion.
John T. Chambers, Cisco's president and chief executive, said in a conference call that the company had gained market share from its smaller rivals but remained hindered by a shrinking industry. He said Cisco's second consecutive period of quarter-over-quarter growth established "a second, slightly higher plateau" to build from, but he predicted no dramatic changes until his large service-provider customers begin making money again.
Mr. Chambers, who had attended the World Economic Forum in New York, said that while economists are predicting that the economy has begun to improve, he and other chief executives think that their businesses have leveled off after the slide and are spending accordingly.
Cisco predicted that sales in the current quarter would be flat or slightly up from the second quarter.
Ray Hirsch, an analyst with American Express Financial Advisors, said that Cisco had executed remarkably well on the restructuring plan it put in place last year, and that it had turned a profit out of a market that was still beating up most of its competitors.
"You're starting to see superior management make something out of nothing here," Mr. Hirsch said. "Pretty soon people will put them back on a pedestal again, where they were a year ago."
As Cisco has struggled, it has dragged down the consulting firms, systems integration companies and corporate resellers -- together known as the channel -- that rode the wave of profits created by the technology giant. Near the end of 1999, the channel sold $14 in computers, software, services and other additional products with every $1 they sold in Cisco networking equipment, according to Global Touch, a market research and consulting firm in Berkeley, Calif. By December, the additional products had dwindled to $3.70 for each $1 in Cisco gear.
"Cisco has been the driver of so much business in this industry," Denise A. Sangster, president and chief executive of Global Touch, said. "When Cisco hit a blip, it caused a catastrophe among so many other companies."
Cisco was caught off-guard the night before its report, which was scheduled to be released after the markets closed today. Late Tuesday, as a senior executive was preparing a videotape to be released after today's earnings report, an assistant meant to e-mail the executive a copy of his script. Instead, the assistant sent it to 12,000 members of the executive's division, a spokeswoman for Cisco said.
The script did not disclose specific revenue or earnings results, but talked about the quarter "in positive terms" and said the company had booked $3.9 billion in new product orders, compared with its internal goal of $3.75 billion, according to the statement released this morning. To avoid violating securities regulations, Cisco said it made the leaked information public before the Nasdaq opened for trading today.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John T. Chambers, Cisco's chief executive, said the company had gained market share from rivals. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (86%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); MARKET SHARE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (62%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (54%) COMPANY REPORTS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (97%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CISCO SYSTEMS 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (97%); AMP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (97%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%) SIC3577 OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (89%) GAITHER, CHRIS; CHAMBERS, JOHN T 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



245 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: More Get Rich and Pay Less in Taxes 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
The number of Americans with million-dollar incomes more than doubled from 1995 through 1999, as their salaries and their profits from stocks soared, government figures to be published today show. The percentage of their income that went to federal income taxes, however, fell by 11 percent.
 The incomes of Americans who made less grew as well, though by far less, and the share of their income that went to taxes rose slightly, according to Internal Revenue Service income tax data for the five years through 1999, the latest year available. 
 The wealthiest Americans paid a smaller share of their income in taxes because in 1997 Congress reduced taxes on capital gains, which account for a significant share of their income. 
Congress also cut taxes for the middle class, but only one in five taxpayers qualified for those cuts, which involved new tax credits for children and education expenses. So, as a group, the portion of their income going to taxes rose.
For those with million-dollar incomes, the share of their income that went to taxes fell to 27.9 percent in 1999, from 31.4 percent in 1995.
For those Americans who did not make a million dollars, the portion of their income going to taxes edged up in those years, to 12.8 percent from 12.5 percent.
About 205,000 taxpayers made $1 million or more in 1999, up from less than 87,000 in 1995. The average income of those who made $1 million or more rose by $568,000 to $3.2 million.
Critics of the latest Bush administration economic stimulus and tax cut plan, announced this week, regarded the latest figures as evidence that the wealthy have received too many breaks. 
"Congress cut taxes on rich people in 1997," Robert McIntyre, director of Citizens for Tax Justice, a nonprofit Washington organization with labor union backing, said. "The rate that they pay fell by quite a bit, while they didn't do much for everyone else and their taxes went up a little. The law did what Congress intended. Their intent was to make sure the wealthier people paid less in taxes and they weren't worried about the rest of the people."
President Bush, who won a major tax cut from Congress last year, and his supporters argue that permanent cuts in tax rates encourage investment, which results in more jobs and economic growth. 
"We need to pass a bill that will help workers and help stimulate the economy," Mr. Bush told reporters on Tuesday.
The president's new tax cut plan appeared to die on Tuesday when Senator Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota and the majority leader, moved to shelve it. 
Those making a million dollars or more, just one of every 625 taxpayers in 1999, more than doubled their slice of the nation's income to 11.2 percent that year, from 5.4 percent in 1995. These high-income taxpayers also captured a quarter of the nation's total personal income growth from 1995 through 1999. 
The incomes of taxpayers making less than $1 million also rose, though not as sharply. The income of everyone making less than a million dollars averaged $41,000 in 1999, up from $33,500 in 1995, a 22 percent increase, the data, using adjusted gross incomes, showed.
The tax return data show that the number of taxpayers reporting incomes of less than $25,000 declined slightly, while those reporting incomes at higher levels increased.
William Beech, an economist at the Heritage Foundation in Washington, which supports lower tax rates to foster economic growth, said that these figures may be misleading in several ways. 
The data fail to capture the growing number of the working poor, and their meager incomes, because many of them are immigrants who work off the books, he said. 
"The reported income that the I.R.S. picks up from tax returns reflects people who are making their way up the economic ladder," Mr. Beech said. "If we had fully accurate reporting of income, we would see that within the poorest fifth, the median income would be falling because of the millions of people coming into the United States, who mostly earn low incomes." 
He also noted that among those who file income tax returns, many of who appear poor may actually be retirees with substantial investments. But they need only modest incomes because their mortgages are paid off and their children are grown.
The stock market played a large role in creating more million-dollar annual incomes, the figures show. Capital gains over all more than tripled during the five years, with almost three quarters of the increase going to those with million-dollar incomes. 
The capital gains tax cut of 1997 appeared to favor the 400 richest taxpayers most of all. Harvesting 7 percent of all capital gains in 1998, these very rich Americans paid just 22 percent of their incomes in taxes that year, down from 30 percent in 1994. 
Although more than half of all families are investors in the stock market, largely through 401(k)'s and similar retirement plans, wealth in America is more highly concentrated today than at any time since 1929, said Professor Edward N. Wolff, a New York University economist.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "More After-Tax Income, for the Rich"The percentage of income going to taxes dropped for the richest taxpayers, while rising slightly for those earning less than $1 million. The rich doubled their share of overall income from 1995 to 1999, from 5.4 percent to 11.2 percent. INCOME GOING TO TAXES Graph tracks average paid by all taxpayers earning over $1 million and average paid by all taxpayers earning under $1 million from 1995-99. SHARE OF TOTAL INCOME Graph tracks shares under and over $1 million from 1995-99.(Source: Citizens for Tax Justice from I.R.S. data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); INCOME TAX (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (83%); CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (59%) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); TOM DASCHLE (50%) JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



246 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-18

Dane's Files Put New Light On Nazi A-Bomb Effort
The leader of Hitler's atomic bomb program, Werner Heisenberg, portrayed himself after World War II as a kind of scientific resistance hero who sabotaged Hitler's efforts to build a nuclear weapon. But in a series of letters and other documents made public, his friend and onetime mentor, the Danish physicist Niels Bohr, said that was not so. A1

Russian Praise on Arms Stance
Senior Russian officials praised the Bush administration for consenting to be bound legally by a future nuclear arms deal, and one said a pact dictating cuts in the nations' nuclear arsenals was likely in months. A5

World Briefing A8

NATION CHALLENGED A14-16

Al Qaeda Is Still Potent, C.I.A. Chief Tells Congress
George J. Tenet said on Capitol Hill that Al Qaeda was trying to reconstitute itself and remained capable of another large-scale attack against the United States. A1

New Questions on Deadly Raid
American forces released to the Afghan authorities 27 prisoners captured in a raid north of Kandahar last month, saying they were not Taliban or Qaeda fighters, as the Pentagon originally said. At least 15 people suspected of being anti-American fighters died in the raid. A1

U.S. Firm on Change in Iraq
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell told Congress that President Bush was set on a "regime change" in Iraq and said it was something the United States "might have to do alone." A14

Criticism From France
Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine criticized Washington's approach to terrorism as "simplistic" and said the United States tended to act "unilaterally, without consulting others." A14

Suspect Named in Abduction
Pakistani and American officials identified Ahmed Omar Sheikh, 27, a leader of a Pakistani militant Muslim group, as the chief suspect in the disappearance of the American journalist Daniel Pearl. A15

No Bail for Lindh
A federal magistrate in Alexandria, Va., said John Walker Lindh, the 20-year-old Californian captured with anti-American forces in Afghanistan, must stay in jail while he awaits trial on an array of charges. A16

Greater Security Aloft
Thousands of armed California Highway Patrol officers will be trained to thwart hijackings, under a program initiated by Gov. Gray Davis and approved by the F.A.A. that is intended to provide an extra measure of security aboard flights in the state. Officers will not be assigned to the flights but rather will be passengers traveling on official business. A16

NATIONAL A20-26

Senate Fails to Pass Economic Stimulus Bill
The Senate abandoned its effort to pass legislation to energize the economy when neither a Republican nor a Democratic plan could meet a 60-vote test set by the majority leader, Senator Tom Daschle. But both parties also agreed that the issue had lost some urgency as the economy began to perk up. Putting aside partisan recriminations, senators did approve a narrow measure extending unemployment benefits for 13 weeks beyond the current 26-week limit. A22

Incomes Rise Broadly
The number of Americans with million-dollar incomes nearly tripled between 1995 and 1999, while the percentage of their income that went to federal income taxes fell by 11 percent. The incomes of all other Americans grew as well, though by far less, and the share of their income that went to taxes rose slightly. A22

Coming to America
The number of foreign-born residents and children of immigrants in the United States has reached 56 million, the highest level in history, the Census Bureau reported. Mexico accounted for more than a quarter of all the foreign-born residents. A26

Student Arrests at Harvard
Prosecutors said two Harvard seniors, Suzanne M. Pomey and Randy J. Gomes, embezzled about $100,000 from the Hasty Pudding Theatricals club, the oldest undergraduate theater organization in the country, to finance "lavish lifestyles" and Mr. Gomes's drug habit. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Bush Renews Pledge Of $20 Billion for City
President Bush, visiting New York City, said he would stand by his pledge to provide at least $20 billion to help the city rebuild from the terror attack. He also backed a $5 billion tax credit proposal to keep businesses from leaving Lower Manhattan. Democrats questioned the propriety of the president's attending two fund-raisers for Governor Pataki's re-election campaign. A1

New Tax Considered for Nassau
The new county executive, Thomas R. Suozzi, a Democrat, refused to rule out, or rule in, an income tax to help close a budget gap that could reach $428 million in four years. B1

Giuliani Files Transfer Assailed
A group of archivists and historians denounced the transfer of Rudolph W. Giuliani's mayoral papers out of city custody and, raising the possibility of legal action, said they would to hold Mayor Bloomberg responsible for retrieving them. B4

ARTS E1-10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

U.S. Studies Wrinkle Treatment
Botox, a neurotoxin given since 1991 to erase wrinkles in people wealthy enough to afford the periodic injections, is expected to receive F.D.A. approval soon specifically for cosmetic use, which could lead to a boom in sales for its maker, Allergan. A1

CIRCUITS G1-10

OBITUARIES A27

SPORTS D1-10

Olympic Flag Dispute Settled
International officials relented and will let an honor guard carry an American flag found in the World Trade Center into the stadium for the Winter Games' opening ceremonies in Salt Lake City tomorrow. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Early Warning to Enron
A senior lawyer, Jordan Mintz, warned senior Enron executives about the appearance of sweetheart deals and dubious transactions in a series of memos that began nearly a year before the company's collapse. He also offered suggestions on correcting the problems, but was ignored, House investigators say. A1

Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao, speaking on Capitol Hill, said the administration's plan for changes in pension funds in the aftermath of the losses sustained by Enron employees balanced worker and corporate interests. Democrats said the Bush proposals favored corporations. C1

Trader Loses $750 Million
A currency trader working in Baltimore for a unit of Allied Irish Banks ran up $750 million in losses over the last year that were hidden with bogus offsetting trades and not discovered until recently, the bank said. It said the trader, John Rusnak, could not be located, but his lawyer said he was still in Maryland. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: Revisiting homeland security; the Olympics and Old Glory; lessons for nation-builders; Smithsonian pluses and minuses.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E10
Crossword E8
Weather A23
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); AL-QAEDA (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); TALIBAN (78%); PHYSICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); HIJACKING (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); APPROVALS (70%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (70%); MAGISTRATES (66%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); TOM DASCHLE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



247 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
The president wants Americans to volunteer to pick up the slack in social services. But will that be enough?

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton University and editor of The Journal of Economic Perspectives. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
FROM an economic perspective, the most interesting proposal in last week's State of the Union address was President Bush's call "for every American to commit at least two years -- 4,000 hours over the rest of your lifetime -- to the service of your neighbors and your nation." That works out to around 80 hours a year for every adult. Although that sounds like -- and is -- a lot, by some counts the average American is already volunteering that much. Why do so many people give away so much of their time?
 Richard Freeman, a Harvard economist, has studied why Americans -- 44 percent in 2000, according to a recent survey -- volunteer for charities, youth development programs, religious organizations and other causes. He concludes that voluntary labor is best thought of as a "conscience good or activity -- something that people feel morally obligated to do when asked, but which they would just as soon let someone else do." 
 By contrast, the standard economics treatment is to view volunteer work as the outcome of a trade-off among competing uses of time: working for pay, volunteering or enjoying leisure. The "price" of volunteer work is the opportunity cost of individuals' time -- the earnings one forgoes. As a person's wage rises, he or she finds volunteering more expensive; this should discourage volunteering compared with donating money.
Professor Freeman finds, however, that the standard model goes only so far in explaining why people volunteer. Although a high opportunity cost discourages some people from volunteering, on average those who volunteer are better paid and more likely to be employed than those who do not. Higher pay is associated with only a small, statistically insignificant shift from volunteering to writing tax-deductible checks.
Over all, there is little evidence that people cut down on volunteer work when their labor market opportunities improve or that they view cash contributions and volunteer time as substitutes.
Will the president's call have an effect? Mr. Freeman is skeptical. Most people seem to volunteer only when asked, and particularly when asked by a member of their community, close friend or relative.
Recruiting volunteers will require more than preaching from the bully pulpit. According to Mr. Freeman, a grass-roots campaign is required. Unless the president engages organizations that need volunteers in his effort and provides them with the necessary support to recruit from their communities, his call is likely to go unheeded.
Remember America's Promise, an initiative begun with much fanfare five years ago to channel volunteers to improve the lives of youth, headed by Colin L. Powell with the support of four former presidents? So far, there is little indication the program has lived up to its promise. An evaluation by Public/Private Ventures and the Search Institute concluded, "Though there are some programmatic successes, they are scattered and modest in scope and size."
President Bush's call for a minimum of 4,000 hours is likely to be met with the same fate unless his administration devotes energy and resources to develop a grass-roots coalition of service organizations to recruit and deploy volunteers. There are already signs that the outpouring of volunteers after Sept. 11 has tailed off, and the frequency of volunteering has returned to normal.
Jean Baldwin Grossman, vice president for research at Public/Private Ventures, also stresses that for charities, "voluntary labor is not free." Resources are needed to screen, train and monitor volunteers. Indeed, nonprofits often find it cheaper to hire full-time employees with appropriate skills than to train volunteers.
Some volunteer jobs, like mentors and tutors, have been found to have a high social benefit, while others, like teacher aides, have a low benefit. In most cases, however, little evidence exists on the social payoff.
In her paper "Making the Most of Volunteers," Dr. Grossman estimates that infrastructure costs around $300 a volunteer mentor. Thus if an additional 100 million or so people participate in voluntary activities, as the president has requested, the management costs would increase by around $30 billion.
Where will service organizations find the financing to provide the necessary infrastructure?
Mr. Freeman says the Bush administration "would do better to copy the old Reagan approach, which was to hit up the superrich and corporations to give more."
Applying the theory of "comparative advantage," it does not make sense for Bill Gates or Larry Ellison to spend time helping out their local fire department, or even writing computer code for the United Way. Their comparative advantage lies in donating money so service organizations can hire people with requisite skills and buy equipment for them to perform their tasks. (It is worth noting that progressive taxation achieves exactly this result. Instead of exhorting Mr. Gates and Mr. Ellison to sit around the fire department, one wonders why President Bush would not prefer to tax them more heavily to pay for modern fire trucks.)
According to a survey by the Independent Sector, in 2001 the average American, including nonvolunteers, donated 81 hours to voluntary activity. Volunteer hours have trended down since 1989 but are still substantial. Charitable contributions soared with the stock market in 2000 but are likely to return to normal levels.
This is cause for concern. The United States has come to rely on volunteers and charitable contributions for many social services. Counting the value of voluntary labor, the nonprofit sector accounts for around 6 percent of national income -- 65 percent more than President Bush's slimmed-down budget spends on nonmilitary discretionary programs, like education, job training and workplace safety.
"It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer and the baker that we expect our dinner," Adam Smith famously observed, "but from their regard to their own interest." Increasingly, however, American society depends on the generosity of its citizens for social services, a need that will intensify as government shifts resources toward national security and away from social programs.
If not dinner, benevolence provides a snack between meals for those who have difficulty putting food on the table. This makes carrying out the president's call for volunteer work -- as well as increased charitable contributions -- all the more important.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Volunteering works best on a community level. Members of the West Side Presbyterian Church in Ridgewood, N.J., worked at a project for Habitat for Humanity in nearby Paterson last month. (Norman Y. Lono) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOLUNTEERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); TRENDS (74%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (74%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); CHARITIES (70%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); RELIGION (54%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NATIONAL SERVICE (US); VOLUNTEERS 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (59%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) KRUEGER, ALAN B; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FREEMAN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



248 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Cuba, Too, Felt the Sept. 11 Shock Waves, With a More Genial Castro Offering Help 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: HAVANA, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
In the wake of the terrorist attacks on the United States, President Fidel Castro of Cuba has muted his hostile remarks about Washington and offered to cooperate with the Bush administration's war on terrorism. 
 Within hours of the attacks on New York and Washington, President Castro offered medical help, including blood and health care brigades, as well as intelligence on the movements of terrorists. In the days when United States airspace was closed to traffic, he also offered to allow stranded planes to land at the island's two international airports. 
 Mr. Castro did not criticize the United States decision to detain Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners at the American military base at Guantanamo Bay. 
His warmer tone appears to be part of an effort to avoid a deterioration in relations with Washington as Cuba faces an economic crisis. Since the Sept. 11 attacks, tourism and remittances from the United States, this country's two leading sources of income, have declined sharply. 
Cuba has been listed by the United States as a country that sponsors terrorists and it became critical for it to take a public stand against terrorism, political analysts said. 
American diplomats in Havana also said they saw President Castro's gestures as a calculated response to the cold front developing at the White House, where President Bush has filled key Latin policy posts with officials who are known for their hard-line views on Cuba. The lineup -- led by Otto Reich as the Latin America policy chief -- makes it unlikely that the administration will ease trade and travel barriers against one of the world's last Communist outposts. As a result, the analysts said, Mr. Castro is seeking to sidestep the White House with diplomatic efforts aimed at the Congress and American public opinion.
Mr. Castro has met and entertained numerous American delegations that have traveled to Cuba in recent weeks. Some 2,000 American politicians, lobbyists, businessmen and university students came to Cuba last month, including a group led by two Republican senators, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania and Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, and the Republican governor of Illinois, George Ryan. A number of the visiting legislators expressed support for improving relations with Cuba.
In an interview, the Cuban foreign minister, Felipe Perez Roque, cited the example of the century-old United States base at Guantanamo, which he said had been transformed in recent years from hostile territory to a symbol of detente.
"We hope that one day the relations on all official matters can be handled with the respect and collaboration that is happening at Guantanamo," Mr. Perez said. He said that American officials had advised Cuba about the prisoner flights to Guantanamo and discussed issues of security around the base. 
Mr. Perez, who served for several years as President Castro's personal aide, insisted, "We have taken a clear position of collaboration"
with the United States, adding: "We do not have a policy against the United States. There is no anti-North American sentiment in Cuba. There is no hatred against the United States or against the people of the United States. On the contrary, there is a feeling of respect."
American diplomats in Havana seem unmoved by Cuba's new language. While Mr. Castro talks about his willingness to improve relations, they said, he has done nothing to move Cuba toward democracy. Vicki Huddleston, principal officer of the United States Interests Section here, said that Mr. Castro continued to forbid free elections and opposition leaders continued to suffer government harassment.
"It's all a facade," she said of Mr. Castro's recent moves. "It's all cosmetic. Castro is very clever. And his No. 1 goal is staying in power."
The United States has not accepted any of Cuba's offers of aid since Sept. 11. 
Mr. Perez said that his government gained a new understanding of the power of public opinion during the furor in the United States over the custody of Elian Gonzalez. Elian, a young Cuban boy, was rescued by the United States Coast Guard after he and his mother left Cuba for Florida on a raft. The boy's mother died during the journey. Despite protests in Miami, United States officials ordered the boy returned to the custody of his father in Cuba.
Elian's return, Mr. Perez said, revealed that public opinion could be the Achilles' heel of the anti-Castro Cuban community in Miami, which Havana regards as the driving force behind American policy toward Cuba. "It caused great impact in Cuba," Mr. Perez added, "It permitted millions of Cubans to understand the power of Americans' commitment to justice and family values."
Since then, at least 150,000 Americans have traveled to Cuba to enjoy its hotels, cigars, rum and rides in classic American cars. Most of the visitors, officials estimate, came in violation of American travel restrictions. Mr. Perez compared the visitors to a "snowball growing out of control," which he said would plow down the barriers that prohibit travel and trade between the United States and Cuba.
"We will keep welcoming them," he said. "Each one who comes goes back to the United States and tells the truth about Cuba. They say they have been to hell, but hell is not as hot as it had been depicted."
Cuban officials said they viewed the United States authorization of food sales to Cuba after a hurricane devastated the island last November as "an act of kindness." They also noted that in the last 18 months the United States Coast Guard had posted an official in Havana to work with the Cuban government on patrol issues. The Federal Bureau of Investigation helped Cuban officials investigate the killing of five people, two of them Miami residents, in an attack in Cuba last December.
Some American lawmakers have said that Cuba's offers of cooperation should be considered. "I believe there are areas where Cuba could be of great assistance on the war on terrorism," Senator Specter said at a news conference during his visit. "Cuba has vast intelligence sources which could be of great aid."
The 75-year-old Mr. Castro, who has presented himself recently more as a benevolent grandfather than a defiant Communist revolutionary, received hugs from American university students who visited last month.
"Your presence here helps," he told them, "because in your willingness to exchange opinions you learn a little more about Cuba and we learn a little about your country."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cuban officials said they viewed the United States authorization of food sales to Cuba after a hurricane devastated the island in December as "an act of kindness." The aid arrived in Havana by freighter on Dec. 16. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (96%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); TALIBAN (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); AIRPORTS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); NAVIES (72%); AIRLINES (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE (CUBA) 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%) ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PEREZ ROQUE (78%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (50%) THOMPSON, GINGER; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); CUBA; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



249 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Bush, in New York, Affirms $20 Billion Aid Pledge 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
President Bush flew into New York yesterday and declared that he would stand by his pledge to provide the city with at least $20 billion to help rebuild from last summer's terrorist attacks, moving to dispel doubts raised by Democrats about the depth of the White House's commitment to help New York recover.
 Mr. Bush, in a day that mixed the politics of New York's race for governor with a homage to the police officers and firefighters involved in the World Trade Center rescue efforts, also announced that he supported a proposal to create $5 billion in tax credits in downtown Manhattan to stop businesses from fleeing the area. 
 "I want you to know something: When I say I'm going to do something, I'm going to do it," Mr. Bush said, chopping the air with his right hand for emphasis as he stood on a stage filled with New York City police officers and firefighters. "I told the people of New York that we will work to provide at least $20 billion to help New York rebuild herself. And that includes money apart from the Victims Compensation Fund. And when I say $20 billion, I mean $20 billion." 
Mr. Bush offered his remarks at a time when several recent events -- including statements this week by his budget director -- had raised questions about the permanence of the $20 billion pledge to the city he made shortly after the twin towers were destroyed.
And it came as there have been mounting signs that the dispute was going to become an issue in the re-election campaign of Gov. George E. Pataki. 
Even before Air Force One had touched down at Kennedy Airport, two prominent New York Democrats -- the party chairman, Herman D. Farrell, and Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democratic candidate for governor -- questioned the propriety of Mr. Bush's appearing at two political fund-raisers that raised more than $1.5 million to finance Mr. Pataki's re-election campaign.
Mr. Cuomo held a news conference in which he suggested that Mr. Pataki should instead use his influence and time with Mr. Bush to obtain the money for the recovery effort, rather than for financing his re-election campaign.
Mr. Cuomo went so far as to suggest that Mr. Pataki contribute the receipts from the fund-raising -- including money raised at a $25,000-a-couple reception at the Upper East Side town house of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg -- to make up for what Mr. Cuomo asserted would be the unfilled promise of $20 billion. Fending off concerns about his commitment to the city, Mr. Bush went out of his way at three separate public appearances yesterday to reaffirm the pledge.
And after touring the command center of the New York City Police Department, he seemed to suggest that he had chastised his budget director, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., for saying that $5 billion in federal benefits for families of victims of the attack would be counted as part of the $20 billion in recovery aid.
In comments on Monday, Mr. Daniels also said that the aid plans should not be part of "a money-grubbing game." 
Speaking of Mr. Daniels, Mr. Bush said: "He understands what I said when I said $20 billion, I meant $20 billion. And I'm the kind of fellow who does what I say I'm going to do. And I think it's important for the country to know that a vibrant New York City is vital for our economy."
Mr. Bush's press secretary, Ari Fleischer, noted that Mr. Daniels had retracted both statements. "Everybody's entitled to make a mistake," Mr. Fleischer said.
Mr. Pataki and Mr. Bloomberg, two Republicans elected in a state and city that are overwhelmingly Democratic, seemed visibly relieved at Mr. Bush's statement.
"Mr. President, we understand that a promise made is a promise kept, and we know that you are a man of your word," Mr. Bloomberg said. "On behalf of a grateful city of eight and a half million New Yorkers, thank you for sticking up for us."
Mr. Pataki, standing in front of a huge American flag at a fund-raiser last night, looked into the television cameras across the room and said of the president, "He made his commitment: New York is going to get $20 billion, at least."
In Washington, New York's two Democratic senators, Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, said in interviews they were pleased with the president's remarks, suggesting that they might once and for all end concern that New York would end up not getting the money. So far, Congress and the White House have agreed to provide only $11.1 billion in aid, and Mr. Bush included no money for the rebuilding in the budget proposal he made last week.
"I'm glad that he reaffirmed his commitment to the $20 billion, though I would have preferred a specific mention of New York in the budget," Mrs. Clinton said. "But I think this reaffirmation is a good sign that he's going to follow through and we're just intent on getting as specific a proposal from the administration as soon as possible."
Mr. Schumer said he was particularly struck by Mr. Bush's statement of support for the tax credit program, known as Liberty Zones. A version of the legislation, as part of the national stimulus package, passed the House, but it failed in the Senate yesterday, and its prospects for this year now appear bleak.
"Now that the national stimulus package has gone down, we really need the president's help to find a new vehicle to pass the Liberty Zones, either as another tax bill or as a stand alone," Mr. Schumer said. "And we need to do it quickly because businesses are on tenterhooks about whether to stay or leave."
Mr. Bush's visit to New York was his fifth to the city since Sept. 11, and his remarks suggested that his perception of New York, a state that he lost last November, had changed markedly since the attack, as he repeatedly and exuberantly expressed his admiration and respect for a city that he said had come to represent the nation's resilience. 
At one point, Mr. Bush was perhaps overly exuberant. "As I said in my State of the Union, I stand in awe of New York City," Mr. Bush told an audience at a $1,500-a-head reception for Mr. Pataki last night. Mr. Bush actually made no such mention of New York City in his State of the Union speech.
Mr. Bush expressed strong support for Mr. Pataki's re-election campaign, ticking off the reasons why he said he deserved re-election to a third term, at one point in particularly stark political terms. 
"It also makes sense for New York State to have a governor whose phone calls will be returned from the White House," Mr. Bush said.
Upon his arrival yesterday afternoon, Mr. Bush visited the New York Police Department's command and control center, a 2,000-square-foot nerve center on the eighth floor of 1 Police Plaza, where planning for major events such as blizzards, parades and the New York City Marathon is coordinated.
Mr. Bush made his way around a horseshoe-shaped table filled with police supervisors. Sgt. Gladstone Griffith of the Emergency Service Unit told Mr. Bush that 14 members of his unit had died on Sept. 11.
"He said that he appreciated our effort. It meant a lot to me," Sergeant Griffith said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: During his visit to New York yesterday, President Bush congratulated police officers and firefighters who were involved in Sept. 11 rescue efforts. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A1); President Bush spoke at a fund-raiser in New York for Gov. George E. Pataki that was also attended by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, right. (Richard Perry/The New York Times); President Bush tours the Police Department's command center with Gov. George E. Pataki, left, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, center. (Luke Frazza/Agence France-Presse)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); HIJACKING (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); MAYORS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); TAX LAW (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); AIRLINES (63%); TRENDS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FIRES AND FIREMEN; POLICE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); ANDREW CUOMO (89%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); RICK PERRY (73%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); FARRELL, HERMAN D JR (ASSEMBLYMAN); CUOMO, ANDREW M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002 



250 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: ANTIQUES; 
The Prices Of Americana Stay Strong

BYLINE:  By Wendy Moonan 

 BODY:
Despite the recession, Sotheby's and Christie's had highly successful sales last month of Americana, which includes American furniture, folk art, silver and Chinese Export porcelain. Sotheby's had six single-owner auctions, raising a total of $27.3 million. Christie's had two sales, for a total of $12.5 million. Americana dealers also did well at the Winter Antiques Show.
 "A huge amount of material was available so people came in from Maine, Texas, California and many places in between," said John B. A. Nye, the head of the American furniture department at Sotheby's. "A lot of people didn't come to New York after Sept. 11. We gave them a reason to travel. There was pent-up demand, and things were priced to sell." 
 John Hays, the international director of American art at Christie's, said that the weakness in the general economy did not appear in the prices for Americana. "We didn't raise the bar except for some very unusual pieces," he said. "The rest of the market was rock solid and did not go down. It's a thoughtful marketplace, where collectors, not investors, are doing the buying."
Alan Miller, an American antiques consultant in Quakertown, Pa., agreed. "The sales of Americana were stronger than I expected," he said. "It may have been a kind of reaction to the horror of Sept. 11, a return to hearth and home and, somehow, a patriotic statement to buy American-associated stuff."
The 368 lots of the Lammot du Pont Copeland collection raised $12.6 million, a figure approaching the $13.6 million auction record for an Americana sale set at the Eddy Nicholson sale at Christie's in 1995.
"There was a circus atmosphere at the Copeland sale like the Jackie Onassis and Duchess of Windsor sales," Mr. Miller said. "Some of the high prices can only be attributed to aristocracy souvenir hunting."
Matthew Weigman, a spokesman for Sotheby's, added: "There was a kind of frenzied competition at the sales. It was 'buy now or regret it forever.' "
Chipstone, a private nonprofit foundation in Milwaukee, dedicated to scholarship in the American decorative arts, bought Sotheby's top-selling lot for the week at the Copeland sale: a circa 1750 Queen Anne mahogany desk and bookcase. The price was $1.1 million (against an estimate of $400,000 to $600,000).
The desk has a cartouche and shell-within-a-shell ornament whose carving was attributed to Samuel Harding of Philadelphia. "It was by far the most art-historically significant piece in the sale," Mr. Miller said. "In it we are probably witnessing the invention of the Philadelphia cartouche. There are other early Philadelphia ornaments, but this one springs out of no shop tradition; it is a Philadelphia carver's high-relief rendering of a two-dimensional design, probably one based on an engraving."
He added, "It is the highest-concept piece of Philadelphia case furniture surviving from the 1740's." The Harding attribution is based on the shell carving that Harding did in Independence Hall in Philadelphia.
"Some found the Copeland desk ungainly," said Jonathan Prown, the executive director of Chipstone. "I think it is really gutsy and one of the most formidable pieces of mid-18th-century American furniture."
Also at the Copeland sale, Mr. Miller bought a circa 1765 Chippendale mahogany bonnet-top chest on chest with carving attributed to Nicholas Bernard and Martin Jugiez of Philadelphia. He paid $913,250 (the estimate was $800,000 to $1.2 million), the second-highest price in the sale.
"Jugiez was one of the most gifted immigrant carvers who ever came to Philadelphia," Mr. Miller said. "We don't know where he came from, but he arrives, fully formed, in Philadelphia in the 1750's." In the early 1800's, the Philadelphia banker Nicholas Biddle hired him to carve the Corinthian columns for Andalusia, his Greek Revival house. 
Sotheby's sale of property deaccessioned from Gunston Hall, George Mason's Virginia plantation, raised $1.9 million. Six Chippendale carved mahogany dining chairs sold for $368,750 (against an estimate of $60,000 to $100,000). The Wick family's Chippendale dropleaf table, circa 1760, attributed to Gilbert Ash of New York, sold for $346,750 (against an estimate of $150,000 to $250,000). Selections from the inventory of the New York dealer Israel Sack raised $2.2 million.
Christie's had one Americana sale with 538 lots, which raised $10.3 million. The top lot was a pair of French 18th-century pistols made about 1775 by Jacob Walster. Owned by Lafayette, Washington and Andrew Jackson, the pistols sold for $1.9 million, a world auction record for a firearm, according to Christie's.
"History is still the most underappreciated element in the value of Americana," Mr. Hays said. "These sold for $40,000 about 20 years ago in Paris as 'Lafayette pistols.' At Christie's, they sold for $1.9 million as 'Washington pistols.' Form and style are the first criteria; right behind come provenance and condition."
A rare pair of rosewood Empire card tables with female caryatid supports by Charles-Honore Lannuier sold for $1.2 million. "The creme de la creme with Lannuier is his figural pieces," Mr. Hays said. "It's a robust style only he could do."
An 18th-century tall-case clock with a dial signed by James Wady of Newport and a case attributed to the school of Job Townsend Sr. of Newport realized $666,000. Job was the brother of Christopher Townsend, the maker of the Appleton secretary bookcase that Sotheby's sold in 1999 for $8.3 million, the second highest price ever paid for a piece of American furniture at auction. Christie's said the Wady-Townsend clock set a world auction record for an American tall-case clock. 
A single Queen Anne carved walnut side chair made in Philadelphia about 1750 sold for $666,000, a world auction record for a Queen Anne side chair, Christie's said.
Christie's also sold a previously unpublished and unrecorded silver tankard, made in 1710 by the first Huguenot goldsmith working in New York, Bartholomew Le Roux. It sold for $534,000, a record for an American tankard. It was made for Obadiah Hunt, the successful proprietor of a tavern at 35 Pearl Street in Lower Manhattan, and is engraved with the Hunt coat of arms.
While the hefty tankard has some characteristics of Dutch silver -- Baroque engraving and an applied leaf border on the base -- it is distinctively American. "The thumb piece in the shape of a cocoon is definitely a New York characteristic, one you'd never find in Boston or Philadelphia," said Jeanne Sloane, the head of Christie's silver department. "The tankard form is basically English, but the decorative elements are Dutch. To see such a combination tells you it's New York and not Continental."
Unlike Paul Revere, who imitated English forms, the tankard is an example of an original American style, which explains its record price.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Silver tankard made by Bartholomew Le Roux in New York in 1710. (Christie's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SALES & SELLING (89%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (78%); VISUAL ARTS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%) ANTIQUES; AUCTIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%); CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S; CHRISTIE'S 

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (91%)

PERSON: HAYS, JOHN; MOONAN, WENDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



251 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: Poetry Academy, After Budget Uproar, Gets New Chief 

BYLINE:  By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK 

 BODY:
The Academy of American Poets yesterday named Tree Swenson its executive director, succeeding William Wadsworth, whose departure after a dispute with the organization's board last fall provoked angry protests from some prominent poets.
 Ms. 
Swenson, 50, is the director of programs for the Massachusetts Cultural Council. From 1972 to 1992, she was co-founder, executive director and publisher of Copper Canyon Press in Port Townsend, Wash., which became an important nonprofit poetry publisher. Copper Canyon published the work of poets including the Nobel Prize winners Pablo Neruda and Vicente Aleixandre. It also published Lucille Clifton, a member of the panel of poets that advised the academy's board. 
 Mr. Wadsworth, a published poet and former wine-marketing consultant, was the executive director for 12 years and won praise from many academy members for publicizing poets and poetry with programs like National Poetry Month and an elaborate Web site (www.poets.org). 
But the academy's programs also grew expensive, and when the recession cramped fund-raising efforts Mr. Wadsworth clashed with the board over how to reconcile costs and revenues. After his resignation, the academy dismissed 8 of its 17 employees.
Ms. Swenson said she planned to continue Mr. Wadsworth's efforts to raise poetry's profile while also keeping a close eye on the academy's budget.
"Bill was very highly regarded in the poetry world, and I am one of the people who think that he accomplished a lot in his time there," she said.
She is to start her new position on April 1, the beginning of National Poetry Month.
Separately, Paul Gottlieb, 67, a vice chairman of the French Groupe de la Martiniere, was named chairman of the academy's board, succeeding Jonathan Galassi. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POETRY (90%); WRITERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BOOK PUBLISHING (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: ACADEMY OF AMERICAN POETS 

PERSON: SWENSON, TREE; WADSWORTH, WILLIAM; KIRKPATRICK, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



252 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 3890 words

HEADLINE: CLASSICAL MUSIC AND DANCE GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy opera, classical music and dance events this weekend in the New York metropolitan region.

Opera

"IL BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA." The news of this "Barber" is the Peruvian tenor Juan Diego Florez, who made his Metropolitan Opera debut in January as Count Almaviva; he acquits himself with bravura as a young, slightly spoiled aristocrat with a ringing voice and a rapid vibrato. His vocal standards should be matched by those of his love interest, Rosina, sung by the soprano Ruth Ann Swenson. Dwayne Croft plays a dapper Figaro with a dry-look coiffure, although unfortunately the role lies too high for his voice. In the pit, Yves Abel, the Canadian conductor, keeps the orchestra lean, lithe and agile, stripped of hyperbolic bombast. Tomorrow evening at 8, Metropolitan Opera at Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000. Tickets: Sold out, but returns may be available (Ann Midgette).

"L'ELISIR D'AMORE." To open its new production of Donizetti's light and bubbly favorite, the diminutive Amato Opera includes a Champagne buffet in the price of admission for a premiere gala on Saturday night. Sunday, it's back to business as usual. The indefatigable Tony Amato conducts, and Richard Cerullo, the venerable company's resident designer, has produced sets and costumes for this age-old tale of village love. Tomorrow night at 7 (new production gala), Sunday at 2:30 p.m., Amato Opera, 319 Bowery, (212) 228-8200. Tickets: Saturday gala: $50 a person (includes Champagne buffet). Sunday: $28; $23 for students, 65+ and children under 12 (Midgette).

"LE NOZZE DI FIGARO." The Metropolitan Opera. Apart from a bit of obvious symbolism -- walls in need of a paint job standing for the crumbling of the aristocracy -- Jonathan Miller's 1998 staging of this great Mozart opera is simple, direct and attractive and lets the drama unfold on its own terms. The Met has a good cast, both individually and as an ensemble: Korliss Uecker is Susanna, Ferruccio Furlanetto is Figaro, Kristine Jepson is Cherubino, and there are two fine newcomers to the house, Soile Isokoski, a Finnish soprano, as the Countess, and Peter Mattei, a Swedish baritone, as the Count. Donald Runnicles is the astute conductor. Tomorrow at 1:30, Metropolitan Opera. (212) 362-6000. Sold out, but returns may be available (Allan Kozinn).

"TOSCA." Sylvie Valayre, a French soprano, continues to sing the title role in the ongoing run of "Toscas" at the Metropolitan Opera, animating Franco Zeffirelli's beloved if slightly overfamiliar 1985 production with its true-to-life reproductions of the opera's original settings in Rome. The Cavaradossi is Richard Leech, generally a solid presence, while James Morris retains his position in what began the season's run as a disappointingly dry Scarpia. Daniel Oren, the conductor, favors excessive rubatos, which tend to throw the brakes onto the musical continuity. Tonight at 8, Metropolitan Opera House, (212) 362-6000. Remaining tickets: $30 to $190 (Midgette).

"WENJI: 18 SONGS OF A NOMAD FLUTE." Based on the historic figure Cai Wenji, a Chinese musician and poet abducted from her homeland by a general from Mongolia, this opera by Bun-Ching Lam explores the paradox of the expatriate who no longer belongs wholly in either of her countries. Ms. Lam herself epitomizes the same paradox: born in Macao, living in New York, she uses both Chinese and Western idioms in her music. Blends of cello and pipa, bass clarinet and zhonghu support the three singers in this chamber opera: a Beijing Opera singer (Zhou Long) as various Chinese characters, a Western opera singer (Ethan Herschenfeld) to symbolize the barbarian general, and an opera singer who is Chinese, Li Xiuying, as the woman caught between two traditions, singing Chinese lyrics in a full, Western-trained operatic voice. The text, in Chinese and English (with surtitles) is by Xu Ying; Rinde Eckert, the American performing artist, directs. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Asia Society, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, 212-517-ASIA (212-517-2742). Tickets: $25; $20 for society members; $15 for students and 65+ (Midgette).

Classical Music

BANG ON A CAN ALL STARS. Some exciting performers from the new-music world -- the percussionist Steven Schick, the bassist Robert Black, the clarinetist Evan Ziporyn and others -- get together with the Burmese drum master Kyaw Kyaw Naing and the jazz clarinetist Don Byron. New pieces by Mr. Naing and Mr. Byron are on the program, together with works by Scott Johnson and Tan Dun. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, (212) 721-6500. Tickets: $30 (Paul Griffiths).

BARGEMUSIC. This is a weekend for variety at this intimate floating concert hall on the East River. Tonight, Mary Nessinger, a mezzo-soprano, sings some of Haydn's folk song settings with piano trio accompaniment, as well as some Mendelssohn songs. And Stephanie Brown, the pianist; Carmit Zori, the violinist; and Julia Lichten, the cellist, are to close the concert with the Brahms Piano Trio in C minor (Op. 101). Tomorrow and on Sunday, Ms. Zori is to be joined by Ani Kavafian, the violinist; Nokuthula Ngwenyama, the violist; and Ronald Thomas, the cellist, for a program that includes Turina's graceful "Oracion del Torero" and string quartets by Mozart (in D, K. 575) and Beethoven (in E flat, Op. 74). Tonight and tomorrow evening at 7:30; Sunday at 4 p.m. Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn. (718) 624-2083. Tickets: $30; $25 for 65+, $15 for students (Kozinn).

JOSHUA BELL. This American violinist, though still in his early 30's, established himself long ago as a solid presence on the concert stage, and his more recent work in the film "The Red Violin," though off camera, carried him to wider attention. He plays with a robust tone and secure technique, and his particular strengths are sheer visceral excitement and passionate lyricism. The program here -- sonatas by Beethoven and Franck, works by Stravinsky and Tchaikovsky, and Sarasate's "Carmen" Fantasy -- should afford ample scope for those qualities. Simon Mulligan is the pianist. Sunday at 3 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, (212) 721-6500. Tickets: $27 to $47 (James R. Oestreich).

THE CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER. With a stellar lineup that includes the violinist Kyoko Takezawa and the talented young cellist Alisa Weilerstein, the society focuses this weekend on Russian music. Tchaikovsky's dynamic late sextet "Souvenir de Florence" is a highlight of a program that also includes the first piano trio in D minor by Anton Arensky, among that composer's best-known works, with Jonathan Biss on piano; and Prokofiev's Sonata for Two Violins, Op. 56, from 1932. The program repeats on Tuesday evening. Sunday at 5 p.m., Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5788. Tickets: $27.50 and $37.50 (Midgette).

CLASSICS DECLASSIFIED. Leon Botstein, in his conductor-as-music-educator mode (as opposed to his educator-as-conductor mode), has been leading the American Symphony Orchestra in programs he calls "Classics Declassified" for several seasons, each installment taking a single work and exploring its history and meaning as a prelude to a performance. This week's offering is Strauss's "Metamorphosen," a work composed at the end of World War II and susceptible to many meanings. Mr. Botstein will no doubt have plenty to say about it, and about Strauss's attitudes toward the Nazis and his position in German culture during the war years. It is bound to be an enlightening presentation; just watch out for those straw men, Mr. Botstein's favorite rhetorical device. Sunday at 3 p.m., Miller Theater at Columbia University, Broadway at 116th Street. (212) 581-1365. Tickets are $15 (Kozinn).

THE CLERKS' GROUP. This English vocal ensemble, founded in London in 1992, prefers to perform clustered around a single partbook, as singers in the Renaissance would have done, and they take the view that the tendency of modern choral groups to prize vocal homogeneity may be ahistorical. Instead, they allow the voices within the group to be heard distinctively within the blend. They gave a superb performance as part of the Music Before 1800 series two seasons ago. Now they're back with a program of Josquin's sacred and secular works, including the "Miserere Mei" and a rarely performed Mass, the "Missa Faisant Regretz." Sunday at 4 p.m., Corpus Christi Church, 529 West 121st Street. (212) 666-9266. Tickets: $25 to $30; $20 to $25 for students and 62+ (Kozinn).

CONCERTGEBOUW ORCHESTRA. Riccardo Chailly, the group's music director (recently revealed to be a lame duck), has been turning into a truly insightful Mahler conductor in recent years, so there should be much to ponder in this performance of the "Resurrection" Symphony, repeated from Carnegie Hall on Wednesday. The Westminster Symphonic Choir, based in New Jersey, adds a touch of local color, and Janice Watson and Petra Lang are the vocal soloists. Sunday at 3 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722. Tickets: $15 to $68 (Oestreich).

HARMONIE ENSEMBLE. The Harmonie Ensemble boasts a special connection to Aaron Copland, who conducted the group in a Wall-to-Wall Copland Concert at Symphony Space in 1980. On Sunday afternoon the ensemble offers an all-Copland program that includes a few rarities: Two Ballads for Violin and Piano (adapted from sketches for a never-completed sonata), Elegies for Viola and Piano, and a solo piano version of "El Salon Mexico" arranged by, of all people, Arturo Toscanini. Among the performers are the pianist Diane Walsh and two members of the Emerson String Quartet: the violinist Eugene Drucker and the violist Lawrence Dutton. The program includes "Appalachian Spring" (the original version for 13 instruments) and the jazzy "Music for the Theater." Steven Richman conducts. Sunday at 4 p.m., Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Avenue, at 73rd Street, (212) 288-8920. Tickets: Suggested contribution $10; $8 for students and 65+ (Anthony Tommasini).

MUSIC FROM JAPAN. The organization presents a concert of the rich and splendid music of Akira Nishimura, who will be there to talk an hour before the event. His Second Quartet, aptly subtitled "Pulses of Light," is performed by the Corigliano Quartet. William Anderson, Oren Fader and Scott Kuney perform "Pipa" for three guitars. And Aki Takahashi presents a new work for solo piano: "Avatars." Tomorrow at 8 p.m. And on Sunday at 2 p.m., the gagaku ensemble Harena plays traditional and contemporary music. Merkin Hall, 67th Street at West End Avenue (212) 501-3330. Tickets: $15 for each concert, or $25 for both (Griffiths).

NEW YORK COLLEGIUM. This promises to be an eventful evening, with Andrew Parrott conducting Bach's "St. John Passion" in his debut as the collegium's music director. Mr. Parrott, who is also a scholar, is in basic agreement with Joshua Rifkin's research suggesting that Bach's choruses typically consisted only of the four solo voices used in recitatives and arias. But here, it turns out, Mr. Parrott will use an additional voice on each line, making for a chorus of eight, still small by most current standards. Tonight at 8, Church of St. Vincent Ferrer, Lexington Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 717-9246. Tickets: $25 and $40; $15 for students (Oestreich).

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC. Love and death come to the concert stage when Kurt Masur conducts the New York Philharmonic in Wagner's "Tristan und Isolde" -- a great deal of it, at least. Included are Act II complete surrounded by the Act I Prelude and the Act III Prelude and Liebestod. It will be interesting to hear Mr. Masur's rectitude next to Wagner's steamy music. The cast will be first rate. Especially attractive is the chance to hear Deborah Voigt show what she (in part) can do with a juicy but demanding role that everyone has always assumed would be in her future. Stig Andersen and Violetta Urmana are strong parts of this cast. Tomorrow night at 8. Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500. Tickets: sold out. The performance repeats Feb. 12 and 14 (Bernard Holland).

ORPHEUS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA. It is worth paying attention to almost anything these conductorless players put their collective hand, mind and heart to. Here that is an attractive program of the "Italian Serenade" and songs by Hugo Wolf, and the Sixth Symphony and songs by Schubert. The excellent mezzo-soprano Angelika Kirchschlager is the vocal soloist. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800. Tickets: $19 to $89 (Oestreich).

KEITH PHARES. A graduate of the Juilliard Opera Center and a winner of the Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions, Keith Phares, a young American baritone, made a strong impression earlier this season in the New York City Opera's production of Monteverdi's "Ritorno d'Ulisse in Patria." The Marilyn Horne Foundation is presenting Mr. Phares in recital on Sunday afternoon as part of its "On Wings of Song" series at the Kosciuszko Foundation. With Michael Baitzer at the piano, Mr. Phares will sing works by Handel, Wolf, Poulenc, Butterworth and Harold Arlen. Sunday at 3 p.m., Kosciuszko Foundation, 15 East 65th Street, Manhattan, (212) 734-2130. Tickets: $15 (Tommasini).

RIVERSIDE SYMPHONY. Bach and his musical heirs is the theme of the interesting program that the also interesting Riverside Symphony will perform tonight at Alice Tully Hall. The music director, George Rothman, conducts Bach's Suite No 1 in C and the Keyboard Concerto No. 4 in A, the latter with the brilliant pianist Christopher Taylor as soloist. Mr. Taylor will also be the soloist in the premier of Matthew Greenbaum's "Spherical Music," a work modeled on Bach's concerto-suite design. The program concludes with the Sinfonia No. 7 for Strings by Mendelssohn, a Bach disciple if there ever was one. Tonight at 8, Alice Tully Hall, (212) 721-6500, or (212) 864-4197. Tickets: $45, $30 (Tommasini).

ST. LOUIS SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA. Several American orchestras are facing financial troubles in the wake of the recession. For a while it seemed as if the St. Louis Symphony might not survive at all. The orchestra's administration now says that the situation is better, and the orchestra will perform as scheduled tonight at Carnegie Hall, its only New York appearance of the season. But adding to the problems, the music director, Hans Vonk, took ill during a performance last weekend and could not continue. So tonight's Carnegie Hall performance will be conducted by David Robertson, who accepted on short notice and has had only one rehearsal with the orchestra. This has necessitated a partial program change. Mr. Robertson will offer Hindemith's Symphonic Metamorphosis on Themes of Carl Maria von Weber and Debussy's "Prelude a l'Apres-Midi d'un Faune." He will also conduct the previously announced "La Mer" by Debussy and Ravel's Piano Concerto for the Left Hand, with Gary Graffman as soloist. Tonight at 8, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800. Tickets: $84 to $22 (Tommasini).

TOKYO STRING QUARTET. As the quartet in residence at the 92nd Street Y this season, the Tokyo plays four concerts centered on the major chamber works of Brahms, with contemporary and international tinges added. Each program includes a newly commissioned piece, with the composers drawn from four countries; here Fabio Vacchi of Italy offers his Fourth String Quartet. The Brahms works are the two string quintets, with Phillip Ying as second violist, and the C minor String Quartet (Op. 51, No. 1). Tomorrow night at 8, 92nd Street Y, at Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500. Tickets: $35 (Oestreich).

Dance

ALL THAT TANGO! This tango musical, conceived by Angel Gil Orrios, stars the master bandoneon player Raul Jaurena and three tango-dancing couples who are also accompanied by singing and piano and violin music. Tonight (and next Thursday and Friday) at 8; tomorrow (and Feb. 16) at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sunday (and Feb. 17) at 4 p.m. Thalia Spanish Theater, 41-17 Greenpoint Avenue, Sunnyside; (718) 729-3880. Tickets: Thursday and Friday, $22; $20 for students and those 65 and over; tomorrow and Sunday, $25; $22 for students and those 65 and over (Jennifer Dunning).

ALEXANDRA BELLER. Ms. Beller promises to bend a few genders in the intriguingly entitled dances on this program, among them "Dangling Fruits of Joy or How to Make Love." Tonight through Sunday at 8 p.m. Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, SoHo; (212) 334-7479. Tickets: $15; $12 for students and those 65 and over (Dunning).

BUGLISI/FOREMAN DANCE. A company known for its dramatic expressiveness offers two programs featuring premieres as well as works from the repertory. The premieres include Jacqulyn Buglisi's "Requiem" (Faure), inspired by such disparate sources as alchemy, Ground Zero and the 17th-century painter Artemisia Gentileschi (Program A); Donlin Foreman's "Lisa Dee," a jazz-inspired piece to a commissioned score by Lisa DeSpain (Program A); and Mr. Foreman's "Man in the Black Coat Turns," a suite of short, spare dances with costumes inspired by the paintings and etchings of William Blake (Program B). Tonight at 8 (Program B), tomorrow at 2 (Program B) and 8 p.m. (Program A), Sunday at 2 (Program A) and 7:30 p.m. (Program B). Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800. Tickets: $32 (Jack Anderson).

EVERETT DANCE THEATER. A troupe from Providence, R.I., fascinated by the intersections of dance, art and life, presents "Somewhere in the Dream," an urban journey that takes a look at chain-link fences, youthful alienation and hope and also at high-school graduations and such dramatic and balletic classics as "Hamlet" and "Giselle." Tomorrow at 7 p.m., Hostos Center for the Arts and Culture, 450 Grand Concourse at 149th Street, Bronx, (718) 518-4455. Tickets: $12 (Anderson).

FORTY UP: "GRACE." Programs presented by 40 Up, an organization devoted to showcasing the skills of veteran dancers and choreographers, celebrate the kind of seasoned eloquence that mature, experienced artists bring to dance. Thirty-five artists will perform in two different programs. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 5 p.m. The Duke on 42nd Street, 209 West 42nd Street, Times Square; (212) 239-6200. Tickets: $15 general admission; $25, $50 and $100 reserved seating (Dunning).

INBAL DANCE THEATER OF ISRAEL. Founded by Sara Levi-Tanai and directed by Chaim Shiran, Inbal celebrates Jewish culture and values in choreography inspired by folk and contemporary modern dance. The company will present works by Ms. Tanai and Ilana Cohen and Racheli Sela. Tomorrow at 7:30 p.m.; Sunday at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m. La MaMa, 74A East 4th Street west of Second Avenue, East Village; (212) 475-7710. Tickets: $25; Theater Development Fund vouchers accepted (Dunning).

JACOB'S PILLOW DANCE FESTIVAL: 70TH ANNIVERSARY SALUTE. The salute includes a free exhibition, "Through the Lens at Jacob's Pillow: Seven Decades of Dance," which runs through Feb. 24, the closing date of the festival. Gallery hours are Thursday through Sunday, 1 to 6 p.m. Dance films for the entire family will be shown in a free screening tomorrow at 1 p.m. Both events are at the Puffin Room, 435 Broome Street, SoHo; (212) 343-2881 (Dunning).

SARAH EAST JOHNSON. Ms. Johnson and Lava, her company of female athlete-dancers with a sense of humor, will address what the choreographer describes as "paradigms of science and leaps of faith" in the new "Glimmer," set to music by the Butchies and Guy Yarden, with video by Nancy Brooks Brody. Tonight (and Thursday and next Friday) at 8 p.m.; tomorrow (and next Saturday) at 4 and 8 p.m. The company will also present a special Valentine benefit performance on Wednesday at 8 p.m. The Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, between 10th and 11th Avenues, Chelsea; (212) 255-5793, ext. 11. Benefit reservations: (718) 399-3161. Tickets: $20; $10 for children 18 and under; $50 for benefit (Dunning).

BILL T. JONES/ARNIE ZANE DANCE COMPANY The company will perform in two New York-area theaters this weekend in a program that includes Mr. Jones's signature, propulsively life-affirming "D-Man in the Waters." Tonight at 8 at the Tilles Center for the Performing Arts at Long Island University, C. W. Post Campus, Route 25A, Brookville; (516) 299-3100. Tomorrow night at 8 at the Performing Arts Center, 735 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, N.Y.; (914) 251-6200. Tickets: $30 to $40 (Dunning).

NEW YORK CITY BALLET. This weekend will be the last chance to see Margaret Tracey, a longtime principal dancer with a gift for delicate classicism that distinguished her Aurora in "The Sleeping Beauty" and her Swanilda in "Coppelia." Ms. Tracey will retire after her performance tomorrow night in Peter Martins's "Zakouski." The company will also present a dizzying mix of ballets by George Balanchine, Jerome Robbins, Peter Martins, Christopher Wheeldon and Sean Lavery. Among the highlights are Balanchine's "Serenade" (tonight) and Mr. Wheeldon's toy-theater "Variations Serieuses" (tomorrow afternoon). Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m. New York State Theater, Lincoln Center; (212) 307-4100. Tickets: $28 to $76. In a related event, Ian Falconer will talk about his set designs for Mr. Wheeldon, which include a stage-within-the-stage set for "Variations Serieuses." Ask nicely and he may also answer a few questions about the feisty Olivia, the little pig who stars in Mr. Falconer's enchanting children's books. Tomorrow from 12:45 to 1:30 p.m. NYCB Studios, Rose Building, Eighth Floor, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-4074. Tickets: $8 for adults; $5 for children (Dunning).

SHAOLIN WARRIORS. These Chinese monks are Kung Fu masters, merging the spiritual and earthly with swift-kicking moves. Tonight at 8. Performing Arts Center, 735 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, N.Y.; (914) 251-6200. Tickets: $25 to $40 (Dunning).

SALLY SILVERS AND DANCERS. Sally Silvers has long been a choreographer with a quirky and unpredictable imagination. In "Strike Me Lightning" she has nuns fall under a bizarre spell from cyberspace. Tonight and tomorrow and Sunday nights at 8:30, Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 477-5288. Tickets: $17 (Anderson).

TAP FUSION. Barry Blumenfeld and his Tap Fusion company will perform "Subway Observations," a new piece, set to music by Erik Jekabson, that explores the sounds and sights of New York's subway system. In his new solo "Still Life With Dancer," Mr. Blumenfeld will play a dancer who must do his own thing. The program also includes excerpts from his new "Sheva B'rachot: Seven Blessings," which draws on Mr. Blumenfeld's memories of emotions experienced at his wedding. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; Sunday at 3 p.m. Williamsburg Arts neXus, 205 North Seventh Street, Brooklyn; (718) 599-7997. Tickets: $15 (Dunning).

EMMANUELLE VO-DINH. Ms. Vo-Dinh and her French modern-dance company will present "Texture/Composite," a dance based on observations of patients in the neurology department of the University Hospital of Iowa City. The evening-long piece is set to music for the electric harp, composed and performed live by Zeena Parkins. Tonight through Sunday at 8:30 p.m. Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, at Second Avenue, East Village; (212) 674-8194. Tickets: $15 (Dunning).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ferruccio Furlanetto portrays Figaro at the Metropolitan Opera. (Jack Vartoogian); Margaret Tracey leaves City Ballet after tomorrow's "Zakouski." (Paul Kolnik/New York City Ballet) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); BALLET (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); CALENDARS (90%); MUSIC (90%); DANCE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); TICKET SALES (77%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



253 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Retailers' Deep Discounting Helped Sales During January 

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Deep discounting of winter merchandise drew consumers into stores in January, offering many struggling retailers a brief respite from a recent spate of sluggish sales. 
 But while analysts see the sales gains announced yesterday as encouraging, they do not believe the consumer is ready to splurge. Economic uncertainty continues to drive consumers into Wal-Mart Stores and other discounters, which again outperformed the rest of the retail industry during January. 
 Department stores, meanwhile, particularly May Department Stores, and apparel chains, including the Gap, are still struggling, although the sales declines for many were not as bad as Wall Street expected.
"Consumers came out in response to the great values in the stores," said Richard Jaffe, an analyst at UBS Warburg. But, he asked, are they willing to pay regular price for spring merchandise? "It is tough to say," he said. 
The Goldman, Sachs retail composite index showed that sales at stores open at least a year rose 3.4 percent in January from the period a year earlier. It was the strongest monthly rise since January 2001, when the index rose 3.5 percent.
"Americans are not yet ready to go on spending sprees and buying binges, particularly at department stores," said Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard's Retail Trend Report, based in Montclair, N.J. "They are willing to spend -- if the prices are real bargains."
Wal-Mart posted an 8.3 percent rise in sales at stores open at least a year. Analysts polled by Thomson Financial/First Call expected Wal-Mart to report a 6.2 percent gain. The company's total sales for the month were up 15.7 percent.
Costco Wholesale reported a 7 percent gain in same-store sales, beating Wall Street expectations for a 5.2 percent increase. Total sales were up 13 percent in January.
Another surprise came from J. C. Penney, which posted a 5.9 percent increase in same-store sales for its department store division. Thomson Financial/First Call expected an increase of 4.9 percent. Total sales were up 4.1 percent.
Apparel chains and department stores again struggled, but analysts said they thought the aggressive discounting, along with a concerted effort to get spring goods into the stores, helped spur sales.
The Limited posted sales gains of 6 percent in January. Analysts polled by Thomson Financial/First Call expected a 2.4 percent decline.
Federated Department Stores reported an 8.8 percent decline in same-store sales, better than the 9.5 percent drop Wall Street analysts projected. Total sales were down 24.2 percent
There were still some disappointments. May Department Stores had a 10.1 percent drop in same-store sales, worse than analysts had expected. Total sales were down 7.2 percent.
The Gap recorded a same-store sales drop of 16 percent, worse than the 13 percent decline that Wall Street analysts had projected. Total sales were down 4.9 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Retail Sales in January"Below are results for the four weeks ended Feb. 2, except as noted, compared with the corresponding period last year. Companies are listed in order of 2000 sales. COMPANY: Wal-Mart* (Four weeks to Feb. 1)SAME-STORE Change: +8.3OVER ALL Sales: $11.66 billionOVER ALL Change: +15.7 COMPANY: KmartSAME-STORE Change: (Did not release sales figures because of bankruptcy filing)OVER ALL Sales: (Did not release sales figures because of bankruptcy filing)OVER ALL Change: (Did not release sales figures because of bankruptcy filing) COMPANY: TargetSAME-STORE Change: +5.8OVER ALL Sales: 2.54 billionOVER ALL Change: -9.0 COMPANY: SearsSAME-STORE Change: -3.4OVER ALL Sales: 1.69 billionOVER ALL Change: -2.3 COMPANY: Costco (Four weeks to Feb. 3)SAME-STORE Change: +7.0OVER ALL Sales: 2.73 billionOVER ALL Change: +13.0 COMPANY: Federated StoresSAME-STORE Change: -8.8OVER ALL Sales: 774 millionOVER ALL Change: -24.2 COMPANY: J. C. Penney (Four weeks to Jan. 26)SAME-STORE Change: +5.9OVER ALL Sales: 841 millionOVER ALL Change: +4.1 COMPANY: GapSAME-STORE Change: -16.0OVER ALL Sales: 684 millionOVER ALL Change: -4.9 COMPANY: Limited+SAME-STORE Change: +6.0OVER ALL Sales: 576 millionOVER ALL Change: -24.8 COMPANY: TJXSAME-STORE Change: +4.0OVER ALL Sales: 631 millionOVER ALL Change: +15.0 COMPANY: SaksSAME-STORE Change: +2.1OVER ALL Sales: 329 millionOVER ALL Change: -1.7 COMPANY: Kohl'sSAME-STORE Change: +11.5OVER ALL Sales: 384 millionOVER ALL Change: +3.4 Graph shows year-to-year changes in the Goldman, Sachs retail composite index, based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year. +Figures exclude Galyan's and Limited Too.*Figures exclude McLane's. (Source: Goldman, Sachs, based on company reports.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (94%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX; SALES 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (68%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (56%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (92%); WMT (NYSE) (58%); COST (NASDAQ) (57%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (92%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



254 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Citing Strife, U.S. Delays Two Loans To Haitians 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: NASSAU, Bahamas, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said here today that the United States would not free millions of dollars in loans and aid to the Haitian government until it resolves a deadlock and curbs political violence. 
 His remarks at a meeting of Caribbean foreign ministers signaled the Bush administration's growing exasperation with President Jean-Bertrand Aristide of Haiti, whom the United States restored to power in 1994 after a military coup. 
 The American stance drew immediate criticism from the 14-nation Caribbean community, or Caricom, whose leaders argued that the denial of the money was destabilizing Haiti, the Hemisphere's poorest nation, and generating an increase in refugees. 
In unusually blunt criticism of Mr. Aristide, Secretary Powell all but blamed his intransigence for growing violence in the country. 
"We are terribly concerned about the political unrest that continues to haunt Haiti," Secretary Powell said. "We are concerned about some of the actions of the government, and we do not believe enough has been done yet to move the political process forward." 
"We believe we have to hold President Aristide and the Haitian government to fairly high standards of performance before we can simply allow funds to flow into the country," he added. 
Secretary Powell said the United States would oppose $200 million in loans from the Inter-American Development Bank until the Haitian government and its opposition find a way to settle a dispute that stems from local and legislative elections held in 2000. 
Secretary Powell recalled his role along with former President Jimmy Carter and then-Senator Sam Nunn -- in brokering the agreement that restored Mr. Aristide to power. The reinstatement of Mr. Aristide, a former priest known for fiery sermons in defense of the poor, was bitterly opposed by Haiti's business community and by some Republicans in Congress who predicted he would rule with violence. 
Haiti's foreign minister, Joseph Philippe Antonio, said the Aristide government is doing everything possible to reach an accord with leaders of the opposition coalition known as the Democratic Convergence. Earlier this week, Mr. Aristide offered to hold new elections in November for seven disputed Senate seats.
"There is a will on the Haitian government's part," Mr. Antonio said in an interview. "We are doing everything we can to get out of this crisis." 
Since 1994, the United States has poured hundreds of millions of dollars into Haiti in an effort to help democratic government gain a footing there and to restore the economy. The United States provided Haiti $55 million in aid last year, mostly distributed by relief organizations, officials said.
The administration is blocking the release of two loans that were initially approved in 1997 and 1998. The European Union has also withheld funds, offering to provide $350 million in aid over the next five years if the political situation is resolved.
Edwin Carrington, the secretary general of Caricom, called that approach "not tactically correct" because it deprived the Aristide government of the ability to create jobs and stabilize society.
"You've got to put some more social resources into Haiti so the predilection for violence is reduced," he said. Without an infusion of cash, Mr. Carrington added, "They are never going to get there." 
Janet Bostwick, the foreign minister of the Bahamas, said that her country was coping with growing numbers of Haitian refugees bound for the United States. Last month, authorities detained 800 Haitian refugees at sea, a 40 percent increase over last year.
On other issues, there was greater harmony. Secretary Powell expressed gratitude for the region's cooperation in suppressing terrorism and narcotics trafficking and voiced sympathy for the loss of tourism, an economic mainstay for many nations since the Sept. 11 attacks. He said there was "nothing that would suggest that the Caribbean has become a major haven or potential haven" for terrorists.
Administration officials said, however, that four nations Dominica, Grenada, St. Vincent and St. Kitts have been deemed "uncooperative" with American led efforts to combat money-laundering.
To fight the spread of AIDS, the administration will increase its outlay of funds for programs targeting youth and other high-risk groups, officials said. Funding rose to $20 million last year, a fourfold increase. After sub-Saharan Africa, the Caribbean has some of the highest AIDS rates in the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); COUPS (77%); RIOTS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ARMED FORCES (56%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY & COMMON MARKET (91%); CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY (57%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%) CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (57%) MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); BAHAMAS (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%) HAITI

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



255 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Payoff of Credit Cards Helps Push Consumer Debt Down 3.7% 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Consumer debt unexpectedly dropped at a 3.7 percent annual rate in December, a month after borrowing increased more than at any time in almost six decades, Federal Reserve figures showed today.
 The seasonally adjusted $5.1 billion decrease, reflecting a record drop in credit card debt and other revolving loans, came after a $20.1 billion surge a month earlier. 
 The jump in November, eight months after the recession began, was the largest since the Fed started keeping records in January 1943. The December dollar decrease in revolving debt was also the largest since then. 
The decline, in part, shows consumers "have been cashing out the equity in their homes and using some of that to pay down their high-cost credit cards," said Paul Kasriel, an economist at Northern Trust Securities in Chicago.
Consumer borrowing rose at a 6.4 percent annual rate in the final three months of 2001, reflecting the strongest pace of spending in two years. The rate of borrowing was the fastest since the first quarter of last year as shoppers took advantage of interest-free loans from automakers and incentives from retailers.
Analysts expected consumer credit to rise $8.1 billion in December after November's gain, previously reported as $19.8 billion. Borrowing last year increased 5.6 percent, almost half the 10.2 percent increase in 2000.
A separate report today showed that initial claims for jobless benefits fell last week, ending a month in which the fewest new applications were filed since the recession began.
State unemployment offices received 376,000 claims last week, a decline of 15,000, the Labor Department said. Claims have held at less than 400,000 for five consecutive weeks. The last time that happened was in March, when the recession was starting.
The "unexpected decline in jobless claims is another sign the recovery is under way," said Frank Nothaft, chief economist at Freddie Mac, the No. 2 buyer of mortgages in the United States.
Analysts had expected jobless claims would total 390,000, unchanged from the initial estimate for the previous week. The forecast was based on the median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); STATISTICS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RECESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (86%); RETAILERS (79%); CONSUMER CREDIT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (52%); AUTOMAKERS (52%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); NORTHERN TRUST SECURITIES INC (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) LABOR DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



256 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Fashion Week Is Resized to Fit Times 

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
As the semiannual Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week gets under way today in Bryant Park, some in the fashion industry are using the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 as an explanation for the event's smaller presence this year.
 The attacks occurred midway through last fall's Fashion Week, traumatizing many participants. Fern Mallis, the executive director of 7th on Sixth, the event's producer, said the attacks prompted designers to rethink their priorities. 
 "There's a new word in our fashion vocabulary which didn't used to be there," Ms. Mallis said, "and it's called 'appropriate.' " 
But many retailers and designers say that Fashion Week had begun to choke on its own success and needed a change long before Sept. 11, and even before the economic downturn, which has hammered the apparel industry.
Critics have said that for one thing, too many fashion groupies and other hangers-on were crowding into the tents, creating a circuslike atmosphere.
Responding to the criticism, Ms. Mallis said: "When they tell you, 'This doesn't work for me,' it generally means that business hasn't been good for a few seasons."
Still, veterans of the front row say the fashion was getting lost.
Anna Wintour, the editor in chief of Vogue, said a more intimate Fashion Week would put the emphasis back on the clothes. 
"It's just going to be smaller, more professional, more about the press and the buyers and less about celebrities and the social world," Ms. Wintour said. "Everyone wants the people who ought to be there to be there."
And it's not as if 7th on Sixth has pitched a pup tent this year. Designers like Tommy Hilfiger, Anne Klein and Oscar de la Renta will still put on elaborate shows in the park. "The industry needs spectacle sometimes," said Jacqui Lividini, a senior vice president at Saks Fifth Avenue.
But over all, the scale of the event will be smaller -- from as many as 12 shows a day in Bryant Park to 4. Large tents that could accommodate 900 and 1,200 spectators have given way to spaces that hold 688 and 530. In the past, the tents in the park also offered smaller spaces, but now these can be had only at the Puck Building, at Lafayette and Houston Streets in SoHo.
And while it is nothing new for designers like Calvin Klein and Marc Jacobs to choose sites away from Bryant Park, this year they will be joined by others, like Carolina Herrera and Badgley Mischka. 
Cost is certainly a significant factor this year. "Let's face it, life is tough out there," said Kevin Krier, who is producing seven shows this year, only three of them in Bryant Park. The cheapest space in the tents costs $34,000 to rent, compared with $11,000 for the smallest space in the Puck Building.
One of Mr. Krier's clients, Badgley Mischka, which is known for its beaded evening gowns, has shown in a Bryant Park tent about 10 times, normally before an audience of 800, said Mark Badgley, co-president of the company, which is a unit of Escada. Each show cost at least $250,000, he said. 
For a show on Tuesday at their Seventh Avenue showroom, Mr. Badgley and his partner, James Mischka, trimmed their invitation list to 300. 
"James and I would be the first to say that Fashion Week was sliding out of control," Mr. Badgley said. "This is bringing it back to what the clothes are all about."
The downsizing of Fashion Week could not come at a worse time for 7th on Sixth. Established in 1993, the event used to be run by a nonprofit group, the Council of Fashion Designers of America. Last summer, 7th on Sixth was bought by IMG, a private company. After its first venture in Bryant Park was interrupted by the terrorist attack, IMG paid back millions of dollars to designers who had been unable to show -- money that it has yet to recoup from its insurers, Ms. Mallis said. 
She said the smaller spaces had to be eliminated because the "revenues were way out of line with what it costs to build the space."
Even with its smaller footprint, Fashion Week can be expected to generate significant revenue and tax dollars for the city. Ms. Mallis said that about 10,000 people come and go during the shows, with a core group of about 2,500. She said the press list consists of 1,500 people, down slightly from last year. She could not say, however, how many of the people attending would be coming from out of town.
In 1997, the last year the city released figures, it estimated that the shows -- there were two women's shows and two men's shows then -- brought in a total of about $206.2 million, including $8.9 million in tax revenue, and $86.3 million in visitor spending. City officials would not say how they arrived at these figures. 
John Tepper Marlin, chief economist for the city comptroller's office, said that if 1,250 of the participants -- half of what Ms. Mallis describes as the core group -- were from out of town, a week of shows might bring in about $28 million.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark Badgley, left, with James Mischka, said the change in Fashion Week "is bringing it back to what the clothes are all about." (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times); The tents built in Bryant Park for Fashion Week will hold 688 and 530 people, fewer than in past years. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); APPAREL MFG (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); RETAILERS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) APPAREL; CELEBRITIES; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: OSCAR DE LA RENTA (58%); MARC JACOBS (58%) PRISTIN, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



257 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Painful Choices for States Facing Wider Budget Gaps 

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
With budget surpluses a memory now and tax revenues spiraling further downward, most state governments face deepening budget gaps as costs rise in Medicaid, education and other expensive programs, according to a new national survey.
 In the clearest sign that the statehouse boom times of surplus politicking are history, proposals to raise taxes are under consideration in 19 states, says the survey, by the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
 Nearly all 50 states and Washington, D.C., are suffering revenue shortfalls, with politicians tapping into rainy-day funds and ordering an array of painful remedies, including hiring freezes. More than half the states have had to resort to their rainy-day funds and more than three-quarters have ordered budget cuts or spending slowdowns. 
"This reflects the reality of what's occurring from coast to coast in our country," said State Senator Stephen M. Saland of New York, the president of the national conference, who emphasized the report was prompted by the worsening budget outlook and "painful choices" being forced on state governments. 
"Our initial report last November showed the state budgets were heading south, and this one suggests we're heading perhaps even more southerly," said Mr. Saland, a Poughkeepsie Republican with 23 years of legislative experience.
Even beyond the current year's worsening projections, the senator noted, at least 37 states expect continuing budget gaps next year. Officials are well aware, Mr. Saland emphasized, that there is always a delay between economic recovery and any surge in the flow of tax revenues.
Current state revenues were described as "anemic" by conference specialists. They found nearly half the states have had to lower their revenue forecasts below budgeted levels for the current year and that only 5 of the 50 states may finish at or near the year's initial projections.
"The magnitude of budget gaps has been significant enough that even programs that often are spared from cuts, such as K-12 education, have been reduced in some states," the conference reported in the study, which was conducted late last month.
In California, for example, Gov. Gray Davis has proposed $2.2 billion in spending cuts to cover a growing shortfall in the current fiscal year, with more than $840 million of this coming from earlier, more optimistic spending plans for education.
Medicaid spending keeps rising, going over budget in 23 states, with at least an additional 5 expecting overruns. Other state programs exceeding projected costs include temporary welfare cash assistance, mental health services and prescription drug assistance for the elderly.
Even if early signs of a possible economic recovery pan out, this cannot be immediately factored into state tax coffers, officials said. 
"The state revenue ship is big, not a finely tuned machine, and it often takes a while to get back up to speed," said Arturo Perez, a budget specialist with the conference.
The revenue falloff because of the recession can be seen most dramatically in states that rely heavily on capital gains tax flow for budget balance, Mr. Perez said. For example, there are projected budget gaps for the next fiscal year of $8 billion in California, $5 billion each in New York and New Jersey, $2 billion in Massachusetts and $794 million in Connecticut. 
As budget cutters move in, statehouse victories are being proclaimed when education can be spared the knife. In Ohio, Gov. Bob Taft imposed a 6 percent across-the-board cut but protected spending on kindergarten through 12th grade and school construction. Idaho has already enacted a budget slowdown of 2.5 percent for elementary and secondary education, a half-percent less drastic than for the rest of the budget.
States have rainy-day funds to achieve budget balance in hard times. At the current rate of revenue shortfall, these funds will start being depleted next year unless economic recovery arrives quickly enough to boost state coffers, said William Pound, the conference's executive director. 
The ever-tightening direction of state spending is exemplified by Virginia, which was already implementing a 2 percent across-the-board budget reduction and is considering 3 percent cuts. Some states like Idaho are considering dipping temporarily into tobacco settlement fund revenues. 
Other measures enacted or being considered by states include increasing gaming revenues, delaying scheduled tax cuts and increasing contributions required from state workers to health care plans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); MEDICAID (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (83%) NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES 

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%)

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



258 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2836 words

HEADLINE: With Uncertainty Filling the Air, 9/11 Health Risks Are Debated 

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
Five-year-old Phoebe Kaufman's room was once filled with her artwork. Now all that remains is a single picture of a flower, which hangs by her bed. Her parents threw out everything else because paper is porous and might have absorbed dust from the collapsing World Trade Center towers that blasted into their Lower Manhattan apartment through an open window.
 No one knows whether Phoebe's artwork had become dangerous, and air tests done in that apartment building, about a block from ground zero, have shown the air to be safe. But decisions still had to be made, so everything absorbent -- stuffed animals, mattresses, coats -- went into the trash. 
 It's the floor that has the family in a quandary now. The family's insurance company said it would pay to have their old wooden floor refinished, but that idea was shot down by their pediatrician, who said that the trade center dust, perhaps containing asbestos or other hazardous materials, was deep in the floor's cracks and that sanding would throw it back into the air. 
"It's such a uniquely American thing to think that science can provide an objective truth, but no one has an answer to these kinds of questions," said Phoebe's mother, Elizabeth Berger. "There's no one to turn to."
Community leaders in Lower Manhattan have estimated that about 75 percent of the roughly 20,000 people who lived within a half mile of the trade center have returned to their homes since the Sept. 11 disaster. And all of them are facing the same series of questions and choices about how to live in this altered place and how to assess the environmental risks that the proximity to a disaster site and cleanup project may entail.
This being New York, the diversity of conclusions is boundless. Some people see downtown as a toxic nightmare, a kind of Manhattan Love Canal that has permanently poisoned the area's buildings and apartments with asbestos or chemicals. Others believe the risks are overblown or nonexistent.
But in another way, many residents say, the diversity of views reflects the deeper problem they face: that no answer seems certain, scientifically airtight, or obvious. Because there has been little government testing of apartments for air quality -- and some tests conducted months ago have still not been published -- there is no public body of facts, no set of numbers that can bestow a feeling of certainty. Some building owners have had their properties privately tested; others have not. And every test that is done becomes ammunition for one side or another -- those who see great risk and those who do not. How to clean an apartment or an office that was contaminated, how to know when it is clean enough, whether to pay for expensive tests or filters, whether to worry about how well the neighbors cleaned their apartments and rooftops, are all questions that have for the most part been left to individual tenants, owners and workers.
"People have essentially been left to their own devices," said Representative Jerrold Nadler, a Democrat from Manhattan who represents downtown, and who believes that what he calls the microclimates of downtown -- the homes and offices, the personal spaces and lives of residents and workers -- have been mostly neglected in the disaster response.
But New Yorkers have not waited for science and government to catch up. In the same energetic, impatient ways that have always shaped the city's character, they have simply gotten on with things.
Beth Kaltman, 22, a model, cleaned her own apartment using paper towels. So did Dr. Jessica Leighton, an assistant commissioner of risk and environmental communication at the New York City Department of Health.
Noreen Hennessy and her husband, Elliot Freeman, who live on Warren Street, a few blocks from the disaster site, hired professional cleaners. In the converted factory building on Broadway where Phoebe Kaufman and her family live, some people ripped up their floors. Some mopped up and vacuumed, and others never came back. 
Phoebe's father, Frederick Kaufman, installed filters to cover the air ducts that connect to the rest of the building, working on the theory that dirtier air from other apartments or common areas of the building could infiltrate. He cannot say that this, like throwing away Phoebe's artwork, was a necessary step; he also cannot say, when it comes to the health of his daughter and his son, Julian, 2, that it was not necessary, either.
"You can no longer say this is a rational response, or this is an emotional response, you just have to say, this is what I have to do to feel safe," he said. And without conclusive data, people also have little basis of defending the decisions they do make, he said.
"Anybody doing more cleaning than I is a fanatic, and anybody doing less is crazy," he said.

Measuring the Impact
In the frantic hours after the attack on Sept. 11, as the smoke still billowed from the disaster site with a plume that would be tracked hundreds of miles at sea, responsibility for assessing the environmental impact was carved up, mainly because the job seemed too big for any one government entity to handle alone.
The federal Environmental Protection Agency took the lead responsibility for the air in public spaces -- sidewalks and streets. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration was in charge at ground zero. The New York City Departments of Health and Environmental Protection would take on the questions of building safety. Testing and monitoring began almost immediately -- what would grow in the ensuing months to become a sprawling database measuring everything from chromium, PCB's and lead to asbestos, silica and benzene.
And so, too, began what many health researchers now say was a huge political blunder. Officials from the E.P.A. and the city made broad pronouncements that the air downtown was safe to breathe, and not much of a long-term health concern outside the immediate perimeter of the disaster. Although those conclusions have not been disproved by the thousands of tests conducted since then -- more than 10,000 air samples by the E.P.A. -- the second-guessing and suspicions began almost immediately among many residents, and later physicians, that the tests were inadequate, or partial, or that the many things that could not be known about the air impact were being minimized, resulting in a cloud of mistrust and uncertainty that has still not gone away.
"I have the concern that the initial reassurances were based on the desire to move ahead as quickly as possible -- that reassurances were given because it supported public policy," said Dr. Stephen M. Levin, the medical director at the Mount Sinai-Irving J. Selikoff Center for Occupational and Environmental Medicine at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, who has seen dozens of cases of respiratory ailments related to the trade center disaster.
What ensued, in part, was a war of data and interpretation. The E.P.A., in testing for things like asbestos or other particles in the air, used a 24-hour-averaging system, which was considered the scientific standard for gauging exposures. But that system was attacked because it flattened the periodic spikes that were being recorded as dust and smoke drifted around the area.
The E.P.A. also focused on small particles, based on the scientific literature that said they were the greatest concern. That emphasis failed to reflect the larger particles that physicians and scientists say were causing widespread misery and worry -- from sore throats to red eyes -- across wide swaths of Lower Manhattan.
The size of the asbestos fibers that the government was measuring also became part of the battle. The E.P.A. scientists said that the larger particles they were testing for -- and which were showing up in relatively few numbers -- were the most dangerous because their shape allowed them to be lodged in the lungs, while smaller particles would get sloughed off by the body. Critics said that smaller particles were being deliberately overlooked. Some private tests showed concentrations of the tiniest asbestos fibers -- less than five microns in size -- that were in some cases four times above the government's safety threshold. 
But one of the biggest questions raised by the government's critics was that the government's air program was missing much of the world that people really inhabited -- the spaces inside apartments and office buildings, which had mostly been left to individual building owners and managers. There was no government database, no handy list of indoor air monitors to pull down from a Web site.
The Natural Resources Defense Council, whose headquarters are in Manhattan, plans to release a study next week concluding that the government response, while heroic on many levels, broke down when it came to the environment, especially the issues that affected local residents who faced daunting and often unanswerable questions about their health as the cleanup and recovery proceeded.
Because no one government agency was in charge of the overall environmental impact, the report says, issues of residential indoor air quality fell between the cracks, and because of the emphasis on long-term risks, the impact on susceptible populations was not emphasized enough.
"The residents of Lower Manhattan have to some extent gotten the short end of the stick as government agencies focused on what they considered to be the bigger picture -- cleanup of the site itself, restoration of the overall economy, returning some sense of normalcy," said Eric A. Goldstein, a senior lawyer with the group.
Officials at the Environmental Protection Agency and the New York City Department of Health both say that no new data has emerged suggesting they were wrong in concluding that the air downtown presented little long-term health risk to the general public. But the agency has also not expanded its testing program to include indoor spaces, leaving it mostly to building owners and managers -- some of whom might have an interest in minimizing the risk, or have limited resources to clean what they find.
"We had hard facts to support the claims we were making; it wasn't that everyone was saying, 'Don't worry, be happy,' " said Jane M. Kenny, the regional administrator at the E.P.A.'s office in New York. But people wanted certainty, and science, she said, could not provide that and never has.
They acknowledge that there was, at times, an imperfect fit between the issues they study -- dire health threats -- and the frightening, if short-term, symptoms of respiratory distress and irritation that many people experienced.
At a federal government laboratory in North Carolina, a hundred mice are breathing dust from the trade center collapse. Some have it injected deep into their lungs, while others get intense one-day exposures in a dust-filled chamber, to mimic the dense cloud that people were caught in on Sept. 11. Other researchers are re-examining the health effects of exposure to large dust particles, which have been linked by physicians to the onset of asthma among some people who worked at ground zero in the days after the disaster.
The goal is to learn by comparison. Dust from the trade center is new in the world, a combination of pulverized concrete, steel and other compounds that might have some things in common with a cloud like the one from the volcanic eruption of Mount St. Helens, which has been extensively studied.
In other ways, the dust is perhaps more like industrial pollution that results from combustion, about which much is known as well, said Dr. William H. Farland, the acting deputy assistant administrator for science, at the E.P.A.'s office of research and development. 
Dr. Levin at Mount Sinai said that he thinks the truth about the disaster has gotten lost amid what he said has been hyperbole from different sides. Sometimes, Dr. Levin said, otherwise perfectly healthy people can develop problems like asthma with even brief exposures to highly irritating or noxious particles or chemicals, while others, exposed to exactly the same thing, remain perfectly fine. Biological diversity in human populations is much greater than government officials suggested.
"The blanket reassurances that were given after the disaster don't fit our clinical experience," he said.

Decisions, Decisions
Some people have grown impatient with what they described as a sort of hand-wringing about the risks downtown.
"Life carries on, you just have to get on with it," said Rose De Klerk, who cleaned up the layer of trade center dust that blew into her apartment, and was eager to get her daughter, Madison, 7, back into a school in the neighborhood. Madison was a second grader at Public School 89, which is scheduled to reopen later this month.
"We have to get back to normal," Ms. De Klerk said.
Other people say they feel paralyzed by the lack of information. Ms. Hennessy, who moved back downtown in January with her husband and their 1-year-old son, Sam, after four months living in a cramped temporary apartment uptown, said that going through her family's things has become an exercise in exorcising risk.
"There are too many questions about each object," she said. "So, I look at and I stare at and I end up throwing it away."
At Stuyvesant High School, a few blocks from the site, questions of indoor air quality have divided children and parents.
Dr. Fernando Pacifico, who lives in Queens, said he considered taking his 17-year-old daughter out of the school last fall, after he treated her for respiratory problems that he believes were caused by the dust and smoke. But that would have ripped apart his family.
"My daughter would be very unhappy leaving, and I couldn't do it," he said. "But then I felt guilty for not doing it, so I'm caught in this quandary, removing her for health reasons or keeping her in because she loves the school."
Dr. Pacifico said he was probably courting a family fight for even talking to a reporter about his concerns -- which are focused lately on dozens of idling diesel trucks that take loads of debris to a barge a few hundred feet from the school daily.
"My daughter downplays the air quality issue because she wants to stay," he said. "She doesn't want to hear about it."
Senator Charles E. Schumer also chose to allow his daughter Jessica, 17, to return to Stuyvesant to complete her senior year. He said in an interview that he thought the tests conducted at the school have shown it to be safe, though he said he understood how other people could reach a different conclusion. "The health of your child is the No. 1 thing you care about, so we try to be very careful and read all the materials, but at the same time try not to allow unsubstantiated fear to overcome the actual facts," he said.
Mr. Schumer said that, like Dr. Pacifico's daughter, Jessica largely dismissed the environmental concerns at the school as issues that only older people would worry about. But the senator said that he and his wife, Iris Weinshall, the commissioner of the New York City Department of Transportation, also had to think about how, as public officials, their decision might be perceived and interpreted. In this case, the decision, based on Jessica's health, became a testament to their faith in downtown, one that he brings up in talking to residents.
"I figure if you do the right thing for her you're doing the right thing for the public," Mr. Schumer said.
Other people denied that they have made any decisions whatsoever, and say that all the talk about risks is mostly a creation of the news media.
"I never had any decisions to make," said Elli Fordyce, an actress and singer, who moved back into her apartment on Rector Place in late September. As for the dust from the trade center that was in her apartment, she said, "My housekeeper came in four or five hours and then my landlord, who has insurance, had guys who don't do any better but charge $2,500 to come in."
In some buildings, even when to open a window has become a decision. Armando Buria, who lives in a building on West Street -- where many tenants are on a rent strike over environmental issues and rents -- said that while the air is definitely cleaner now than it was a few months ago, he still does not want to be exposed to it. Only when the wind is from the sea, or New Jersey, will he open his window.
"I'm a database consultant," he said. "I need to keep everything real time and fact based and I don't have the information." 
Ryan Conklin, on the other hand, is exulting in the choice he made -- a new apartment downtown, better than the one he was renting farther north in Greenwich Village, and less expensive, too.
"I'm one of the takers," he said.
But Mr. Conklin, 26, an investment banking analyst who is single, is also hedging his bets on downtown's future. His new landlord did offer three- to five-year leases, but Mr. Conklin chose the one-year option. Too much about downtown and its environmental issues, he said, could still change.
"You don't want to be trapped here for too long -- you never know, especially nowadays," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: It is difficult to gauge the lingering effects of dust and smoke that seeped into nearby residences -- like this one on Liberty Street -- after the attack on the twin towers, experts say. (Edward Keating/The New York Times); The parents of Phoebe Kaufman, 5, saved only one piece of her artwork in the cleanup effort since returning home.; Alan De Klerk and his wife plan to send their daughter, Madison, 7, back to Public School 89 when it reopens.; Beth Kaltman cleaned her own apartment in Battery Park City, where she has a view overlooking the Hudson. (Photographs by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times); Dr. Stephen Gavett, left, and Dr. Dan Costa, working in an E.P.A. laboratory in North Carolina yesterday, examined the effects of dust from the trade center collapse on mice. (Bob Rives for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (79%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (77%); CHILDREN (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (76%); AIR QUALITY (76%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (74%); ASBESTOS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); TERRORISM (64%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; AIR POLLUTION; FILTERS; TESTS AND TESTING 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



259 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Suozzi Says Income Tax for Nassau County Is Just One Option Among Many 

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN 

DATELINE: MINEOLA, N.Y. Feb. 7 

 BODY:
One day after County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi publicly refused to rule out the possibility of a countywide income tax for Nassau, he called a news conference to emphasize that he was not ready to rule it in, either.
 "It is on the table, as well as dozens of other ideas are on the table," Mr. Suozzi said today. "Anything that's been done in the history of municipal finance, we're looking at." 
 But today, Republican legislators criticized the concept of an income tax and some Democratic legislators distanced themselves from the idea, with one Democrat going so far as to say that certain book-balancing measures simply should not be considered, no matter how dismal the county's fiscal state may be.
"An income tax should not be considered," Craig M. Johnson, a Democrat from Port Washington, said. "We should be addressing and resolving this deficit through spending cuts, elimination of services and other measures."
An income tax would "shift the burden to a different segment of the population in order to resolve the fiscal mess," Mr. Johnson said, adding that the idea would be so unpopular in some quarters as to be politically infeasible. 
"My wife and my own father may not vote for me if I supported this thing," he said. 
The County Legislature's Republican minority leader, Peter J. Schmitt, was similarly definitive in rejecting the concept. 
"With what our residents are going through in terms of the national economy, the state economy, school tax increases, economic uncertainty with layoffs and all of that, I just do not believe now is the time to even consider an income tax," Mr. Schmitt said. "It's crazy." 
Moreover, Mr. Schmitt said, an income tax could encourage people and businesses to move to neighboring Suffolk County, or elsewhere.
Other Democrats shared Mr. Suozzi's unwillingness to rule out the possibility of an income tax as one among many suggestions for closing a budget gap that he has said could grow to $428 million in four years. Still, even legislators willing to consider levying an income tax appeared annoyed by the flurry of publicity surrounding the idea. 
"I don't think we're in a position to foreclose any idea that is going to bring in revenues and bring us closer to a stable financial situation, but I know that there's been no recent discussions within the Democratic caucus about it," Jeffrey W. Toback, a Democratic legislator, said. 
A spokeswoman for the Democratic majority leader, Judith A. Jacobs, said, "The concern is that it may be represented as an initiative on the part of the entire Democratic caucus, and that's not what occurred." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%) TAXATION 

PERSON: GOOTMAN, ELISSA; SUOZZI, THOMAS R (COUNTY EXEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) NASSAU COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



260 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: Argentina Paying Heavily For Squandering Blessings 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
Everywhere they gather in these days of crisis and collapse, Argentines are asking themselves the same question: how could it have come to this? How has this country, whose name derives from a Latin word meaning money and whose elegant capital faces an estuary called the River of Silver, managed to go bankrupt?
 "Our case has got to be unique in modern world history," said Daniel Bellini, a high-school chemistry teacher, as he sat with friends at an outdoor cafe on the Avenida Nueve de Julio, a stately boulevard that recalls the country's former glories. "To start off with such abundance and end up this poor, that, my friend, takes a very special talent." 
 Not so long ago Argentina really did seem "doomed to success," to use a favorite rallying cry of Eduardo Duhalde, the country's fifth president since December. Early in the 20th century this was the seventh richest country in the world, with a per capita income ahead of those of Canada, France, the Netherlands, Italy, Japan and Spain and not far behind that of the United States. 
Today, the average Argentine income is less than a quarter of America's, and 40 percent of the country's 37 million people live below the poverty line. Unemployment is at a record 22 percent, and the situation is getting worse: the government acknowledges the economy will shrink by 5 percent this year, but most independent forecasters talk of a decline of 8 percent or more.
How and when Argentina will recover from this economic collapse, which has been accompanied by a loss of confidence in the political and social institutions, is unclear. Mr. Duhalde admits that the local banking system cannot pay depositors and the country has become a pariah on international credit markets since defaulting on $141 billion in public debt in December.
Argentina's long slide into insolvency both baffles and enrages its populace because this country is blessed with some of the most fertile soil in the world, under which ample supplies of oil also lie. In the prosperous past -- and still today -- herds of cattle roamed the endless pastures known as the pampas. Wheat, corn and, more recently, soybeans grew almost effortlessly, leading to a typically cocky saying that "a good harvest can fix everything."
In the midst of such plenty, it was easy for Argentines to believe that they were destined for greatness. The attitude that came to predominate, Argentines now acknowledge, was predatory and self-indulgent, based on the certainty that the country's riches were inexhaustible.
"Argentines were bitten by the disturbing bug of self-complacency," said Mariano Grondona a columnist for the daily La Nacion, who has written of two books about the cultural prerequisites of development. "In love with themselves, they became narcissistic."
Over the years, Argentina has veered from a closed state-run economy to a deregulated, free-market model, the only constants being the venality of those in power and their reckless squandering of the nation's wealth. The country's greatest modern writer, Jorge Luis Borges, once said of the Peronists, the dominant political party here for more than 50 years, "They are neither good nor bad, just incorrigible."
The pampas influenced the country's development in another way, instilling a sense of isolation and a suspicion of authority perhaps even more extreme than in the American West. The epic work of Argentine literature taught in every school, Jose Hernandez's "Martin Fierro," glorifies those values through its solitary hero, a gaucho cowboy unjustly sent to fight on the Indian frontier.
Distrust of the state, however, gradually developed into disrespect for the rule of law, from rampant tax evasion to the military's murder of political opponents. The verdict of G. Bevione, an Italian writer who visited this country in 1910 seems prescient: Argentina is "a country where the judicial branch has no independence and the executive branch knows no restraint." 
One result can be seen in the current spectacle of a politicized Supreme Court, beholden to a former president and feeling threatened by a new one, trying to torpedo the current administration's economic strategy. On Friday, the justices, ignoring Mr. Duhalde's warning that the banks were without funds, ruled that a two-month-old freeze on withdrawals from accounts was unconstitutional and must be lifted. 
But instead of bowing to the decision, Mr. Duhalde threw his support behind an effort to impeach all nine members of the court and replace them with justices more to his liking. He also refused to abide by the ruling and decreed that no one might challenge his defiance in the courts, a step that constitutional experts here agree is itself of dubious legality.
Even more than the United States, modern Argentina is a nation of immigrants: at the peak of the influx, nearly one-third of the population was foreign-born, more than double the highest rate in the United States. But instead of forging a sense of nationhood that could substitute for the absence of other values, Argentines came to see their country as a "piece of Europe that broke off and landed in South America," in the words of a diplomat here.
Rather than integrate with the rest of Latin America, Argentina held itself apart from and above its neighbors, an attitude encouraged by its isolation at the southern end of the continent. Other Latin Americans responded in kind, with sayings like: "An Argentine is an Italian who speaks Spanish, wishes he were English, acts like he is French and suffers under a German army."
But beginning with a military coup in 1930, that self-image failed one test after another. For the next 50 years, the country remained imprisoned in a disastrous cycle in which authoritarian military rule gave way to civilian governments so inept that they provoked new army uprisings, culminating in the brutal dictatorship in which more than 20,000 people disappeared between 1976 and 1983.
Though the armed forces remain so discredited that they are no longer seen as a threat, 20 years of democracy have only left Argentines discouraged and humbled. Years of four-digit inflation were followed by a burst of dollar-fueled growth and frenzied consumption, but that quickly evaporated into a four-year recession, one that has yet to hit bottom.
Reluctant to accept that reality, "we Argentines continue to be fascinated by the rich country Argentina once was" instead of the poor country it has become, Mr. Grondona said. Though the evidence of ruin is everywhere, "we continue to deny it in the name of a fantasy."
Over the last decade, Argentina has opened to its Latin American neighbors and the rest of the world, finally realizing that it could no longer afford standoffishness. But the old problem of a rapacious ruling class has been compounded by the arrival of foreign companies willing, it appears in retrospect, to do anything to get a slice of the pie, including payment of bribes in return for sweetheart contracts.
"The looting of the country comes from both within and outside," said Marcos Aguinis, author of "The Intolerable Charm of Being Argentine," a recent best seller. "Foreign investment here didn't take risks either. What came was volatile short-term capital looking for a quick return and an easy exit, content to earn a 20 percent rate of return and send the money home instead of reinvesting."
No one can say that Argentines, the most highly literate population in Latin America, are not reflective about themselves or their national malaise. Buenos Aires is said to have the heaviest per capita concentration of psychoanalysts of any city in the world, and even with the country in ruins, fliers continue to be posted on walls here inviting the depressed to group therapy sessions that teach how to "live with joy and little money."
Borges was no friend of psychoanalysis, and as he saw it, the typically Argentine bemoaning of "our solitude, our perdition and our primitive character has, like existentialism, the charms of poignancy." But even that emphasis on melancholy self-examination has now come to be seen as a symptom of the country's ills and skewed priorities.
"Instead of investing in technology and science, the effort was put into training psychiatrists and lawyers because that was easier and didn't require as much expense." said Mr. Aguinis, a former minister of culture. "We had the same level of human talent as Brazil, if not better. But they were the ones who ended up industrializing, not us, because they were willing to spend money on equipment and laboratories to train engineers and chemists."
What the current crisis requires, most Argentines say, is action, and not more "cafe chatter." But the country remains divided and disorderly, perhaps as much so as in 1925, when Argentina was nearing the end of its golden age and Albert Einstein, visiting here and puzzled by what he saw, asked, "How can so disorganized a country progress?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Argentina froze bank withdrawals to combat an economic crisis. Angela Pistarin, left, and Juan Rey waited for a bank to open in Buenos Aires. (Associated Press)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); POLITICS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); HISTORY (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); TRENDS (69%); ETHICS (68%); DEREGULATION (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); POVERTY RATES (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); WRITERS (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKRUPTCIES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) ARGENTINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); FRANCE (70%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



261 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: Primedia Quarterly Loss Widens 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Primedia Inc., the publisher of magazines like New York and Seventeen, said its fourth-quarter loss widened to $608.3 million on expenses for writing down the value of acquisitions and reduced advertising spending. 
 The loss expanded to $2.60 a share from $257.3 million, or $1.62 a share, in the period a year earlier, Primedia said. 
Sales fell 1.7 percent, to $451.4 million. 
 Primedia is selling $250 million in assets, like Modern Bride magazine, to pare its roughly $2 billion in debt. The company also has cut jobs and reduced other spending as it copes with a slowdown in advertising spending caused by the recession. 
"The magazine ad market is extraordinarily challenged," said Peter Appert, an analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown who rates Primedia "buy" and doesn't own the stock. In addition, the company has "a ton of debt," he said. 
The loss included $470.9 million in pretax expenses for a decline in the value of acquisitions, mostly for the $426 million purchase of Internet guide company About.com in March. 
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expenses was $62.6 million, in line with analysts' estimates, said Jim Magrone, senior vice president for investor relations. By that measure, the company expects to earn $245 million to $260 million in 2002 and $28 million to 30 million in the first quarter, Magrone said. 
Primedia, based in New York, publishes about 290 magazines. Shares of Primedia fell 21 cents, or 7 percent, to $2.97 a share. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EBITDA (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (65%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: PRIMEDIA INC (96%); DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (56%); ABOUT.COM INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PRIMEDIA INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



262 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS; 
Tribes to Get Their '15 Minutes'

BYLINE:  By MIKE WISE 

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Clifford Duncan sat in a breakfast nook in a downtown hotel, poking at a bowl of oatmeal, nibbling on sourdough toast and recalling his great-grandfather.
 "He was born in Heber Valley, before the reservations," said Duncan, 68, a tribal elder of the Northern Ute nation. "Unkadavanikent, or Red Morning, was his name. During federal allotments, he was given a number and then his English name, John Duncan. That made it easier for the government to tell us apart." 
 Duncan sat across from his son, Baldwin, a member of the Red Spirit Singers, who will pound the buckskin hide of their drums Friday night and chant the ceremonial words of their ancestors, pushing the opening ceremony of these Winter Games with a throaty, emotional crescendo.
But after their performance, they will give up their hotel rooms for International Olympic Committee members, their passes will be invalidated, and they will return home, a three-hour drive northeast, to the Uintah-Ouray Reservation, in the farthest corner of the state. That is where they were ordered to live by executive order of Abraham Lincoln in 1861.
"I guess this is our 15 minutes," said Daniel Cesspooch, 23, one of the singers, as he slung his black braids over his shoulder. "Then it's back to the reservations."
On some levels, the coming together of Utah's five tribal American Indian nations -- Ute, Navajo, Paiute, Goshute and Shoshone -- and the Salt Lake Organizing Committee is a modern case study in ethnic harmony, clear acknowledgment that a people had settled Utah before the Mormons. On another, their presence at the Games reopens deep wounds of a violent past, echoing through the Great Basin, back through time, to a frontier none of them care to remember or forget.
American Indians make up nearly 30,000 of the state's 2.3 million population. They are to Utah what the Aboriginals were to Australia at the 2000 Summer Games in Sydney: original inhabitants of a continent, summoned to the international stage to protect the integrity of the event and perhaps to reduce the guilt of the white man.
Either way, the Ute tribe, for whom the state is named (not to mention that it inspired the University of Utah mascot), is not criticizing the exposure. It will have its moment before millions on NBC, and if that spurs talk about what happened -- who did what to whom and why -- then all is well and good.
"Indeed, it's a great honor to be here, to be recognized as a group of people," Duncan said. "But it's a small token in a way. It's a world event. It's really not an event being considered American. The truth is, we all know many treaties have been broken. You can't hide the racial attitudes of non-Indians toward us. All we can do is move on and hope our life ways are one day respected."
Utah's American Indians are not asking for reparations for their people as much as an honest dialogue with the Mormon Church, which they believe has yet to fully accept its role in their demise as a people.
Church leaders are careful not to admit culpability in atrocities that may have been committed by their ancestors -- the battles and massacres are annually debated by local historians on both sides -- and insist that the mistreatment received by the Utes and other tribes was no worse than that inflicted by other white settlers making the American West their own in the 1800's.
But as the layers of resentment and mistrust are peeled back, the more strained the relationship grows over time.
Like the Aboriginals, Utah's Indians also lay claim to a stolen generation -- 20,000 to 25,000 Indian children were put into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Indian Placement Program in the mid-1900's. The Utes and other tribes saw the program as a tool to recruit and baptize for the church. The cultural loss, they believe, did not outweigh any potential educational gain.
"The thing that was most painful was the children who lost connection with their culture," Forrest Cuch, the executive director of Utah's Division of Indian Affairs, said. "And although their physical needs were met, their cultural needs were not. A lot of them failed later in life."
In 1978, Congress passed the Indian Child Welfare Act, which gave tribal courts sole jurisdiction over placement of Indian children whose home is a reservation. 
Boyd K. Packer, the acting president of the second-highest governing body of the Mormon Church, is a 76-year-old former educator with a slight drawl and a brilliant arrowhead collection on the wall of his South Temple Avenue office in the church headquarters here.
His grandparents served as missionaries to the Sioux in Montana, and he was responsible for educating 2,000 of the Navajo tribe in a church-run school in the 1950's. "I used to chase Indians all over the country," he said, referring to his close ties with Utah's American Indians.
His take on the placement program: "In those days, if this hadn't happened, they wouldn't have had schooling," Packer said. "We sent them back home for summers. The families saw them on to college and into missions."
The church says the program was intended to strengthen opportunities for Indian children, not to recruit them. It maintains it was voluntary. 
Those are just the recent problems. The Mountain Meadows Massacre, involving the slaughter of 120 white settlers on Sept. 11, 1857, still carries pain. The church refuses to accept culpability for its involvement, even though the rededication of the burial site in 1999 led to forensic evidence concluding that victims were shot to death, not bludgeoned by Indians. The Mormons had long blamed the massacre on Southern Paiutes.
"We will forgive, but don't deny," Cuch said. "We won't forgive if you deny. We get the message: There is something wrong with us and our children suffer. Some of that is yours. Let's be fair here. If we are true human beings, then you've got weaknesses as well as I."
The church has preferred to rely on other documentation that it says exonerates Brigham Young, its revered leader then, from any involvement. "I think it's an extension of what Brigham Young said when he came west, 'It is better to feed them than to fight them,' " Packer said. 
Fourteen years was all it took to displace the Utes and the other tribes from their ancestral homeland. In 1847 the first Mormons arrived. By 1861, after several armed conflicts with the Mormon settlers and at the request of the Mormons through the Treaty of Spanish Fork, the Utes were forced to leave Provo Valley and move to the Uintah Basin, where they operate their own tribal government and supervise about 1.3 million acres of trust land. 
On the Uintah-Ouray Reservation alone unemployment is 65 to 70 percent. Average household income ranges from $15,000 to $20,000, far below the national average. "And that's some of the better situations," Cuch said. "The Goshute poverty is atrocious, families taking in maybe six or seven thousand a year."
Beyond the opening ceremony, the American Indians have performed at the torch relay and at the welcoming ceremony in the athletes' village. An exhibit of the five tribal nations at the Utah Museum of Natural History is popular. Cuch and Larry Blackhair, founder of the Native American 2002 Foundation, have worked to make the American Indian presence at the Games more prominant.
Antonio (A. J.) Kanip, 27, an inventory clerk at a tribal gas station who makes $6.50 an hour, was asked what he thought about performing in a stadium that uses his tribe as a mascot. "If it's something you can change, it bothers you," Kanip said. "If it's something you can't, why bother? But I wonder if it would bother these people if we had a basketball team back home called the Roosevelt Mormons. Or the Washington Blackskins. Would people take notice then?"
Clifford Duncan was one of five American Indians who retrieved the Olympic flame from Athens in January, the first to carry the torch home.
He is uncertain if Indian participation in the Games is a step toward the healing process, or merely a savvy marketing move. Politically correct or morally right, Duncan does not seem too concerned. Red Morning's great-grandson is just happy not to be thought extinct.
"They know about us, but they think we're in a museum," Clifford Duncan said. "They have to put away the concept that Indians are gone, only to be found in a museum or a book. The man you see riding the horse in the museum is not dead. I'm actually alive."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Red Spirit Singers, from the Ute tribe, performing Wednesday in Tooele, Utah. They will also perform tonight at the Winter Games' opening ceremony. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. D1); Chief Lorren Sammaripa and Leanne Bear of the Paiute tribe, one of Utah's five tribal nations, which will have a role in tonight's ceremony. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (73%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (69%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (50%) OLYMPIC GAMES; WINTER GAMES (OLYMPICS); OLYMPIC GAMES (2002); INDIANS, AMERICAN 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: JOHN J DUNCAN JR (79%) WISE, MIKE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (52%) UTAH, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



263 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Kelly Plans to Hire Outside Consultant to Speed Police Recruiting 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER 

 BODY:
Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said yesterday that he was planning to hire a full-time outside consultant to recruit potential police officers, in part because of the difficulty the Police Department has had in attracting interest in the job.
 The step is the latest taken by the department to recruit candidates, a need that has become more acute because of a surge in retirements. 
 It had been thought that the glowing praise police officers got for their work on Sept. 11, combined with the weakness of the local economy, would make a job in law enforcement more attractive. But interest has not materialized and so, Mr. Kelly said, the department must do a better job of "getting the story" out to potential candidates. 
"There is this kind of sense that, post 9/11, more people are interested in coming into public service," Mr. Kelly said at a briefing yesterday at 1 Police Plaza. "We have to do an effective job of harnessing that, to get people who want to come into the Police Department."
Mr. Kelly said he was disappointed that only about 6,000 candidates had showed up to take an examination on Saturday, one of several police tests being offered this month. He conceded that the starting annual salary for police officers, $31,305, was an impediment to some people who might consider taking the exam.
Police union officials have long said that low pay is the prime reason for the recent exodus of officers.
"Solving this issue is not a difficult or complex one; it comes down to salaries," said Patrick J. Lynch, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association. He added that of the 3,776 officers who left the department last year, 807 had less than 20 years on the job.
Mr. Kelly said he would like to see officers' pay "more gradually increase" over their first five years of employment. Robert W. Linn, the union's chief negotiator, said that currently, the average officer's pay does not rise significantly until after five years, when it reaches $52,268, including $3,245 in longevity pay.
In the last two years, the Police Department has spent more than $10 million on recruiting campaigns with only limited success. Mr. Kelly said that volunteers in the business community had helped with advertisements. He did not say how much the new consultant, who has not yet been chosen, would be paid. The department must continue to reach out to military bases and other states for potential candidates, he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (79%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%) POLICE; WAGES AND SALARIES 

PERSON: BAKER, AL; KELLY, RAYMOND W (COMR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



264 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Baltimore Currency Trader Is in a State of Legal Limbo 

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER and JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
At the end of a winding gravel driveway shaded by mature pines, John Rusnak has been living the kind of respectable life that his work might imply.
 An American flag hangs above the double-door entrance to his Victorian home. A swing set, jungle gym and sandbox are nestled in the landscaped backyard. Two small scooters, decorated with miniature Maryland license plates that spell out his children's names, often sit outside, leaning on their sides. 
 "He just seemed like the All-American dad, and I never had any reason to believe anything else," said Michael O'Connell, his neighbor.
But today Mr. Rusnak, a currency trader for Allfirst Financial in Baltimore, is under investigation for circumventing the company's safety controls, running up losses of $750 million and concealing them with fictitious transactions.
One of Mr. Rusnak's lawyers, David B. Irwin, said yesterday that he believed that the bank would be shown to have had inadequate control systems for its traders. "I suspect we will find that the regulation and audit standards were not up to current large corporate standards," he said.
For now, Mr. Rusnak is in a state of legal suspension, his two lawyers said. No legal charges have been filed and Mr. Rusnak is still an employee of the bank, although he has been suspended. In the meantime, the United States attorney for Maryland, Allfirst and Mr. Rusnak's lawyers are conducting investigations to determine exactly what happened and who is responsible.
"Right now we're really not negotiating," said Bruce S. Lamdin, the other lawyer representing Mr. Rusnak. "We're on hold. Once investigations are done, we'll see where they lead us."
Mr. Rusnak is cooperating with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States attorney, his lawyers said. And, they added, he never vanished, as the bank implied. He remains in the Baltimore area. "We've certainly proved that he's not a fugitive," Mr. Irwin said. "We'll prove that he wasn't a thief, either."
At his work, Mr. Rusnak had a trading limit of $2.5 million. This means that at any point he was not allowed to be involved in trades whose aggregate dollar value topped $2.5 million.
One currency analyst said yesterday that this was a reasonable limit for a trader at a regional bank. But he added that "there was no way" that Mr. Rusnak could have had losses of $750 million over the last year without exceeding that limit.
Frank P. Bramble, the chairman of Allfirst, said in an interview Wednesday that Mr. Rusnak had "created fraudulent options -- cleverly, unfortunately, in a way that he managed to hide them from all the reporting systems."
Our internal controls were compromised," he added.
Mr. Rusnak's lawyers said they were still investigating what happened and would make no comment on their client's role. 
Another thing that is still unclear is which currencies Mr. Rusnak was trading. Currency traders said they had noticed a lot of yen trading by Allfirst, and they now suspected that Mr. Rusnak was betting that the yen would rise in value against the dollar. The yen has fallen about 20 percent in the last year, and that could help explain his losses. But Allfirst said that Mr. Rusnak was trading in more than one currency.
Shares of Allied Irish Banks, the parent of Allfirst, rose 6 percent yesterday, after falling 16 percent Wednesday. Jim Power, chief economist with Friends First Asset Management, an Irish money manager with $3 billion in assets, said Allied Irish might now be "a prime candidate" for a takeover.
The board of Allied Irish met in Dublin yesterday to question executives about the bogus trades and currency losses. The board said it had "expressed its extreme disquiet that controls and supervision of the treasury operations in Allfirst had failed to uncover, at a far earlier stage, the fraudulent activities." 
If there were any signs that Mr. Rusnak would find himself besieged by allegations of deception and fraud, few were evident to those around him. John and Linda Rusnak always made sure to stay active in the Shrine of the Sacred Heart, the Catholic church where they went to Mass and sent their two young children to parochial school. Mr. Rusnak's financial expertise drew him to serve on the board of a local arts organization.
Allfirst considered Mr. Rusnak an employee in good standing for all of his nine years there -- that is, until his trading habits drew the suspicion of a boss last week.
Raised in Bristol, Pa., a working-class suburb of Philadelphia, Mr. Rusnak grew up far from the rarefied circles of currency trading and banking. His father, Emil, worked for U.S. Steel. His mother works for the state, Mr. Rusnak's lawyers said, keeping track of death certificates.
Mr. Rusnak studied economics at Bucknell University, where he graduated in 1986. From there, he started a gradual ascent in the world of finance. First came a low-level job at First Fidelity Bank in Philadelphia. By 1989, he had stepped up to the foreign exchange division at Chemical Bank in New York, satisfying his longstanding desire to test his mettle in the financial big leagues.
He did not stay very long. In 1993, Mr. Rusnak took a job as a currency trader at what was then the First National Bank of Maryland and is now called Allfirst. After nearly a decade, his salary stands at about $85,000, the company said.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 9, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about John Rusnak, a currency trader for Allfirst Financial in Baltimore who the company says lost $750 million and concealed the losses with fictitious trades, misspelled the surname of a neighbor who commented. He is Michael O'Connell, not O'Connel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); CHILDREN (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); FUTURES (74%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (74%); LITIGATION (73%); AUDITS (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); INTERVIEWS (62%) CURRENCY; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING 

COMPANY: M&T BANK CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ALLFIRST FINANCIAL; ALLIED IRISH BANK 

TICKER: MTB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%) SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS; 

PERSON: WINTER, GREG; FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; IRWIN, DANIEL B; LAMDIN, BRUCE S; RUSNAK, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



265 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Ad sales for the home-court Olympic Games happily surprise NBC.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
REMEMBER the millionaire who surprised Auntie Mame by leaving a cab with the meter running in the middle of the Depression? Well, in one of the worst advertising markets since then, the three NBC networks carrying the Winter Olympic Games have run up a surprisingly robust $720 million on the sales meter for commercial time during the 375.5 hours of coverage from Salt Lake City starting tonight.
 "We're happily at our goal" with commercial time on CNBC, MSNBC and NBC "virtually sold out" through the closing ceremonies on Feb. 24, said Randy Falco, president of the NBC Television Network division of NBC in New York, part of the General Electric Company. 
 "We went through some incredible frustrations and turns -- first the economy, then the terrible Sept. 11 disaster," he added. "So to reach this is one of the more extraordinary things I've seen." 
For all that, "Happy Days Are Here Again" is unlikely to become the official song of the Games. Had the economy been less depressed, commercial time would probably have been sold faster and at higher prices than the estimated average rate of $600,000 for each 30-second spot in prime time. Also, in adspeak, "virtually" sold out, which translates into about 98 percent of all available commercial time, means that a marketer still eager to spend money can be accommodated, just as Fox Broadcasting did for several last-minute advertisers during Super Bowl XXXVI on Sunday.
Indeed, the proximity of the Super Bowl to the start of the Winter Games had initially been considered a drawback to commercial sales for both, along with the national economic woes and the uncertain mood after Sept. 11. One negative, though, seems to be becoming a positive for the Olympics: the patriotism generated by the terrorist attacks is intensifying the typical nationalistic fervor felt whenever the Games are held in the United States.
"Americans always pull for the home team," said Dale Hayes, vice president for brand management and customer communications at United Parcel Service in Atlanta, which is introducing a campaign carrying the theme "What can brown do for you?"
"The circumstances may heighten that national interest and pride, which could lead to higher viewership than was planned," Mr. Hayes said. "And that could be wonderful from an advertising perspective." The campaign is the first for United Parcel by the Martin Agency in Richmond, Va., part of the Partnership division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
"Given everything going on around us, the Winter Games on American soil -- the home-court advantage, so to speak -- may be wonderful from an advertising and marketing perspective," said Marc Goldstein, president for national broadcast and programming at Mindshare in New York, the media services agency owned by the WPP Group.
That anticipation, he added, is in stark contrast to the disappointment suffered by advertisers when the NBC coverage of the Summer Games in 2000 drew record low ratings in prime time. That shortfall led NBC to concentrate large parts of its ambitious promotional campaign for the Winter Games on drawing viewers ages 18 to 34 -- famously desired by advertisers, but notoriously hard to reach -- with fast-paced, irreverent commercials celebrating young American Olympic athletes.
"The real lesson of Sydney was don't take the Olympics for granted," said John Miller, who with Vince Manze is co-president of the NBC Agency, which creates campaigns for all three networks. "There's a difference between people over 35 and younger, and you have to target all demographics to succeed."
"The only stone we've left unturned is getting Jeff Gillooly to come and hit someone on the knee," he added, laughing, referring to the former husband of Tonya Harding jailed for the Nancy Kerrigan clubbing incident, which helped lure enormous audiences to watch the 1994 Winter Games.
Among other blue-chip advertisers joining United Parcel during the 17 days of coverage: AT&T, promoting a new flat-rate domestic long-distance calling plan; Bank of America; Campbell Soup; Coca-Cola, with commercials for Coca-Cola Classic, Dasani and Diet Coke from several agencies; Delta Air Lines; Eastman Kodak; Electronic Data SystemsHallmark Cards; Home Depot; McDonald's; Nike; Office Depot; Sprint PCS; and Xerox.
"Economies go up and economies go down and you never know which way they go, so we don't cut back advertising because of the economy," said Bruce Nelson, chairman and chief executive at Office Depot in Delray Beach, Fla., which will run additional commercials from its current humorous campaign, which carries the theme "What you need. What you need to know."
As for the light-hearted nature of the spots, "There still has to be a way for people to have a little fun in the otherwise serious world in which we live," Mr. Nelson said. "We're trying to be careful and do it with taste and judgment." The commercials are by the New York office of BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group.
Several humorous, emotional commercials for Coke Classic, developed before Sept. 11, will "talk about the human connection and the refreshment of the human spirit, which are especially important right now," said Steve Hutcherson, brand business unit manager at Coca-Cola North America in Atlanta.
Though Coke Classic has American roots, he added, "that did not lead us down the path to overt patriotism or flag-waving" because the brand is sold globally and the Games are intended "for all people."
Coca-Cola did not run commercials during the Super Bowl, but many advertisers that did will be back for the Olympics, that other midwinter festival of sports and commerce. Among them are: AT&T Wireless, continuing the talked-about "Welcome to mlife" campaign by the New York office of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP; Anheuser-Busch; General Motors, for 2002 and 2003 models sold by divisions like Cadillac, Chevrolet and Saturn; the Monster.com unit of TMP Worldwide; Charles Schwab & Company; Visa; and Volkswagen.
Having both "big events" at practically the same time appealed to Anheuser-Busch, said Tony Ponturo, vice president for global media and sports marketing in St. Louis, because the one-two punch "gets our year kicked off in a great way."
"For the Super Bowl and Olympics, we've been the exclusive beer sponsor for some time," he added. "They're two major properties our competition doesn't have, and that helps differentiate us." Anheuser-Busch will be selling beers like Budweiser and Bud Light as well as a new malt beverage, Bacardi Silver, being produced with Bacardi.
Whether Anheuser-Busch will run during the Games the contentious Super Bowl spot that showed the Budweiser Clydesdales bowing in a salute to New York City could not be determined. A company spokesman, Bill Etling, said he could not make other executives available because they were unhappy with some critical comments this columnist made about that commercial and others the company ran in the Super Bowl.
It will be fascinating to watch whether Anheuser-Busch and the other Olympic advertisers will try to capitalize on terror and war with patriotic peddling, jingoistic jingles or worst yet, exploitive commercials that will be perceived as patridiotic.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Coca-Cola did not advertise on the Super Bowl, but will during the Olympics on NBC. The estimated cost is $600,000 for 30 seconds.; United Parcel Service is introducing a "What can brown do for you?" campaign during the Winter Olympic Games being broadcast on NBC. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); BRANDING (72%); TERRORISM (68%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (64%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) OLYMPIC GAMES; WINTER GAMES (OLYMPICS); OLYMPIC GAMES (2002); ADVERTISING; TELEVISION 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (94%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (70%); WPP PLC (58%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO; MSNBC 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (70%); GEC (LSE) (70%); GE (SWX) (70%); GE (NYSE) (70%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%); UPS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (52%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (52%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (51%) UTAH, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%) SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



266 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Advisory Panel Tells Congress That Amtrak Should Be Split 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
A panel created by Congress in 1997 to advise on the future of Amtrak said today that the railroad should be broken up and that the job of running trains should be opened to competition.
 But most of its members quickly added that their report was unlikely to be more than a starting point for a national debate, involving federal, state and local governments, on what to do about passenger rail. 
 "The stars are lining up" for such a debate, said Gilbert E. Carmichael, the chairman of the commission. He pointed out that Amtrak was due for reauthorization by Congress this year and that its finances had recently taken a turn for the worse. George Warrington, the president of Amtrak, said on Feb. 1 that it would cancel dozens of long-distance trains if it did not receive $2.1 billion in operating and capital money, despite a 1997 law that it meet its operating costs from internal revenues by December 2002. 
The inspector general of the Transportation Department said last week that the railroad was no closer to self-sufficiency now than it was in 1997.
While members of the advisory group, the Amtrak Reform Council, derided the railroad for its losses, most agreed that to maintain an intercity rail system, huge public subsidies would be needed for the next 20 years. But Amtrak has not spent its money well, and new money should go into a better-run enterprise, they said. 
"All we're doing with these subsidies is subsidizing excessive costs," said Wendell Cox, a consultant who was appointed to the council by Newt Gingrich when Mr. Gingrich was House speaker.
Another member, S. Lee Kling, a finance and banking expert appointed by Richard A. Gephardt, the Democratic leader of the House, said: "Funding should not be provided without the rail system operating like a business, having the controls, the accountability, the planning and the marketing. It has to operate like a business or it shouldn't be funded." 
Amtrak said in a statement that the council's report "sidesteps the underlying policy and funding issues that must be determined."
"First, a federal commitment to define, develop and invest in the passenger rail system must be made," the statement said.
The 11-member council called for "relieving" Amtrak of the burden of owning and maintaining the Northeast Corridor, the Boston-to-Washington route that is one of the few stretches of track that it owns, so that it could concentrate on running trains. Mr. Carmichael said that would make Amtrak more like an airline, which did not have to build the airports it used. But critics said the report did not make clear how a new public entity created to handle infrastructure would pay for improvements. 
The council sought to break up Amtrak's monopoly on running passenger trains, suggesting that other potential operators be brought in to bid on providing service. A slimmed-down central authority would pick contractors and maintain a unified reservations system.
The report was approved with nine votes; Norman Y. Mineta, the Secretary of Transportation, who is a member of the commission, abstained, and a labor representative, Charles Moneypenny, issued a sharp dissent.
Two Congressional hearings have been scheduled on Amtrak's problems. The president's budget, released Monday, lists $521 million for Amtrak, the amount it received in operating aid in the current fiscal year, but the deputy transportation secretary described the number as "a place-holder," until a policy could be set. Amtrak wants $2.1 billion.
Members of the council said that Amtrak's threat, to simply shut down long-distance trains, did not seem to be a likely outcome. 
"We are aware of the groundswell of public support for better trains in this country," said James E. Coston, a Chicago lawyer who managed a program of chartering weekend excursion trains from Amtrak. He was appointed to the council by Senator Tom Daschle, now the majority leader. But members of Congress are not sure how Amtrak should be financed now that the budget has returned to deficits, Mr. Coston said.
The National Association of Rail Passengers, a nonprofit group based here, said that particularly since Sept. 11, trains had proved their utility. While Amtrak said it was suffering the same recession-related declines as other travel-related industries, it showed small gains in the number of miles it carried fare-paying passengers in September, November and December, and a small drop in October, compared with steep declines for the airlines.
The rail passengers' group said that cutting long-distance trains and maintaining only the profitable short-haul trains was not a good strategy because some of the money-losing trains delivered passengers to the ones that make a profit. Concentrating all of Amtrak's overhead on a few profitable routes might make them unprofitable, the group said.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about a commission's recommendation that Amtrak be broken up misstated the amount of the subsidy that the railroad intends to request from Congress this year. It is $1.2 billion, not $2.1 billion.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Pluses and Minuses at Amtrak"Five Routes With Least LossesAll corridor trains Metroliner/Acela ExpressWashington to Boston2001 PROFIT/LOSS PER RIDER: +$19.33 Heartland FlyerFt. Worth to Oklahoma City2001 PROFIT/LOSS PER RIDER: +9.93 Capitol CorridorSan Jose to Auburn, Calif.2001 PROFIT/LOSS PER RIDER: -4.11 Keystone & ClockerHarrisburg, Pa., to New York2001 PROFIT/LOSS PER RIDER: -6.75 AdirondackNew York to Montreal2001 PROFIT/LOSS PER RIDER: -7.29 Five Routes With Most LossesAll long-distance trains Southwest ChiefLos Angeles to Chicago2001 LOSS PER RIDER: -$236.76 Three RiversChicago to New York2001 LOSS PER RIDER: -244.69 Texas EagleSan Antonio to Chicago2001 LOSS PER RIDER: -258.25 PennsylvanianChicago to Philadelphia2001 LOSS PER RIDER: -292.34 Sunset LimitedLos Angeles to Orlando2001 LOSS PER RIDER: -347.45(Source: Amtrak Reform Council) Map of United States highlighting routes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); TRAINS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); AIRPORTS (76%); AIRLINES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%) RAILROADS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%)

ORGANIZATION: AMTRAK; TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (55%) WALD, MATTHEW L; CARMICHAEL, GILBERT E; WARRINGTON, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



267 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
Fed Up and Going After the Terrorist Himself

BYLINE:  By ELVIS MITCHELL 

 BODY:
Arnold Schwarzenegger as a man of feeling? His eyes puffy with tears? That's just one of the unforgettable, yet strangely irrelevant images from "Collateral Damage," in which Mr. Schwarzenegger plays Gordy, a Los Angeles firefighter who finds out exactly how ineffectual the United States government is when his wife and young son are killed by a Colombian terrorist, Claudio (Cliff Curtis).
 When it's obvious that Gordy is a pawn being used by a bloodthirsty C.I.A. agent, Brandt (Elias Koteas), to further his goals in battling Colombian terrorists, Gordy takes things into his own hands. And instead of wrapping his guttural mutterings around wisecracks, the hero of "Damage" begins an odyssey that takes him to the jungles of Panama, through which he treks in order to slip into Colombia to avenge his family. 
 "Damage" was withdrawn from an intended fall 2001 release after the events of Sept. 11, though it feels like a film that's been kept on the shelf since 1989. The movie sat around for so long that it has managed to become newsworthy again: a public service commercial ran during the Super Bowl equated cocaine use with financing terrorism, an idea that may give "Damage" a new lease on life. And "Collateral Damage" -- the title derives from the observation that Gordy's wife and son were collateral damage in the battle between Colombian terrorists and the United States -- could use a new lease.
Except for the brief passings of emotion on Gordy's face, this is an exhausted rehash of Mr. Schwarzenegger breaking through red tape to struggle against his nemesis of the moment. The trumpeting of past triumphs by the director also surfaces. The ads remind us that the movie is directed by Andrew Davis, the man behind "The Fugitive." Mr. Davis also directed "Chain Reaction," another limp, somnolent action picture with a generic martial title. And like "Reaction," "Damage" shows real confidence only during the action sequences, like the one involving a fire that Gordy and his men fight during the opening credits; the flames roar and hiss like Godzilla. 
After these sequences, Mr. Davis can't find a way to get back to the war of conscience that he juxtaposes with the conflagrations. As a result, the attempts to bring characterization to the movie -- like awkward exchanges on political stances when Gordy and Claudio meet -- are so awkward that you expect the actors to break up.
"Seems like we're both willing to kill for a cause, so what's the difference between you and I?" Claudio sneers smugly, after having been accused of murdering innocent women and children on his path to his political ends. (The speechifying will have a leaden effect on audiences.) "The difference," Gordy says, shifting his granite facial planes toward the camera -- bringing to mind an SUV twirling on a pedestal in a commercial -- "is I'm only gonna kill you."
There are moments when "Damage" wants to stretch its tired action-man skin in a new direction. Gordy is trapped as much between his own anger and guilt as he is in a struggle between the two warring sides. The C.I.A. wants to use him as bait while the terrorists want to take him hostage.
He befriends a Colombian woman (Francesca Neri, who, like most Colombians in "Damage," speaks good English). When these elements are playing out, the picture shows glimpses of aspiring to a Graham Greene story. But as the bodies pile up and Gordy's jaw becomes more deeply set, the plot is more like a Graham Cracker story -- crumbly and insubstantial. 
And Claudio, despite his intellectual poses, is still capable of the kinds of baroque violence redolent of Arnold Schwarzenegger movies. When a subordinate of Claudio's lets him down -- apparently, even with the sorry state of the world economy, good criminal help is still hard to find -- Claudio has the man's mouth forced open so that a snake can crawl into his body.
Amazingly, given its brief 110-minute length, "Collateral Damage" still manages to squeeze in several different endings -- like a bad pop song that doesn't know when to fade out. But as Mr. Schwarzenegger's stature as an action figure diminishes, his effort to retain a piece of the market is touching.
"Collateral Damage" has one thing going for it -- it's one of the few movies in which an American (John Turturro) plays a Canadian, instead of the other way around. He is Armstrong, a lower-tier reprobate who is a kindred piece of casting to the bouncing, bow-legged cocaine factory owner portrayed for a couple of scenes by John Leguizamo. The only times that Mr. Schwarzenegger seems comfortable is with these calculated scene-stealers. At least with them, "Collateral Damage" doesn't seem hypocritical, attacking the same violence that infuses it.
"Collateral Damage" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for its strong language and wall-to-wall violence, including a fight in which Gordy goes Mike Tyson and bites the ear off one of his attackers.

COLLATERAL DAMAGE

Directed by Andrew Davis; written by David Griffiths and Peter Griffiths, based on a story by Ronald Roose and David and Peter Griffiths; director of photography, Adam Greenberg; edited by Dennis Virkler and Dov Hoenig; music by Graeme Revell; production designer, Philip Rosenberg; produced by Steven Reuther and David Foster; released by Warner Brothers. Running time: 110 minutes. This film is rated R.

WITH: Arnold Schwarzenegger (Gordy Brewer), Elias Koteas (Brandt), Francesca Neri (Selena), Cliff Curtis (Claudio), John Leguizamo (Felix) and John Turturro (Armstrong).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arnold Schwarzenegger, center, as action man out to get a drug terrorist, with John Leguizamo as the owner of a Colombian cocaine factory. (Sidney Baldwin/Warner Brothers) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (87%); FILM (87%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); NARCOTERRORISM (76%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); MURDER (56%); COCAINE (51%) MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (91%) MITCHELL, ELVIS; SCHWARZENEGGER, ARNOLD; KOTEAS, ELIAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: COLLATERAL DAMAGE (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



268 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Can Congress Discipline Itself? 

BYLINE:  By Leon E. Panetta; Leon E. Panetta, chairman of the House Budget Committee from 1989 to 1993 and director of the Office of Management and Budget from 1993 to 1994, is director of the Panetta Institute for Public Policy at California State University at Monterey Bay.

DATELINE: MONTEREY, Calif. 

 BODY:
In the early 1980's, President Ronald Reagan tried to cut taxes, increase defense spending and balance the budget. The result was a 10-year period of deficits that quadrupled the national debt. Twenty years later, President Bush is in danger of making the same mistake.
 The president has proposed a $2.13 trillion federal budget that makes the large tax cuts enacted last year permanent, increases defense spending by $48 billion and returns the budget to deficit. For the fiscal year starting Oct. 1, the shortfall will total $80 billion, and the budget is not projected to show a surplus again until 2005. 
 Administration officials have a simple explanation for this return to deficit spending. "This is a budget to win a two-front war," said Mitchell Daniels, the director of the White House Office of Management and Budget. But the nation now confronts a war on three fronts -- the threats at home and abroad from terrorism and the new threat from future fiscal instability.
Few question the need for additional spending for the war against terrorism. Spending for homeland security nearly doubles, to $38 billion, while the Pentagon's budget increases by 14 percent, to $379 billion. Yet the bitter reality is that once the federal government resorts to a borrow-and-spend policy, it is difficult to avoid the slippery slope back to ever more long-term debt.
Contrary to the president's promise in the 2000 campaign, the budget uses all of the Social Security surpluses to fund various government programs through 2013. A year ago, the administration projected it could slash the amount of federal debt outstanding to $1.6 trillion by 2007. Instead, the debt will rise to $3.4 trillion by 2007.
The lessons of the past 20 years of fighting deficits are clear. Presidents typically finance their own priorities at the expense of Congressionally favored programs. Once Congress gets done with the budget submitted by the president -- usually adding money for its priorities -- the red ink is likely to run much deeper. With the deficit reappearing, most members of Congress will feel entitled to push for new spending for their favored programs.
President Bush proposes deep cuts in programs like highway spending, job training and technology research. Eight agencies take actual cuts or receive increases of 1 percent or less in discretionary spending. But it is difficult for him to argue for spending restraint while providing a virtual blank check on defense and homeland security.
Adding to the deficit problem are costs that are not included in the budget. It includes nothing for the reform of Social Security, for example, even though the 10-year cost for the administration's reform plan has been estimated at $1 trillion. The budget also fails to include the cost to raise the income limits on the individual alternative minimum tax, which will otherwise adversely affect more than 40 million taxpayers over the next decade. That fix alone could exceed $300 billion.
And the budget squeeze could get tighter if revenues fail to live up to expectations. The budget's economic assumptions are based on the passage of the economic stimulus plan this year, which failed in the Senate two days ago. The administration itself predicted that, without the stimulus package, growth for the remainder of this year would be reduced by half a percentage point.
Finally, the most important tools for budget discipline no longer exist. In the 1990 budget agreement, the president and Congress agreed to enforce mandatory caps on discretionary spending and required that any new tax cuts or spending initiatives be paid for so as not to add to the deficit. Both Democrats and Republicans were willing to enforce these rules.
Now that the law requiring these spending limits has expired, there are no mandatory caps on discretionary spending. Nor is there any requirement that all new programs be paid for. With a Congress unwilling to discipline itself, the result will be a larger deficit.
Of course, the veto pen of the president is another restraint on the budget process. But relying on a presidential veto often leads to fiscal and political crisis. When presidents of one party propose budgets unacceptable to the other party, and that party controls the House or Senate, the result is gridlock -- or, all too often, pork-barrel deals made to end it.
For the last four years, crisis has driven the budget process more than consensus has. These last-minute agreements between the president and Congress inevitably lead to increases in spending. Last year alone, Congress added more than $726 billion to the president's proposed budget.
Fortunately, those increases were cushioned by large surpluses. Now that those surpluses are gone, avoiding a runaway deficit will require leadership and will power from the president and Congress. Unless they're willing to enforce budget discipline, the nation is likely to embark upon another long era of deficit spending. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (73%); TERRORISM (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US); TAXATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); LEON E PANETTA (58%) PANETTA, LEON E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



269 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Deficit Estimate Grows to $4.5 Billion 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that the city's budget deficit next year would be $4.5 billion, which is much worse than city budget officials previously feared.
 This latest figure is $500 million greater than Mr. Bloomberg's earlier estimate, and $1.6 billion more than the Giuliani administration forecasts when its officials left office on Dec. 31. The revised figure comes as the Bloomberg administration is putting the finishing touches on its first budget proposal, which he plans to unveil on Wednesday. 
 "We will not solve that problem without pain," Mr. Bloomberg warned yesterday. "We are going to have to stop doing certain things. And that is going to be contentious, painful."
A budget forecast is a moving target, as the city tries to estimate what revenues it will take in and measure those against estimated costs. The forecasts are difficult to make even in more normal years. In a year in which the city's economy has been buffeted by the attack on the World Trade Center and the national recession, future costs and revenues are even less predictable.
Mr. Bloomberg's deficit prediction is at the high end, putting him at variance with some budget watchdogs, including several that are normally considered quite conservative in their estimates. Most outside budget monitors have generally put the deficit for the coming fiscal year, which begins on July 1, at $3 billion to $4 billion.
Administration officials declined to explain the higher figure. Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the mayor, would only say that an explanation would be provided when the budget proposal is released on Wednesday.
The Giuliani administration projected a $2.9 billion deficit when it left office, and predicted that the city would end the current fiscal year with a surplus of $375 million to $697 million. One of the actions the previous administration and City Council took to close the gap was to allow a surcharge on personal income tax to continue, adding $362 million in revenues next year.
But fiscal monitors have warned that the Giuliani administration's forecast contained a number of risky assumptions. They warned that it underestimated the costs of health insurance, judgments against the city and pension costs. The also noted that it included some doubtful sources of revenue, like $250 million from the proposed sale of the Off-Track Betting Corporation, which may not materialize this year, and more than $170 million in rent payments from the Port Authority for airports that might be in danger.
Mr. Bloomberg revealed no details of his plan yesterday. He emphasized that his proposal would only be the first step in a long process.
"It will start a discussion process where we try to get some help from the federal government, where we try to get some help from the state government and where we involve the community and they will have a chance to give input," he said. "And then in the end, I will put in a final budget, and it has to be approved by the City Council." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INCOME TAX (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) COOPER, MICHAEL; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



270 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Betraying the Unemployed 

 BODY:
President Bush and members of Congress all said they wanted a bill this winter to revive the economy. Yet the chances of passing such a bill died in the Senate on Wednesday, despite bipartisan support. Instead the Senate passed a narrower measure to extend jobless benefits for 13 weeks beyond the 26-week limit. Congress has approved these extensions almost reflexively in recent recessions, but incredibly, House Republicans now threaten to block the bill unless it includes tax cuts for corporations and wealthy individuals. Their obstructionism must not be allowed to defeat a measure needed by those hit hardest by the recession. 
 With Alan Greenspan and others suggesting that the economic slump is easing up, the pressure to enact an economic stimulus bill started dwindling in December. Mr. Bush repeatedly blamed Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader, for holding it up. But the administration never made the reasonable concessions that would have cleared the way for the legislation. On Tuesday Mr. Daschle put forward his own stripped-down version of a stimulus measure that would have provided extended unemployment benefits, rebates to lower-income Americans, tax incentives for business investment and aid to states. The bill got 56 votes, including several Republicans', but not enough to break a Republican filibuster. Had Mr. Bush backed this bill, it would have made the difference. 
 When Mr. Daschle's stimulus bill failed, the Senate easily passed an even narrower measure extending unemployment benefits, which would cost $8 billion and help an estimated two million people who face the possibility of exhausting their benefits this year. According to analysts at the Center on Budget Policy and Priorities, a liberal research group, 180,000 of these unemployed are in New York State. It would be unconscionable for the House to hold such a worthy measure hostage to the hard-right tax-cutting agenda of some in the leadership. But that is what was being threatened yesterday.
President Bush has been traveling around the country telling Americans he feels their pain in the recession. If he cares about the unemployed not being cut off in the downturn, he will tell the House Speaker, Dennis Hastert, not to hijack this bill and tie its fate to unnecessary tax cuts. This is a time for setting aside recriminations and passing a bill that has broad support across the board. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICS (79%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); APPROVALS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); CORPORATE TAX (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); LIBERALISM (64%) LABOR; EDITORIALS; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); TOM DASCHLE (77%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



271 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
Olympic Boon? More Likely A Boondoggle

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
ALREADY Donny Osmond has taught Katie Couric and Matt Lauer how to pronounce "Utahan," and the Mormon Tabernacle Choir has done the Wave on national television. During the next two weeks, as Salt Lake City's skyline dominates the global village, its proud residents will be quoted repeatedly using the phrase "world-class city."
 Should New Yorkers feel jealous when the Olympics open tonight? Do we want the world crowding in here for the Summer Games of 2012? 
 The city's bid for 2012 is enthusiastically backed by political leaders, particularly Daniel Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development. Before joining the Bloomberg administration, he was president of NYC 2012, the private group in charge of the city's bid. 
In releasing its 700-page bid, the group promised "17 days of Olympic glory" and "a lasting legacy for the people of New York." The report presented visions of new parks, a new Olympic stadium reached by an extended subway line, 135,000 new jobs and $11 billion in economic benefits. 
It was the work of confirmed optimists. The report, which was issued in May, featured a chapter on security beginning with this sentence: "New York City faces no known threat or risk from any activist minority or terrorist group, according to the New York City Police Department." 
Hmm. Maybe we need to think this over. Let's reconsider the arguments for holding the Games here:
Glory. The chief reason cities have traditionally played host to the Olympics, aside from politicians' desire for publicity and their campaign donors' desire for construction contracts, has been to show off. For many cities, it's their one chance for fame. But New York is already famous. We don't have to tell anyone we're world class.
Tourism advertising. No matter how well known our skyline is around the world, tourism officials say there's no such thing as too much publicity -- look at what Coca-Cola spends to keep up its brand. But while the exposure from a successful Olympics would probably produce long-term benefits for the tourist industry, there's no guarantee that the Games will go smoothly. A terrorist attack would be a distinct possibility -- and a distinct turnoff for tourists.
Even if terrorists don't strike, the extraordinary security precautions might scare off some potential tourists, and there could be lots of other bad publicity from obnoxious natives. Whatever sympathy New Yorkers have gained recently could be wiped out if the rest of the world gets a look at our sports fans in action.
Visitors' cash. The Olympics would fill the city's hotels, but most of those rooms would have been filled with visitors anyway. In a typical August, three-quarters of New York hotel rooms are filled, according to PKF Consulting, which has tracked occupancy rates for three decades.
Free fields of dreams. Mr. Doctoroff predicted that the privately financed Olympics would leave New York with a billion dollars' worth of new and renovated parks and sports facilities. There would be a new stadium on the West Side, a rowing course and swimming pool in Queens, an indoor volleyball arena in Coney Island, an equestrian center in Staten Island.
CAN the revenue from the Games really pay for all that? Construction costs in New York are so high that it's easy to imagine the money running short and taxpayers being soaked. Andrew Zimbalist, an economist at Smith College and the co-editor of a scholarly compendium, "Sports, Jobs and Taxes," said the Olympics were an iffy proposition. 
"Thanks to the television money for the Olympics, you do in essence get free sports facilities," he said. "But the city has to kick in for infrastructure and then pay for maintenance. The city also has to contend with high costs for security, and there are issues of disruption and congestion. It's hard to know on balance whether the pluses would outweigh the negatives. But I would be very suspicious, because it's not as if New York City needs all these new buildings."
The most suspect building is the costly new Olympic stadium, which is being promoted as a new home for the Jets as well as an extension of the Javits Convention Center. But it's hard to justify using precious Manhattan real estate for a building and parking lots that will probably sit empty most of the time -- and cause traffic jams the few Sundays football is played. The West Side needs taxpaying residents and businesses, not another subsidized white elephant like the Javits Center. Even a free stadium there would be no bargain. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITIES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); MAYORS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); POLITICS (75%); SPORTS FANS (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); SPORTS (70%); TERRORISM (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); TOURISM (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%) OLYMPIC GAMES; OLYMPIC GAMES (2012); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (52%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%)

PERSON: KATIE COURIC (73%) TIERNEY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



272 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: City Reconsidering Moving Museum Into Tweed Courthouse 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
Backing away from another major initiative of his predecessor, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg acknowledged yesterday that he was reconsidering a controversial plan to move the Museum of the City of New York from East Harlem to the lavishly renovated Tweed Courthouse in Lower Manhattan.
 Asked at his news briefing whether he was reconsidering the deal, Mr. Bloomberg confirmed that his administration was talking with museum officials about many problems the move would entail. "The problem with moving the museum down," Mr. Bloomberg said, was that "not everybody wants it to come down." He added that the museum had to raise money to make the move downtown, and that the old courthouse's landmark status meant there were questions of whether it could house a museum. 
 "So we certainly are talking to them, and we'll see how that works out," Mr. Bloomberg said. "But the Tweed Courthouse is one of the great assets of New York City, $80 million was spent on renovating it, it is just beautiful, and we have to make sure that it's used wisely."
The new mayor held his inaugural reception there, and some of his aides said yesterday that the administration might use the space for city offices. Some elected officials have suggested several times in the last few months that the deal was unraveling. 
Scuttling the move could cost the city millions, though, and a Giuliani administration official who helped arrange the deal was sharply critical of abandoning it. 
The official, John S. Dyson, the former deputy mayor who negotiated the deal as the chairman of Rudolph W. Giuliani's Council of Economic Advisers, a post for which he was paid $1 a year, called the notion of canceling the deal and using the old courthouse as city office space "crazy" and "ridiculous." 
"It would bring a smile to Boss Tweed's face," Mr. Dyson scoffed. 
"It's ridiculous," he said, "using a building we spent $80 million restoring as office space. It will be the most expensive office space for bureaucrats north of Brasilia." 
Mr. Dyson said the contract required the city to reimburse the museum for all of its expenses should the city back out of the deal. A member of the museum's board estimated that the city would have to pay about $3 million to cancel the contract. The museum has hired consultants, lawyers, architects and designers in planning the move. 
Redoing the building to suit the needs of a museum would cost about $40 million more, officials said, although it was not immediately clear how much of that would be paid by the city and how much would be raised by the museum, since there is a complex matching formula in the city's agreement, an official said.
Representatives for the museum stressed their interest in seeing the deal go through. "We have been working with the mayor's office regarding the future of the Tweed Courthouse," Newton P. S. Merrill, chairman of the Board of the Museum of the City of New York, said through a spokesman yesterday.
"We continue to hope to move to the Tweed and believe that our relocation to this historic landmark would be of significant benefit in the revitalization of Lower Manhattan," Mr. Merrill said. "The Tweed Courthouse is one of our city's greatest buildings, and our plans are to tell our city's history both in it and through it." 
The courthouse, named for the infamous Tammany Hall boss William M. Tweed, has been synonymous with corruption for generations, and its renovation, the cost of which went from an estimate of $37 million to more than $80 million, was a capstone to reclaiming the civic center in Lower Manhattan, championed by the former mayor. 
Giuliani administration officials had considered using it as a visitors' center, a restaurant and even a charter school before settling upon housing the museum. 
Moving out of the stately East Harlem building would free it for a different use, and community advocates have expressed fears that it would be luxury housing. City Councilman Philip Reed, who represents the area, said that the city's request for expressions of interest in the building was heavily weighted in favor of housing development, although El Museo del Barrio, a neighborhood cultural institution, had expressed interest in taking it over.
Doubts began to arise about whether the deal would hold up toward the end of the Giuliani administration, but Mr. Giuliani insisted that the deal was final and proceeding nicely. The rumblings resurfaced earlier this week in a report on a Web site, Politicsny.com, saying there were plans to tailor the Tweed to be used like the Executive Office Building in Washington. Through his spokeswoman, Sunny Mindel, Mr. Giuliani declined to comment.
Of highest consideration, Bloomberg officials say, is finding the most cost-effective course, since the city is reeling from impending budget shortfalls. "People are asking a lot of questions because everything is being questioned in context of next year's budget," one official said. "There are no sacred cows."
Mr. Dyson said a detailed architectural study considered numerous potential uses of the Tweed building, even the possibility of turning it into residential condominiums or a restaurant. Ultimately, the study concluded that an exhibition or museum space would be the best use.
A museum board member said that canceling the deal could endanger the museum's future because it could hinder its ability to raise money. 
A former city official agreed. "They have a new board, a new energized board, largely based on moving down to City Hall and helping to do something after Sept. 11," the former city official said. "This runs the risk of jeopardizing the existence of the museum." 
The mayor indicated that he was reconsidering the plan after a news conference, organized in honor of the Salt Lake City Winter Olympics, that was by turns sober and zany. As former Olympic stars like JoJo Starbuck looked on, Mr. Bloomberg ushered Daniel Doctoroff, his deputy for economic development and champion of bringing the Olympics to New York in 2012, down a temporary luge run outside City Hall. Mr. Doctoroff called the mayor's decision that he should demonstrate the luge "an excellent demonstration of delegation at work."
Afterward, Mr. Doctoroff, dressed in a suit, said the experience was fun, but called the resulting body slam into a retaining curb in City Hall Park "a little less fun."
For the mayor, who said he would miss some events at the observance of the Asian lunar new year on Saturday to attend a firefighter's funeral, much of the news conference appeared to be all fun. He ribbed one reporter that if he donated enough money he would name City Hall after him. When another asked what would happen to city employees caught improperly using sirens and flashing lights, the mayor said, "I don't know, we'll shoot them." Mr. Bloomberg, who claimed that the siren in his own car had never been turned on, added with a chuckle: "What do you think is going to happen to them? I mean, come on."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Using the Tweed Courthouse for offices would be "ridiculous," a Giuliani official said. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); RELOCATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%) COURTHOUSES; TWEED COURTHOUSE (NYC); RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); RUDY GIULIANI (78%) CARDWELL, DIANE; HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



273 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: European Central Bank President Stepping Down 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Wim Duisenberg, president of the European Central Bank, said today that he would retire in July 2003, opening a new phase in what was already a tangled succession struggle.
 Mr. Duisenberg, who presided over the introduction of the euro as a common currency in 12 countries, has kept European leaders off-balance about his retirement plans for more than a year. 
 But his declaration today merely clarifies when he will step down as Europe's chief steward of monetary policy. It does not resolve the intensely political question of his successor, an issue that French and German leaders thought they had settled more than three years ago. 
President Jacques Chirac of France badly wants the next president to be Jean-Claude Trichet, governor of the Bank of France. The problem is that Mr. Trichet, though respected as a central banker, remains entangled in criminal investigations of the collapse and bailout of the French bank Credit Lyonnais in the early 1990's.
At the time, Mr. Trichet was a director of the French Treasury and a board member of Credit Lyonnais, which was then state-owned.
French prosecutors are investigating whether bank and government officials covered up problems, and the investigating magistrate is expected to decide within a few weeks whether to begin a full trial.
Thus far, European leaders have not challenged the widespread presumption that Mr. Duisenberg's successor will be French. Mr. Chirac had pushed hard for Mr. Trichet to be the central bank's first president, and capitulated only after a long and raucous summit meeting of European leaders in May 1998. 
Mr. Duisenberg, who had been president of the Dutch Central Bank, was Germany's candidate. When Mr. Chirac conceded, French and German leaders tacitly agreed that Mr. Duisenberg would retire before the end of his eight-year term and that he would be succeeded by a French president. 
Mr. Duisenberg has always denied he made any kind of deal himself, and he surprised many people last fall by making it clear he would stay on for at least a year. Today, in a statement, the central bank said Mr. Duisenberg had decided to retire on his 68th birthday, July 9, 2003. 
For the moment, economists said today, the succession struggle is unlikely to have any impact on monetary policy or on the exchange rate of the beleaguered euro. The euro sank precipitously against the dollar in the first two years after it was adopted in 1999, and it has remained weak even after the American economy sank into a recession last year.
Unlike Alan Greenspan, who wields enormous power as the chairman of the Federal Reserve, the president of the European Central Bank presides over a much more decentralized system of national central banks and relies on consensus among the national bank presidents. 
"I don't think it will change very much, because the structure of the European Central Bank has a very different structure from that of the Federal Reserve," said Daniel Gros, deputy director of the Center for European Policy Studies, an economic research group in Brussels. "The European Central Bank is much more collegial. Do you think there would be much difference between Duisenberg and Trichet? I don't know, but I would think no."
Klaus Friedrich, chief economist at Dresdner Bank in Frankfurt, argued today that Mr. Duisenberg was trying to clear a path for another French candidate, Christian Noyer, who is now vice president of the European Central Bank. 
Mr. Noyer's term expires in May, and French leaders have been puzzling over whether to insist that he be replaced by another French official or to wait until they can push for a French president.
Under the national quotas that still govern much of Europe, it would have been impossible to insist that both top jobs be filled by French nominees.
"I think it is a very astute political move," Mr. Friedrich said of Mr. Duisenberg's announcement. "He is giving the French a reading on what the situation will be prior to when the term of the vice president, Mr. Noyer, expires."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wim Duisenberg, second from right, is to step down as president of the European Central Bank. Among those with him yesterday were two possible successors, Jean-Claude Trichet, far left, and Christian Noyer, far right. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); TRENDS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); MAGISTRATES (73%); INTEREST RATES (60%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; BANKS AND BANKING 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); CREDIT LYONNAIS SA (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK; CREDIT LYONNAIS SA 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (90%); JACQUES CHIRAC (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (52%) DUISENBERG, WIM; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); TRICHET, JEAN-CLAUDE; ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) EUROPE; GERMANY; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



274 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Unite to Oppose Plan to Cut Highway Spending 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Senior members of Congress from both parties said today that they would reject President Bush's proposal for a 28 percent cut in federal highway spending, one of the largest in the entire budget.
 Lawmakers said the cuts would be unwise as the nation struggles to climb out of a recession and unthinkable in an election year. Building roads creates jobs, lawmakers said over and over. It also provides tidy bundles of federal cash for lawmakers to send to their home districts. 
 "It's hard to say anything nice about this proposal," Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama, said.
The reaction signaled the start of a process that will continue for months, as Congress dissects and rearranges Mr. Bush's budget.
Michael P. Jackson, the deputy secretary of transportation, defended the budget request at a hearing of the Senate Appropriations subcommittee responsible for highways.
"Because of the economy's slowdown in 2001," Mr. Jackson said, "there was a drop in tax receipts flowing into the Highway Trust Fund." A statutory formula, adopted in 1998, links highway spending to gasoline taxes and other trust fund revenues, Mr. Jackson said. The president, he said, simply followed the formula.
Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the Democrat who is the chairwoman of the subcommittee, rejected that explanation. In the president's budget, she said, "there are hundreds of examples where the administration is asking us to ignore existing law or to change the law."
The president asked Congress to cut highway spending by $9.2 billion, to $24.1 billion next year, from $33.3 billion this year.
Senator James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, one of the most conservative Republicans in Congress, called highway spending essential to the economic recovery that appears to have begun in the last few months. Senator Christopher S. Bond, Republican of Missouri, said that highway spending was "a matter of life and death," because the money was used to build safer roads.
Representative Don Young, the Alaska Republican who is the chairman of the House Transportation Committee, denounced Mr. Bush's proposal as "a drastic cut." He joined members of both parties in introducing a bill to restore at least $4.4 billion, or roughly half the money Mr. Bush wants to cut. A similar bill was introduced in the Senate.
Highway lobbyists said the president's proposal could result in a loss of 360,000 jobs. California and Texas would lose more than $600 million each, and New York would lose more than $345 million, representing about one-fourth of the allotment for each state, according to Transportation Department data.
Mr. Jackson, the transportation official, said the proposed cut was "one of the toughest choices we had to make in this budget." He said the administration would work with Congress to smooth year-to-year fluctuations in highway spending. But he declined to endorse House and Senate bills introduced today.
"We're sticking with the president's budget for now," Mr. Jackson said.
Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, noted that the Highway Trust Fund had an unspent balance of more than $18 billion. "Tax dollars being paid at the gas pump are not being fully used for highway construction," Mr. Byrd, chairman of the Appropriations Committee, said. 
Mrs. Murray expressed concern about other proposals in Mr. Bush's budget, including a cut of 14 percent, or $1.8 million, in efforts to promote the use of seat belts and a cut of 20 percent, or $508 million, in the development of auto safety standards.
Administration officials also told Congress today that the budget included far less money than would be needed to carry out the aviation security law passed in response to the Sept. 11 attacks.
Under the law, the government must take "all necessary action" to ensure that airports have explosive detection systems to screen checked baggage by the end of this year.
John W. Magaw, the under secretary of transportation for security, said that airports would need almost 2,000 machines, but that the existing manufacturers could not produce more than 300 with their current capacity. Some airports need 60 to 65 machines, he said.
Mr. Jackson said the budget would provide slightly less than $300 million for the machines, which can cost more than $1 million each. In some cases, airport terminals must be rebuilt to make room for them.
The available money "is not going to cover the cost," Mr. Magaw said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, holding a copy of President Bush's proposed budget, joined other lawmakers yesterday to oppose its planned cut in highway spending. In testimony by Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill before the Senate Budget Committee, Mr. Byrd took issue with what he regarded as the budget's criticism of Congressional limits on federal decision-making. In a bitter exchange about who represented the public's interest best, the two men wound up arguing about who came from a more impoverished background. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGHWAYS & STREETS (95%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (94%); BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (68%); FUEL TAX (67%); LAYOFFS (60%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; HIGHWAY TRUST FUND, FEDERAL 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ROBERT BYRD (90%); RICHARD SHELBY (73%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); KIT BOND (58%); DON YOUNG (58%); JIM INHOFE (58%) PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BYRD, ROBERT C (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



275 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: JOURNALISTS; 
Behind the Kidnapping: Pakistan Feels Pressure

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
The mixture of bravado and inscrutability with which Pakistani officials are addressing the case of the kidnapped American journalist is being closely watched here as a clue to the intense pressures the abduction has placed on a government only beginning to feel its way into new territory.
 The case has come at a pivotal time for President Pervez Musharraf, who is due to meet at the White House with President Bush next week, a reward for his response to the crisis in Afghanistan. 
 But the kidnapping of the Wall Street Journal journalist Daniel Pearl, and some aspects of Pakistan's response, threaten to cloud that visit with reminders of a country riven by rivalries between security agencies unwilling or unable to dissolve old ties with Muslim militants.
There is no doubt, Pakistani experts say, that General Musharraf is putting intense pressure on the country's security agencies to win Mr. Pearl's release. 
But the response, including oddly blustery avowals of confidence by the police in Karachi that Mr. Pearl will soon be freed, is viewed with skepticism by some Pakistani experts who wonder if the confidence is authentic, and if it is, what the reason might be.
"I think the government knows much more than it is saying," said Mushahid Hussain, Pakistan's information minister under the country's previous leader, Nawaz Sharif. "But for obvious reasons they're being careful, because this case has political overtones, and it looks like an attempt to embarrass the government internationally."
The investigation is being headed by the country's interior minister, Moinuddin Haidar, a close ally of General Musharraf whose assignment is widely seen as an attempt to put distance between the case and the Inter-Security Services Agency, the intelligence agency that has in the past cultivated close links to Islamic militants.
But the fact is that the man now described by American and Pakistani officials as the prime suspect in the case is a British-born militant who is a leader of a radical group, Jaish-e-Muhammad, believed still to have close ties to at least some members of the intelligence agency. 
American investigators identified Ahmed Omar Sheikh, as a possible suspect soon after the Jan. 23 kidnapping, but Pakistani officials are said to have initially resisted that theory, a response that has left some people here wondering what their motivation might be.
"Whenever there is this kind of jihadi activity in Pakistan, obviously the name of some Pakistani agencies comes up," said Aamir Ahmad Khad, editor of The Herald, a monthly magazine based in Karachi. "And obviously, the fact that certain names have come up is worrying people."
In recent days alone, the jumble of signals about the case have included what Pakistani journalists described as the extremely unusual summoning by General Haidar of at least two top Karachi police officials to Islamabad on Wednesday for a meeting in which they were ordered to quiet their avowals that the case would be resolved soon.
That instruction seems to have silenced Karachi police officials who, under heavy demands from American and other foreign journalists, had begun to release unusually detailed accounts of the case. 
Pakistanis with knowledge of the case said the move reflected some discomfort at the fact that one suspect arrested earlier this week was himself a former low-ranking Karachi police officer who had served in a special branch with responsibilities for combating militancy and terrorism.
There was also growing concern in Islamabad that too much public optimism on the part of investigators might frighten the kidnappers into rash action.
In October, at the time he agreed in response to American requests to turn his back on Pakistan's old ties to the Taliban, General Musharraf also installed as his new intelligence agency chief Lt. Gen. Ehsanul Haq, who has so far been seen as sympathetic to the country's new course. Broad changes in the agency designed to rid it of Islamic extremists have been pushed through since then.
The army has also gone along with General Musharraf up to now, but diplomats here say he has certainly not been able to squelch altogether the years of links to militant groups. The same is true of the intelligence agency.
One theory circulating here is that Mr. Sheikh's organization, Jaish-e-Muhammad, might have staged the kidnapping in part to retaliate for General Musharraf's reversal of political course in abandoning support of the Taliban and radical groups in Kashmir.
Mr. Pearl, a 38-year-old foreign correspondent for The Wall Street Journal, has not been seen since Jan. 23 when he disappeared in the port city of Karachi after telling his wife and one contact that he was going to meet a militant source.
Of several messages received since by authorities only two are viewed as credible, the last of them on Jan. 30, because they contained e-mailed photographs of Mr. Pearl in the kidnappers' custody.
Mr. Sheikh, the prime suspect, is a 28-year-old militant who was educated at the London School of Economics, then imprisoned in India for five years after being blamed in a kidnapping there. Along with two other militants, he was freed into Afghanistan in 1999 in an exchange won by hijackers who had taken control of an Indian Airlines jet and its 155 passengers.
Jaish-e-Muhammad was formed only in 2000, by a militant with whom Mr. Sheikh was aligned. It was banned late last year by Pakistan's government, responding to an outcry over its reported involvement in the Dec. 13 attack on the Indian Parliament in New Delhi. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (92%); WRITERS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); RELIGION (69%) KIDNAPPING; HOSTAGES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WALL STREET JOURNAL 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); NAWAZ SHARIF (58%) JEHL, DOUGLAS; PEARL, DANIEL; MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (91%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



276 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
Skilling Gives His Version Of Reality To Congress

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
There were no problems at Enron while Jeffrey K. Skilling was running the company. Or at least none that he noticed.
 In short, Mr. Skilling earned the nickname he was awarded by one congressman as his Congressional testimony was nearing an end yesterday: the Sgt. Hans Schultz of Enron. Like the character in the 1960's sitcom "Hogan's Heroes," he saw nothing and he heard nothing about any dubious goings on at Enron. 
 "Not to my recollection," he said when asked whether he had been involved in one decision. "I do not recall saying that," he said a minute later about another statement attributed to him by the report of the special committee of Enron's board, which was harshly critical of his role.
When he resigned his posts of president and chief executive on Aug. 14, 2001, he said over and over that he believed that Enron was in excellent financial condition and that its reports accurately described its finances. The company has since restated its profits downward by about $600 million, and it is likely that more profits will be forgotten before the scandal is over.
Among the things Mr. Skilling did not recall hearing was an assurance that was given to a committee of Enron's board that he was reviewing every transaction the company had with the LJM partnerships run by Andrew S. Fastow, then Enron's chief financial officer.
That assurance was given by Mr. Fastow to the board's finance committee on Oct. 6, 2000. As the minutes of that meeting reflect, Mr. Fastow reported that the procedures required Mr. Skilling, as well as two other Enron officials, to "approve all transactions with the LJM funds."
How did Mr. Skilling miss that? He explained that at one point in the meeting the power went out and people were walking around in the dark.
"You never heard?" asked Representative Billy Tauzin, Republican of Louisiana, sounding more than a bit incredulous.
"I was in and out of the meeting," he said. "I don't recall if I was there specifically at the time" that Mr. Fastow spoke.
Directly after Mr. Fastow spoke, the minutes state, Mr. Skilling "then discussed the benefits to the company of having the ability to transact with the LJM funds."
At another board committee meeting, in May 2000, the secretary taking notes wrote that one transaction with the Fastow partnerships "does not transfer economic risk," but instead was supposed to make Enron's profit report look better. Mr. Skilling recalled hearing no such thing, and had no doubt that the transactions really transferred risk, as they had to do for Enron's financial statements to be accurate.
"Contrary to the refrain in the press, while I was at Enron I was not aware of any financing arrangements designed to conceal liabilities or inflate profitability," he said. Given what has since been revealed about what was going on at Enron, he does not appear to have been a very observant chief executive.
One member of the Congressional panel, Representative Cliff Stearns, Republican of Florida, said he believed that Mr. Skilling was "practicing plausible deniability." It was Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, who applied the Sergeant Schultz label.
Mr. Skilling explained that, in his view, "Enron's failure was due to a classic run on the bank, a liquidity crisis spurred by a lack of confidence." The company was, he said, "highly profitable" at the time.
He did not explain why it now appears that the company is worth far less than it owes and is likely to produce nothing for its shareholders while its creditors take large losses. It is true that a lack of confidence doomed Enron, but the fact that so little is left makes it appear that the lack of confidence was richly earned.
When Mr. Skilling testified about things he did know, his recollection could be seen as a bit selective. "I did not dump any stock in Enron because I knew or even suspected that the company was in financial trouble," he said. Had he done so, of course, there might be a question of violations of the insider trading laws.
"In fact," he added, "I left Enron holding about the same number of shares that I held at the beginning of 2001. On Jan. 1, 2001, the start of my final year at Enron, I owned approximately 1.1 million shares of Enron stock. On Aug. 14, the day I left, I owned about 940,000 shares of Enron stock."
He did not mention that on Jan. 22, 2001, Enron's board awarded him, at no cost, 125,562 shares of Enron stock.
It took him just three months to get rid of all those shares. From Jan. 3 through June 13, according to his Securities and Exchange Commission filings, he sold 10,000 shares of Enron every Wednesday, a total of 240,000 shares. He received $15.6 million, collecting an average price of $64.80 a share. In September, a month after he resigned, he raised about $15 million more by selling another 500,000 shares. Enron shares closed yesterday at 34.9 cents.
All told, he realized about $30 million last year from selling stock, even though he was never aware of any problems at the company. In 2000, his last full year at Enron, his salary and bonus totaled $6.45 million.
Mr. Skilling may not have persuaded many listeners. But he did make it clear to those who are investigating Enron at the Justice Department and the S.E.C. that they will have to work to prove he was aware of anything at all during the period he was running one of America's largest companies.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Cliff Stearns, Republican of Florida, above, conferring with his staff yesterday at hearings in Washington. At right, Jordan Mintz of Enron joked with his associates. Mr. Stearns said Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron, was "practicing plausible deniability." (Associated Press); (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. C4); Jeffrey K. Skilling, left, the former president and chief executive of Enron, testified yesterday in Washington at a House subcommittee hearing, along with two directors, Robert K. Jaedicke, center, and Herbert S. Winokur Jr. (Associated Press)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ETHICS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TESTIMONY (72%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (69%); POWER FAILURES (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (67%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%) BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) ENRON CORP; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: CLIFF STEARNS (77%) NORRIS, FLOYD; SKILLING, JEFFREY K 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



277 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Palestinian State Likely, Sharon Affirms to Bush
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel reiterated that he expected to see a Palestinian state at the end of the Middle East peace process, and President Bush said Washington would maintain pressure on Yasir Arafat to crack down on Palestinian violence. A12

Passenger Storms Cockpit
An unarmed passenger described as mentally disturbed or drunk tried to break down the door to the cockpit on a United Airlines flight from Miami to Buenos Aires, but was subdued and arrested upon landing. American and Argentine officials said there was no evidence suggesting terrorism. A6

U.S. Admonishes Haiti
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said at a meeting of Caribbean foreign ministers that the United States would block millions of dollars in loans and aid to Haiti until it curbed political violence and resolved an election dispute dating to 2000. A5

British Immigration Proposal
The government proposed that future immigrants demonstrate English language skills and knowledge of British values before getting citizenship. A12

World Briefing A8

NATION CHALLENGED A10-11

Taliban, but Not Qaeda, To Come Under Geneva Rules
President Bush decided that the Geneva Convention would be applied to Taliban captives being held in Cuba but not to Al Qaeda detainees, a decision that will make little difference in the day-to-day treatment of either but may help protect American soldiers captured in foreign conflicts. A1

Improving Liaison on Ground
The American commander for Afghanistan, Gen. Tommy R. Franks, said he had ordered officers to tighten coordination with their Afghan allies in the wake of a raid last month that might have mistakenly killed anti-Taliban troops. A10

Early Hijacking Suspicions
Officials of the Minnesota flight school where Zacharias Moussaoui raised suspicions that led to his arrest and charges linked to the Sept. 11 hijackings discussed his conduct at the school and the e-mail message that was their first contact with him. A1

NATIONAL A14-20

Boston Priests Suspended After Sex Abuse Is Alleged
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston said it had suspended six more priests from all assignments because of accusations that they sexually molested children in the past. Their names were reported to law enforcement authorities. A14

4 From Texas Recaptured
Four escaped prisoners -- two convicted of murder and two facing murder charges -- were in custody after surrendering in Ardmore, Okla. A20

Money Crunch for States
Most state governments are facing widening budget gaps as costs rise in Medicaid, education and other expensive programs, a survey found. A16

Bush Nominee Under Scrutiny
Charles W. Pickering, nominated for a federal appellate judgeship, defended his record and qualifications at a Senate confirmation hearing that became a retrospective of the civil rights era in Mississippi. A16

Abortion Procedure Challenge
The Bush administration asked the federal appeals court in Cincinnati to uphold Ohio's latest version of a ban on a medical procedure that opponents call partial birth abortion. A18

$275,000 Farm Subsidy Cap
The Senate voted to cut in half the amount of money the biggest farmers could receive. A14

Deal on Faith Initiative
President Bush and Senate negotiators reached agreement on a bill to give money to religious charities. A19

Resistance to Highway Cuts
Senior members of Congress from both parties said they would reject President Bush's proposal for a 28 percent reduction in federal highway spending, one of the largest cuts in the entire budget. A19

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Museum May Not Move To Tweed Courthouse
Mayor Bloomberg is reconsidering a plan to move the Museum of the City of New York from East Harlem to the lavishly renovated Tweed Courthouse in Lower Manhattan. B1

Judicial Oversight in Brooklyn
The state's top judges appointed a new administrative judge to oversee the State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, where the conduct of at least five judges is under investigation. B1

Church Inquiry of Minister
The Rev. David Benke, who holds a position that is the Lutheran equivalent of bishop, was accused by fellow pastors of heresy and idolatry for participating in an interfaith service. B1

SPORTS D1-8

The Games Begin
The 19th Winter Olympics get under way in Salt Lake City today. A1

President Bush is expected to attend opening ceremonies tonight, and security will be as high as at anytime during the 17 days of competition. D1

WEEKEND E1-30; E31-42

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Blood Test for Ovarian Cancer
Researchers said they had taken a step toward developing a reliable blood test for ovarian cancer, which is usually diagnosed late, and as a result is often fatal. A18

Resetting the Body's Clock
Scientists discovered a new class of light-sensing cells in the retina that appear to reset the body's biological clock each morning and night. A20

OBITUARIES A20-21

Max Perutz
The father of molecular biology, who received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1962, was 87. A21

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Enron Officials Differ
Lawmakers heard conflicting testimony from the former chief executive, Jeffrey K. Skilling, who portrayed himself as ignorant of questionable practices, and other executives who said he had warnings. A1

In 2000, Citigroup created a type of security that functioned as an insurance policy and shielded it from losses if Enron ran into trouble. C1

Credit-rating agencies saw signs of Enron's deteriorating finances by last May, but did little to warn investors until after problems emerged. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDUCATION

Doing Away With Some Tests
New Jersey's education commissioner proposed eliminating some assessment tests for grades 4, 8 and 11. B1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Ignorance was bliss; betraying the unemployed; good bill, bad politics; belated justice in Egypt.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E40
Public Lives B2
TV Listings B28
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALIBAN (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); HIJACKING (89%); ARRESTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); RELIGION (85%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); TERRORISM (77%); FLIGHT SCHOOLS (76%); AIRLINES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BUDGETS (74%); MEDICAID (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); AL-QAEDA (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); JUDGES (68%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (61%); CHILD ABUSE (61%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); CITIZENSHIP (55%); MURDER (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); ABORTION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); CHARLES W PICKERING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (76%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); HAITI (92%); ISRAEL (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CUBA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



278 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Increase at E.D.S., But Sales Are Below Estimates 

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

 BODY:
Continuing its run of strong earnings in the face of a tough economy, the Electronic Data Systems Corporation reported fourth-quarter profits yesterday that rose 26 percent and beat analysts' expectations.
 E.D.S., the second-largest computer services company behind I.B.M., said that its sales increased 13 percent, to $5.91 billion, as corporate and government customers used its services to cut costs as their businesses slowed. But analysts had expected higher sales, and shares of the company dropped. 
 E.D.S. reported fourth-quarter net income of $405 million, or 82 cents a share, up from $321.4 million, or 68 cents, in the period a year earlier.
Without special items, including costs from acquisitions and a $10 million credit from unused money set aside in a 1999 restructuring plan, the company earned $396 million, or 81 cents a share, beating analysts' expectations of 79 cents a share.
E.D.S., however, signed fewer new contracts in the fourth quarter and in the year than it had predicted. The company, which is based in Plano, Tex., said it booked $10.1 billion in new deals in the quarter, down from $15.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2000, when E.D.S. signed a $6.9 billion contract to build an Intranet for the Navy and the Marines. New contracts for the year declined to $31.4 billion, from $32.6 billion.
Richard H. Brown, the chairman and chief executive, said in an interview that the pipeline of potential customers was stronger than it had ever been. He added that he was comfortable with analysts' estimates of earnings of 65 cents for the current quarter and $3.05 for the year.
In regular trading before the announcement, shares of E.D.S. fell $1.45, to $59. They declined as low as $55.25 in after-hours trading.
The company's stock price has fluctuated in recent months, as some analysts and publications questioned some of the company's accounting methods in the wake of the Enron collapse. 
When asked about the concerns, which have focused on the way E.D.S. arranges equipment leases between its customers and banks, Mr. Brown replied that credit-rating agencies have granted the company their highest ratings.
"Corporate America has been tarred with a brush from Enron that has unfairly made it difficult for a lot of great companies like E.D.S. to swing through this," he said. "Our accounting is conservative, concise and complete."
Joseph A. Vafi, a vice president with the investment bank Robertson Stephens, called the leasing arrangements "a very clean relationship," adding that most analysts had resolved their questions about the arrangements months ago.
"It was put to bed, then reignited when people started thinking about Enron," he said. "I wouldn't really compare the two at all." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (76%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); LEASING INDUSTRY (66%); INTRANETS (51%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (92%); COMPUTER SERVICE CO INC (72%); COMPUTER SERVICES CO (72%); H BROWN LTD (66%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (72%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (72%); SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (66%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%) SIC7374 DATA PROCESSING SERVICES; 

PERSON: BROWN, RICHARD H (CO EXEC); GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



279 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Challenging The Dogmas Of Free Trade 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
The moderator was blunt, almost tactless. Dani Rodrik, Harvard economist, could have just three minutes at the podium -- less time than other panelists -- to speak out as the designated challenger of globalization as it is practiced today.
 The prevailing laissez-faire practices -- free trade through lower tariffs, unrestricted competition, privatization of state enterprises, no restrictions on foreign investment -- are all dearly supported by the corporate executives and government leaders who regularly attend the World Economic Forum, which wrapped up its last session in New York City this week. 
 Facing these chieftains at a packed session high in a Waldorf-Astoria tower, Mr. Rodrik chose to use his precious minutes not to criticize current practices but to suggest some new ideas that were not even on the agenda for the next free trade agreement now being negotiated. 
"There is no single, simple model of globalization," Mr. Rodrik said, rejecting the standard view that a nation that opens its economy and keeps government's role to a minimum invariably experiences more rapid economic growth and rising incomes. It is the guiding principle for the negotiations now under way for a new trade agreement, which the more than 100 nations in the World Trade Organization voted to seek when they met in Doha, Qatar, in November. 
The anti-globalization protests, including the protests near the Waldorf last weekend, have rallied tens of thousands of people against globalization and above all against its laissez-faire guiding principle. But the alternative visions that are beginning to be offered are not coming from the streets. They are coming instead from Mr. Rodrik, a professor at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, and a handful of other economists, sociologists and political scientists. Their new ideas are still general and inchoate, but this time Mr. Rodrik put a very specific one on the table.
Because of political pressures in the developed countries, the Doha agenda is silent on the issue of labor mobility. That is a mistake, he argued. The next free trade agreement should include rules that allow people from poor countries to work for three to five years in rich countries, he said, sending home part of their pay and eventually going home themselves to use their newly acquired skills to help spur economic growth and lift incomes. 
"That would yield gains for poor countries that would surpass all the gains in income that are likely to be achieved from the proposals that are on the agenda," Mr. Rodrik said.
He and his colleagues stress that for them, too, globalization -- that is, integrating economies across the globe -- is the correct final goal. Getting there is the trick. 
The free traders argue that China, India, Taiwan and Vietnam are examples of countries that increased economic growth and reduced income inequality by opening markets. But Mr. Rodrik and his colleagues insist that reality is more subtle, that these countries did not, in fact, open their markets until they had gotten the formula right, and in many cases they are still careful not to expose industries to lopsided competition from corporations in rich countries. 
"We do not propose to work out a single intellectual and policy program," Mr. Rodrik and his colleagues declare in a policy statement that is to be published soon.
Globalization, they suggest, should mix together many different tactics. Governments must have a role in helping native businesses compete. Experimentation and decentralization are essential. Local institutions should be enlisted, not ignored, as the free marketers so often do. And the next trade agreement should recognize that some national industries or regions within a country globalize more quickly than others.
"I do not think there is any dispute anymore that economies need the discipline of connection to world markets," said Charles Sabel, a professor of law and social science at Columbia University. "But it does not follow that nations have to sign up for every one of the free traders' rules."
For Mr. Sabel, China is a wonderful example "of an extremely complex system of market openness and closure." Indian industries -- textile manufacturers, for example, and companies that make bicycle parts -- still draw on publicly financed research institutes founded in the days of Mahatma Gandhi. The institutes now help companies upgrade software, for example, in preparation for competing on world markets. And Chile, for all its reputation as a free-market poster child, developed a series of world-class agricultural industries not by exposing them, cold-bath style, to market forces, but through government help. 
"These examples seem so banal," said Robert Wade, a political economist at the London School of Economics, "but very little attention is given to them in the globalization literature."
A favorite example for Mr. Wade involves television manufacturing on Taiwan. Philips Electronics has a plant there, but imported the glass for the tubes from a Philips plant abroad. Taiwan has an Industrial Development Bureau whose 100 engineers keep tabs on the capabilities of many Taiwanese companies.
The engineers felt that with a little help from Philips, several Taiwanese glass companies could raise quality and produce glass up to the necessary standard, Mr. Wade said. When the bureau's engineers presented this idea to Philips, the company turned them down, arguing that it already had a fine supply of glass. "The bureau did not threaten Philips," Mr. Wade said. "But all the applications to import glass, which previously had been approved quickly, were delayed, for a week, then two weeks, then three weeks, then four weeks. Philips eventually got the message and helped the local firms upgrade. Now, that upgraded glass is also being exported into the global market."
None of these subtleties came up in the globalization discussions at the World Economic Forum, except from Mr. Rodrik and one or two others in his small group. The World Trade Organization and the United States frown, for example, on agricultural subsidies. They are flatly opposed on the ground they can give one country a cost advantage over another. But nearly every country, including the United States, has agricultural subsidies as a means of shifting income from urban workers to often more hard-pressed farmers. 
Once such nuances are recognized, Mr. Rodrik argues, the debate over globalization loosens up, becoming less ideological and more flexible, which is, after all, the goal of the alternative approach. 
"There should not be a single model for globalization," he said. "There has to be room for variety in national development, and that is not happening now because the integrationist, free-market model is overshadowing other approaches."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Silk spinners in India who were at first shielded, some dissenters maintain, from the full force of free trade. (Robert Holmes/Corbis)(pg. B7); Opposition to world trade policy is not confined to street protests. Dissident experts say China shows how a mixed approach can succeed. (Earl Wilson/The New York Times; below, Michael S. Yamashita/Corbis)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); SOCIOLOGY (63%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); QATAR (92%); TAIWAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



280 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Australian Eyed for Food Post, Lowering U.S. Presence at U.N. 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
The United Nations is poised to announce that the American who is stepping down as head of the World Food Program will be succeeded by an Australian official -- further lowering the American profile in the United Nations leadership, senior Congressional aides say.
 Bruce Davis, who now heads the Australian Agency for International Development, appears to be the front-runner to replace Catherine Bertini, who will step down next month after 10 years. 
 Ms. Bertini, the first American to run the food program, is credited with having persuaded the United States to increase its donations sharply, to more than 50 percent of all distributed food aid.
During its campaign in Afghanistan, the Bush administration gave the agency an additional $320 million in food aid.
Lawmakers expressed anger today that the United States could lose one of its few remaining leadership positions at the United Nations. Several Congressional aides said the loss would be especially unfortunate because the United States lost its seat on the United Nations Human Rights Commission last year.
"It is clear that the United Nations understands the special role of the United States in delivering food," said a senior Congressional aide. "The World Food Program should be headed by an American."
The Bush administration offered James T. Morris, president of the Indiana University Board of Trustees, as its sole candidate for the position. When he was rejected, no other names were offered, a senior United Nations official said. 
The General Accounting Office warned in a report last July that the United States was underrepresented at the United Nations despite State Department efforts to obtain appointments for more Americans.
The United Nations is expected to announce the new head of the food program as early as next week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); FOOD CHARITIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (58%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (57%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (51%) FOOD; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (93%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (58%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%) UNITED NATIONS; WORLD FOOD PROGRAM (UN) 

PERSON: JAMES T MORRIS (50%) DAVIS, BRUCE; BERTINI, CATHERINE; BECKER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



281 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Malaysia's Canny Autocrat Grows Stronger Since Sept. 11 

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
Only five men in the world can trump Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in one category -- the length of time they have held on to power. A demonstration of why he is in this elite group has been on display since Sept. 11, in his response to the attacks.
 Displaying his canny political dexterity, Dr. Mahathir, still crusty and combative at 76, has managed to bolster his popularity at home, where moderate and conservative Islamic forces are locked in a struggle for the soul of the country, and at the same time improve relations with the United States. That is no small feat. 
 Over the years, Dr. Mahathir has delighted in bashing Washington, a practice that has played well among Malaysians, who see the United States as the symbol of white, Western imperialism and crass commercialism.
Long a bone in Washington's throat, Dr. Mahathir opposes American policy in Israel, a major cause of anti-American sentiment throughout the region. He also wants a lifting of sanctions against Iraq and enthusiastically embraces some of America's chief rivals like Fidel Castro, who was welcomed here as recently as last May.
Dr. Mahathir's views have not changed, but Washington's view of him has. "I never thought I'd call Mahathir a friend," a senior Bush administration official said, clearly not thrilled with the new reality.
A few days after the attacks, Dr. Mahathir went to the American Embassy, signed the condolence book and met with the staff. Fully aware of his domestic constituency, he later balanced that by loudly condemning the bombings in Afghanistan. 
He and President Bush have exchanged letters and phone calls, and the two men get along well, American and Malaysian officials said.
Dr. Mahathir has cracked down hard on suspected terrorists and shared intelligence with the United States, the kind of support the Bush administration wishes it were getting from Indonesia.
Some American officials have said Malaysia was a launching pad for Sept. 11, that it is a base for Islamic terrorists. Although a few of the hijackers did pass time here, Western and Asian analysts say that this is a moderate Islamic country, where extremists are as unwelcome as they are in Europe or the United States.
This country of 24 million defies easy labels: it is neither dictatorship nor liberal democracy, neither Islamic nor secular. The capital is gleaming and modern, with skyscrapers, Planet Hollywood and Tower Records, and a sprawling Motorola complex along the landscaped freeway on the outskirts of town. Yet Dr. Mahathir preaches against market capitalism and globalization.
He is equally comfortable talking with Bill Gates about the development of a multimedia corridor near the modern airport and thumping the table about the evils of the industrialized world with Robert Mugabe, the leader of Zimbabwe who has become increasingly dictatorial since coming to power in 1980, one year before Dr. Mahathir.
A Western ambassador here said it was wrong to put Dr. Mahathir in the same category as Mr. Mugabe, or the others with longer tenure: Mr. Castro, Muammar Qaddafi of Libya, Daniel arap Moi of Kenya -- who did not allow multiparty elections until the 1990's -- and Saddam Hussein of Iraq. "He is the only one who was democratically elected," the ambassador said about Dr. Mahathir.
Elected yes, several times, in multi-party elections. How democratically is another matter. The media, print and television, are controlled by the government, a reality that caused the ambassador to amend his statement. "If you can have a democracy without a completely free press," he said, "then Malaysia can be called a democracy."
Dr. Mahathir's standing at home and abroad has been hurt by his prosecution of Anwar Ibrahim, who was widely thought to be his chosen successor. A few years ago Mr. Ibrahim and his business backers became anxious and made a power grab. Dr. Mahathir reacted by charging Mr. Ibrahim with corruption, and then sodomy. He was duly convicted by Dr. Mahathir's judiciary and is now in jail. 
Mr. Ibrahim has friends in the Bush administration, as well as a large following at home, and it was widely believed that Dr. Mahathir was about to cut a deal with him.
No longer. Since Sept. 11. Muslim voters who fled his party, the United Malays National Organization, because of the treatment of Mr. Ibrahim are drifting back, helped by Dr. Mahathir's painting his Islamic opposition as supporters of the Taliban. 
That fear has also strengthened his support among the Chinese, who are about a quarter of the population and dominate the economy.
The real battle here these days is over Islam and its role in politics. The main opposition party, the Islamic Party of Malaysia, wants an Islamic state along the lines of Iran and Sudan, the leader of the party's youth wing, Mafuz Omar, said in an interview this week.
But Malaysia is already an Islamic state, Dr. Mahathir asserted recently. Islam is the official state religion; on family matters, Shariah law applies to Muslims; there are Islamic banks and Islamic insurance companies. There are several thousand Islamic schools in the country, and the eastern length of this country has been called the "Mecca corridor."
"Islam permeates all aspects of society here, from pop culture to politics," said Farish Noor, a political scientist who studies Islamic movements. The government's goal is to show that Islam and modernization are not incompatible, he said.
The Islamic Party wants a state in which the full Shariah -- the legal code based on the Koran -- applies, which Mr. Omar says means stoning adulterers to death and cutting off the hands of thieves. 
No more Planet Hollywood either, he said, and no young women strolling through shopping centers wearing tight slacks and platform shoes along with the religious scarf, a common sight now.
But there are signs that even the Islamic Party is not completely sure what it means to be an Islamic state. The party has been working for months on a paper that will detail its understanding of what that means, said Kamaruddin Jaffar, a moderate member of the party's executive committee. He said he did not know when the paper would be ready.
When it is, Dr. Mahathir will have more ammunition to use against the party.
A year ago the political talk was that Dr. Mahathir was at the end of his tenure. Now the talk is that he will probably run in the next elections, which will be sometime in the next two years.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Minister Mahathir at the World Economic Forum last Sunday. (Pool photo by Brad Rickerby); Kuala Lumpur pedestrians walked by the site of Planet Hollywood in 1999. At right, a protest in front of the American Embassy last October. (Photographs by Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); HIJACKING (89%); TERRORISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LIBERALISM (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); AIRLINES (60%) ISLAM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: PLANET HOLLYWOOD INTERNATIONAL INC (51%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); FIDEL CASTRO (51%) BONNER, RAYMOND; MAHATHIR, MOHAMAD (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MALAYSIA (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%) MALAYSIA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



282 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Global Crossing Faces 2 Federal Investigations
Global Crossing, the fiber-optic network operator in bankruptcy court protection, is facing two federal investigations of its accounting practices. The inquiries come at a time when the collapse of Enron has led to increased concern among investors over accounting issues.
 The Securities and Exchange Commission has begun an inquiry into accusations that Global Crossing improperly inflated its revenue, the company disclosed yesterday. And law enforcement officials said that the F.B.I. was examining the company after receiving accusations of wrongdoing including fraudulent conduct. Page A1. 

A Push to Help the Uninsured
A lobbying group that includes the United States Chamber of Commerce, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the American Medical Association is planning a campaign to push for measures intended to reduce the number of people without health insurance. Economists say that at least 40.4 million people are uninsured. A12.

Tyco Filing Eases Financial Worries
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Tyco International said that it expected to have $4.07 billion in cash on hand at the end of the second quarter. The report helped eased some concerns about the finances of the conglomerate. C2.

Russia Says It Has Kept Oil Promise
The Russia energy minister said that Russia, in keeping with its promise to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, had reduced its exports of crude oil. But few think the restrictions will continue after March 31, when the promise to OPEC expires. C2.

Pressure Grows on Japan to Act
The Bank of Japan left monetary policy unchanged yesterday, a decision that puts additional pressure on the government to bolster the nation's weakening financial system. C2.

Higher Fuel Standards Proposed
Senator John McCain has introduced a bill that calls for an increase of up to 50 percent in automotive fuel economy standards by 2016. The bill was a setback for the auto industry, which has lobbied to allow the Bush administration, to decide on fuel economy standards. C3.

Market Climbs After a Down Week
Investors returned to Wall Street after five days of selling, lifting the Dow Jones industrial average more than 100 points. But analysts said they did not expect the gains to last given fears about corporate bookkeeping. C3.

Cigna Earnings Fall 25% in Quarter
Cigna, the health insurer, has reported a 25 percent drop in its fourth-quarter earnings. The company posted net income of $191 million for the quarter, compared with $277 million a year earlier. It also reported after-tax losses of $65 million on some investments, including Enron. Revenue fell to $4.94 billion from $5.11 billion. Shares of Cigna rose $1.27, to $90.95. C3.

Drug Agency Extends Deadline
Hoping to give an appeals court time to rule, the Drug Enforcement Administration has extended the deadline for companies to dispose of food products made from hemp, which contains the same psychoactive substance found in marijuana. C15.

Broadcaster Writes Off $1.5 Billion
British Sky Broadcasting, the satellite television broadcaster, said it was writing off its $1.5 billion investment in the Kirch Group because it had no evidence that Kirch could make good on its commitments. C2.

Wholesale Inventories Decline
Wholesale inventories fell for a seventh month in December, an indication that efforts to reduce stocks were succeeding. C2.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,744.24 up 118.80Nasdaq composite -- 1,818.88 up 36.7710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.87% down 0.05The euro -- $0.8734 up 0.0024The dollar -- 134.76 yen up 1.26 Graph tracks the daily closing price of Cigna shares for the week. Graph tracks the daily closing price of Tyco International shares from Sept.-Jan.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LOBBYING (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (86%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INSURANCE (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); MONETARY POLICY (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); FOOD INDUSTRY (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CIGNA CORP (84%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); AFL-CIO (56%)

TICKER: CI (NYSE) (84%); TYC (NYSE) (56%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (84%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (56%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



283 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-6

Arabs Kill Israeli Woman In Jerusalem Park
A group of Arab youths stabbed a 24-year-old Israeli woman to death in the Forest of Peace, a park set between Jewish and Arab areas of the city. In northern Israel, at least two Palestinians died when their car exploded. The Israeli police said the men apparently blew themselves up accidentally on their way to an attack. A6

Britain-Iran Relations Fray
Iran rejected Britain's choice of ambassador when hard-line Iranian newspapers accused him of being "a Jew" and a spy. Britain retaliated by downgrading the status of the Iranian envoy and placing relations with Tehran on a "more critical" basis. A4

U.N. Quits Cambodia Talks
The United Nations said it was pulling out of nearly five years of often testy negotiations on setting up a special tribunal to try former leaders of the Khmer Rouge. A4

Australian May Lead U.N. Group
The new head of the World Food Program is likely to be an Australian, Bruce Davis, rather than an American, further lowering the American profile in United Nations leadership, Congressional aides said. A4

World Briefing A6

NATION CHALLENGED A8-9

High Taliban Official Surrenders in Afghanistan
The man who served the Taliban as foreign minister, Mullah Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil, surrendered to Afghan authorities in Kandahar, where he was transferred to American custody, officials said. A1

Moving Beyond Old Grudges
Hamid Karzai, Afghanistan's interim leader, and Gen. Pervez Musharraf, Pakistan's president, met in Pakistan's capital and agreed that "misunderstandings and misperceptions" of the past should be left behind. A8

Pressure for Kidnap Suspect
The Pakistani authorities detained several close relatives of the prime suspect in the disappearance of the American journalist Daniel Pearl in hope that they would help persuade the kidnappers to let Mr. Pearl go. A8

Hearing for Air Passenger
Pablo Moreira Mosca, 29, of Uruguay, who tried to break down the cockpit door during a United Airlines flight from Miami to Buenos Aires on Thursday, was returned to Miami and appeared before a federal magistrate on a felony charge of interfering with a flight crew. A8

NATIONAL A10-15

San Diego Neighbors Hunt For Missing Girl, 7
Neighbors and other volunteers were mobilizing in Sabre Springs, a development in northern San Diego, to press the search for Danielle van Dam, 7, who the police say was abducted from her home last week. Investigators have questioned a 49-year-old neighbor. A10

Veteran Charged With Fraud
Edward Lee Daily, a veteran who apparently fabricated his role in a Korean War massacre that came to light 50 years after it occurred, was charged with filing false claims at the Veterans Affairs Department. A14

Beliefs A15

EDUCATION

A Return to Phonics
The California Board of Education, frustrated by reading scores that plunged close to the nation's worst in the mid-1990's, adopted two scripted reading programs for the state. A10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Medical Marijuana Inquiry
The Oregon Board of Medical Examiners said it would file a formal complaint against Dr. Phillip E. Leveque, who has authorized medical marijuana for 1,718 patients. A10

Surgeon General's Warning
Surgeon General David Satcher said in a parting interview that the "lack of a meaningful budget" might diminish the independence of his office. A12

Number of Uninsured Grows
At least two million people lost their health insurance in the last 13 months as unemployment and insurance premiums rose, with at least 40.4 million Americans uninsured on Jan. 31. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Most DNA Samples Fail To Yield 9/11 Identification
The New York City medical examiner's office said that more than half of the possible DNA samples it had received from families in an effort to identify remains of people killed in the trade center attack were inadequate to make such matches. A1

Flight 587 Investigation
The crash of the American Airlines A-300 Airbus in Queens three months ago showed that a passenger jet could break up in flight if the rudder suddenly flipped back and forth, investigators said, urging that new training be given to pilots. B1

OBITUARIES A17

FASHION

A New Fashion Leader
As Fashion Week begins, Sean Combs, the 32-year-old rap mogul and entrepreneur who has styled himself Puff Daddy and now P. Diddy, has taken his fashion label, Sean John, to the forefront of the urban fashion market. A1

ARTS & IDEAS B7-16

SPORTS D1-8

Olympics Get Under Way
The 19th Winter Olympics began in Salt Lake City with a festive ceremony before a crowd of 50,000 that included President Bush and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. A1

U.S. Takes Lead in Davis Cup
Pete Sampras and his teammate Andy Roddick won their matches to give the United States a 2-0 lead over the Slovak Republic in the first round of the Davis Cup. D7

Going Back in Uniform
Frank Robinson, 66, the first black manager in the majors in 1975 with Cleveland, is expected to be named the manager of the Montreal Expos, which Major League Baseball has taken over. Robinson now works in the commissioner's office. D7

BUSINESS DAY C1-15

Global Crossing Investigations
The fiber-optic network operator, whose recent bankruptcy filing was the largest ever by a telecommunications company, faces investigations into its accounting practices by the S.E.C. and the F.B.I. A1

Lay's Date on Capitol Hill
Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's former chairman, is to appear under subpoena before a Senate subcommittee on Tuesday, but whether he will agree to testify is unclear. Mr. Lay's lawyer has advised him not to testify before any Congressional panels and to invoke his Fifth Amendment rights. C1

Arguing the Microsoft Deal
The nine states opposing the government's Microsoft antitrust settlement said in court papers that the proposal was flawed and would squelch competition and lock computer users into "a Microsoft-controlled world." Microsoft said sanctions proposed by the states would "turn the clock back on the computer industry." C1

U.S. Entries in Macao Gambling
The former Portuguese colony of Macao granted licenses to two big American casino operators, Wynn Resorts and Galaxy Casino, and one to the Hong Kong tycoon Stanley Ho. The American licenses ended Mr. Ho's four-decade monopoly on the casino industry in Macao. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Diluting the Geneva Convention; Enronitis; a truce in New Jersey's school war; moving on meat safety.

Column: Bill Keller.

Bridge B14
TV Listings B16
Crossword B14
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); GENOCIDE (77%); RELIGION (77%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); MAGISTRATES (76%); WRITERS (70%); FELONIES (68%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); MISSING PERSONS (67%); AIRLINES (66%); VETERANS (62%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); KOREAN WAR (60%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (57%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (50%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); CAMBODIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



284 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: The Monster in The Dock 

BYLINE:  By BILL KELLER; E-mail: billkeller@nytimes.com

DATELINE: THE HAGUE 

 BODY:
In the courtrooms at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia you find the Euro-utilitarian furnishings and sober drone of a Dutch insurance company, which is exactly what the building housed until a few years ago. The defendants, too, are surprisingly ordinary, deprived of whatever strut and menace they had when they were lords of the Balkans. The other day I looked in on the trial of one Stanislav Galic, who reminded me of my high school swimming coach. Mr. Galic is accused of commanding the Bosnian Serb sadists who turned the streets of civilized Sarajevo into a shooting gallery, shelling families as they queued for bread or attended funerals. The trial, like most trials, is a tedious accumulation of detail, the bookkeeping of heartbreak. Hours are spent pinning down the precise location of a tram at the moment sniper bullets pierced its windows, hitting a woman and her 4-year-old daughter. This is where the banality of evil meets the banality of justice.
 Next Tuesday the chief among the monsters of Yugoslavia begins his turn in the dock. Slobodan Milosevic, the former president of the former Yugoslavia, the author of three horrible wars of ethnic cleansing in the heart of Europe, and now a sulky, self-pitying defendant, goes on trial as a war criminal. 
 You might think all of this would be a bonanza for an American administration seeking to assure the world, in particular the Islamic world, that American power can be a force for good. The United States was instrumental in delivering these men to justice -- many of them, including Mr. Milosevic, on President Bush's watch. The trial is also a reminder that the West did (after much dithering) send warplanes to save the lives of Muslim Bosnians and Muslim Albanians from the incited wrath of their Serbian neighbors.
And the calm, fastidious ministrations of law here exemplify the "non-negotiable demands of human dignity" that Mr. Bush described in his State of the Union speech as the heart of America's mission in the world. Mr. Milosevic will be treated to a trial no tyrant, no terror-master, no rogue regime would stand for, a trial in which the outcome has not been ordained. At a time when resentment of American power festers not only in the Arab world but in the Waldorf-Astoria, to judge by the hectoring at the recent World Economic Forum, this is an opportunity for the United States to glory a little in its moral superiority. 
Curiously, this is a bonanza the administration has chosen not to reap. 
No one thought to write an applause line into the State of the Union address mentioning America's role in bringing Mr. Milosevic to justice. So far the White House seems just slightly more enthusiastic about this trial than Mr. Milosevic himself, and Mr. Milosevic has done everything short of mooning the judges.
What's missing here? It's tempting to say this is just another manifestation of the Bush administration's instinct to go it alone, like dropping out of the Kyoto global warming treaty, but it is not nearly so simple.
Probably one factor is that, in the Bush lexicon, Yugoslavia stands for the wrong kind of American intervention -- peacekeeping, nation-building, do-gooder foreign policy driven more by compassion than by our national interest. Grudgingly, Mr. Bush has accepted the inherited duty to stick with NATO in policing the Balkans, though there is still a residue of scorn for the idea that this is a meritorious use of America might. 
But the main reason you have not heard the administration crowing about Mr. Milosevic is that this trial represents the high-water mark of a rising world enthusiasm for international criminal courts. The specialized tribunal on Yugoslavia and a similar court that is litigating the genocidal slaughter in Rwanda have helped convince 139 nations that the world needs a permanent International Criminal Court to judge atrocities committed in the name of war. The idea is that a standing court would develop a pool of legal expertise and credibility in these difficult-to-prosecute crimes, that it would serve as a check on cyclical vengeance, and that it might even give pause to some future monster.
Fifty-two of those signatory nations, including many of our closest allies, have formally ratified the treaty creating the court; when that number hits 60, perhaps within a year, the court is born. The Clinton administration signed the treaty, saying it still needed improvement. Mr. Bush, prodded by the Pentagon and backed by Congress, is strongly against ratification and vows to have nothing to do with it; the administration is still discussing whether to launch an active campaign to undermine the court, or merely keep a chilly distance from it.
This is not an easy call. The fact is, a lot of Americans, and not just Bush Republicans, have misgivings about the prospect that an American could be dragged from under the shelter of our Constitution and tried before an international court. A number of people who publicly endorse the international court privately admit that some aspects of it give them pause.
Like the tribunal, the permanent court would employ a hybrid legal system, lacking some features Americans take for granted. There is a three-judge panel in place of a jury, and two can convict. Prosecutors can appeal an acquittal, which U.S. law regards as double jeopardy. The roster of judges is international, and draws on some countries you may not think of as bastions of judicial integrity -- China, to pick on one. 
For all that, American jurists who have participated give the court here high marks. Patricia M. Wald, a respected federal judge who recently completed a two-year appellate tour on the Yugoslavia tribunal, where she shocked her colleagues by throwing out three convictions for weak evidence, told me she would have no qualms about seeing an American put on trial here. "I'm a skeptic of everything, and I would watch very carefully," she said. "But I think with all the checks and balances, I wouldn't be uncomfortable."
The graver fear is that a permanent international court, with a broader license and vaguer accountability, would become a forum for mischievous anti-Americanism. The new court is intended as a tribunal of last resort, for countries unable (like Rwanda) or unwilling (like Yugoslavia) to handle their own colossal messes. The court is supposed to step aside when countries agree to investigate allegations against their own citizens. But the decision to prosecute would rest with prosecutors and judges ultimately accountable to an amorphous assembly of everyone who signed the treaty. American negotiators fought unsuccessfully for some stronger safeguards, like a requirement that the U.N. Security Council, where America has a veto, be required to sign off on indictments. 
The administration worries that American soldiers or American officials deployed abroad would be ripe targets for politically motivated prosecutors. The next thing you know, Henry Kissinger will be a few cells down from Mr. Milosevic, standing trial for war crimes in Vietnam and half a dozen other venues, as the writer Christopher Hitchens proposed in a polemic last year.
In the real world, though, Americans have little to fear, with or without a permanent international court. Why? First, because the countries that care about war crimes tend to be liberal democracies that have enough to do without global grandstanding, and second, because America's diplomatic, economic and military leverage is a strong disincentive. When Mr. Milosevic sneers at the tribunal here as "victor's justice," he is not entirely wrong.
"No international tribunal will ever hold Russia to account for Chechnya, or China for Tiananmen Square or Tibet, let alone the U.S.," said Gary J. Bass, author of an unsentimental book on the politics of war-crimes tribunals. "This is an international implement that's going to be used by stronger powers against weaker powers. So why are we afraid of it?"
Certainly America-haters will try to use an international court against us. Let them try. They are likely to get as far as Mr. Milosevic got when he exhorted the prosecutor here to charge the United States with war crimes for its bombing campaign against civilian Belgrade.
We have something to lose by shunning the court for its imperfections. First, the tribunal can still assert jurisdiction over Americans and allies, whether we ratify or not, so it is probably a good idea to do as we have done in The Hague, sending judges and prosecutors who will shape the institution to our higher standards. Second, it's not hard to imagine that we would find the court useful in our war on terrorism, when we get tired of processing all the bad guys ourselves. And third, if you will forgive a split second of idealism, it is a way to engage the world with something other than precision-guided munitions. 
The Bush administration is standing on principle. The price of that is, America will be standing on the sidelines.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Knickerbocker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); WRITERS (66%); RELIGION (64%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (56%); SWIMMING (56%); SPORTS (56%) WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL TRIBUNAL FOR THE FORMER YUGOSLAVIA (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%) KELLER, BILL; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALBANIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%) BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



285 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Coalition Forms to Reverse Trend of Fast-Rising Ranks Of Uninsured Americans 

BYLINE:  By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
At least two million people lost their health insurance in the last 13 months as unemployment rose and growing numbers of consumers decided they could not afford steeply rising costs. Health care economists said that at least 40.4 million Americans, based on conservative estimates, were uninsured by Jan. 31.
 Beyond the personal toll for people without coverage, the sharp increase in the number of uninsured Americans is a growing concern to employers, unions and providers of care. Some said they were worried that the trend would undermine the nation's employer-based health care system. 
 An unusually broad lobbying group, including the United States Chamber of Commerce, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the American Medical Association, insurers and consumer advocates, plans to announce on Tuesday a campaign on national television and in newspapers and magazines to seek support for new national measures intended to reduce the number of those without health insurance.
Employers are concerned that the rising health care costs they already face for their workers will grow even faster as hospitals raise their fees to reflect the unpaid costs of uninsured patients in emergency rooms. At the same time, soaring Medicaid costs are straining state budgets and adding to pressure for tax increases, a further concern for employers.
Union officials say they are worried that hard-pressed employers will revive the harsh choices between wages and health benefits that workers were offered in previous economic slowdowns.
"We're hearing the shots across the bow now," said Louise Novotny, a health care researcher at the Communications Workers of America union. "We are taking it seriously." Under similar pressures in 1989, she recalled, 150,000 communications workers went on strike.
Consumer groups warn that growing numbers of uninsured people could accelerate a trend already under way of shifting costs from health plans to elderly and sick plan members. 
"Everybody pays into the system to pay for the uninsured," said Kate Sullivan, health policy director of the Chamber of Commerce. "We can't afford to let this go on."
Several employer groups are backing a Bush administration package of budget proposals that include $89 billion in tax credits over 10 years for the uninsured to buy coverage, and permission for states to retain $3.2 billion in unused federal funds for children's health programs.
Critics said the Bush proposal was inadequate. "A tax credit of $1,000 for an individual or up to $3,000 for a family is far too small," said Ron Pollock, executive director of Families USA, a consumer advocacy group that has joined the lobbying campaign. He said that even a healthy 25-year-old woman pays more than $4,700, on average, for a standard health plan.
Sponsors of the campaign for coverage for the uninsured say they expect members of both parties in Congress to offer an array of other proposals. "The administration has put out a good challenge," Ms. Sullivan said. "I'd love to see this get into a bidding war."
"There is an incredible pent-up demand and need," said David Sandman, a health policy program officer at the Commonwealth Fund. In New York City, for instance, 25 percent of nonelderly residents do not have insurance, he said.
California has the largest number of uninsured, 6.3 million, according to two-year-old Census Bureau statistics, which were adjusted late last year and recently published. Texas was next, with 4.4 million. New York had 2.8 million, Florida 2.6 million, Illinois 1.6 million, Ohio 1.3 million and New Jersey 1 million.
"The private sector is going to take a health cost shift like they have never seen before," said Dr. Henry E. Simmons, president of the National Coalition on Health Care, a nonprofit group that favors a larger federal role in providing comprehensive coverage. 
He said he believes that as many as six million people will be added to the uninsured ranks by the end of the year as states cut Medicaid reimbursement and federal budget increases for Medicare continue to lag behind inflation. At the same time, health care costs are rising much faster than general inflation rates.
In times of slow economic growth, the uninsured numbers surge. The uninsured rose 4.3 percent a year in the slow growth period between 1987 and 1992, said Kenneth Sperling, a health care consultant with the Hewitt Associates benefits consulting firm. That was 14 times as fast as the average annual increase when the economy was growing more briskly between 1993 and 1999.
In the last five years, employers subsidized health insurance premiums heavily, and employees paid 14 to 16 percent, said Helen Darling, president of the Washington Business Group on Health, a group of 200 large employers. Even in the current slowdown, the share of premiums paid by employees is lower than in the mid-1990's, but their share will rise in the next four years, she said. 
"Even 15 percent is a lot of money for employees," Ms. Darling said, when wages are stagnant and the total cost of premiums keeps rising. Health insurance premiums rose 11 percent last year, more than twice as fast as in 1999, said Jeanne Lambrew, a health policy expert at George Washington University. 
The Washington Business Group estimates that the total cost of family coverage for active employees will be $10,000 a year in 2004, a 42 percent jump from the current cost, $7,000 for a family.
The number of uninsured people rises about one-half percent, or 1.2 million people, for each increase of a percentage point in unemployment, said Larry Levitt, a health policy expert at the Kaiser Family Foundation. "For every 100 people who lose their job, the number of uninsured grows by at least 85," he said.
The groups supporting the campaign on the uninsured also include The Business Roundtable, Service Employees International Union, American Nurses Association, Health Insurance Association of America, American Hospital Association, Federation of American Hospitals, Catholic Health Association, AARP (formerly the American Association of Retired Persons) and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); TRENDS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LOBBYING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); TAX LAW (87%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INSURANCE (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); FAMILY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); TAX INCREASES (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); STRIKES (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); CHILDREN (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ORGANIZED LABOR; HEALTH INSURANCE; CONSUMER PROTECTION; ADVERTISING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HOSPITALS 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



286 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Divorce Court Is Now in Lawyer-Free Session 

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN 

DATELINE: ST. CHARLES, Ill., Feb. 6 

 BODY:
There are no objections, no suits and, most importantly, no lawyers.
 At the after-hours, do-it-yourself divorce court here each Wednesday, there are just ex-wives, ex-husbands and a no-nonsense judge shuffling handwritten motions in triplicate, sorting through the messy details. 
 "There's always that residual bitterness between formerly married people, and sometimes that surfaces," Judge Steven Sullivan of Kane County Family Court said after dealing with 15 ex-couples in two hours. "The parties who appear here try to act professionally, but sometimes they're confused. We tend to allow more leeway." 
The special Wednesday evening sessions of family court, which began in November, are reserved for people representing themselves in divorces and related custody matters, apparently the first such program in the nation. The laws are the same, as is the judge's authority, but the atmosphere is far more casual, with judges slowly walking litigants through the basic rules of evidence.
The weekly docket call here in this suburb 40 miles west of Chicago is filled largely with uncomplicated post-divorce paperwork, and simple, uncontested cases of couples without children and little to fight over. A laid-off man asks to cut his alimony. A woman seeks some of her ex-husband's pension. Children have left home, so the support budget needs to be adjusted.
Kane County's lawyer-free zone is part of a nationwide "pro se" movement -- a Latin term roughly meaning "for one's self" -- that has flourished in the last decade, with books, Web sites and self-help court clinics proliferating, particularly in the realm of family law. As divorce has become less complicated and more common, many people have shunned the expense and hassle of hiring counsel, instead taking cues from televised trials and downloading legal forms and low-budget advice.
But the influx of pro se litigants has proven awkward in courtrooms across the country, with on-the-clock professionals and uneducated novices sharing the same bench.
Mindful of that friction, F. Keith Brown, the presiding judge of the family court here, decided to offer the special pro se sessions, and took the extra step of scheduling them at 4:30 p.m., so litigants, often sparring over spare dollars, would miss little time at work.
"A lot of it is the sense of rugged individualism," said Jona Goldschmidt, a professor of criminal justice at Loyola University in Chicago who wrote a guide on pro se litigation for judges and court clerks. "Much of the practice of law in these garden-variety types of cases is a matter of filling out forms. People see attorneys do that and think, 'Well, I can do that, too.' "
But William Hornsby of the American Bar Association said do-it-yourself divorce has its risks. "Even though pro se litigants in family law are sometimes highly satisfied with the results," he said, "if we scrutinize it, we find they didn't understand the dimensions of taxes, didn't understand the dimensions of pension interest, didn't understand child support, and may have done better if they had invested in a lawyer."
The United States Supreme Court affirmed the constitutional right of individuals to represent themselves in a 1975 case, Faretta v. California. The pro se movement took off in the mid-1990's, led by Maricopa County, Ariz., which opened a self-service center seven years ago providing 400 forms for novices, along with a 24-hour hotline to provide assistance. 
Similar clinics that help non-lawyers wade through law books and write motions have sprouted in Maine, Montana, New Mexico, Idaho, Florida, Connecticut and California. A national survey by the American Judicature Society, a Chicago-based legal group, found that in some jurisdictions, more than half the divorce cases, and as many as 90 percent, involved at least one pro se party.
What is different about Kane County is that these pro se litigants have a courtroom of their own. Each Wednesday as the sun sets, people in jeans carry accordion files into the courthouse. They lean casually against Judge Sullivan's bench, listening as though to a schoolteacher, in an atmosphere more from "People's Court" than "The Practice."
"All you've got to do is sign it, date it," the judge told Joyce McClinsey, who was filing a motion to get access to half her ex-husband's pension. Illinois, like much of the country, is a marital property state, where all assets accumulated during marriage are considered to be owned by the couple, and must be split equitably. 
"You may want to make a few copies first," Judge Sullivan suggested, pointing out the photocopy machine in the hallway, "then bring it back up to me."
When the McClinseys divorced 15 months ago after 22 years of marriage, Allen had a lawyer, and Joyce had divorce.com. Dealing with the pension in the pro se session meant Ms. McClinsey, 44, only had to leave her job as a dispatcher for a heating company 15 minutes early; the couple guesses they saved $1,000 in $200-an-hour legal fees.
"The scariest part is not knowing if you're doing it right," she said after borrowing $1 to make copies. "I don't want to have any judge yelling at me."
This evening, the judge reserved his yelling for Susan and Kurt Reetz, who spent seven years and an estimated $50,000 getting divorced, and have been regulars at the Wednesday sessions lately to renegotiate their child-support arrangement.
"If the two of you persist in acting like 6-year-olds then I'm going to treat you like 6-year-olds," Judge Sullivan said as the couple cited each other for various custody misdeeds. "Sometimes you send 6-year-olds to their room. I have a nice room for each of you: it's called a cell."
Mr. Reetz stalked off, Ms. Reetz cried in a conference room.
Amy and Richard Moser approached the bench to discuss a 20 percent cut in alimony and child support based on Mr. Moser's impending unemployment.
"Sometimes working with an attorney, there's misunderstanding in communication -- it's more accurate this way," said Mr. Moser, a graphic designer. Besides, he said, his claims of financial difficulty might be undercut by having a lawyer at his side, billing all the way. 
"The divorce, with the attorneys, took three-and-a-half years," Mr. Moser said. "If this process took that long, I could be homeless."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Amy and Richard Moser discussed cuts in alimony and child support. "It's more accurate this way," Mr. Moser said of pro se litigation.; In St. Charles, Ill., Susan and Kurt Reetz presented a child-support dispute to Judge Steven Sullivan of Kane County Family Court without lawyers. (Photographs by Peter Thompson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (93%); FAMILY LAW (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (90%); FAMILY COURTS (90%); JUDGES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (78%); BUDGETS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS; LEGAL PROFESSION 

PERSON: WILGOREN, JODI 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%) ILLINOIS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%) ST CHARLES (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



287 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Las Vegas Is Going to East Asia: A Gamble, Maybe, for All Sides 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
Hoping to shower Las Vegas stardust on its somewhat shabby gambling industry, the former Portuguese colony of Macao granted licenses today to two American casino operators.
 Macao, which reverted to Chinese sovereignty in 1999, awarded licenses to Wynn Resorts, a venture led by the Las Vegas impresario Steve Wynn, and to Galaxy Casino, which is controlled by the Venetian, one of the newest and most grandiose resorts on the Las Vegas Strip. 
 The licenses ended a four-decade monopoly on the casino industry held by the Hong Kong tycoon Stanley Ho. The Macao government awarded a third license to Mr. Ho, saying it would bring stability to an industry that Mr. Ho had built almost single-handedly into a $2-billion-a-year business. 
Francis Tam, the head of Macao's bid committee, said the license holders would jointly invest at least $500 million. But he warned that revenue from gambling would not increase drastically in the short term.
"We are aiming at the longer-term and all-round development of Macao's economy," Mr. Tam said at a news conference in Macao, which lies 38 miles across the Pearl River delta from Hong Kong.
Attracting Las Vegas operators has been the centerpiece of the local government's strategy for reviving Macao since it took over from Portugal's colonial administrators two years ago.
Though gambling generates the bulk of the jobs and tax revenue in the enclave of 438,000 people, it has not cushioned Macao from a nearly six-year economic slump. Like other East Asian cities, Macao is still suffering the aftereffects of a real estate boom that went bust.
"Macao is a small place; even with a couple billion of patacas' investment, it'll be a big deal for us," a local legislator, Ng Kuok-cheong, said, referring to the currency, which trades at 8 patacas to the dollar.
Macao's reputation was also tarnished in the months before the change in sovereignty as rival gangs, known as triads, took advantage of Portugal's loosening grip over the colony to battle for control of the lucrative V.I.P. rooms in the casinos.
The violence ebbed after China dispatched People's Liberation Army troops to the enclave. But the fear of crime drove away visitors, leaving Macao's casinos in a state of neglect. Baccarat tables teemed with gangsters while prostitutes roamed the hallways.
Aside from restoring order, the Chinese authorities have not meddled much with the casinos. The hands-off approach was evident in Macao's decision to open up the industry. Twenty-one companies applied for the 20-year licenses, including operators from Britain and Malaysia.
People in Macao said the Beijing-appointed chief executive, Edmund Ho, had long favored Las Vegas companies because of their experience and access to capital. Mr. Ho regularly visits Las Vegas.
"They allowed Edmund Ho to make his own decision," said Ricardo Pinto, the editor of Ponto Final, a Portuguese-language newspaper. "Beijing is not afraid of excessive dependence on American companies. They realize these guys have the know-how to improve Macao's gambling sector."
The details of the projects will not be disclosed until the government meets with the license holders on Feb. 18. A spokesman for Mr. Wynn said recently that if he won, he would build a resort on one of two islands, which are connected to Macao by bridges and causeways.
Mr. Wynn developed two of the grandest and gaudiest monuments on the Las Vegas Strip, the Mirage and the Bellagio. People in Macao said they were not surprised he had been chosen, noting that he had been a frequent visitor to the enclave, before and after it reverted to China.
Galaxy was a surprise winner, however, and edged out two of the largest Las Vegas operators, Park Place Entertainment and MGM Mirage. Park Place, which bid in a partnership with the Mandalay Resort Group, said in a statement today that it still hoped to get a license.
"We remain optimistic that the great advantages of our project and our venture will be made available to the people of Macao," said Thomas E. Gallagher, the chief executive of Park Place, which has interests in 28 casinos, including Caesars Palace and Bally's.
Executives involved in the bidding said the licenses had an 18-month escape clause. A potentially troublesome issue for license holders will be working with local partners. Under the terms of the licenses, these partners must hold at least 10 percent of the shares of the venture.
Because Macao's gambling industry is dominated by a single man, Stanley Ho, the foreign bidders could not choose partners from an established class of casino entrepreneurs. In most cases, therefore, they chose business people and lawyers with connections rather than capital.
Given Macao's checkered history -- notably the involvement of the triads in local commerce -- this can be treacherous.
"These guys have worked very hard to protect their Las Vegas franchises from undesirable elements, but it hasn't been easy," said Dan Grove, a former F.B.I. agent who advises American casino operators at Hill & Associates, a private investigation firm in Hong Kong.
For the Las Vegas companies, however, the lure of China's vast market clearly outweighed the risk of doing business in one of its seedier cities. Historically a destination for weekend gamblers from Hong Kong, Macao now attracts three million visitors a year from mainland China.
With the number of visitors and revenue down sharply in Las Vegas, Macao could be a major growth market. "It's a gold mine," Mr. Grove said. "The overheads are so low compared to other cities. It costs less to build a resort there than elsewhere."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stanley Ho, left, has held a four-year monopoly on Macao's casino industry with emporiums like the Casino Lisboa, below. But Macao awarded casino licenses yesterday to two American casino operators as well as to Mr. Ho. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (92%); GAMING (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (69%); CURRENCIES (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); GANGS (55%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%); APPOINTMENTS (50%); ARMED FORCES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; GAMBLING 

COMPANY: WYNN RESORTS LTD (90%)

ORGANIZATION: WYNN RESORTS; GALAXY CASINO 

TICKER: WYNN (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (90%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (90%)

PERSON: STEPHEN A WYNN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (96%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NEVADA, USA (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MACAO (94%); HONG KONG (93%); EASTERN ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); PORTUGAL (91%); MALAYSIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



288 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Finacial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: THE POLITICS; 
Enron, Preaching Deregulation, Worked the Statehouse Circuit

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
When it came to lobbying, the Enron Corporation, and Kenneth L. Lay, its former chairman, were about as persistent as anyone had ever seen in California -- or Texas, Tennessee, Oregon and Pennsylvania.
 With lavish campaign contributions, a fleet of lobbyists, personal pitches by top Enron executives and even a phone call from George W. Bush, then governor of Texas, to Tom Ridge, then governor of Pennsylvania, Enron was the biggest player in the state legislatures in the late 1990's, pushing its version of energy deregulation. 
 Recent attention in the Enron scandal has focused on the company's efforts to influence Congress and the White House. But Enron had been conducting a similar campaign on the state level, with far less visibility and with considerable success.
The objective was to break up monopoly control of energy markets by local utilities and change the rules so energy would be deregulated. To a large extent that goal was reached -- from 1997 to 2000, 24 states adopted some form of energy deregulation, allowing energy companies like Enron to find new markets. 
"Enron was the only company out there lobbying and they were everywhere," said Paul Joskow, director of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research. "They not only carried a lot of water for themselves. But they carried water for the rest of the industry."
So determined was Enron that it frequently dispatched top executives like Mr. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling, its former chief executive, to meet with utilities commissioners, testify before statehouse committees and call on local politicians. 
This lobbying was backed by hefty campaign contributions, $1.9 million to more than 700 candidates in 28 states since 1997, according to the National Institute on Money in State Politics, a nonprofit group.
In the 2000 election cycle alone, Enron gave $1.1 million to local candidates: as little as $250 to $500 in hundreds of districts, as much as $10,000 to influential state legislators in California and other big states.
Unlike utilities or consumer groups that lobbied for deregulation in one state or a few, Enron took on the issue nationally. Its unique strategy combined a promise of lower electrical costs by ending utility monopolies with old-fashioned statehouse power politics.
"In 4 years, energy deregulation passed in 24 states," said Ed Bender, executive director of the National Institute on Money in State Politics. "That's amazing. I don't think you can call it a coincidence. They were trying to make something happen."
In the mid to late 1990's, contributions streamed to elected officials -- Gov. Gray Davis of California, for instance, received $97,500 of Enron's $438,155 in contributions to California politicians. Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, then lieutenant governor, received $212,000; Gov. George E. Pataki of New York got $9,000.
As seven Midwestern states considered a deregulation plan, Enron gave money to state house candidates in four of those states, including $21,350 to legislators in Michigan and $19,805 to legislators in Iowa.
"They were smart -- they went after people who they knew would make a difference," said Mary Kenkel, former manager for federal affairs at the Edison Electrical Institute, a utility lobbying group. 
Enron officials said that the company was proud of the role it played in energy deregulation, though in the aftermath of its bankruptcy filing and the sudden end of the California energy crisis, it is now doing very little business in the states it once lobbied. Some states where Enron does business are questioning whether to suspend Enron contracts. 
"It's no secret we were very active," said Mark Palmer, an Enron spokesman. "We helped open markets that needed to be opened. And there continue to be markets that need to be opened."
When Pennsylvania was considering a deregulation bill in 1997, Mr. Lay prevailed on Governor Bush to call Governor Ridge to vouch for Enron. "I said it would be very helpful to Enron," Mr. Lay said last year.
Pennsylvania wound up enacting deregulation, in a plan that included some elements Enron favored and some it did not.
In a number of state capitals, Enron took on some powerful interests, including local electrical monopolies, which are often the biggest campaign donors on the state level. Enron representatives often came in cold, without any contacts in government or the lobbying community. To compensate, they lined up experts to testify, hired local lobbyists and joined with consumer groups and some local utilities to present a united front for deregulation.
"They were basically strangers in these state capitals," said John Hanger, president of Citizens for Pennsylvania's Future, an environmental group. "They spent money to buy friends quickly and present their case quickly because they were up against utilities that had decades of local political relationships."
Lobbying the Pennsylvania legislature was also the stated reason that Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's political adviser, recommended that Enron give Ralph Reed, a Republican strategist with ties to religious conservatives, a consulting contract, which it did. Mr. Reed never had to lobby in Pennsylvania -- his hiring came after a deregulation bill was passed.
In California, Enron spent more than $345,000 on lobbying, hiring former legislators and former utilities commission officials. As early as 1994, Mr. Skilling, the former Enron chief executive who then headed an Enron energy subsidiary, testified to utility commissioners that deregulation could save the state $8.9 billion.
"You can triple the number of police officers in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Oakland and San Diego," he said. "The stakes are huge and every minute that we delay bringing competitive markets to California allows the meter to keep ticking."
Texas' deregulation plan -- the culmination of a legislative battle that began in 1995 -- went into effect last month. While Enron did not get all it wanted, it scored a partial victory. Texans for Public Justice, a watchdog group, estimates that Enron's statehouse lobbying cost $535,000 to $945,000. 
Enron hired 83 lobbyists in Texas, bought advertisements in local papers and gave to local charities, including Laura Bush's book fair.
"Enron was unique because of the sophistication of their play," said Tom Smith, Texas director of Public Citizen, a consumer group. "It was all Enron, all the time. They helped craft the legislation. They gave to high-profile charities. They gave to both sides of the aisle. They'd hold fund-raisers for those they wanted to re-elect. And they had the good ol' boy lobbyists go out after hours boozing and schmoozing."
In New York, where deregulation was enacted in 1996 but revisited for years, Enron made contributions to the state Republican party in addition to Mr. Pataki and hired a former state energy official, Howard Fromer, to lobby for it. 
Just last year, Mr. Lay called Governor Jeb Bush of Florida to pitch deregulation there. Florida ultimately did not pass energy deregulation, but lawmakers debated it for two legislative sessions.
Elsewhere, Enron's aggressiveness backfired. Its style did not play well in Oregon, where Enron bought Portland General Electric, a utility it is now trying to sell, and where partial deregulation was enacted in 1999. 
"They came in like a house of fire and we cooled their jets," said Fred Heutte, energy coordinator for the Oregon Sierra Club. "Once they realized they wouldn't be allowed to do what they wanted, they lost interest. They came in with a blatant attempt to roll the legislature and impress everyone with how important they were compared to podunk Oregon. We didn't like it."
The legacy of Enron's efforts is that consumer electrical markets have been made more competitive -- even though the company has backed off from conducting business in many of those markets.
"For all of Enron's problems, they played an important role in opening up markets that were among the most fossilized in the country," said Robert Michaels, an economics professor at the University of California at Fullerton. "Whatever Enron did wrong, it spent a lot of money to achieve this."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In relentlessly pressing for energy deregulation state by state, Enron made its logo, top, familiar to state legislators across the country. The company was a big contributor to the campaigns of Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, left, and Gov. Gray Davis of California. (Associated Press); (Associated Press)(pg. C1) Chart: "Enron's Statehouse DonationsEnron and Kenneth L. Lay, its former chairman, gave $1.9 million to hundreds of state politicians in the 1998 and 2000 election cycles, as many legislatures considered energy deregulation bills. For the 2000 elections, 98 percent of the giving went to candidates who won. STATE: TexasTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: $548,5262000CANDIDATES: 811998CANDIDATES: 70 STATE: CaliforniaTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 438,1552000CANDIDATES: 831998CANDIDATES: 67 STATE: OregonTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 149,5492000CANDIDATES: 871998CANDIDATES: 87 STATE: FloridaTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 142,7502000CANDIDATES: 1021998CANDIDATES: 85 STATE: OhioTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 53,6752000CANDIDATES: 791998CANDIDATES: 39 STATE: NevadaTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 48,7502000CANDIDATES: 321998CANDIDATES: 22 STATE: New Jersey ('99 and '97 elections)TOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 26,2002000CANDIDATES: 211998CANDIDATES: 3 STATE: MichiganTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 25,7002000CANDIDATES: 281998CANDIDATES: 50 STATE: IndianaTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 15,8202000CANDIDATES: 221998CANDIDATES: 5 STATE: IowaTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 14,6102000CANDIDATES: 321998CANDIDATES: 41 STATE: MissouriTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 13,8282000CANDIDATES: 231998CANDIDATES: 5 STATE: MarylandTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 12,2502000CANDIDATES: 01998CANDIDATES: 13 STATE: PennsylvaniaTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 12,1502000CANDIDATES: 91998CANDIDATES: 2 STATE: IllinoisTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 10,5002000CANDIDATES: 81998CANDIDATES: 8 STATE: Louisiana ('99 elections)TOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 8,6252000CANDIDATES: 261998CANDIDATES: n.a. STATE: New YorkTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 7,8502000CANDIDATES: 41998CANDIDATES: 2 STATE: OklahomaTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 5,2502000CANDIDATES: 151998CANDIDATES: 1 STATE: ConnecticutTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 4,5002000CANDIDATES: 01998CANDIDATES: 16 STATE: KansasTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 4,3002000CANDIDATES: 81998CANDIDATES: 18 STATE: ColoradoTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 3,0002000CANDIDATES: 11998CANDIDATES: 1 STATE: New MexicoTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 2,5002000CANDIDATES: 11998CANDIDATES: 2 STATE: South DakotaTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 1,5002000CANDIDATES: 101998CANDIDATES: n.a. STATE: NebraskaTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 1,0422000CANDIDATES: 31998CANDIDATES: n.a. STATE: Kentucky ('99 elections)TOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 1,0002000CANDIDATES: 11998CANDIDATES: 0 STATE: West VirginiaTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 1,0002000CANDIDATES: 11998CANDIDATES: 0 STATE: North CarolinaTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 1,0002000CANDIDATES: 01998CANDIDATES: 2 STATE: ArizonaTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 7602000CANDIDATES: 11998CANDIDATES: 0 STATE: MaineTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 7002000CANDIDATES: 71998CANDIDATES: 0 STATE: WashingtonTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 6002000CANDIDATES: 11998CANDIDATES: 2 STATE: ArkansasTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 5002000CANDIDATES: 11998CANDIDATES: n.a. STATE: GeorgiaTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 5002000CANDIDATES: 21998CANDIDATES: 0 STATE: WyomingTOTAL DONATIONS FOR '00 AND '98 ELECTION CAMPAIGNS: 5002000CANDIDATES: 01998CANDIDATES: 1 Chart tracks status of state electric deregulation including completely deregulated, deregulation suspended or delayed, partially deregulated, and still regulated.(Sources: National Institute on Money in State Politics; Edison Electric Institute)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (95%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); LOBBYING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); MONOPOLIZATION (73%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); SCANDALS (55%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (51%) REGULATION AND DEREGULATION; LEGAL PROFESSION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (59%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%) ENRON CORP (ENE) 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); RICK PERRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



289 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: INVESTORS; 
An Institutional Group Is Close to Switching Its Stance on Stock Options

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
A large association of institutional investors is on the verge of switching its position and supporting an effort to force companies to count stock-option awards as an expense that cuts into profits.
 The change would give an important lift to a longstanding effort by members of the Financial Accounting Standards Board who have unsuccessfully fought to make stock options count as a compensation expense. Under current rules, companies receive tax deductions for the options their employees exercise even though the options are considered to have no cost on income statements. 
 Earlier this week, two senators, Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, and John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said that they would introduce a bill -- similar to one that they first offered five years ago -- that would require the change. The collapse of Enron has increased the need for companies to be forthcoming in their profit statements, they said.
When the bill was introduced in 1997, the investors' group, the Council of Institutional Investors, supported a large lobbying effort by corporate executives who argued that options should not count as an expense because they do not require companies to use cash.
But since then, as options have grown more popular, the New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission have begun allowing many more stock-option plans to be adopted without shareholder approval. That change caused the investors' group to reconsider its position, said Sarah Teslik, the council's executive director.
"If we can't vote on these things, then we have to punish them on the balance sheet," Ms. Teslik said.
The council's 60-member executive committee unanimously recommended the change at a meeting last month, Ms. Teslik said yesterday. The full membership of the council, which represents about 120 pension funds with more than $1 trillion in assets, will vote on the issue next month.
Advocates for shareholder rights say that the prevalence of stock options has diluted the holdings of long-term investors as boards have given executives large ownership stakes, often without the approval of other shareholders.
Executives counter that options have given them an incentive to improve their companies.
Analysts expect companies to mount strong opposition to the bill, which would direct the accounting standards board to change its policy. But Enron's collapse and the council's switch could lead to a closer fight than in 1997, when the bill did not even come up for a vote. At the time, the council, as an advocate for investors, gave the bill's opponents an important public relations weapon.
Senator Peter G. Fitzgerald, an Illinois Republican, is a co-sponsor on the new bill, along with Mr. Levin and Mr. McCain. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OPTIONS (93%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); EXECUTIVES (87%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); ACCOUNTING (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); BONDS (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%); CARL LEVIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



290 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Inaction by Bank of Japan Raises New Concern

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
The Bank of Japan left monetary policy unchanged today, a decision that puts additional pressure on the government to bolster the nation's weakening financial system and answer mounting criticism from abroad.
 The central bank's monetary policy board, in an unusually brief meeting lasting less than six hours over two days, said only that it would pump more money into the markets "should there be a risk of financial market instability." 
 But rising long-term bond prices, a collapsing stock market and a weakening yen are pushing the banking industry here into crisis. Ahead of the end of the fiscal year on March 31, banks are dumping bonds to offset losses on stocks. 
There are growing signs that the rest of the developed world is losing patience with Japan's halting pace in coming to grips with the crisis. Among them is Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, who spent five days here last month talking about the situation, and who is expected to talk about Japan at the Group of Seven conference in Ottawa this weekend.
Mr. O'Neill has told Japanese officials repeatedly what Washington's prescription is for correcting the economy: Tokyo must move decisively to deregulate crucial industries, finish writing off the country's bad bank loans and stop trying to prop up the economy with a weak yen and ever more deficit spending.
Recently, Mr. O'Neill has called on Tokyo to stop dragging its feet.
"It is clear that the policy prescriptions of the past -- export-led growth and endless public works projects -- cannot work," Mr. O'Neill told his hosts. "When the world's second-largest economy struggles, we are all affected."
The financial indications here have grown steadily uglier. The stock market has fallen to about a quarter of its 1989 high, and unemployment is at 5.6 percent -- the worst seen here in more than 50 years. Household spending is plunging, down 6.6 percent in December from a year earlier, and the contraction in housing starts and construction orders is even worse. 
Masaru Hayami, the governor of the central bank, has insisted that any loosening the Bank of Japan could do would achieve little until the banks address the bad-debt problem, which is crippling the ability of banks to make new loans. Bank lending fell 4.6 percent in January.
"It's a classic case of pushing on a wet noodle," said Chris Walker, an economist at Credit Suisse First Boston in Tokyo. "The B.O.J. is pumping money into the markets, but no one is lending, so it's not making a difference."
The central bank's stance leaves the onus on the government. Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi 's recent cabinet reshuffle, in which he seemed to be appeasing conservatives by sacrificing a popular, reform-minded foreign minister, has eroded his ability to press on with unpopular but necessary economic measures.
"The problem in Japan is not that it lacks money, but does it have the will to use it?" said Ron Bevacqua, an economist at Commerz Securities in Tokyo. There is a chance, he said, that "the government will let things get out of control, in which case you end up with a depression, not just in Japan, but in the global economy."
Mr. Bevacqua said it is probable Tokyo will do just enough to head off the worst of outcomes, but he and others contend that the Koizumi government has lost steam, leaving Japan alarmingly rudderless.
Mr. Koizumi rode into office a year ago on a wave of popular disgust with failing old policies and politicians, and was showered with praise from Washington and elsewhere for promising changes in the country's ways. But in recent months, in the face of rising layoffs, bankruptcies and political pressure, he has appeared to backtrack. The government-orchestrated bailout in mid-January of Daiei, the country's second-largest retailer and most indebted company, was one such reversal.
The rescue was portrayed as a move to forestall a banking crisis. A collapse of Daiei would add significantly to the nonperforming-loan burden of the banks, which -- despite a $60 billion bailout in 1999 -- are "significantly undercapitalized and technically insolvent," according to Standard & Poor's, the credit-rating agency. 
Though they have announced plans to write off more than $45 billion in bad loans this year, the banks are still piling up bad loans faster than they are writing them off. Their sales of marketable assets have depressed domestic stock and bond prices and raised an old threat: If a major bank finds itself in deep trouble, it may set off a wave of panicky selling of Japanese-owned assets in the United States to offset losses at home.
Japanese financial institutions and companies have $333 billion invested in American bonds, and account for more than a quarter of all Treasury securities held abroad. If they try to repatriate a significant portion of this money in a hurry, American interest rates could increase.
Even without such a sell-off, the United States is beginning to feel the impact of another consequence of Japanese foot-dragging: the weak yen. The Koizumi government has allowed the yen to slide -- by 12 percent against the dollar since November -- to make Japanese exports more competitive.
Among the first American companies to complain were steel makers, which have cited the weak yen in their request for the Bush administration to raise tariffs on steel imports.
"Japanese manufacturers create a lot of problems for the U.S.; every industry has an ax to grind with Japan," said Ronald Morse, a professor at U.C.L.A. who studies Japanese-American relations. "Japan could be a significant source of good if they played the game, but they haven't played for 12 years."
When Mr. Hayami, the central bank governor, and Masajuro Shiokawa, the finance minister, are in Ottawa this weekend, they will outline their government's efforts to fight deflation in Japan. Their counterparts will be looking for a good deal more. Mr. O'Neill told a Japanese interviewer on Thursday that he is "anxious to see Japan take the steps that will put them on a track to grow their economy at a rate that makes them an engine of world growth rather than a middle car or caboose." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); BONDS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); TRENDS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); POLITICS (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%) JAPAN; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



291 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Doubts on Tweed Courthouse for Museum Are Part of a Penchant for Review 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
Discussions continued yesterday over whether the administration of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg would go ahead with plans to move the Museum of the City of New York to the lavishly renovated Tweed Courthouse in Lower Manhattan.
 A spokesman for the museum said officials there were withholding comment pending the outcome of meetings planned over the weekend. 
 William Cunningham, Mr. Bloomberg's communications director, said re-examining the move was part of the administration's review of "almost every project you could think of," from refurbishing parks to the method for ordering office furniture. Mr. Cunningham said he expected that the city would reach some conclusion about the future of the once-notorious building by Wednesday, when Mr. Bloomberg plans to release his budget. 
Former Deputy Mayor John S. Dyson, who, as the chairman of the previous mayor's Council of Economic Advisers, negotiated the terms of the city's agreement with the museum to use the space, said yesterday that it called for the museum and the city to roughly split the costs of planning and making the move, about $47 million.
Under the agreement, the city and the museum would each contribute $3 million in the first year, 2002, to cover the costs of preparing the plan, which the city would be required to reimburse the museum if it backed out of the deal. To go forward, Mr. Dyson said, the museum would have to raise its share of the remainder of the costs, about $23 million, before the city would roughly match it.
Bloomberg officials have expressed concern about the outlay, given the city's currently shaky finances and the need to delay or cancel many planned projects.
"There are new costs associated with it in addition to what's already been spent," Mr. Cunningham said. "In this budget environment, the question naturally arises, 'Is this a cost that we should have now' " or at all?
But Mr. Dyson said that since the city had already agreed to commit $18 million for the museum, the amount it had planned to contribute to a $36 million renovation of its building on upper Fifth Avenue before settling on the move to Tweed, going ahead with the move would not cost the city significantly more than it had already budgeted.
Yesterday, the matter appeared far from settled. Mr. Cunningham characterized discussions about using the building for office space as "brainstorming" and the "natural percolating of ideas." Those ideas include creating a version of City Hall's bullpen, combining all agencies that have a role in a particular field, like serving the needs of small businesses; mixing office and exhibit space; and going ahead with the museum.
Mr. Cunningham emphasized that those scenarios were examples, and added that while the administration would probably not have the details of a proposal worked out by Wednesday, the budget was likely to clarify those issues. "Money generally has a way of doing that," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); MAYORS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%) COURTHOUSES; TWEED COURTHOUSE (NYC); RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%) MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) CARDWELL, DIANE; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



292 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
The State of the Column Is Forlorn

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
MORE or less unscathed, we have emerged from the season when the political big shots check our collective pulse, by way of informing us about the State of the Union, the State of the State, the State of the City, even the State of the Parks. With inspiration like that, how can one resist delivering the first, and in all likelihood the last, State of the Column address?
 At this point in the State of the Whatever, most politicians break in to say that things could not be peachier. 
 Just last week, President Bush said that "the state of our union has never been stronger" -- this, microseconds after he reminded us that the country is at war, the economy is reeling and "unprecedented dangers" are upon us. Gee, with strength like that, give us the bad old days when we were weaker. 
You will not get verbal tap-dancing of that sort here. The state of the column, friends, could be a lot better. So many taboo subjects abound that times have grown tough for those of us who pride ourselves on multi-tsking.
Take the city's firefighters, as noble a group as you will find, and that was true long before Sept. 11. But since that terrible day, it has been deemed verboten to so much as raise an eyebrow at almost anything they do. So nothing will be said here about how some firefighters and some relatives of the World Trade Center victims seem to have a powerful absorption with what might be called necropolitics.
They complained this week that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had not gone to any funerals or memorial services for the Fire Department's Sept. 11 dead. The suggestion was that the new mayor displays an appalling lack of respect, even though at almost every turn he talks about New Yorkers' enormous, unpayable debt to the fallen firefighters.
It seems Mr. Bloomberg has missed five such events since taking office on Jan. 1. But two were private affairs, and one took place at the same time the mayor was attending a memorial service for a friend. That means, in reality, he has been a no-show only twice and, perhaps in reaction to the complaints, he plans to go today to a scheduled funeral in Queens.
Only in necropolitical New York can his behavior be interpreted as an insult. But the forlorn state of the column is such that this space will, to borrow from Archie Bunker, stifle itself.
In palmier days, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani always came through. He still does his darnedest. Look at the questionable way in which he spirited his papers out of City Hall while making his getaway. But over the last five months Mr. Giuliani has also ascended to secular saint, a reality that puts a severe strain on the state of the column.
Of course, we now have Mr. Bloomberg, but he has been far less generous than his predecessor in providing material. Oh, he has stumbled a bit, as when he made an unfortunate joke about firing thousands of city workers. But that one was small potatoes. Bigger potatoes may come on Wednesday, when he will present his first budget proposal and presumably will leave buckets of blood on the floor. Thus far, however, the new mayor has benefited from a customary honeymoon period. That may be good for him. But it's not so good for the state of the column.
LET'S see, there is Mark Green, the failed mayoral candidate. He teed off on Mr. Bloomberg so hard this week that he reminded some New Yorkers why they didn't vote for him in November (and reminded others who did support him why they shed few tears over his defeat).
There was no honeymoon offer from Mr. Green in his new role as born-again political commentator. Mr. Bloomberg has yet to offer a single new idea, he said, and is popular only because he has grabbed easy victories, or in Mr. Green's words, "picked the low-hanging fruit."
Some New Yorkers may wonder if this unexpected attack qualified as gracelessness without pressure. But this column has no intention of touching the issue, no matter how rocky the state it is in. Political losers, too, deserve a honeymoon when starting anew.
So, as you see, these are difficult times. There was a glimmer of hope when Edward Skyler, Mr. Bloomberg's spokesman, said that if you want to talk about low-hanging fruit, how about sour grapes? Do you know how long it's been since a press secretary said something that was actually funny?
But one good line is hardly enough to improve the state of the column. The new mayor had better start coming through soon. He can't count on Mark Green bailing him out every time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (72%); DANCE (53%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (85%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) HABERMAN, CLYDE; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



293 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: For the Mayor, Jokes Are Part Of the Routine; 
Though His Delivery Is Not Always Smooth, Bloomberg Gets Laughs

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
During his first week in office, Michael R. Bloomberg was asked if it had dawned on him what a difficult job he had taken on. "It's hitting me at this press conference," he said, then exited, stage left. 
 Since taking office in January, Mr. Bloomberg has demonstrated that while he may not be a deft public speaker, he can be funny. 
 With the United States Conference of Mayors in town, Mr. Bloomberg mentioned that he had been asked whether extra security had been ordered. "I told them that I didn't think any of the mayors would be that dangerous," he said.
And while inspecting the preparations at a sanitation yard in Queens for an impending snowstorm, Mr. Bloomberg mentioned that his administration planned a new program employing people whose sole job it would be to announce the coming of winter storms. He waved in the direction of a salt dome, where he said the newest hire was sitting. Resting on the dome was a pigeon. He grinned madly.
Mr. Bloomberg has been sprinkling quips and one-liners through news conferences, speeches, and brief remarks to the dozens of groups that he drops in on each week.
At times, his wit comes off as insensitive, such as during his first radio program two Fridays ago. Asked if he was taking notes, he said: "Thousands of people working for the city, they're about to be fired so I can make the 20 percent cut, but before they go out the door this afternoon, they're going to make these notes."
On Thursday, asked what he planned to do to city officials who abuse the flashing lights and sirens in their cars, he replied tartly: "I don't know. We'll shoot them. What do you think is going to happen to them?"
His taste for politically incorrect gags surfaced during his campaign for mayor, when a reporter unearthed a book composed of one-liners attributed to Mr. Bloomberg that were bawdy and, to some, offensive.
These days, his humor ranges from swift one-liners to semipolished stand-up routines, often used to make members of his staff who barely know him more comfortable.
David Letterman doesn't have to worry about his job just yet. Mr. Bloomberg's speech is stilted; he is prone to stepping on his own applause lines and adding consonants where they do not belong with a voice that few would describe as mellifluous. But Mr. Bloomberg can often elicit a hearty chuckle from the entire room with a small aside. On the day he announced the appointment of his new city planning chairwoman, Amanda M. Burden, he called her "a friend of long standing, not an old friend." 
Sometimes the mayor's jokes seem snappish. But people who spend enough time with him realize that that has more to do with the tone than the tenor of his remarks, and that his witty banter and not-so-gentle teasing come off better without a microphone and a press corps. 
"He's not a guy to tell a long joke or a humorous story," said William Cunningham, Mr. Bloomberg's communications director.
"He is more apt to say something that either pokes fun at himself or to make a deadpan remark that is the exact opposite of what he is going to do," Mr. Cunningham said. "It is his way of breaking the ice." 
The city's giant budget gap is often his favorite comic fodder.
The morning before Mr. Bloomberg's inauguration, at a breakfast with prominent clergymen at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, Mr. Bloomberg said: "We are going clearly to go through some tough economic times. As I went around, a lot of you offered me your prayers. But honestly, thank you very much -- I can use them. I could also use $4 billion to balance the budget, if just in case any of you have some extra funds that you don't know what to do with." (Insert crashing cymbals here.)
To help manage its budget woes, Mr. Bloomberg's administration is considering offering naming rights to corporations that want to pay to maintain parts of city parks. Responding to questions this week about that idea, Mr. Bloomberg said to a reporter: "We could talk about it, if you've got enough money, how you name City Hall. We've got a four-and-half-billion-dollar deficit, and if you want to make a material impact on that I suspect all eight million New Yorkers would be behind you and I could see your name right up there now."
And he seems to recognize that he can be rather sensitive. Yesterday, during his radio program on WABC (770), the host, John Gambling, asked him if his skin was thickening as time passes. "I never object when they are unfair to you," the mayor answered quickly. 
New Yorkers do like their mayors humorous. Fiorello H. La Guardia read comic strips on the air during a city newspaper strike in 1945. Mayor Edward I. Koch had a broad sense of humor, but his jokes were rarely at his own expense.
In 1981, when Greenwich, Conn., was suffering from a drought, Mayor Koch said that its residents were having some personal hygiene problems as a result.
"It's getting so you can tell when someone comes from Greenwich," he joked.
Later, when New York suffered its own drought, a Greenwich official offered his home to the mayor for a shower. Not missing a beat, Mr. Koch said: "I'm very grateful that he has extended the offer well in advance, so I can find out where Greenwich, Conn., is." 
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's aides made a habit of laughing hysterically at anything remotely humorous that came out of his mouth, which was often a strong poke at an adversary. However, he would occasionally josh about his taste in art, or his desire to carefully guard public information.
Often, perhaps because he still can't quite believe he won, Mr. Bloomberg will make a joke about his new job. Recently, a small group gathered around the fish tank outside the police desk at City Hall, noting that the hose in the tortured creatures' tank was broken. Mr. Bloomberg fiddled with the hose a bit, and it began to bubble smoothly. Smiling broadly, he said: "That's why I'm the mayor!"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, doing his talk radio program with John Gambling on WABC. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Mayor Bloomberg at J & R Music and Computer World with the store's owners, Joe and Rachelle Friedman. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); POLITICS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COMEDY AND HUMOR 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%); DAVID LETTERMAN (50%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



294 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Fashion Statement: Hip-Hop on Runway 

BYLINE:  By GUY TREBAY 

 BODY:
He has been Sean Combs and Puff Daddy and now styles himself P. Diddy. He has been a rap mogul, a multiplatinum-selling recording artist and producer, a celebrity consort and also a criminal defendant. Now, as Fashion Week begins, Sean John Combs, 32, originally of Yonkers, is the biggest comer on Seventh Avenue. 
 In the two years since Mr. Combs started his clothing label Sean John, for which he directs design, the company has easily lapped its competitors in the urban fashion market, gaining on well-established labels like Fubu, Phat Farm and Ecko, whose customers are primarily young men who favor the loose, hip-hop inspired clothing that has become both an urban and suburban uniform. Sean John is sold in 1,200 stores across the country, with retail revenue of over $200 million last year, according to the privately held company. 
 A clue to Mr. Combs's ambitions came Thursday, when he appeared, along with Terry Lundgren, the president of Federated Department Stores, to ring the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange. Some on hand remembered that the last time Mr. Combs appeared publicly downtown was to hear of his acquittal in criminal court on charges of carrying a concealed weapon in a nightclub. He was wearing a suit on that occasion last year, and he wore an even nattier one of chalk stripes from Versace this week, as he spoke about the importance of giving New York economic support.
"We were going to show our collection in Paris," he said, "but right now with the economy, it's extremely important to be in New York."
In a chastened climate, and during a week of scaled-back fashion presentations, many held in designers' showrooms rather than the Bryant Park tents, Mr. Combs's show at 8 tonight at Cipriani catering hall on 42nd Street is conceived as a break-the-bank extravaganza, just part of its $1.24 million cost going into a specially commissioned video and soundtrack, theatrical curtains so massive that nine workers are required to hoist them, and custom hardwood bleachers and catwalk. 
The 1,000 machine-embroidered invitations, packaged with silk knot cuff links in sueded boxes, cost more than $60,000. Even fashion insiders accustomed to over-the-top theatrics hail the infusion of unabashed show business and entrepreneurial savvy that Mr. Combs and his company have brought to a fashion scene bogged down in image fatigue.
"Everything is so flattened out and dull now," said Kal Ruttenstein, the fashion director for Bloomingdale's. "Sean Combs brings an original point of view, a lot of very smart people who work his design team, and a great editor's eye." 
Mr. Combs makes few claims to being a hands-on designer. Yet he bristles at suggestions that his is just another line of jeans with a celebrity autograph on the rear pocket. As the conceptualist heading a production team that includes an influential stylist, Bill Mullen, his is probably a role not so different from that played by Ralph Lauren at Polo -- the arbiter of his staff's creative suggestions, the entrepreneurial force behind an expanding brand.
"I don't have a huge background in fashion," Mr. Combs said yesterday at the office of his record company, Bad Boy Worldwide Entertainment Group, in Times Square. As a rap impresario, Mr. Combs produced mid-90's stars like Mary J. Blige and Notorious B.I.G.; though he hasn't abandoned recording, he now conceives of it as merely one element in Sean John, the lifestyle brand.
"My background is being a consumer," he remarked, one who shopped early on at thrift stores, and then designer boutiques and eventually in the temples of luxury that line Fifth Avenue. For an interview, Mr. Combs wore a simple white T-shirt and baggy jeans, set off by a diamond-encrusted crucifix worthy of a Spanish infanta and a ring with a single round rock of bottle cap size. The walls of his office were adorned with the covers of daily tabloids reporting his acquittal. 
"I got into fashion," Mr. Combs said, snacking on orange slices from a Tupperware tub, "because fashion, and especially men's fashion, had a lack of style, a lack of risk-taking, a lack of fun." Women play dress-up all the time, Mr. Combs said. It is the rare man who can. His father, Melvin Combs, whom he recalled as one of "the fliest cats on the planet," was one. "My father, who was killed when I was 3, had a Persian lamb suit," Mr. Combs said. "I'm dedicating this show to him."
The sales figures for Sean John clothing are more impressive for being derived mostly from his simply styled, medium-priced clothing (prices start at $32 for a printed T-shirt and rise to $3,700 for a shearling coat) that tends to be narrowly cut and unornamented, except for a script signature so understated it could pass for the logo of an upscale wine bar.
Among Sean John's leading competitors, Ecko says it has annual retail revenues of $500 million. More than twice Sean John's, that figure includes royalties from a wide variety of licensed products. 
The menswear trade publication DNR recently ranked Mr. Combs 33rd on a list of the 100 most powerful people in men's fashion, between the designer John Varvatos and Stan Tucker, a Burberry executive. "He was above a number of people who did more volume," said John Birmingham, the editor of DNR. "We gave him that ranking because of his star power, and his success in putting together a sportswear line with broad appeal."
At the splashy $1 million runway event he staged for his fall 2001 show a year ago, Mr. Combs took the denims that are staples of urban wear and accessorized them with outlandish Mad Max-style overcoats and enough lynx, coyote, lamb, fox, crocodile, shearling, ostrich and mink to set People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals' agenda back 20 years. This season he is moving into tailored styles that draw inspiration from Savile Row. 
"He is building a tailored clothing business that is going to be the next big explosive part of his collection," said Mr. Ruttenstein, of Bloomingdale's. Mr. Combs's choice of direction may have something to do with the demise of casual Friday in a fearful job market. Equally it may result from a desire to sanitize the less salubrious parts of his past. Mr. Combs said, "There is definitely an elegant gentleman vibe."
When Anna Wintour, the editor in chief of Vogue, referred last year to Mr. Combs as "a great designer," she was undoubtedly referring to his special talent for returning some buzz to a wayward industry. 
When he began his business, Mr. Combs said, "Fashion was so corporate, so about the money, so not about the glamor, the fierceness, the gaiety, the flair." 
"I want to bring entertainment to fashion," he added. "But that doesn't mean my business isn't completely on plan."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sean Combs after ringing the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange, a sign of his ambitions for his clothing line. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); Sean Combs has lapped his competitors in the urban fashion market with the Sean John label. (Reuters)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); FASHION SHOWS (77%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); ACQUITTAL (72%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (66%); STOCK EXCHANGES (52%) APPAREL; SALES 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SEAN JEAN (CO) 

TICKER: M (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

PERSON: SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (95%); TERRY J LUNDGREN (52%) COMBS, SEAN JOHN; TREBAY, GUY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



295 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Russia Says It Is Upholding Promise on Oil Export Curbs

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
Russia said today that it was keeping to the letter of its promise to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, reducing the official count of its exports of crude oil by 150,000 barrels a day. But oil production is still surging, exports of refined products are still rising, and few people here think there is any chance of export restraint after March 31, when the promise to OPEC expires.
 The Russian energy minister, Igor K. Yusufov, announced today that Russia had cut exports by the promised amount, and was now shipping 2.7 million barrels a day abroad. Official oil statistics have a far from ironclad reputation here, and most analysts prefer to compile their own figures. By most such counts, Russia has at least halted the growth in its exports; Petroleum Argus, a respected industry publication, said exports in January were unchanged from the fourth quarter of 2001. 
 But the signs are that unexported crude is simply piling up inside the country. The International Energy Agency in Paris reported today that total output in Russia rose by 60,000 barrels a day, to 7.26 million, worsening a glut within Russia that has driven domestic prices down to $4 a barrel, a three-year low. Stockpiles at electric power plants are 20 percent above normal, and warm weather has trimmed consumption.
"The domestic market is flooded," said Simon Kukes, president of the Tyumen Oil Company, one of the largest Russian producers. "We are very close to capacity at our storage facilities." Once March 31 has passed, he said, "I don't think there will be reductions" in exports.
"Production is increasing," he said, "and we can't continue dumping on the domestic market."
While Mr. Yusufov, the energy minister, said today that no decision had been made on extending export cuts beyond March, recent public statements by high-level Russian officials seem to confirm Russia has already made up its mind. 
Prime Minister Mikhail M. Kasyanov told an audience at the World Economic Forum in New York last weekend that Russia intended to increase its share of world oil output. In an interview on Russian television this week, President Vladimir V. Putin's economic adviser, Andrei N. Illarionov, said Russia had the "historical right" to take back the market share it lost when its economy collapsed in the mid-1990's.
According to executives at Lukoil, Russia's leading producer, President Putin wants oil to be on the agenda when President Bush visits Russia in May. The company has said that by 2005 its fields at Timan Pechora in the far north will be producing 37 million barrels of oil annually for shipment to North America, and that it has discussed financing plans for the project with the United States Export-Import Bank. 
"It's a good route; it is economic," said Leonid Fedun, Lukoil's vice president. "The Persian Gulf is farther from America than Russia. That's the competitive advantage we have."
Russian companies with large amounts of unexported crude on their hands have, meanwhile, been stepping up shipments of refined products like fuel oil instead. That became more profitable when the government, in a concession to the industry, reduced export duties on several refined products -- the move starts to take effect this month. A sliding export tax on crude oil was also reduced on Feb. 1.
Tyumen Oil said its exports of refined products rose 20 percent in January from the month before, and Lukoil also increased exports. 
The increased shipments of oil products are pushing prices for them down, and are indirectly putting downward pressure on world crude prices. But the Russian oil companies have little choice. 
"It is a heavy burden for them to carry on these OPEC restrictions," said Raivo Vare, chairman of Pakterminal, the largest oil terminal in Estonia, where large amounts of Russian oil exports are handled. "Market prices have gone down so deeply it's just not economical to supply to domestic refineries. Sooner or later they will try to increase exports of crude."
For the moment, world crude prices are steady, and OPEC has toned down its calls for Russian cuts. Domestic demand in Russia will pick up in April, when the planting season begins, oil companies said.
"The feeling I get is, the boat's not sinking, so don't rock it," said Adam Sieminski, an energy strategist at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown in Maryland. "With world prices holding, no one sees any particular reason to challenge the Russians to some fight for market share." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (94%); EXPORT TRADE (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); POWER PLANTS (76%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); MARKET SHARE (65%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; RUSSIA; ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) 

COMPANY: TNK-BP LTD (66%); OAO LUKOIL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

TICKER: LKOH (RTS) (51%); LKOD (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%); LEONID FEDUN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



296 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Time for A Special Counsel 

BYLINE:  By Ernest F. Hollings; Ernest F. Hollings, a senator from South Carolina, is chairman of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
This week, when Kenneth Lay, former Enron chairman and George W. Bush's largest campaign contributor, failed to show up to testify before Congress, I became convinced that it is time to appoint a special counsel to investigate Enron. We need to name a special counsel, rather than relying on the Justice Department, because conflicts of interest abound in this case, particularly at the Justice Department. Federal law allows the attorney general to appoint such a counsel when the Justice Department's involvement would present a conflict of interest.
 Attorney General John Ashcroft recused himself from the Enron case because he had taken $57,000 from Enron in his failed bid for the Senate in 2000. His chief of staff also recused himself, since he was Mr. Ashcroft's 2000 campaign manager. That leaves Larry Thompson, deputy attorney general, to oversee the case -- or to appoint a special counsel. 
 While Mr. Thompson is a capable attorney, his former law firm has represented both Enron and Arthur Andersen, giving a taint of a conflict of interest. Moreover, Mr. Thompson may already be the busiest man in Washington because he is overseeing the Justice Department's counterterrorism activities.
A special counsel can also be appointed if there are "extraordinary circumstances" that would cause the appointment to be in the public's interest. What could be more extraordinary than the largest bankruptcy in American history? When was the last time a corporate collapse had Wall Street so jittery, with investors questioning the accounting practices of every company and so many ripples spreading out through the economy? 
I also find it to be "extraordinary circumstances" when a top executive commits suicide, voluminous documents are shredded and witness after witness takes the Fifth Amendment. And in my 35 years in the Senate, I have never witnessed a corporation so extraordinarily committed to buying government. In the last decade, Enron gave campaign contributions to 186 House members and 71 senators, including $3,500 to me.
In the 2000 election, Mr. Lay and his employees, as well as Enron and its political action committee, contributed some $700,000 to Mr. Bush and the Republican party. There was money for the party convention, the recount of votes in Florida, the Bush inaugural. And Enron airplanes for the campaign.
The Bush administration says it did nothing for Mr. Lay this fall when he sought its help. I believe this. But what about help given before? The administration has provided jobs for a stable of Enron alumni and friends. Thomas White, a former vice chairman of an Enron subsidiary, became the secretary of the Army and quickly moved to turn the military's energy needs over to private hands, like those of his former employer.
Patrick Wood III abruptly replaced Curtis Hebert as head of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; Mr. Hebert hadn't agreed with Mr. Lay on electricity deregulation. The trade representative, Robert Zoellick, had served on an Enron advisory board. Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham took $13,500 from Enron as a senator. I could recite many more connections.
Mr. Thompson, who is now in charge, ought to pick someone with the credibility of an Archibald Cox, who developed a sterling reputation with the public for his objectivity during the Watergate investigation. If someone of this ilk finds no wrongdoing, people would have confidence that the investigation was done right.
In addition, the Senate should have one committee investigating Enron, not six. Senator Ted Stevens, a Republican from Alaska, and I have asked the Senate leadership to establish a bipartisan select committee to address the policy implications of Enron's collapse. The policy concerns are vast: consumer fraud, electricity deregulation, employee pension funds, Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, auditing and accounting standards, tax compliance and shareholder rights.
Through a special counsel and a select committee, the government will ensure a thorough investigation without a taint of conflict. Only then will the American public know the Enron problem and its associated consequences are not swept under the rug. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (95%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WITNESSES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (85%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (83%); DEREGULATION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LITIGATION (77%); LAWYERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); ACCOUNTING (64%); ARMIES (64%); HISTORY (64%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (62%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (62%); ENERGY REGULATION (62%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (62%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (62%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (60%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (60%); TERRORISM (51%); SUICIDE (50%) SPECIAL PROSECUTORS (INDEPENDENT COUNSEL) 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%) ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%) HOLLINGS, ERNEST F (SEN); LAY, KENNETH W 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



297 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: To Detroit's Dismay, McCain Proposes Rise in Fuel Standards 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain of Arizona, the ranking Republican on the Senate Commerce Committee, introduced a bill on Thursday night that calls for an increase of up to 50 percent in automotive fuel economy standards by 2016. 
 The bill also proposes closing the gap between standards set for passenger cars and light trucks, an issue that has been a chief concern of environmental groups. And it seeks a complex trading system that would permit automakers to swap credits for reducing greenhouse gas emissions with companies in other industries. 
 Senator McCain's proposals are not as ambitious as those in a similar fuel economy bill submitted today by the Democratic leaders of the Commerce Committee, John Kerry of Massachusetts and Ernest F. Hollings, the South Carolinian who is chairman of the committee. But coming from a leading Republican, the McCain bill was a setback for the auto industry, which has lobbied to allow the Bush administration, not Congress, to decide what action to take on fuel economy standards and has resisted any big increase of current requirements.
Senator McCain's staff and Democratic staff members on the Commerce Committee are exploring whether a bipartisan plan on fuel economy standards can be reached as part of the Senate's energy bill.
Even if the proposal that ends up in the Senate's energy bill has Senator McCain's support, lobbyists and legislators doubt that it will make it through a Republican House and White House. Federal fuel economy standards have not changed since the 1980's.
Senator McCain said in a statement that his proposals "will strengthen our national security while significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions over the next decade and beyond."
Energy security in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks has given the fuel economy issue new momentum. That is not good news for auto industry trade groups, which did not welcome the McCain bill.
"It seems a lot like the Kerry bill," said Gloria J. Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, which includes most major automakers. "We think the proposals are absurd, and we think consumers will be outraged when they realize that they eliminate S.U.V.'s, minivans and pickups," she added. 
Ms. Bergquist was referring to the proposal to close the gap between light trucks and passenger cars, which domestic automakers have said would be too costly. Corporate average fuel economy standards, known as CAFE, now require each manufacturer's annual fleet of new passenger cars to average 27.5 miles a gallon. Each automaker's fleet of light trucks -- sport utility vehicles, pickups and minivans -- is required to average 20.7 miles a gallon.
The Kerry-Hollings bill would combine car and truck standards and increase the combined standard to 35 miles a gallon by the model year 2013. Senator McCain's bill would increase the standard to 36 miles a gallon, but not until 2016. And companies could reduce that requirement by as much as 10 percent by swapping greenhouse gas credits with companies in other industries. Both plans would be phased in.
According to a preliminary analysis of the two bills by the Sierra Club, the environmental group, the McCain bill would save 300,000 to 500,000 barrels of oil a day by 2012, compared with a million barrels a day under the Kerry-Hollings plan. By contrast, an energy bill passed by the House proposed savings of about 47,000 barrels a day in the second half of this decade. Automobiles in the United States now consume about eight million barrels of oil a day. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TRADE (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); TERRORISM (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) ENVIRONMENT; GAS (FUEL) 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); JOHN KERRY (79%) MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



298 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE NEW LEADER; 
Afghan and Pakistani Pledge To Move Beyond Old Grudges

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
The leaders of Afghanistan and Pakistan today reached back more than a decade to find common ground for their countries' future relationship, agreeing that "misunderstandings and misperceptions" of the past should be left behind.
 "They are buried," said Hamid Karzai, Afghanistan's interim leader, responding to a statement by Gen. Pervez Musharraf, Pakistan's president, that the two focus on the future. General Musharraf then echoed the comment of Mr. Karzai, who was making his first official visit to Islamabad, saying, "Yes, they are buried." 
 It was Pakistan that provided much of the logistical, financial and ideological support for the Taliban during its five-year hold on Afghanistan. But it was also Pakistan that was the main base for Arab and Western support for the anti-Soviet mujahedeen in the 1980's. This campaign was waged by what later became the Northern Alliance, which went on to oppose -- and finally defeat -- the Taliban.
Although deep divisions remain between the countries, today's gestures of comity seemed to represent a natural progression. With American support, the two sides now cast themselves as leaders in the war against terrorism. They have been mostly in the same camp since October, when Pakistan finally agreed that Afghanistan should no longer be governed by the Taliban.
Mr. Karzai, who maintains a home in Quetta, Pakistan, was perhaps the Afghan leader best equipped to declare his government a new partner of Pakistan's.
As a result of General Musharraf's turning against the Taliban, Mr. Karzai declared that the Pakistani leader was poised to make his country "the cornerstone of this region's work against terrorism and radicalism in the future."
For his part, General Musharraf said that he had been "extremely impressed by the able and sagacious leadership being provided by Chairman Karzai at this hour of need."
The two sides tried to gloss over the most significant matters dividing them. On whether Pakistani prisoners held by the Northern Alliance, Mr. Karzai said that his government hoped soon to release as many of the former Taliban fighters as possible. He said he wanted to make sure that his country did not surrender those with ties to Al Qaeda.
On the issue of 1.6 million Afghan refugees in Pakistan, Mr. Karzai said he hoped to make it possible for them to return home soon, but was grateful for Pakistan's patience in allowing the situation and the economy to stabilize in a way that might make that repatriation as smooth as possible.
Given their long and porous border, Afghanistan and Pakistan still face a future that could quickly become unstable, with the potential for militants in Pakistan opposed to the Afghan government infiltrating easily. In recent months, Northern Alliance leaders have sharply warned against meddling by Pakistan, with Dr. Abdullah, the foreign minister of Afghanistan's interim government, saying, "What is required of Pakistan is not to impose a puppet in Afghanistan."
With its large Pashtun population, Pakistan has close ties with the Pashtun tribes of southern Afghanistan, the core of the Taliban. It has had deeply hostile relations with the predominantly Tajik and Uzbek tribes of the north, the source of the greatest opposition to the Taliban, including the warlords of the Northern Alliance.
As for matters within Afghanistan, Mr. Karzai was asked when he might ask American forces to leave his country and abandon their quest for Osama bin Laden. His answer suggested that he did not want that moment to come any time soon.
"Let's be very frank with you here again," he told a Pakistani journalist. "Without help from the United States we would have found it very, very difficult to defeat terrorism in Afghanistan.
"The war against terrorism is not yet over. We will have to go and look for them, in their hideouts, their caves, wherever they are.
"If you come to Afghanistan, you will see what they have done to us. Come and see for yourselves. It is absolutely shocking."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pervez Musharraf, right, welcomed Hamid Karzai yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); AL-QAEDA (74%); HIJACKING (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); REFUGEES (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (62%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-PAKISTAN; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (90%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%) JEHL, DOUGLAS; KARZAI, HAMID; MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



299 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: RETIREMENT MONEY; 
Plan to Put Limits on 401(k) Holdings Draws Fire

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
When the collapse of Enron largely wiped out the retirement savings of thousands of its employees, several Democratic lawmakers embraced what they thought was a way to prevent workers at other companies from suffering a similar fate.
 These lawmakers suggested a cap, perhaps 10 percent or 20 percent, on the amount of an employee's 401(k) plan that could be invested in one company. The idea was to prevent workers from putting too much of their nest egg in one basket; at Enron, for example, employees had 62 percent of their 401(k) holdings invested in the company's stock. 
 Of the many ideas that lawmakers have proposed on how to protect the savings of workers, the idea of a cap has stirred the most debate. 
Senator Jon S. Corzine, Democrat of New Jersey, an outspoken advocate of caps, said that because the federal government was spending more than $70 billion a year to subsidize 401(k) plans, it should make sure that participants use the most basic of investment principles, diversification. 
The subsidies take the form of tax breaks to 401(k) participants and to the companies that contribute both stock and cash to it.
"I believe subsidizing savings to promote retirement security is a good thing," Mr. Corzine said. "But subsidizing risky investments is not. If people want to risk all their investment dollars by placing all their investment in their employer, fine. But they should do it on their own dime, not the taxpayers.' "
Mr. Corzine said a cap was needed because workers at many companies, including Enron, Global Crossing, Lucent Technologies, Nortel Networks, Carter Hawley Hale and Color Tile, have had much of their retirement savings erased by drops in the price of company stock. He and Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, have proposed a 20 percent cap on how much of one company's stock can be held in a 401(k) plan.
But the idea has come under heavy fire. Corporate executives say employees should be free to buy as much stock as they want because it shows that they have faith in the company. Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao has also criticized the proposal, saying it violates a fundamental principle: freedom of choice for investors. 
"Washington shouldn't be allowed to dictate to workers how much company stock they can own," Ms. Chao said. "Arbitrary restrictions on Americans' financial choices would not be progress and would not necessarily make people's retirement savings any safer."
Even some liberal economists say a cap would be hard to carry out and might anger many shareholders. 
For example, they say, if a company develops a technological breakthrough and its stock starts to climb, many employees might use their 401(k) plans to buy more shares. Those purchases, along with the appreciation of the stock, might push employees over the 20 percent cap, forcing them to sell. This would undoubtedly generate employee complaints, the economists contend, that an intrusive government was making them miss out on the run-up in their companies' share price.
In short, critics of a cap say its supporters have taken a Big Brotherish "government knows what's bestfor you" attitude.
"In December, I received an e-mail from a constituent, James, who said, 'I have made my retirement possible by investing 100 percent of my 401(k) in Texas Instruments stock at opportune times,' " Representative Sam Johnson, Republican of Texas, said. "He really does not feel that the U.S. Congress, or anyone else in the government, should tell him that he doesn't know what he is doing."
Many companies like having employees invest a high percentage of their retirement savings in their shares because it ensures loyalty and keeps large blocks of stock in friendly hands. Some corporate lobbyists warned this week that if caps were enacted, that might discourage companies from matching employee contributions with company stock. That, the lobbyists contend, would hurt the employees that Congress wants to help.
Responding to the Enron scandal, President Bush has proposed letting employees sell stock that employers contribute to their 401(k) plan after holding it for three years. Enron barred employees from selling this stock before age 50.
But the president's plan, which has widespread Congressional support, would have limited sweep in Enron's case because it would apply to only the stock contributed by the company, which represents 11 percent of the stock held in the Enron 401(k) plan. Employees bought the other 89 percent with their 401(k) savings.
Some lawmakers and economists say another reason a cap is needed is that employers press employees to load up on company stock, in their 401(k) plans and elsewhere. At Enron and many other companies, executives repeatedly urged employees to buy company stock, telling them the shares were undervalued. At some companies, not to hold large amounts of company stock is viewed as disloyalty. 
The Employee Benefit Research Institute reports that 27 percent of workers in plans that offer the option of buying company shares have invested more than half their holdings in them. At Procter & Gamble, 94 percent of the 401(k) plan is invested in company stock and at Abbott Laboratories, 90 percent.
Mr. Corzine, a former chairman of Goldman Sachs, repeatedly points out that money managers who run defined benefit plans cannot invest more than 10 percent of the fund in any one company. "If we believe such diversification requirements are appropriate for sophisticated financial firms, why would we leave ordinary investors exposed to such inordinate risks."
But the awkwardness of enforcing caps has some supporters of diversification looking for alternatives. 
Alicia H. Munnell, an economics professor at Boston College, has proposed denying employees the option of buying company stock in 401(k) plans in which the companies' matching contribution is in employer stock. She said, "If employees want to make imprudent investments, they should have to do it outside of the subsidized pension system." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (94%); US 401K PLANS (94%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); TAX LAW (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%) LEGAL PROFESSION; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (66%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP (ENE) 

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (66%); ALU (NYSE) (66%); ALU (BIT) (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (66%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: JON CORZINE (78%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); ELAINE CHAO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002 



300 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Peace as a River 

BYLINE:  By Alexander Frater; Alexander Frater's most recent book is "Chasing the Monsoon."

 BODY:
 THE RIVER'S TALE
A Year on the Mekong.
By Edward A. Gargan.
Illustrated. 332 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $26.95.
 EDWARD A. GARGAN'S yearlong journey from the Mekong's source in Tibet to the delta region of Vietnam, where the river empties into the South China Sea, was made to better understand a continent that had obsessed him since his college days. An opponent of United States military involvement in Southeast Asia, he had refused to register for the draft and spent two years in a federal prison (a compact freely entered into; being nearly blind in one eye, he knew the Army medics would have packed him straight home). A doctorate in medieval Chinese history eventually led not to academia but to a job with The New York Times and postings as a foreign correspondent in West Africa, China, India and Hong Kong. Though placed exactly where he wanted to be, Gargan felt, after 15 peripatetic years, a need to "weave together my passion for Asia with a longing to travel at my own speed, to wander as I wished, to find a river that would pull me through Asia. . . . That river is the Mekong."
Issuing from the 16,000-foot heights of the Tibetan Plateau, the Mekong plunges south through a geological wonderland of dizzying escarpments, hanging valleys and steep gorges for a distance Chinese geographers now calculate at just over 3,000 miles. In 1998, Gargan, knowing there was "no certain trail along the Mekong . . . no boat schedules, no bus routes, indeed, sometimes no roads," set out by car from a yak pasture 70 miles from the source. Almost four months later, down on the Chinese-Burmese border, he finally got afloat.
Up to 100 million people live around the Mekong watershed, many belonging to "fractured or dying cultures . . . societies that had turned on themselves or been savaged by outsiders." In Tibet, where Beijing dismisses 1,000 years of Buddhist piety as an "invidious splittist superstition," Gargan found a loathing for China so profound it could only be matched by China's own determination to destroy every vestige of Tibet's past. But there was some hope amid the gloom; he met up with a Tibetan friend who, having opened a successful carpet shop on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, now ran a busy hotel back home.
But "The River's Tale" really gets started farther downstream. In Laos, the Mekong, after a turbulent descent of 14,393 feet, finally relaxes into a waterway suitable for shipping. Yet it would continue to taunt Gargan; ahead lay impassable falls and rapids -- and developments that virtually closed the Mekong down. The unexpected emergence of shoals one morning, for example, halted all southbound traffic for the season.
By now, Gargan had arrived in the first of the countries on his tour on which Washington had waged war. The two million tons of bombs dropped on Laos, he discovered, still defined the aims and objectives of its leadership, a cabal of weary, reclusive, secretive old Marxists whose tunnel vision had reduced their land to penury. Its currency, the battered kip, was virtually worthless, its economy derelict, it exported little but opium (though plenty of that) and offered its people lives of unremitting torpor. Thailand lay, teasingly, just across the Mekong, and foreign travelers on the river couldn't help being perplexed by the contrasting political systems on show. One bank offered busy freeways, high-rise buildings, riverfront restaurants and, after dark, an affluent, electric glow in the sky, while the other featured only "scraggles of bamboo huts on stilts" and forgotten people staring "hopelessly at the bright lights just a quarter of a mile away."
When geographical hazards didn't interrupt Gargan's journey, people and politics did. In Laos, two men hired for a 48-hour passage abandoned him at a remote hamlet. Planning to get to Cambodia by boat, he was halted by a sign "announcing that no boats went to Cambodia. Never." When Gargan made it to Cambodia and attempted a similar crossing to Vietnam, an official at a sleepy riverine border post idly leafed through his passport, then tossed it back. "No Vietnam," he said. No boat, he meant. (Gargan, accepting the inevitable, went by plane instead).
Aboard a Cambodian pirogue, he learned that the river once teemed with dolphins; then the Vietnamese invasion force arrived, set up machine guns and shot them for sport. It was a bleak reminder of what the Khmer Rouge did to its own people. Virtually everyone he met had lost loved ones. "Almost every conversation I had had pivoted on memory and mourning." In Phnom Penh, like many tourists he visited one of the killing fields, saw a skull display and bought a $2 ticket to tour an extermination center, where a blackboard still bore the instruction: "While getting lashes or electrification, you shall not cry out at all."
Paranoia lingered everywhere. "No one is really safe," a businessman told him. Rick Droz, an American making wheelchairs for amputees (and married to Punya, whose entire family had been slaughtered), spoke of "a national post-traumatic stress syndrome," and a United Nations official described Cambodia as "a country bathed in violence." While this was the pragmatic foreign view, it was left to an elderly artist to express how the Cambodians themselves felt: "In the Khmer language we say 'broken down.' " Then, anxious that Gargan should understand, he added, "people's hearts and minds are broken down."
In good travel books, the reasons for making a journey often take precedence over the journey itself. At the heart of this one lies Gargan's portrait of a Western government that, while punishing its disaffected citizens back home, pursued a campaign of "murderous" imperialism abroad. The Mekong, floating him through civilizations wrecked as a consequence, becomes a ghostly tributary that, we come to realize, also flows directly from Gargan's past. Sacrificing two years of his life for a point of principle was a brave thing to do, and his brave Asian adventure provided the reassurance he needed to find personal peace. It's a remarkable story, grittily told.
It concludes, along with the river, in Vietnam. Saigon, now called Ho Chi Minh City, where America's doomed campaign began, was, ironically, in good shape, with upbeat people and new glass-walled office towers and hotels; even the old French opera house had been scrupulously restored. And down there in the delta, almost a year out from Tibet, when a boatman ferrying him toward one the Mekong's mouths suddenly shouted "Eastern Sea!" Gargan dipped in his hand and finally tasted saltwater. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); RIVERS (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); GEOGRAPHY (71%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (65%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (61%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%); RELIGION (50%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: FRATER, ALEXANDER; GARGAN, EDWARD A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (72%) TIBET (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); VIET NAM (92%); MYANMAR (79%); HONG KONG (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%)

TITLE: RIVER'S TALE, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



301 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: THE CLOSE READER; 
Danger: Romantic Love

BYLINE:  By Judith Shulevitz 

 BODY:
Why is it so hard to commit to someone or to get someone to commit to you or, for that matter, to stay in a committed relationship? Advice to the lovelorn may seem like a frivolous subject for this book review, but consider all the brow-furrowing books that ponder these questions. Public policy analysts fret about declining marriage rates. Evolutionary psychologists posit genetic motives for philandering. Biologists, historians, economists and anthropologists -- they all have their big theses. 
 None of them, however, helps us understand love as we experience it personally. No matter how much lip service we pay to the larger sweep of biology and history and to the thought that we no more control our fates than does plankton caught in the backwash of a cruise ship, few of us will avoid entirely those long and lonesome nights in which we blame ourselves for falling out of love or not taking it when it was offered or failing to find any at all. There are only three places to look for insight into such matters: women's magazines and other platitudinous divisions of the self-help industry; fiction, which in its quest for the specific shies away from the applicable; and the frequently maligned discipline of psychoanalysis, whose practitioners are among the few trained to deal with these issues concretely, one on one, as well as abstractly, and to measure success in the most modest increments of decreased misery. 
 Stephen A. Mitchell, who died two years ago at the unripe age of 54, was a leading American psychoanalytic theorist who was also devoted to the Sisyphean task of helping patients live life more fully. (Mitchell is best known for his contributions to the field of relational psychoanalysis, which holds, contra Freud, that people are the products of an innate need to interact with others, not of impersonal drives like sex and the death wish, and that our sense of self is woven into a web of intimate relations; it is not a thing unto itself.) "Can Love Last? The Fate of Romance Over Time" is Mitchell's posthumous contribution to the effort to give greater depth and texture to daily existence. In it, he ventures to explain why we allow our love lives to grow stale and dull. His answer is blunt and a little cruel. Love, he says, doesn't fade on its own. We do our best to kill it, even when we want it to live. Particularly when we want it to live, because we can't stand how naked and unsettled deep romantic longings can make us feel.
To understand how this works, you have to understand Mitchell's psychoanalytic habit of flipping everything we take for granted onto its head. Do we feel too safe in our relationships and fantasize about something more exciting? Mitchell argues that the real fantasy is our conviction of safety, a sort of theatrical backdrop that partners jury-rig so that each may avoid what lurks behind the familiar facade of the other. Husbands believe their wives are devoted. Wives believe their husbands are dependable. Each ignores evidence to the contrary. Both act in accordance with the other's beliefs. Each, when this collusive contrivance disintegrates, exclaims, "He/she is not the person I thought he/she was!" Mitchell calls this illusory deadening "a protective degradation, a defense against the vulnerability inherent in romantic love." 
Sex? Together we do what we can to strip it of enigma and power, since without a patina of dullness it is too destabilizing to sustain, involving as it does "multiple surrenders, relinquishments of self-control . . . immersion in the sensations and rhythms of the other." Aggression? Perfectly natural. Love makes us aggressive because it makes us scared, and we respond to threat with anger. The problem arises when we channel our aggression into subtly denigrating the other, which reduces his or her power over us but also his or her allure. Idealization? A very good thing, in Mitchell's opinion. Idealization exercises both the passions and the imagination and allows us to correct our blinkered vision so as to better see the true wonder of things. 
Mitchell, in short, is more Romantic than romantic. Like some methodologizing William Wordsworth, he places his faith in the redemptive capacity of the imagination. This is another of his ways of upending conventional thought. Freud thought fantasy clouded reality. Mitchell and the post-Freudian thinkers he draws upon say that fantasy -- in the sense of allowing oneself to perceive things or people as more beautiful or valuable than other people consider them to be -- is a window into a reality beyond the walls of ordinariness, walls we have built out of necessity, certainly, but also out of a self-defeating urge to lessen the intensity of authentic experience. 
But how are we to learn to keep our wattage high enough to tolerate this somewhat alarming-sounding authenticity? Here is where Mitchell's plain-spoken style grows slightly misty. Psychoanalysis seems to be required. You'd have to have a strong sense of self to withstand life as he envisions it -- and a dose of healthy narcissism, in order to forestall the withering fear of self-dramatization that might otherwise impede an embrace of life as a grand emotional adventure. Philosophical sophistication wouldn't hurt, either. Mitchell invokes Nietzsche, who thought that to live keenly we need to grasp life's tragic fragility, and even its futility. Nietzsche's image for tragic man or woman was of one who keeps building sand castles even while aware of the incoming tide.
It is one of the charming if unintended ironies of this book that Mitchell takes as his icon Nietzsche's builder of sand castles but avoids the philosopher's dark, Germanic tone. Most of the analytic case studies offered as examples end relatively well. Cheerful, open and humane -- you'd definitely have wanted him as your analyst -- Mitchell reminds us that psychoanalysis is at heart a hopeful profession, notwithstanding its minimal guarantees. After all, no one would do what analysts do, over the course of years and with results that are impossible to measure, without a deep faith in people's ability to make themselves happier. This devotion to self-improvement may explain why psychoanalysis became so popular in the United States, even as it remained marginal in Europe.
And yet personal progress is exactly what the tragic sense of things casts into doubt. Can we really do better? Or can we just learn to put up with everyday desperation with a more generous dollop of grace? Mitchell overestimated psychoanalysis if he thought that a psychoanalytic book on love (as opposed, say, to an actual analysis) would ever help anybody. On the other hand, he was probably right when he said that consistently overestimating is the more satisfying way to live.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Grossman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); LITERATURE (77%); HISTORY (71%); BIOLOGY (71%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (56%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; LOVE (EMOTION) 

PERSON: SHULEVITZ, JUDITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: CAN LOVE LAST? THE FATE OF ROMANCE OVER TIME (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



302 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: And Bear In Mind 

 BODY:
 (Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)

RAPTURE, by Susan Minot. (Knopf, $18.) The action of this brief novel is a single act of oral sex, but its life is found in memories of a doomed affair and the thoughts of Kay and Benjamin, its partners; they know each other well, but not what is happening between them.

TEPPER ISN'T GOING OUT, by Calvin Trillin. (Random House, $22.95.) A Manhattan driver, the hero of this novel, seeks the island's best parking spaces and occupies them, sitting and reading while the meter runs; his offhand concentration makes him a kind of Zen saint and leads to a struggle with a mayor whose rage for order suggests Rudolph W. Giuliani.

THE ENGLISHMAN'S DAUGHTER: A True Story of Love and Betrayal in World War I, by Ben Macintyre. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) A remarkable excavation of an improbable incident, the concealment for 18 months by French villagers of some stranded British soldiers, one of whom fathered a local woman the author met in 1997.

LAZY B: Growing Up on a Cattle Ranch in the American Southwest, by Sandra Day O'Connor and H. Alan Day. (Random House, $24.95.) An engaging portrait, by the Supreme Court justice and her brother, of a distinctive, vanished way of life on 250 square miles without electricity or running water but plenty of grit.

JOHN MAYNARD KEYNES. Volume Three: Fighting for Freedom, 1937-1946, by Robert Skidelsky. (Viking, $34.95.) The final installment of the life of the most influential economist since Adam Smith, who gave his all in Britain's struggle for survival in World War II, negotiating finances with the United States and trying to save Britain's market economy.

SERVANTS OF THE MAP: Stories, by Andrea Barrett. (Norton, $24.95.) A collection of stories complete in themselves but linked by threads of association or neighborhood or interest or family into a kind of imaginative collaboration that covers most of the last two centuries, always inhabited by characters who share a passionate interest in trying to figure out how things work.

MRS. PAINE'S GARAGE: And the Murder of John F. Kennedy, by Thomas Mallon. (Pantheon, $22.) A journalistic inquiry into Ruth Paine, the woman who welcomed Marina Oswald -- and sometimes her husband, Lee -- into her suburban Dallas home in 1963; it offers a novel theory about the antecedents of the assassination.

10TH GRADE, by Joseph Weisberg. (Random House, $23.95.) A first novel, told in the voice and mentality of Jeremy Reskin, a high school sophomore whose perception is sometimes wasted on his ordinariness, but who renders well the supreme importance of social distinctions and the misery of teenage self-analysis.

THE LOVE OF STONES, by Tobias Hill. (Picador USA, $25.) An international thriller by a British poet, concerning a spectacular medieval jewel, a modern Englishwoman who is galloping after it as hard as she can, and two Jewish merchants who arrived in Britain long ago with gems sewn in their cloaks.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Dinah Minot Hubley; William Bodenschatz) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); WORLD WAR II (68%); WORLD WAR I (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (55%); JOHN F KENNEDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



303 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 7477 words

HEADLINE: Staying Clean 

BYLINE:  By Peggy Orenstein; Peggy Orenstein is a contributing writer for the magazine and the author of "Flux:Women on Sex, Work, Love, Kids and Life in a Half-Changed World."

 BODY:
Patrick T. is prone to citing Oscar Wilde and the physicist Michio Kaku. He's so well spoken, his manners polished to such a high gloss, that -- aside from the fact that he's been a methamphetamine addict and career criminal since age 13 whose only formal education is a high-school degree earned in juvenile detention -- he could blend easily into a gathering of witty young professionals. Certainly he is equally engaged by his work. Until recently, Patrick often earned his living robbing drug dealers and the occasional small business. "There's a lot of thought and energy that goes into getting loaded and planning a crime," he explains. "It's dramatic -- the excitement, the carefree feeling that comes when you succeed. That's not something that happens in the monotone of everyday life. That's why for me, feeding my mind and spirit will be as important as anything I do in terms of abstaining. Because if I get bored. . . . " He lets the threat hang, unspoken. 
 Patrick is 30, tall and rangy, with sandy, short-cropped hair and a neatly trimmed goatee. He and I are in the small library of Center Point, a substance-abuse treatment facility in San Rafael, Calif., about half an hour north of San Francisco, where he is enrolled in a six-month residential program. Patrick is a "retread": this is his second time through here in a year, initially in exchange for a suspended sentence on charges of possessing drugs and stolen property. He completed the program last June and got a job restoring boats in Sausalito, convinced that his own ship had finally come in. But within five weeks he had moved from swallowing pain pills for a bad back to downing a couple of beers with his older brother. Then he started lighting up a few joints. In less than two months, he headed to San Francisco on a meth binge. He had planned to stay high until his money ran out, he was arrested for violating probation or he died. But one night, holed up in a transient hotel with an old crime partner and a prostitute, Patrick had a revelation. "I was suddenly disgusted with the whole scene," he recalls. "I had this thought -- or this thought was given to me -- that I just couldn't do it anymore. I just couldn't." He called Center Point and said he needed help. Within 24 hours he was back. 
 As Patrick talks, members of "the family," as the 40 clients here call one another, drift in and out, browsing through the self-help books that line one of the room's walls or -- since the program frowns on privacy -- listening to our conversation. A disheveled heroin addict who has been through six treatment programs in 11 years comes in to sharpen a pencil. After he leaves, Patrick says, "What scares me are people like him, who are intelligent. That can be one of the biggest obstacles. You substitute intellectual understanding for actual change." 
I ask Patrick what odds he gives himself this round for staying off drugs. "Fifty-fifty at best," he says, evenly. "But anyone who'd give their chances as being any better than that is practicing self-deception."
Patrick is one of thousands of addicts in this country who are doing exactly what the new conventional wisdom says they should: going through treatment and probation rather than jail (or in exchange for a lighter sentence) with the promise of a better outcome. It's the latest salvo in America's other war -- the one on drugs -- which many would acknowledge we've been losing for years. Consider: The federal government spends about two-thirds of its $19.2 billion drug budget on law enforcement and interdiction. A result has been a skyrocketing prison population -- it has tripled in the last two decades -- with at least 60 percent of inmates reporting a history of substance abuse. The cost of warehousing nonviolent drug offenders is more than twice as great as treating them. Meanwhile, a study by the RAND corporation's drug-policy center found that for every dollar spent on treatment, taxpayers save more than seven in other services, largely through reduced crime and medical fees and increased productivity. A visit to the emergency room, for instance, costs as much as a month in rehab, and more than 70,000 heroin addicts are admitted to E.R.'s annually. 
Those facts, along with an enormously successful campaign by the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) to portray addiction as a disease rather than a moral weakness, have already persuaded Californians and Arizonans to pass voter initiatives requiring nonviolent drug offenders to be offered treatment with probation in lieu of jail. Similar measures are being targeted for November ballots in Michigan, Florida and Ohio. By 2003, systemic changes in the New York courts are expected to divert 10,000 nonviolent drug addicts to rehab annually. And Senators Barbara Boxer and Orrin G. Hatch, hardly ideological soul mates, have proposed bills to increase federal funds for treatment, although they differ considerably in details.
As the call to treat drug offenders grows -- an ABC News poll showed that more than two-thirds of Americans favor treatment over jail for first- and second-time offenses -- one of the thorniest questions will be how to define success. Because the truth is, Patrick's estimation of his own chances is about right. Center Point, which was established in 1971, runs one of the oldest and largest treatment networks in California and has what are considered excellent success rates. Still, one-third of its clients leave without completing the program, even if that means going directly to jail. Nationally, dropping out of treatment is the rule. Among those who do finish, few maintain the gold standard of total abstinence for long: a Congressionally mandated study showed that more than half of cocaine addicts and nearly two-thirds of those addicted to both heroin and cocaine were using drugs within a year. 
Center Point's adult program house sits at the nexus of the business and residential districts in downtown San Rafael. Bland, dorm-style bedrooms line three halls, each room containing two single beds, two dressers, two night stands, two lamps. Out back, beyond the TV room (which is off-limits most of the time), there is a concrete slab for smoking breaks. Clients spend much of their day in a large central room that, depending on the configuration of chairs and folding tables, serves as dining room, therapy space or study hall. Its only decor are two small handmade signs: One reads, "And the day came when the need to remain closed became more painful than the risk to open." The other, the map of a land called re-entry, highlights the Ten Concepts -- initiative, effort, completion, etc. -- that are the backbone of Center Point's program, the precepts upon which clients are supposed to build their new lives.
The 40 family members file in and sit silently in a circle on straight-backed chairs. They are mostly white and mostly male, many with prison tattoos covering their forearms. Most are in their 30's, which is typical in treatment. They place their hands in their laps, feet on the floor, and look straight ahead in what is called "group protocol." When anyone deviates, a brother or sister corrects him. He may not talk back. When anyone deviates, a brother or sister corrects him. Women and men sit on opposite sides of the room and may not speak unchaperoned. When anyone deviates, a brother or sister corrects him.
Strict adherence to what to an outsider can sometimes seem like arbitrary rules is integral to the therapeutic-community method: a self-help-based approach to addiction that most of the large drug-treatment franchises employ. At the heart of the method is the belief that daily interactions within the family -- a kind of round-the-clock peer pressure -- are the main agent of change. Drug use is viewed as symptomatic of a "whole person" disorder. If, through resocialization, an individual's attitudes, values and lifestyle are transformed, the addiction will take care of itself. Governing everything from how long clients can shower to what they can drink (no coffee, for example), the rules are supposed to instill self-control and provide structure for those who may never have had it. The idea is that if you sweat the small stuff, the big stuff, like not stealing or not using drugs, will follow. 
Instilling a work ethic is also essential to a therapeutic community. Everyone helps maintain the house, doing laundry, cooking, cleaning. New clients are assigned a "big brother" or "big sister" who accompanies them everywhere, even to the bathroom. As they participate in the family, write essays exploring such issues as their attraction to drugs, memorize the Concepts and generally behave themselves, they move up in "status," earning rewards that are both tangible and affirming, like receiving mail. After three months, clients ease into the real world by finding a full-time job, some for the first time. After six, they either move to transitional housing or home, cautioned to attend "continuing care" or 12-step meetings for at least a half-year. 
Each day at Center Point is punctuated by group therapy sessions guided by a counselor, in which a client brings up an issue -- past sexual abuse, a craving for drugs -- and the rest of the family responds, sometimes bluntly, with opinions and advice. The feedback is supposed to break through calcified defenses and challenge ingrained thinking, helping clients recognize the need for change. 
Today is "grief and loss" group, and Micky Wickersham, a blond, ponytailed counselor who is leading the session, asks Sharon A., 32, if she has anything to share. Sharon is addicted to a volatile combination of meth and pain pills. She was ordered to treatment by the Child Protection Program under the threat of losing her 23-month-old daughter. (She also has an 8-year-old son.)
"I'm drawing a blank," Sharon responds, smiling appeasingly. 
Wickersham, a 33-year-old recovering alcoholic and meth addict herself, eyes Sharon, who has been here for several weeks sliding by, evading attention. Like most clients, Sharon resists kicking up the murk of an unhappy life. It's time to give her a little push. 
"No problem," the counselor says, turning to the family for inspiration. Hands shoot up. One brother tells Sharon that she acts detached from her own experience, as if it happened to someone else. A sister begs her to "open up" for her own sake, then bursts into tears. "Let us help you, Sharon," she says. 
Patrick goes on the attack. "You want to put things out in a pretty package so everything will sound good," he snaps. "Forget sounding good. Sound real."
Wickersham lets that thought hang for a moment. "We could unwrap that pretty package right now," she says, sweetly ominous. "Do you know what it looks like on the outside?" 
Sharon shakes her head almost imperceptibly, looking dazed. 
"You like to present yourself as a middle-class white woman with a little drug and alcohol problem who some stuff happened to and now you're here to get your life back."
"No," Sharon says softly. "I don't mean to."
"Do you know what's inside that box?"
Sharon shakes her head again.
"Because I'm going to tell you," Wickersham continues. "You are a homeless dope fiend with no education who chose drugs over your kids." 
Wickersham goes on to say Sharon could become the woman she pretends to be by dedicating herself to the program. She could take advantage of Center Point's G.E.D. tutoring and vocational training. She could learn a new values system. She could get her children back. "Do you want this program?" Wickersham asks.
"Yes," Sharon says.
"Let me hear you say it."
"I want this program." 
"Again."
"I want this program."
"Choose four men and four women," Wickersham says. "Look into their eyes and say, 'I need your help because I want this program.' " 
Sharon steps across the circle to a brother who is addicted to crack and meth. "I need your help because I want this program," she says softly.
"Sharon, I need your help because I want this program," he replies.
She moves on to three more men, then to the women, who cry and hug her. Finally Sharon stands before Wickersham, unexpectedly grabs the counselor by both hands and yanks her to her feet. "I need your help because I want this program," she says, a tear rolling down her cheek. 
It's a poignant, triumphant moment. Sharon has admitted her problem. She has allied herself with the group. She has bonded with her counselor. And she has been offered hope that, with diligence, she can turn her life around. On other visits, I would watch a prison-hardened man weep like a little boy over the death of his father. I'd witness a woman mourn over neglecting her children. I'd listen to a brother grieve years of molestation by a coach. The family would confront or cajole, console or criticize. As moving as it all was, I wondered: can such catharsis, or even a series of them, keep an addict clean? 
"Of course it can't," says Sushma D. Taylor, a clinical psychologist and Center Point's C.E.O. "But they're related. Our clients are seeking emotional sanctuary, especially the many who have suffered abuse. The only way you can grieve the things that have been done to you is to cry in a place where you know the tears are going to get mopped up and somebody is going to put you back together and say we love you, where no matter how ugly the past is, it can be viewed within the context of being a therapeutic issue." Realistically, the groups can't resolve past traumas in six months, Taylor says. They are just a step toward self-awareness, toward learning healthier ways of coping with pain.
Later, when Sharon is cleaning the bathrooms, I ask her how the attention felt. "I wanted to hide in a corner while it was happening," she says. "But afterward I felt exhilarated. It really did feel like something had lifted off of me." She sighs. "I still fear I won't be able to open up, though. They say doing jail time is easier than treatment, and I think that's true. This is not easy."
In July, when California enacted Proposition 36, which diverts drug offenders to a variety of treatment programs (depending on availability), Mike T. was just the sort of addict whom the public had in mind. He is affable, nonviolent and employable, and he has never been in treatment. Mike pleaded guilty to possession and has one other charge pending -- he tried to draw on a forged check at a bank, a crime largely influenced by his drug use. 
Mike is a natural athlete, a former ski instructor, but two years of daily methamphetamine use has ravaged his body and destroyed his stamina. While other members of the family play basketball in a nearby park, he takes a break on the sidelines. It's a rare time outdoors, an hour away from the relentlessness of 40 personalities rubbing up against one another in the cramped public rooms of the house. 
Mike is dressed for the game in sweat pants with an American-flag motif. Other days, he sports an Old Glory T-shirt or tie. The patriotism is a legacy of his father, a retired Air Force colonel who considers addiction "a weakness." Mike's not sure what he thinks. As a teenager he watched his mother drinking herself to death. He used to water down her wine, but, he says, "she always caught me, and it just made things worse." 
Mike's own drug use started, as did nearly everyone's in the family, in junior high. He was a pothead, a party boy who added cocaine to his repertory in high school. In his 20's, he switched to methamphetamine (also called crystal meth, ice or crank), a cheaper, longer-lasting and easily made form of speed that has swept the West and Midwest and is quickly moving across the country; it's the dominant drug at Center Point. Meth can be snorted, shot or smoked. At first, Mike says, the draw was the extra staying power during sex. Eventually, though, he was doing several "blasts" a day. A college dropout, he supported himself when he could by trimming trees or working construction. When he was on a run, he'd rely on unemployment, petty dealing, cashing bad checks and mooching off friends. By the time he was arrested in August for a small-time sale (a charge that was later knocked down to possession), his family had cut him off financially. He lost his apartment, hocked all his belongings and was living in his truck. 
Mike says he feels "blessed" by the opportunity he has been given, both because he has avoided prison, the threat of which terrifies him, and because it has helped him kick meth. "Meth did nothing but destroy me physically, mentally, emotionally, the whole nine yards," he says. 
Even so, Mike won't rule out going back on the drug once he's off probation ("Aug. 31, 2004," he repeats like a mantra). "I know myself well enough to know I may use," he says. "I don't know for sure. I like the lifestyle I'm living now. I look forward to getting something better than what I have in life. But who's to say what will happen?" 
To be a drug addict is to engage in a perpetual internal dialogue about whether you truly have a problem, whether you really belong in treatment. While acknowledging his meth addiction, for instance, Mike doesn't see why he should stop his daily marijuana use -- even though smoking pot after treatment triples the chances of a return to harder drugs. "So every day I ask myself: am I wasting a seat here? Is there somebody that needs to be here to save their life, who is sick and tired of what they're doing and wants to get help? Because part of me says: I'm 34 years old and I'm healthy and if my choice is to smoke my pot and use drugs, then that's what I'm going to do." 
Mike often suggests that he'll leave Center Point, that he'll head up to Tahoe and get a job on the ski slopes. Of course, the more likely result of walking away is jail. "I know," he says, his eyes skimming the action on the basketball court. "In my heart I know I have to stay. If I walked out of here now I'd go right back to where I was. I'd end up living in the back of my truck." He turns toward me, leaning forward intently. "But I still think about how to get high every day. And that's the part of my addiction that eats me alive." 
A few days later, Mike stops me in the hallway, asking me to define addiction. Maybe, he says, his father is right and it's simply a failure of will. "I didn't smoke pot until I was 12," he reasons. "I had a choice then. And I still have a choice every day. So what does 'addiction' mean?"
He has every reason to be confused. Is addiction a spiritual disease? A physiological illness? A character flaw? A sin? Genetics, in part, explain why, when two people who are equally curious first try a mood-altering drug, one walks away with a shrug and the other finds salvation. But environment plays a role as well: economic disadvantage and family dysfunction can drive the need to self-medicate (according to NIDA, an arm of the National Institutes of Health, there are actually 72 separate risk factors for drug abuse). Hanging around druggie friends has an impact, too, as does boredom. 
Drug use, of course, is not the same as addiction. The former is clearly a choice. But over the last decade, scientists have begun to see the latter as something else: a chronic, relapsing brain disease. At some point (when, precisely, is unclear) the neurochemistry and receptor sites of a user's brain change radically, causing drug-seeking to become as biologically driven as hunger, sex or breathing. Long after the addict quits, some of those brain changes remain, creating a vulnerability to relapse. The implications for the criminal-justice system are profound, reinforcing the need for treatment: it would be ineffective, not to mention inhumane, simply to punish someone for an illness without helping to heal him. 
Some researchers, however, call the brain-disease model little more than a gimmick, one that undercuts the role of choice and personal accountability. "I'm not disputing the fact that certain areas of the brain light up when an addict thinks about or uses cocaine," says Sally Satel, staff psychiatrist at the Oasis Drug Treatment Clinic in Washington and a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. "But it conveys the message that addiction is as biological a condition as Multiple Sclerosis. True brain diseases have no volitional component."
Casting addiction as a brain disease rather than a behavioral disorder, Satel says, gives addicts an easy excuse for relapse. It also suggests that the remedy is primarily pharmacological, which has not, so far, proved true. "The search for a magic-bullet cocaine vaccine has been under way for 10 years, and I'm skeptical anything will come of it," she says. "The only way to get better is to harness free will. Ask any addict; they'll tell you." 
Alan I. Leshner, under whose leadership NIDA aggressively promoted the brain-disease concept, agrees that addicts should not be let off the hook. "The danger in calling addiction a brain disease is people think that makes you a hapless victim," he says. "But it doesn't. For one thing, since it begins with a voluntary behavior, you do, in effect, give it to yourself." 
Nor does biology trump responsibility. "Just like any other disease, you have to participate in your own treatment and recovery," he says. Still, he doesn't like the moral tenor of Satel's argument. "What about people with high cholesterol who keep eating French fries? Do we say a disease is not biological because it's influenced by behavior? No one starts out hoping to become an addict; they just like drugs. No one starts out hoping for a heart attack; they just like fried chicken. How much energy and anger do we want to waste on the fact that people gave it to themselves? It can be a brain disease and you can have given it to yourself and you personally have to do something about treating it."
In art therapy the clients are drawing one of the five elements in pastels, after which they will explain their choice to the group. Patrick is halfheartedly crayoning the ocean while describing the sculptures he used to make in jail from bits of leftover soap. "My proudest achievement was a giant Oakland Raiders emblem," he says, holding his hands about a foot apart, "with big letters that said 'Commitment to Excellence.' " 
Patrick refers to himself as "institutionalized": he has spent so much time in prison that the prospect is no longer a deterrent. "I'm comfortable there," he explains. Patrick is pretty comfortable at Center Point too, perhaps too much so. He volunteers to speak in every group (though maybe because of that, he is rarely called on). He follows the rules meticulously and reprimands anyone he finds slacking. A few brothers call him "Center Pat" behind his back, saying he has just perfected rehab: once he leaves he'll surely relapse. 
Patrick is determined not to let that happen. "Last time I didn't extend myself," he explains. "I participated just enough to not be confronted by a counselor. And behind the scenes I ran my own deal. I got someone to sneak coffee into the house for me every day. I didn't respect 'quiet time.' And those little things got bigger and bigger. 
"Honestly, a lot of the rules are petty, and I'd still just as soon not follow them," he continues. "But we agree to do that when we come here. Learning to keep that agreement, learning not to do what it is we feel like doing, those are important things. I don't want to be quiet. I don't want to not drink coffee. I don't want to do many of the things asked of us here." He shrugs. "But then, what I want to do has often times proven not to work." 
Responsibility. Self-worth. Community. Those are the things Patrick hopes to cultivate this round. That last piece is critical to any addict's treatment. Familiar cues -- smells, places, people -- can have a Pavlovian effect: a heroin addict who has been clean five years in prison may vomit on the ride home as the bus passes old haunts, instinctively anticipating a fix. An addict's best bet is to change environments entirely, but for Patrick, as for anyone, ditching old pals is painful, even frightening. "I have a history and fun memories of using with my friends," Patrick says. "I don't have a good sense of who I am outside drugs. I don't have much experience with real life."
Later, during an evening therapy group, a middle-aged meth addict who is about to complete the program and move to transitional housing discusses the daily obstacle course of temptation he navigates on his way to work at a nearby supermarket. "I see the dope fiends, and I can smell it on them," he says. "It reminds me of old times, of making dope, using dope. I have heavy triggers. Any kind of chemical smell. At work I'm fortunate; I don't have any of those smells. But I've seen dope on the sidewalk and didn't mess with it. Or people leave their keys in their vehicles. One guy had one of those restored cars from the 50's with fins -- he left the keys in and the motor running while he ran into the market. I'm a dope fiend. I have sleazy thoughts. But I don't act on them. I carry the Ten Concepts in my pocket, and I read them in the street. That's how I work my way through it." 
Dennis Labogin, the program manager who is leading the group, smiles. "Eleven years later I can still spot the perfect robbery," he says. "That's who we are. No matter where we are these thoughts will drag us down. And the only people who will understand is us." 
Not all people with a drug or alcohol problem will self-destruct the way Patrick and Mike and Sharon did. In fact many, like President George W. Bush, will quit spontaneously before their lives unravel. Others do well (at less taxpayer expense than treatment) on probation with contingencies: rewards for abstinence and sanctions for testing positive for drugs. Those tend to be lighter-weight users with more to lose. Have they not yet contracted the brain disease? Or has it not progressed as far? Or, as Satel might say, have they merely harnessed their free will?
Both sides of the brain-disease debate agree on one thing: a significant subset of addicts do need help, which jail alone can't provide. "I'd be happy with incarceration if it were effective," says A. Thomas McLellan, director of the Treatment Research Institute and professor of psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania. "Here's what happens now. They go to jail. Why? They've broken the law, and we're going to teach them a lesson. They'll realize it's bad, and they'll stop. Then they leave jail and go into the parole system. The parole officer has a caseload of up to 1,000 people. The individual is not monitored or only monitored briefly. And, anyway, he was supposed to have learned his lesson. What happens is relapse." McLellan and James W. Cornish undertook a study comparing punishment in conjunction with treatment to stricter punish without treatment, to see which was more effective in reducing crime. They found that opiate addicts who were forced to increase the number of times they met with their probation officers were twice as likely to be rearrested or reincarcerated within a year as those who received only standard probation but with therapy and naltrexone, a drug that blocks their high.
The question remains, however: Just how effective is rehab? The treatment system, which evolved as a piecemeal, grass roots movement, has been subject more to faith than to scrutiny. In many states, like California, the rehab industry remains largely unregulated, with lax licensure and few standards for quality or effectiveness. Since conventional wisdom blames the addict for his relapse, if the courts are involved only the addict is sanctioned: judges rarely ask whether programs delivered the services promised.
As public interest in treatment grows, though, researchers have been taking a closer look at traditional methods to tease out the strengths and limits. "For many counselors the litmus test of good treatment is whether you can get the patient to cry," says Richard Rawson, associate director of the Integrated Substance Abuse Programs at U.C.L.A. "If you look at the data, there's not a lot to support a causal relationship between talking about feelings and not using drugs and alcohol. I'm not suggesting it should be ignored. Having a safe place to process that material is an important element. It's the other half of the equation: 'O.K., so we've done therapy. What do I do next?' " 
One answer, Rawson says, is to incorporate techniques that have been proved in clinical trials. Medications like naltrexone, along with with counseling, work well with heroin addicts. Meth and cocaine addicts, particularly males, respond to cognitive behavior therapy. Used primarily in outpatient programs, cognitive therapy does not focus much on the psychological causes of addiction. Instead, therapists act more like coaches, teaching addicts why they develop cravings and working on coping skills, like planning in microscopic detail how to get from today until Wednesday without using. For less severe addicts motivational enhancement therapy peels away resistance to change through positive reinforcement rather than confronting an addict with his denial. 
Those methods are slow to gain ground in a field wary of outside intervention. Counselors -- whose only qualification is often that they, too, are in recovery -- resist replacing entrenched, it-worked-for-me ideology. Consider the maxim that an addict has to be "ready" for treatment, that he has to "hit bottom." That idea gives providers a free pass when rehab fails. It's also a myth: addicts forced into treatment by the courts do surprisingly well. Apparently if you lead a horse to rehab he may indeed quit drinking. 
Beyond that, the newer remedies require extensive training. Though a counselor like Micky seems especially dedicated (and Center Point does integrate some science-based methods into its programs), nationally, the turnover rate among counselors is an estimated 50 percent. And with starting salaries around $18,000, the applicant pool is limited. "In many places you can work at McDonald's one day and be a drug counselor the next," Rawson says. "People you do train tend to go on to something else as soon as they get some skills. It's hard to develop a cadre of skilled people in those conditions." 
Another factor in successful rehab is matching a given addict to the program and services that will make him stick. Each approach will work for some, but none for all: the therapeutic community that clicks with a homeless crack addict who suffers from post-traumatic stress may not be appropriate for a medical resident who can't stop dipping into the morphine. With long waiting lists for treatment slots and pressure on programs, which are paid per client, to take whoever walks in the door, that has not been an easy task. 
While improving all these aspects of treatment may well lead to better outcomes, according to a study of more than 10,000 addicts in 96 programs, the single most important factor (assuming a program is well run) is the length of time an addict stays in it. And 90 days -- not the managed-care-driven 28 or the brief 3-to-5-day detox that is the most common "treatment" in many cities -- was the minimum for enduring benefits to manifest. 
Little of this was taken into account by California's Proposition 36. The state's 58 counties are applying the law in virtually 58 different ways. Since each county can decide how to allocate its funds among direct services, administrative costs and probation departments, some are still emphasizing punishment over treatment. Either way, while the $660 million over five and a half years is the state's biggest infusion of cash into treatment, it isn't enough to cover the cost of long-term care for all who will need it, whether for day or residential programs. 
Although it's too early to predict how the experiment will play out, even the staunchest supporters of treatment are skeptical, particularly as other states prepare to follow California's lead. "There is promise here," says M. Douglas Anglin, co-director of the U.C.L.A. Drug Abuse Research Center, a node of the National Drug Abuse Clinical Trials Network. "But there are also fears about a possible quagmire. The voters rammed Prop 36 down the throat of all the agencies involved. And at the end of it all, we may find no reduction in drug use or crime, and that treatment was received by fewer than intended and for a shorter period than intended. It will look like treatment doesn't work."
At lunch, most of the men reflexively hunch over their plates, left arm slung around the top, shoveling in their food as if they're in prison. Mike, who works in the kitchen, stands at the front of the room wearing a paper hat on which he has written "Sinbad" in Magic Marker. I sit at a women's table with Sharon. It is "dress for success" day, so she's wearing a long flowered skirt, green sweater and elegant black heels, all salvaged from a local donations bin. Despite years of drug abuse and personal neglect, Sharon is a beauty with an easy smile. She's a caretaker too -- always concerned about whether I've had enough to eat or how far I have to drive after a long day of reporting -- but the brothers and sisters are right: she has the disconnected quality of someone who is treading water against a rising tide of panic. She speaks quickly, her words slurring together, and tends to finish her statements by asking, "Does that make any sense?" 
Sharon doesn't remember most of her past, but what she does recall is a shattering pastiche of rape, abuse and violence. Like Mike, she was homeless when she arrived at Center Point; since dropping out of school in eighth grade the closest she has come to having a legitimate job was when she provided in-home service for her elderly mother, a position she was relieved of when it was discovered she was filching pain pills. She is currently studying the Ten Concepts. It's no surprise that she's stuck on Trusting and Support. "They make no sense to me at all," she says. 
About half as many women as men enter treatment, but the ones who do are more than twice as likely to have additional mental disorders like anxiety, depression or post-traumatic-stress disorder. Though estimates vary, perhaps as many as two-thirds, like Sharon, were raped or molested before substance abuse. At least half have been victims of domestic violence. Because victims of such traumas are more likely to become addicts, and because, according to the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse, addicts are more likely to abuse and neglect their children, breaking the cycle among that population takes on particular urgency. Yet women, perhaps in response to the aggressive, male-dominated nature of many programs, drop out of treatment at far higher rates than men. Most of the women at Center Point are in a separate, single-sex program with their small children. The seven in this house are either childless or have grown children, or their kids live with relatives. For that latter group, regaining custody is a preoccupation. One of Sharon's table mates shows me three marbles she carries with her: a clear blue one to represent her son, a green one representing her daughter and a clear marble for the mother she would like to become.
Sharon's children are currently with their fathers. Her daughter's dad is also an addict, in a day program in another town. Her son's father is clean. As much as she wants to set a better example for her kids, Sharon would never have quit using drugs on her own: she likes, and needs, to be loaded too much. Even so, she's indignant over her predicament. She talks about leaving treatment to be with her daughter. But to be with her daughter, she needs to stay in treatment.
Micky Wickersham, Sharon's counselor and a mother herself, had told me that the hardest thing for a female addict is to admit she has been a bad mother. Sharon is no exception, arguing with herself over what constitutes child abuse. "I love my children," she insists. "I've never done any of the stuff my mom did to us. I would never even conceive of doing that to a child. I wouldn't beat them. So in my eyes, I don't feel like I was a bad mother." She pauses a moment, considering. "But granted, there was drugs. I understand that. There was the drugs. But. . . . " She breaks off again, looking at me helplessly. "Does that make any sense?"
Sometimes Patrick's dreams seem locked in the amber of adolescence. He imagines being an actor someday or maybe a drummer. Other times, his goals are more practical. He'd like to be a good father to his 10-month-old daughter, a good partner to his girlfriend (who has been clean for more than three years). He'd like to go to college. He also fears that he is programmed for failure. "You know, everyone falls," he told me. "And some people don't get back up. It scares me to think that I wouldn't be able to stand up again. It wasn't easy for me to come back here. If I had to make that choice again, it would be harder still. I feel awfully concerned about that."
On this night, however, Patrick is optimistic. He's about to move up in the family hierarchy, gaining freedom and privileges. Labogin is supposed to quiz him on one of the Ten Concepts, but instead Patrick opts to recite them all. He closes his eyes and begins. "Empathy," he says. "The ability to imagine how others feel." 
I glance around the room. Some of the brothers and sisters are leaning forward, eyes shut in concentration, whispering the words along with Patrick. Others, like Mike, stare straight ahead in silence. I wonder whether Mike will experience the epiphany in treatment that will allow him to make more permanent change. Or whether probation and the threat of random urine tests will, in fact, keep him clean until 2004. Maybe the day he's a free man he'll celebrate by lighting up a fatty. Then a week, a month, a year later, break out the crank. Or maybe, just maybe, he'll discover he likes looking at life without the scrim of a ganja buzz. Maybe Sharon will get clean for her kids -- or for herself -- and stay sober, at least for a while. Maybe Patrick will last four months this time or a year or 10 years. Or maybe staying clean in treatment is, for the moment, all he can manage. And though on the surface this may look discouraging, the opposite is true. Failure, even serial failure, can actually be a form of success.
Though among heavy users, some will go through treatment once and remain clean indefinitely, most will cycle through repeatedly, just as some smokers need multiple tries to kick cigarettes or dieters try over and over to slim down. "Treatment catches up with you," says U.C.L.A.'s Douglas Anglin. "For heroin users with a five-year history of addiction, it may take 10 or 15 years to help them come out of it, but if you start when they're 25, by the time they're 40 they're pretty much rehabbed. If you don't, most of them burn out by 40, but they don't get clear until 55 or 60." 
Perhaps the epiphany Patrick experienced during his last binge in San Francisco, the one that may have saved his life, was a direct result of his last round of treatment. He thinks so. "I couldn't even enjoy being high with a pocketful of money," he recalls. "I hope I never forget how demoralized I felt." 
Or, as another brother who has been through treatment three times and is addicted to meth, crack and alcohol puts it, "All that recovery information ruins your high totally and completely. It's a conflict of interests to have that understanding and use." 
If treatment is conceived of as an ongoing process rather than as a cure, a different, more optimistic notion of success emerges. Although addicts may relapse, a year after treatment their drug use decreases by 50 percent, according to the National Treatment Improvement Evaluation Study, and their illegal activity drops as much as 80 percent. They are also less likely than before to engage in high-risk sexual behavior or to require emergency room care. Other studies have shown that they are less likely to be on welfare, and that their mental health improves. 
For chronic addicts like many of those at Center Point, it may be that treatment should never entirely end; it should just be tapered down. "You don't let a schizophrenic out of case management," argues the University of Pennsylvania's Thomas McLellan. "Your expectation is that there will be a relapse if they leave. Good practice would be to continue to monitor and support that person to see early signs of intensification. At that point you intensify treatment not to 'cure' but allow them to remain in a state that maintains them and doesn't have an impact on society." 
Perhaps, then, Patrick clean, even for just the six months he's in a program, and Mike clean for three years, and Sharon clean for as long as the Child Protection Program breathes down her neck -- or even Patrick, Mike and Sharon returning to treatment two, three, five times -- while not optimal, may, for now, be good enough. If, that is, during that time they cost the taxpayers less, they work and pay taxes themselves and they do less harm to society, themselves and their children than they otherwise would have. Even as researchers push for reform in the system, that perspective may be the most pragmatic. "We expect too much from treatment," McLellan says. "The relapse rates are about the same as for hypertension, diabetes, asthma or any other chronic illness. At the same time, we're not asking the right questions. Treatment providers and researchers have been focused on whether someone uses drugs or alcohol after treatment. I don't care if you drink. I don't care if you use drugs. I do care if you're honest and not stealing from your employer or driving drunk or stealing from cash machines." 
On a late January evening, I visit Patrick, but not at Center Point. He left the treatment center on Thanksgiving Day, less than two months into his program. After accusing a young counselor (who eventually left) of abusing power, Patrick became the focus of rumors and suspicion himself. Nor was he entirely innocent: he had manipulated the counselor into sneaking him out of the house -- a major taboo. As punishment, Patrick was assigned a series of essays on topics like criminal thinking; for two weeks, he also had to rise at 6:30 and clean the house. In the end, though, it was a petty argument that undid him: he threatened to pound another client, then stormed out of treatment. By the time he cooled down, it was too late to return; invoking violence is an unpardonable offense. 
At that moment, I would have put Patrick's odds of staying clean at around zero, but he surprised me. He went home to his girlfriend's, and he didn't use. When he was tempted by the wine at her family's holiday dinner, he left and went to an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting. Some friends from his first round at Center Point were there and helped him through; they still visit him regularly.
Since the suspension of Patrick's jail sentence was contingent on his remaining in treatment (followed by six months of modified house arrest), after Thanksgiving he turned himself in. He is now serving three months at the county jail, where he requested placement in an in-house therapeutic community. "A better man would've stayed at Center Point," he says, looking stockier in his prison blues, the muscles of his face strung tight. "I didn't. I made a bad choice in leaving. But I realized that this time, I didn't have to keep on making bad choices."
Patrick may have jumped, but through a combination of his own motivation and a multilayered local treatment network, he fell right into a safety net. Jailhouse therapeutic communities have a lousy track record -- their recidivism rates are similar to incarceration alone. Unless, that is, they have a continuing care program. Patrick's does. After his release, he expects to enroll in it, to attend daily A.A. meetings, to find a pro bono therapist and embed himself in a clean and sober community. He already has a job lined up with a tree-trimming service and plans to look into grants for college. Those are exactly the steps experts would recommend for him. Still, he's uneasy. As a result of his free weekend, he and his girlfriend are expecting a second child. He worries that the pressures of fatherhood will overwhelm him. "I'm desperately scared about that," he admits. 
All along the Plexiglas between us, people have carved their names, striking a blow against anonymity, announcing that they were here and are now . . . where? I study Patrick through the scratched pane and ask him one more time: How does he rate his chances of staying clean? "The same as they were when we first met," he replies. "About even." Then he smiles slightly and corrects himself. "Well, maybe now they're better than even." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: While Sharon is in rehab, a photo is as close as she can get to her daughter.; "Family" gathering: The morning group therapy session at Center Point.; After Patrick bailed out of rehab, he landed in jail. (Larry Sultan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); SENTENCING (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (77%); PROBATION (77%); LARCENY & THEFT (77%); METHAMPHETAMINE (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); JUVENILE CRIME (77%); HEROIN (72%); ARRESTS (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (71%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; THERAPY AND REHABILITATION 

PERSON: ORENSTEIN, PEGGY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



304 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Put Passengers On Forced Diets 

BYLINE:  By MARK BITTMAN with SUSAN CATTO; MARK BITTMAN writes for the Dining section of The Times. SUSAN CATTO contributes to The Times from Toronto.

 BODY:
FEW people go six or eight hours between meals without a substantial snack, but it has become a not uncommon occurrence on a day involving domestic air travel of significant distance. For in the weeks following Sept. 11, most major airlines drastically scaled back meal service, especially on routes they consider noncompetitive. 
 The most common change is that short-haul flights, those spending less than four hours in the air, do not include a meal in coach class. (Sometimes, meals are served in first or business class while only drinks and snacks are served in coach.) Thus a flight from Miami or even San Juan to New York or Boston may offer no more than pretzels and drinks, though the time from when a traveler leaves home to when he throws down a suitcase on a bed may easily be eight hours. 
 Even a relatively short flight, two hours or so, can leave you without real food unless you plan. Last month, I left my home in southern Connecticut at 11:30 a.m. for a Delta flight to Cincinnati from Bradley International Airport, near Hartford. It was scheduled to leave at 1:30 p.m. I entered the terminal just after 12:30 thinking I would have time to grab a sandwich. 
But check-in took 15 minutes and security another 20; I arrived at the gate just before the scheduled boarding time, only to find that the flight had been delayed a half-hour because of bad weather in the South, where the plane was coming from. The only snack bar in the vicinity, however had a line of more than 20 people. So I sat, assuming that the first-class seat I had upgraded to using frequent flier awards would entitle me to a sandwich, at least. 
The flight boarded after 2, and did not take off for at least another half-hour. At 3:30, I drank some water, and ate two half-ounce bags of pretzels that the flight attendant handed out (I had to ask for the second). I arrived at the gate in Cincinnati after 4:30, more than five hours after leaving home.
Even when meals are served, and even in the front of the plane, cuts have made the food less appealing to some. 
"I flew from San Francisco to Chicago last week," said Geoffrey Drummond, an independent TV producer, "on a United flight leaving at 7. Not long ago, this flight served nicely prepared eggs and a good side plate of fruit. On this one, I got a plastic peel-off box of cereal and a roll." 
Things can be even worse with connections: a friend who flew from La Guardia to Las Vegas via Pittsburgh last month was served only pretzels and drinks on both flights. The airline might have assumed that she would eat in Pittsburgh, but there was simply no time between connections. Her trip, door to door, took eight hours. 
Because most travelers are arriving at airports earlier and because there is more choice in concessions than ever before, it might be argued that airplane food is less important than it once was. But as any frequent flier will tell you, early arrival does not necessarily mean a leisurely stroll through the terminal. And unlike when you could expect at least a snack on nearly all flights, now you can't count on anything. 
A good indicator of the preponderance of the cuts is that the country's two largest catering companies, LSG Sky Chiefs and Gate Gourmet, each laid off or furloughed about 30 percent of its employees after Sept. 11, and they have not rehired them. 
Of the six largest airlines, only Continental has not reduced its food offerings. On a recent 3-hour-9-minute flight from Houston to La Guardia, for example, Continental served a warm chicken sandwich, chips, an apple and a chocolate candy. 
The other airlines have gone from eliminating meals on flights shorter than four hours (two hours for first-class passengers) to serving "bistro" or "basket" meals -- a sandwich, piece of fruit and a cookie, or the like -- in place of a hot meal. Continental's steadfastness may mean that eventually the competition will return to pre-Sept. 11 service levels, but if not, that is not necessarily a bad thing given that it's easier to produce a decent sandwich than a credible hot meal. 
These changes are not direct consequences of Sept. 11; they are more about economics than safety. And though many of the airlines' economic troubles can be traced directly to fear of flying, profit margins were shrinking before the attacks. 
Glenn Engel, an aviation analyst at Goldman, Sachs in New York, said that although "the cost of food is relatively small, airlines have been cutting back on the cost and quality of meals" for some time. In 1991, Mr. Engel said, the airlines spent about $4.50 per domestic passenger on food. In 2000, they spent about $3. 
Though no airline spokesperson would be specific about current expenditures, given the recent cuts it's safe to assume that the figure is now lower. 
It's still not clear that the recent cuts translate to significant savings. Raymond Neidl, an airline analyst with AMB Amro Securities in New York, says: "It's a rough guess, but food service might amount to about 1 percent of total operating costs. But while airlines were laying off workers, they felt obliged to cut costs wherever they could, and meals were a relatively easy target." 
You might think that the cuts would outrage already burdened travelers, becoming a public relations nightmare that would far offset the benefits to the carriers. But Todd Burke, a spokesman for American Airlines, called the savings substantial, and said:
"We can count on one hand the number of complaints that have found their way to our office. The traveling public knows that we have to reduce costs, and this is one area they will accept." 
That assessment appears to be correct: in chats with fellow passengers on nearly a dozen flights in the last few weeks, and in another dozen phone interviews and e-mail messages, there was little evidence of dismay on the part of consumers. 
Bill Mosley, a spokesman for the Department of Transportation, said that the department received only one complaint about airline meals in November, the last month for which figures were available, compared with nine in November 2000. (He added, however, that the 2001 figure might rise, since the department had a backlog of unopened mail because of the anthrax scare.) Similarly, Nancy McKinley, the manager of consumer and industry affairs at the International Airline Passengers Association, said, "I have not had anyone complain about the changes to the meal service." 
Meals are returning on competitive routes. American served a bistro meal in coach on a roughly three-hour leg from Dallas to Burbank, Calif., recently. And Mr. Burke added, "If the profits come back, the meals might, too." 
But if passengers remain blase in their response to the cuts, reinstitution might occur only if and when competition demands it.
Kevin Murphy, an airline analyst with Morgan Stanley in New York, interviewed by telephone while "stocking up on Hershey bars" before boarding a flight from Calgary to Chicago (it turns out a meal was served on it), said he believed that the importance of the meal cutbacks lay in the opportunities it presented to no-frill carriers like Southwest and JetBlue. 
"This opens the door for them to go into the long-haul markets," he said. "Until now, it was uncertain whether consumers would fly that far without a meal. If the customer tolerates this, it has profound implications."
As Mr. Neidl, the AMB Amro analyst, points out, "The real savings would be if they got rid of food altogether, cut out galleys and put in more seats," though he said this was unlikely. 
But Mr. Engel of Goldman, Sachs also points out: "Food creates a mess to clean up and a lot of garbage. Thus Southwest, which doesn't serve food, can turn planes around a lot faster because it doesn't have the same cleaning burden; nor does it have to wait for caterers to load food and unload trash." 
The lack of response on the part of fliers isn't the only indication that decreased meal service matters little. Mr. Engel, for one, doesn't think that anyone uses meals as a yardstick in choosing an airline. 
"Southwest doesn't offer food," he said, "but in surveys it is consistently rated as serving good meals. How much can customers care about airplane food when they can't even remember that Southwest doesn't offer any?" 
Some consumer representatives go as far as backing the meal cuts. Kevin Mitchell, the chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, an organization representing the interests of business travelers, said that not only do food and beverage carts pose a security risk -- aisle-blocking carts may prevent passengers from piling onto a would-be hijacker -- but also that people can eat better in airport terminals. 
"At this point," he said, "you're getting to the airport so far in advance that you can usually sit down for a meal that is both more nutritious and better tasting than one you'd get on the airplane." But he acknowledges that tight connections combined with reduced food service could produce an "exhausting and frustrating" day. 
Still, it seems that most of the cuts are likely to be temporary. "If everybody cuts back, then they all spend less," Mr. Engel said. "But if one guy 'cheats,' it puts pressure on them all to bring food back. Because Continental kept food on the plane, it's hard for the other carriers to go on giving Continental an advantage. That's why you'll see food returning."
Whether or not it was due to the food, Continental's load factor -- the percentage of seats filled -- in December was higher than the other major airlines', 72.7. Northwest was next at 72.2, and the others ranged from 64.3 (USAirways) to 71.4 (United). 
Mr. Burke of American Airlines (whose load factor was 67.2) said that to compete, American was still serving meals on shorter flights from many airports. US Airways reintroduced some meals on Jan. 1. 
Mr. Neidl, too, says meals will replace pretzels again. "Now that things have recovered a bit, they can look at it on a route-by-route basis," he said, though "they'll continue to try to economize in this area, especially now that airports have become shopping malls and people can pick up their own victuals." 
But the old joke about the Catskill hotel where people complain that the food is terrible and the portions so small may not hold true here. It may be that the food has been so terrible that no one misses it.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Mark Weber) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); SNACK FOODS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); HIJACKING (77%); TERRORISM (72%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (72%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: BITTMAN, MARK; CATTO, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



305 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Deals and Discounts 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH SIANO 

 BODY:
 Special prices on rail travel come in the form of passes and tours, in North America and Europe.

EAST MEETS SOUTH MEETS WEST -- The American Orient Express, a luxury streamliner, offers $1,000 a person in discounts on two itineraries. The Antebellum South tour, an eight-day trip from Washington to New Orleans or reverse, features a New Orleans jazz trio, a one-night hotel stay, most meals (dinners with wine) and guided tours in Richmond, Charleston, Savannah and Vicksburg. Prices start at $1,890 a person based on two to a compartment, on five departures in March and April. The 11-day Great Transcontinental Rail Journey, from Washington to Los Angeles, departs Feb. 19; stops include Grand Canyon National Park. From $3,290 a person, double. Information: (800) 320-4206, www.americanorientexpress.com.

NORTH OF THE BORDER -- VIA Rail, the Canadian national train network, offers full-time students 12 or older fare discounts year-round. Holders of an International Student Identity Card ($16; show a current university ID card or a registrar's letter at any VIA station to apply) receive 35 percent off economy-class fares. Student cardholders get 10 percent off sleeper-class fares and VIA 1 (first class) tickets. The identity card also earns discounts at hotels, restaurants and museums. Information: (888) 842-7245 or www.viarail.ca.

SWISS DISCOUNT -- Rail Europe's Swiss Youthpass, a new rail pass for travelers under 26, starts at $120 in second class and $184 in first for four consecutive days of unlimited travel (the regular pass costs $160 in second class and $245 in first). Another new pass from the Swiss is good for groups of two to five people traveling together: from $136 a person in second class for four days and from $208 a person for four days in first class. New this year for Swiss rail-pass holders are discounts on ski and bike rentals, rooms at participating hotels and guided city tours, among other things. There have been price increases on some Swiss passes. Ask for the free Swiss Family Card when buying any Rail Europe Swiss pass; it allows children under 16 to ride the trains free with an adult. These passes must be bought in the United States. Information: (888) 382-7245 or on the Web at www.raileurope.com.

AUSTRIAN ADD-ON -- DER, a travel agency in Rosemont, Ill., is offering extra days on Austrian Railpasses bought through its offices. Through April 30, purchasers will receive a fifth day free when buying a four-day pass, which costs $178 in first class and $122 in second. The extra day is also added on to five-, six-, seven- and eight-day passes. Besides unlimited rail travel in Austria, the rail passes are good for reduced rates on Danube cruises and bicycle rentals at 40 train stations; (800) 782-2424. JOSEPH SIANO

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); JAZZ & BLUES (56%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) RAILROADS; DISCOUNT SELLING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: SIANO, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRIA (85%); CANADA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



306 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: DANCE; 
Staggered By Sept. 11 But Not Out

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER DUNNING 

 BODY:
THIS is the story of a small but established modern-dance company in New York City and its fight to regain financial health in the aftermath of Sept. 11. The company, Monte/Brown Dance, had planned to celebrate its 20th anniversary in a one-week season that opens on Tuesday at the Joyce Theater. Now the best reason for celebration is the troupe's survival. 
 Things looked good when Elisa Monte and David Brown, a once married couple who founded the company and are its resident choreographers, began rehearsals with their eight dancers on Sept. 10 in their longtime studio on Great Jones Street just north of Houston Street. Ms. Monte, 55, like Mr. Brown a former Martha Graham dancer, is known for dark, churning dances that plumb the soul. She was putting the finishing touches on "Lost Objects." Scheduled for its premiere in November at the World Financial Center, the piece had started out as a now eerily premonitory-seeming response to feelings of loss in her own life, from worries over the serious illnesses of friends to letting a child leave home. Mr. Brown, 48, who has a lighter and more insouciant way with propulsive movement, was beginning on work on two premieres that will be seen at the Joyce. 
 The company was to dance in Santiago, Chile, in October. The proceeds from that performance would subsidize a December tour to Costa Rica and Antigua. That was to be followed by a three-week tour of Germany in January, then by the Joyce engagement. And Ms. Monte and Mr. Brown had begun to raise money for a spacious new home on West 116th Street in Harlem. It is expected to open in 2003 and will be available to local and international performing arts groups as well as to community organizations. 
Then, on the morning of Sept. 11, Ms. Monte and Mr. Brown got a call, they said, from their daughter Elia, in California. Were her parents in danger, she wondered? She had just seen two planes crash into the World Trade Towers on television.
Ms. Monte ran to the window and saw waves of people surging north from Lower Manhattan. A company member who lived on Canal Street arrived, seeking escape from the smoke and fumes enveloping her apartment. Two men showed up for a planned audition, one having walked for three hours after his subway train ground to a halt. The next day's rehearsal was called off, but the dancers showed up anyway. 
Now ways had to be found to help the dancers get through the roadblocks in the area every day. "Once we figured out how to get the dancers there, we had to figure out what we were going to do," Mr. Brown recalled. "The reason for the rehearsal period had vanished."
There were obviously going to be no performances at the World Financial Center. The Santiago engagement was canceled, and so the company had to pull out of the performances in Costa Rica and Antigua. Would Germany happen? At least, Mr. Brown reasoned, they could walk to the Joyce. In three days, the company had lost $60,000 in income, just under 10 percent of its annual operating budget of $700,000. 
A sense of loss permeated the company's world in other ways, from the tragedy of 10 men gone from the friendly firehouse across the street to the prospect of the Monte/ Brown dancers losing seven of nine weeks of work rehearsing. Before the week was out, however, she and Mr. Brown had met with their board and with company personnel. Should the company even continue? 
"There was the delicacy of speaking to people about your needs at such a time," Ms. Monte said. "But we told the board we wanted to survive." 
The company would do its own publicity and costume designing for the time being, it was decided. Luckily one dancer had experience creating costumes. The company's resident lighting designer lighted two new pieces for the price of one. The production stage manager worked for free on the possible German tour. And a photographer with the company managed to get the dancers hired for a corporate photo shoot. When the session ended early, the dancers stayed to pose for publicity photographs for the season. 
"There was ingeniousness on all levels," Mr. Brown said. "Everyone had to get creative." 
The board raised enough money for a third rehearsal week, making it possible for the dancers to collect unemployment. Those who were not eligible were given jobs in the company office. 
There were signs of a turnaround when a fund-raising program at the Alvin Ailey studios brought in $13,000, more than double what was projected. The company is also doing better than it expected in ticket sales and gala reservations for the Joyce season. Santiago is on again. And $50,000 of the lost $60,000 has been made up, all of it in performing fees. 
Surprisingly, too, Monte/Brown has raised $1.5 million -- $150,000 short of its goal -- to purchase the Harlem studios, with financial and moral support from the Office of Manhattan Borough President, C. Virginia Fields, to help develop an area that is considered underserved culturally. 
In times of sadness, Ms. Monte said: "You do the mundane things. The floor needs to be swept. You keep life going."

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Silvia Vrskova, Bradley Shelver and Natalie Turner of Monte/Brown Dance rehearsing "Respite." (Roy Volkmann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (92%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); THEATER (76%); TERRORISM (73%); AIRLINES (73%); MARRIAGE (72%); FUNDRAISING (70%); HIJACKING (66%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (61%) DANCING; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: MONTE/BROWN DANCE COMPANY 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (69%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (74%); COSTA RICA (74%); GERMANY (54%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



307 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY; 
Chicago Celebrates A Gift From the Maya

BYLINE:  By KATHERINE HOUSE 

 BODY:
An American consumes an average of 12 pounds of chocolate a year, according to the Chocolate Manufacturers Association, of Vienna, Va. But the story of chocolate did not begin with the Hershey bar. 
The Field Museum in Chicago explores that story in an exhibition beginning Thursday (through Dec. 31). "Chocolate" views the subject from several angles -- including botanical, economic and anthropological -- to illustrate how different societies have cultivated and enjoyed chocolate. It describes how anthropologists traced the roots of chocolate to the ancient Maya, the first to turn the seeds of the cacao tree into a spicy drink for ceremonial purposes. At the Aztec marketplace, visitors can learn to use cacao seeds as currency. 
 Objects on display include pre-Columbian ceramics and ritual objects; European silver and porcelain chocolate services; tins, advertisements and agricultural tools. The exhibition includes a stock ticker that displays current cocoa prices on the world market. 
 The Field Museum, 1400 South Lake Shore Drive in Chicago, is open daily. Tickets to "Chocolate" are $6, plus the general admission fee of $8. Information: (312) 922-9410 or www.field museum.org.
 KATHERINE HOUSE

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lindt chocolate ad from 1912. (Field Museum) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); COCOA MARKETS (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (78%); COCOA FARMING (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%) CHOCOLATE 

ORGANIZATION: FIELD MUSEUM (CHICAGO, ILL) 

PERSON: HOUSE, KATHERINE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



308 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
A High-Tech Building for Emerging Companies

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN 

 BODY:
NEW JERSEY'S powers that be set out some years ago to make the state as hospitable as possible to high-technology and biotechnology companies -- and putting out the welcome mat has paid off. "Companies looking for space call us," said the executive director of the state Economic Development Authority, Caren Franzini. "We don't have to go out looking for them."
 The state has attracted so many large pharmaceutical companies that it is now considered an industry hub. It is also home to numerous research and development enterprises -- seven of them ensconced at the Technology Centre of New Jersey that the authority developed four years ago in North Brunswick. 
 There has been a problem, though, Ms. Franzini said, in accommodating smaller, younger companies and start-ups throughout the state. "Companies will come by our office that are looking for a 1,000- or 2,000-square-foot space, and it's simply not there to offer," she said.
The Technology Centre's six structures offer fully equipped laboratory, office and production facilities at below-market rates suited to the needs and standards of established companies. The leases are long term, and the buildings are customized to the needs of the occupants.
Specially structured financial agreements, grants and design and construction assistance have been used by the Economic Development Authority to place companies at the technology center. In 1999, for example, the authority built a facility to suit Celgro, an established biotech company then facing dislocation because its sublease was about to expire. Celgro needed expensive wet-lab features in its new home, which traditional lenders were reluctant to finance. The authority installed the features in the facility it constructed at the center and permitted Celgro to slowly pay the cost of the improvements as rent, over the 10 years of its lease.
Now the development authority is opening a different sort of built-to-suit facility at the Technology Centre, which is off Route 1 in what is called the Princeton-Rutgers Research Corridor. It is not tailored to a specific company, but to a specific category of company -- those in the "emerging" stage. 
The new building, called the Commercialization Center, provides a total of 20,000 square feet of state-of-the-art lab space. The space is divided into 17 small laboratories -- 800 square feet each -- plus shared office space and conference rooms. It is designed for businesses making their first transition from a tiny "incubator" lab -- typically 300 to 500 square feet -- to the marketplace. "When we meet with incubator owners, they tell us this is the most difficult kind of space to find," Ms. Franzini said.
Tom Sullivan, a CB Richard Ellis broker who specializes in biotech and pharmaceutical real estate, said the space crunch can be a big enough problem to thwart a start-up with otherwise excellent prospects. Small enterprises that have been awarded grants or secured venture capital have to move fast to put the money to work, Mr. Sullivan said -- but it takes about eight months to build a lab. 
"You want a warehouse by Monday?" he said. "No problem. You want office space in a week to park your briefcase? No problem. But just try finding wet-lab space to bring in beakers and start mixing chemicals."
Mr. Sullivan, leasing agent for the Technology Centre, said he expected demand for space at the Commercialization Center to be so hearty that the building, which took a year to build, will be entirely leased in a month. E.D.A. officials were somewhat less optimistic, saying they expect to fill the building by the end of the year.
One biotech company already based at the center, GeneProt, has signed a lease for four small labs at the new building. Three other companies are negotiating for differing amounts of space at the start-up center, Mr. Sullivan said.
There will be a steady stream of new technology start-ups needing space, both Mr. Sullivan and Ms. Franzini predicted -- flowing from academic institutions as well as private enterprise. The state has a number of colleges that maintain incubator labs on their campuses -- the New Jersey Institute of Technology in Newark, Burlington County College in Pemberton and Stevens College in Hoboken, among them. Princeton University is also setting up its own incubator lab, according to Ms. Franzini.
Ms. Franzini says her office maintains a productive partnership with the state's advisory Commission on Science and Technology. Because of cooperation between the two state bodies -- one more business-oriented, the other more academically oriented -- Cook College at Rutgers University and the Chubb Institute both established research and development divisions at the Technology Centre when it was built.
"We want to keep tying in research and development programs as they leave the colleges," Ms. Franzini said.
Other tenants at the existing center in addition to GeneProt are Merial, an animal health-care company; Cambrex, a biotech pharmaceutical company; and Ortech International, a biotech company based in New York. Each of these companies has its own building housing 60 to 120 employees.
At the Commercialization Center, each lab is expected to house a half dozen employees or fewer. The new building is designed to provide a feel that is different from the traditional cramped cube serving as incubator space. The labs branching off the central corridor have angled ceilings and are replete with natural light.
Besides the lab units, the center is equipped with considerable common space, designed to keep start-up operating costs reasonable. This includes offices and conference rooms and a common loading area. The Commercialization Center will also provide common services -- janitorial, waste removal and word processing. In addition, there will be a single phone system.
TO manage the common services, the E.D.A. hired the New Jersey Institute of Technology's Enterprise Management Group, which was set up to run that college's incubator lab in Newark.
Leases for space at the Commercialization Center will be for one or two years, Mr. Sullivan said, and annual rent will be roughly $30 a square foot, which is about 25 to 30 percent below market rates. The cost of developing and building the center came through a loan from the AFL-CIO Building Investment Trust, which has been a partner with the development authority in developing the entire Technology Centre. Also, The state made a $4 million grant for the Commercialization Center.
With total space soon to reach about 300,000 square feet, more construction is set to begin at the North Brunswick site this spring, when ground will be broken for another 60,000-square-foot structure to be built on spec. Another 90,000 square feet of additional space is planned after that. 
Mr. Sullivan is already thinking about the future development cycle of companies that move into the Commercialization Center when it opens. "As those companies grow, and graduate from the Commercialization Center," he said, "new and larger spaces will open up at the Technology Centre. They won't even have to leave the neighborhood."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank J. Lucchesi, Economic Development Authority project officer, at the Technology Centre of New Jersey. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) Map of New Jersey highlighting Technology centre of New Jersey and surrounding areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); BUILDING AUTOMATION (87%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); TRENDS (69%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (50%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

PERSON: MARTIN, ANTOINETTE; FRANZINI, CAREN; LUCCHESI, FRANK J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



309 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1798 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Monsey; 
Low Inventory, Lots of Kugel, Some Deer

BYLINE:  By CHERYL PLATZMAN WEINSTOCK 

 BODY:
IT has been just four weeks since Chana Rabinowitz; her husband, Arie, an investment banker at L. H. Financial in Manhattan; and their three children moved from Flatbush, Brooklyn, to the hilly Rockland County hamlet of Monsey and already they feel quite comfortable here.
 "There are so many reasons we enjoy it," Mrs. Rabinowitz said. "I have my dream house that has everything I've always wanted, and we have a quiet, more serene style of life that's not as hectic as it used to be. I have a forest in my backyard where I often see squirrels and deer." 
 But Mrs. Rabinowitz said the best part of her family's move has been the reception they got when they arrived in the hamlet, which is in the town of Ramapo. "Many neighbors came by to give a hand, and others bought us challah for Shabbos, candies and kugels. It was amazing. This is what I call a warm welcome. It's a great feeling when you come to a neighborhood, and everyone is happy to see you." 
That the Rabinowitzes moved to Monsey in search of a different lifestyle is no accident. Mrs. Rabinowitz's best friend moved there a year ago and, for months, she bent her ear with happy stories of the unique, small, close-knit Orthodox Jewish and Hasidic community. Many Monsey residents said this is the way they found their way to the hamlet.
"The shopping is also perfect," Mrs. Rabinowitz said. "It's very convenient and well organized into shopping centers. I don't have to circle around for a parking spot and can get my errands done in half the time it used to take."
One resident who has been in Monsey far longer is Shimon Mendlowitz, who moved to the community with his parents in 1950. "What used to be the suburbs of Monsey is now the middle of Monsey because it's grown so much," said Mr. Mendlowitz, owner of Monsey Glatt Kosher Supermarket and Wesley Kosher Supermarket. And, indeed, to many residents the boundaries between Monsey and surrounding neighborhoods can be vague. 
"I remember when Monsey was mostly just bungalow colonies with few year-round residents and I used to help my father bring kosher meat here from his butcher store in Williamsburg," Mr. Mendlowitz said. 
Christopher P. St. Lawrence, Ramapo's supervisor, said growth has been rapid in recent years. "In Monsey, things are booming," he said. "There are very few vacant stores and a great demand for housing. We have a lot of large families moving in and what they're doing is buying small Capes and splits, tearing them down and building larger, beautiful homes that have been a benefit to the community."
Monsey's blend of rural ambience, diverse housing stock, eclectic shopping from ornamental silver and chocolates to bagels and pizza, and a selection of more than 200 synagogues and 50 yeshivas, including the 1,600-student Yeshiva of Spring Valley, has created a strong housing demand, said Chaya Rosenberg, owner of Rosenberg Realty in Monsey.
"But the problem is that there's a tremendous lack of inventory here," she said. "A good house, priced right, sells right away. In my neighborhood, I might have five customers for one house."
Esther Ingber, owner of Esther Ingber Realty of New Hempstead, said while the pool of housing for sale is shallow, it is nonetheless wide. "There's something here for everyone's budget," she said. "Right now there are homes on the market ranging from $265,000 to $950,000, and, occasionally, someone can even find a small three-bedroom, one-bath ranch, Cape Cod or semiattached home that needs lots of t.l.c. for between $200,000 to $250,000."
From there, Mrs. Rosenberg said, three-to-four-bedroom bilevels, split levels and ranches that may be in need of repair can range up to $350,000. Larger homes of similar style of 2,600 to 3,000 square feet with four and five bedrooms on a half acre range from $375,000 to $450,000.
Five-, six- and seven-bedroom 3,700-square-foot homes on an acre with more amenities are priced from $450,000 to $650,000, while custom-built colonials with multiple kitchens for keeping kosher and preparing Passover meals, great rooms and three-car garages can reach $950,000.
About half the single-family homes in Monsey are renter occupied, said Ramapo's supervisor. Rentals, which Mrs. Rosenberg said were "very hard to find," range from $1,800 to $3,000 a month, depending on size and amenities.
The boom in Monsey's popularity has officials trying to balance varying concerns. "We're drawing up a master plan," Mr. St. Lawrence said, "to address the housing shortage in the hamlet. We're cognizant that we want to keep a certain suburban ambience to Monsey and don't want every space built upon. But we're hoping to build town houses so our seniors and young families with no children yet will have affordable places to live." 
The supervisor is also planning to revitalize Monsey's downtown shopping district by calling for a new shopping plaza on Orchard Street near Main Street. "More neighborhood shopping will enhance the area and take away bottlenecks on Main Street," Mr. St. Lawrence said. "We're looking to make it a showcase in Monsey by building retail space on the first floor, office space on the second and housing on the third."
BESIDES the town's plans for the area, Monsey residents have also been busy putting the finishing touches on improvements. Two and a half years ago they raised $5 million to build the Mikvah of Rockland County, a stone and stucco building with 60 rooms and eight ritual bathing pools for women. 
Though most residents of Monsey send their children to yeshivas, the hamlet is within the 9,200-student East Ramapo school district. "We're one of the most unique school districts in New York State because we have to accommodate two different communities," said Jason P. Friedman, the superintendent, "but I think for the most part, we do a good job." 
The school budget allocates $20 million to provide transportation, special education and remedial services to its 13,000 private school students residing in the district. "We'll go as far as we can for them as long as it meets the litmus test of being legal," Mr. Friedman said. 
Mr. Friedman said the school tax increase has been under 2 percent each year for the last five years because "we're cognizant of the fact that large families pay large tuition bills." He added, "We've done well for the most part, but every now and then there's been a bump in the road," an example of which is the recent $64.4 million bond referendum proposed in December, which was earmarked for school expansion and a full-day kindergarten.
Dr. Susan Gordon, the school board president, said: "The bond was defeated by more than 800 votes, mostly from the polls where Orthodox voters cast their ballots. Out of 17,000 voters, 5,000 showed up. If more public school parents voted, we could easily have won."
Nathan Rothschild, fire commissioner of Monsey, is the sole Orthodox member of the nine-person school board. He said: "The private school community felt that the timing of the bond was wrong, the amount of it was wrong and on an economic basis we found the bond too much of an onus to accommodate at this time."
Mr. Friedman said the amount of the bond might be reduced and the measure reintroduced. In the meantime, he said, the district is continuing to make academic strides despite its space constraints. "In 1999, 30 percent of our fourth graders met the reading standards; in 2000, 50 percent of them did, and, in 2001, 57 percent did," he said. "That's nearly a 100 percent increase in three years."
The sprawling school district is economically and ethnically diverse; its students represent more than 40 different nationalities. The district has a prekindergarten school; five primary schools covering kindergarten through third grade, including two in Monsey; five intermediate schools for Grades 4 to 6, one of which is in Monsey; two middle schools, one in Monsey; and two high schools: Spring Valley High School and Ramapo High School, on the Monsey border.
This year, two high school students enrolled in the district's decade-old science research program, which teams pupils with medical researchers and scientists, are Intel Science Talent Search semifinalists. The College Boards of last year's graduating class were 487 in verbal and 495 in math, very close to the state averages.
The town's recreation department tries to meet the needs of Monsey residents. Edwin Lockwood, Ramapo's director of parks and recreation, said: "We offer lots of Sunday programs for only girls or boys so our Orthodox population can participate in them. We also keep the 36-acre Manny Weldler Park in Monsey open till midnight on Saturday nights, and its vending machines stock kosher snacks." The park has eight lighted tennis courts, four handball courts, four ball fields and a playground.
In addition to the 10-acre Besen Park in Monsey, which has a small ball field, basketball court and a playground, the hamlet's residents can use 300 acres of town parks and other facilities. The 30-acre Reisman Sports Complex of Eugene Levy Memorial Park is scheduled to open this summer. It will have several ball fields, as well as volleyball, tennis and basketball courts.
D ESPITE all the new construction, Monsey is still home to several older businesses. They include the 160,000-square-foot American Tack and Hardware Company, a manufacturer of decorative switch plates and a distributor of accent lights and plant hardware, which moved to Monsey in the late 1960's and employs nearly 7 percent of its residents.
The first church in the hamlet, the Monsey Christian Reformed Church, was built in 1827. The congregation moved in 1869 to Route 306, and its building there was recently taken over by the New Hope Christian Church. St. Zita's Villa, a Roman Catholic convent that has been in Monsey since the early 20th century, operates an assisted living home there for about 60 women.
When the Erie Railroad came through in 1841 and established a station in the hamlet, the stop became known as Monsey, taking its name from Munsee, chief of the Lenape Indians, who settled the area, said Craig H. Long, Ramapo town historian. Monsey got a post office in 1846. The world's largest printing press for the blind opened in the hamlet in 1927 in a converted carriage house to print the Matilda Ziegler Magazine for the Blind. It operated until 1965, when it transferred operations to Cincinnati.
Monsey was basically an agricultural community until the construction of the Tappan Zee Bridge in 1955 increased its access to New York City.
In 1990, the Viznitz, a Hasidic sect, created Kaser, a tiny village within the hamlet, so they could build denser housing for their large families. About 35 percent of its homes are three- and four-family dwellings. The 3,316-person village contracts with Ramapo for most services.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Monsey, demand for housing is great and in some places large new homes are replacing older homes. Above, Briarcliff Drive; below left, Discount Plaza 59, at Routes 306 and 59; and Hatzolah Ambulance Corps.; 5-bedroom, 2-bath Cape Cod at 23 Remsen Avenue, $275,000. 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath split-level at 6 Olympia Lane, $368,900. 8-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath house with multiple kitchens at 8 Cortland Road, $569,000. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times) Chart: "GAZETTEER"POPULATION: 14,504 (2000 census).AREA: 2.21 square miles.MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $51,777 (1997 estimate).MEDIAN PRICE OF A ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $375,000.MEDIAN PRICE ONE YEAR AGO: $350,000.MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $263,000.MIDRANGE RENT OF A THREE- OR FOUR-BEDROOM HOUSE: $2,300.DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 25 miles.RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION: One hour to Fifth Avenue and 47th Street on Monsey Trails; one-way, $6; 40-trip ticket, $190. Prayer buses alternate with nonprayer buses. Service is also available to Wall Street.GOVERNMENT: Ramapo town supervisor (Christopher P. St. Lawrence, Democrat), elected to a two-year term, and four Town Board members, elected to four-year terms.CODES: Area, 845; ZIP, 10952.CIRCLING THE SWAMP: "We don't know if the residents of Monsey were trying to be exclusive in keeping the Nyack Turnpike away from their community," said Craig Long, Ramapo town historian. "But when turnpike construction crews approached residents about laying the turnpike across Bear's Nest Swamp in the early 1800's, they claimed that a fence rail put into the swamp never hit bottom so the roadway would never gain a solid footing." The turnpike was eventually built around the hamlet. Ten years later, however, the Erie Railroad was able to come through. Mr. Long said construction crews filled in a portion of the swamp and laid their iron rails straight through the area. "Eventually the Nyack Turnpike was redesigned and finally did come through Monsey," he added, as Route 59. Map of New York highlighting Monsey and surrounding areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RELIGION (90%); FAMILY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); MEAT STORES (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); RETAILERS (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (63%) JEWS; HASIDISM; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

PERSON: WEINSTOCK, CHERYL PLATZMAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) MONSEY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



310 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Long Island Museums Retrench in the Face of a Flat Economy 

BYLINE:  By PHYLLIS BRAFF 

 BODY:
THE financial shock waves felt by museums across the country in the past year have affected Long Island institutions too. Endowment income is down; proceeds from once-popular benefit events are falling short of objectives; foundation and corporate support is disappointing; and competition for government grants is tighter.
 As a result, exhibitions have been canceled or postponed; jobs have been cut; and publications have been curtailed. While all museum administrators are concerned, the direct effects and subsequent pain varies among the institutions. 
 Administrators say the situation has forced them to look for ways to become more relevant to local communities by planning new initiatives. They are also trying to make more use of their permanent collections and to attract more individual supporters.
"We want to be sure the museum continues to be part of what the community needs," said Trudy Kramer, director of the Parrish Art Museum in Southampton.
After the Sept. 11 attacks, museum administrators say, their audiences have grown. Some suggested this was because people want to stay closer to home.
The administrators also said the numbers of Long Island school children visiting local museums have increased since the September attacks. In Roslyn Harbor, the Nassau County Museum of Art has instituted special Monday openings to accommodate the waiting list of classes.
"The school visitation has been fabulous," said Jacqueline Day, director of the Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages in Stony Brook. "And for our current exhibition, 'Norman Rockwell: Drawing the American Dream,' all available school slots were booked immediately."
Museum education departments have benefited from this development; when reduced budgets have resulted in job cuts, other positions have suffered.
At the Heckscher Art Museum in Huntington, no jobs have been lost, but a wage freeze is in effect and the museum has cut the pay for two positions. One is that of Beth Levinthal, the museum's director, who said she volunteered for the cut, and the other is that of a consultant.
Production expenditures for exhibitions and mailings have also been trimmed. Ms. Levinthal attributed the general belt-tightening to reduced corporate donations.
The Heckscher's other economy-related disappointment is a big one. Two federal grants designating $6 million for its building expansion are stalled in Congress. But the Town of Huntington has allocated $37,000 to bring items from the museum's study collection and other materials to children and adults who cannot visit the museum, including those in hospitals and nursing homes.
The Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages is facing a bleak cash flow from endowment investments, which in the past have provided 45 percent of its operating budget, Ms. Day said. The staff has been reduced, no publications are contemplated this year, and it may become necessary to cut the number of annual exhibitions from the present total of 11, she added.
"We are trying new things, like programming for Girl Scouts and Boy Scouts," Ms. Day said. "And we are considering ways to have special fund-raising events that relate to highlights of our collection."
The Nassau County museum has canceled "Eighteenth-Century French Splendors: The Paramours of the Kings," which was scheduled to open in May, and would have consisted mainly of works from European lenders. Constance Schwartz, the museum's director, said trans-Atlantic shipping and insurance expenses had become too high.
"It was going to be impossible to make this happen because of the costs involved and because potential lenders to the show have become reluctant to ship valuable art," she said.
Facing a $60,000 cut from foundations and sponsors, as well as likely reductions in federal and state grants, Ms. Schwartz said that she expected to plan more benefits, but that she still might have to change the exhibition schedule. Financial uncertainties, particularly the extent of Nassau County's contribution, may delay a building restoration project, she said.
At the Islip Art Museum, the National Heritage Trust Fund has provided grants to pay for improvements to the historic structures that house the galleries. But Mary Lou Cohalan, the museum director, said she was worried about the future availability of such grants, and about tighter local government budgets, which would affect the institution's maintenance needs.
The annual budgets for basic expenses are covering operations at Long Island's two university-based museums, the Hofstra Museum in Hempstead and the Hillwood Art Museum on the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University in Brookville, officials there said.
But the Hofstra museum's director, David C. Christman, said he was worried about raising money needed for an exhibition on winter-sporting themes in 17th-century Dutch paintings planned for 2004. The show would include works borrowed from overseas, and rising insurance costs for trans-Atlantic shipments may prove prohibitive, he said.
At the Hillwood, Barry Stern, the director, said he was writing grant applications for education initiatives, including expanded after-school programs. 
The Guild Hall in East Hampton and the Parrish have also found their budgets squeezed. Officials there said they began to feel the effects of the economic downturn early last year when usually popular benefit events failed to meet goals.
At Guild Hall, Ruth Appelhof, the director, said an exhibition of sculpture by John Chamberlain had been postponed because transporting the pieces from major collections in the United States would have been too costly this year. As a substitute, an exhibition from the permanent collection will be mounted, she said. She added that a building expansion was also postponed.
The Parrish has not canceled any exhibitions, because it was hoping to close for a major expansion project. Those plans are on hold awaiting construction approval from Southampton officials and because of continuing opposition from some local residents.
Ms. Kramer said the museum was changing its fund-raising strategy. While it once had focused on holding large benefit events, it now was hoping to woo local residents to become members and donors, and provide continuing support.
One program designed for "young professionals in the community," she said, was a five-part series in which small groups will be taken to the storage vaults to see works there. The works will then be discussed by the museum curator, "in the context of American art history," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two federal grants of $6 million for a building expansion at the Heckscher Art Museum in Huntington, above, are stalled in Congress, just one of many ways that the sour economy has affected Long Island museums. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); FUNDRAISING (90%); HISTORY (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ART HISTORY (88%); CHILDREN (87%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); CHARITIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); INSURANCE ENDOWMENTS (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); TERRORISM (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%) MUSEUMS; PHILANTHROPY; GRANTS (CORPORATE AND FOUNDATION) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



311 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1977 words

HEADLINE: Batteries Included 

BYLINE:  By ALLAN RICHTER 

 BODY:
REID GOLDSMITH, a 47-year-old court reporter who lives in Syosset and works in Queens, used to start his day by watching commuters off the night shift wade bleary-eyed from the Hicksville train station platform to their parked cars. Before long, Mr. Goldsmith learned to identify the cars so he could position his station car, a gas-guzzling former police cruiser he bought at auction, to swoop into one of their spots and begin his train ride to Jamaica.
 But over the years Mr. Goldsmith found that the strategy isn't foolproof. In his worst months, he amassed as many as four parking tickets for illegal parking at the station. Mr. Goldsmith talked about the accumulation of tickets -- at $25 each -- as if it were a nasty cigarette habit. He swore the latest would be his last. 
 "That's a thing of the past," he said the other day at the station. "It's a beautiful thing." 
There's good reason for Mr. Goldsmith's newfound confidence. His new station car comes with a rare perk: a reserved spot in the station's parking lot.
That spot also comes with a battery charger. Mr. Goldsmith's new car is powered solely by electricity, and he is the first of about 30 commuting Long Islanders expected to trade gas for electricity during rush hour in the next few years. 
Mr. Goldsmith and other participants in an experimental program just getting underway at seven suburban rail stations will lease their cars for $199 a month for 34 months. They will receive a $21 rebate on their monthly L.I.R.R. tickets from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and a $40 monthly insurance credit from the New York Power Authority. A wall-mounted corded battery charger installed at their homes is free; so are electric charges at the Hicksville and Huntington stations and five other stations: White Plains, Chappaqua and Brewster in Westchester County, Nanuet in Rockland and Little Neck in Queens.
"When you subtract the $20 and $40, you're really paying $140 a month," said Hank Liebowitz, 39, a trust and estate attorney who lives in Woodbury and was expecting to pick up his electric car last week. "I certainly can't get a new car for $140 a month that includes free fuel. It's too good a deal to pass up."
Called the Think City, the Ford Motor Company car is a two-seater that can go about 50 miles on a single charge. No large families for this vehicle, and no extended trips. The Think City is meant only for short jaunts to and from the train station and weekend runs to the market.
"I'm excited by it, but I'm also a realist," Mr. Goldsmith said. "It's just not practical without another car. They need to extend the range a little and add some seats."
Statewide, 100 Think City cars are available in the pilot program. Despite a wave of initial interest last fall -- program sponsors approved about 350 applicants from the seven counties -- only 41 commuters had put down deposits as of last week. On the Island, 17 of 30 cars are accounted for. (Commuters can apply at www.nypa .gov/ev and www.thinkmobility.com or call (800) 252-4221.)
Sponsors blamed the lukewarm response on an off-season introduction of a brand new concept -- few cars are leased in the winter -- but some applicants who considered leasing the car said they backed out because of the car's small size and high insurance costs.
"I happened to have liked the idea; my wife didn't," said Glenn Pollock, 47, a printer from Roslyn who said he was quoted an annual $1,800 insurance rate.
But the $2 million electric car program's main sponsors, the state Department of Transportation, the federal Department of Energy, the New York Power Authority, the Long Island Power Authority and Ford, hope the concept will catch on and are lauding the car's environmental impact and savings: one charge costs no more than $1.50, less than the cost of 50 miles' worth of gasoline for all but the most fuel-efficient of conventional cars.
Besides the cost benefits, consumers who have embraced the car seem to enjoy being pioneers without the hefty premium that typically comes with being an early adopter.
"I always wanted to get an environmentally friendly car, but the electric cars that are on the market are too expensive," said Chi Cheng, 40, an electrical engineer who lives in New Hyde Park, commutes from Little Neck to Manhattan and is awaiting delivery of his Think City.
"I think Honda and Toyota are cheaper than they used to be, but they're still in the mid-20's," Mr. Cheng said, referring to hybrid electric vehicles that use gasoline part of the time. "For that price you can get yourself a pretty decent conventional car."
The Ford car, which is not for sale yet, is a Rorschach test on wheels. Some said it resembles a Volkswagen Beetle whose front and rear ends have been lopped off. Other images came to mind. "It does look a little like the car that 20 clowns get out of at the circus," Mr. Liebowitz said. "Hopefully people won't laugh at me."
Last week, Mr. Goldsmith and his thermoplastic-paneled car turned heads and elicited smiles and looks of bewilderment around town. Even Mr. Goldsmith poked a little fun, saying his dark blue Think City with the silver roof looked like the older cousin of his children's plastic Cozy Coupes -- those familiar red and yellow toy cars that are ubiquitous in suburban playrooms and backyards.
When the weather warms, Mr. Goldsmith said he would try to work the car into the magic act that he performs part-time for kids' parties.
Despite the car's appearance, most drivers interviewed were impressed by how the 2,075-pound Think City picked up speed quickly and navigated tight turns. Mr. Goldsmith's wife, Elizabeth, said the Think City's bucket seats were more comfortable than those in the family's other cars. And without a traditional motor, the car rolls along in virtual silence until it hits higher speeds and whirs in a high pitch like a golf cart. (The car's quietness made Mr. Goldsmith worry that pedestrians might not hear it coming.)
Mr. Goldsmith was extra cautious on his first outings. Setting out on his Sunday errands, he carefully plotted a course to avoid running the electric charge too low. First he headed to the most distant point, a medical supply store a few miles from home, then on to a more local loop that included stops at a drugstore and a pet store where he bought a cricket lunch for the family frog.
"It's changing my habits," he said. "I have to plan my trips more because it's got a shorter range. If I go 30 miles one way I'm not going to make it home. Planning is not as relaxing as just getting in the car and going."
It turned out that Mr. Goldsmith's planning was unnecessary. After his errands, the in-dash meter showed he had run down only about 27 percent of the car's power.
Running his Sunday errands, Mr. Goldsmith had no reservations about driving alongside mammoth S.U.V.'s on local roads. But the next morning, safety concerns dictated his decision to avoid his usual Long Island Expressway route to the train station and take Woodbury Road instead.
"They say top speed is about 60 miles per hour, but to tell you the truth I don't want to try this on the highway," he said. "It's crash-tested to 35 miles per hour, which is fine, but if you get hit by one of those Explorers or Excursions, I don't know how it will handle."
Insurance companies are apparently uncertain as well. Despite the sturdy steel and aluminum frame that Ford says makes the car safe, consumers in the pilot program found no breaks on insurance. Ford set up a program through the Hartford Fire Insurance Company for the electric car, but some consumers said a new policy creates more headaches than adding the electric car to an existing policy.
Mr. Liebowitz said Geico, which insures the 10-year-old Nissan 300ZX that he now uses for his hops from home to the train station, first balked at the idea of insuring an electric car but then relented.
"The cost of the insurance is about the same as I was paying for my Nissan," Mr. Liebowitz said of the roughly $1,200 yearly outlay. "I initially thought it would be cheaper since the Nissan is a sports car, which you always pay higher rates on, and this is a car that can't go more than 50 miles per hour."
But a drive around town soon helped Mr. Goldsmith forget his insurance worries. He relished the attention from gaping passersby and his role as grassroots environmental ambassador.
During dinner at an International House of Pancakes the other night, Mr. Goldsmith and his new car found themselves the subjects of a homework paper after two girls in the next booth overheard him discussing the vehicle with his youngest son, Daniel, 11.
At traffic lights on Woodbury Road, Mr. Goldsmith was happy to roll down his window and answer questions from gawking motorists in adjacent lanes. And parked at the Plainview Centre strip mall, he let strollers sit in the car's bucket seats.
"The free parking spot at the train station is just a parking spot," Mr. Goldsmith said. "I'm really hoping that this program goes somewhere. It does feel good to be at the forefront because maybe I can enlighten some people. Everywhere I go I extol the virtues of that car. There are a lot of things that need to be worked out to make it a fundamental main car instead of a secondary car, but wherever I go I say, 'You should try it.' "
Mr. Goldsmith's mood dampened when he pulled into his new railroad parking space at the Town of Oyster Bay garage across the street from the station, where about a dozen spots were allotted for the electric car drivers. Mr. Goldsmith found most of the spots open, but an electric feed to the chargers hadn't been installed. 
Then he spotted a rusty Volkswagen Jetta and a red Ford Focus squeezed into two of the tiny electric car spots. "This is the other thing I'm worried about: that cars that aren't electric are going to take spots from cars that are," he said.
If that weren't enough, Mr. Goldsmith soon found the electric car spaces challenged by Al and Ann Loffredo, a couple in their 80's who pulled up for their part-time jobs as tax collectors. The electric car spots were taken from spaces that had been designated for taxpayers, and the prospect of hearing more complaints from irate residents didn't sit well with the Loffredos.
The Think City rollout comes as New York lawmakers, environmentalists and car makers debate how electric and hybrid electric-gas car use will be legislated in the state. Like Massachusetts and Vermont, New York had planned to begin requiring the sale of electric cars in the state by 2003. But New York is considering delaying the requirement until 2007.
"The governor was coming under pressure from the manufacturers with the claim that they couldn't meet the quota and that there wasn't demand for it," said Steve Levy, a state assemblyman from Holbrook. "Whether that's true or not, we feel it's important to provide incentives to increase demand."
Last month, Mr. Levy, a Democrat, introduced a bill that would grant electric and hybrid car drivers access to H.O.V. lanes, free tolls in the state for two years and sales tax exemptions.
Without improvements in range, those additional perks may be needed to stimulate electric car demand. John Casesa, a Merrill Lynch auto industry analyst, said he doesn't believe cars like the Think City will find much of an American audience. Gas prices are too low and the Think City car, with its Scandinavian minimalist design, is too unfamiliar. 
"It's a nice idea," Mr. Casesa said, "but there are alternatives that get you pretty close in economy and emissions that require much less adjustment on the consumer's part."
If the electric cars fail to take hold, commuters like Mr. Goldsmith and Mr. Liebowitz can always go back to spotting the parked cars of commuters coming off their night shifts. "I suppose three years from now," Mr. Liebowitz said, "I'm back to memorizing license plates."

GRAPHIC: Photos: REID GOLDSMITH admits that his Think Car, powered by electricity, looks like a cousin of his children's toy cars, but sponsors of a demonstration on Long Island and in Westchester and Rockland Counties hope to fan public interest. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Reid Goldsmith tried to give his new electric car a charge at his reserved parking spot near the Hicksville railroad station, but the recharger hadn't been hooked up yet. At left, the dashboard gauges display speed and battery charge.; Ford's Think City is dwarfed by every other four-wheeler on the road, including the Saab parked next to it at this Plainview strip mall. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); TRAINS (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (86%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (86%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (77%); PARKING OFFENSES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (76%) AUTOMOBILES; ELECTRIC VEHICLES; RAILROADS; COMMUTING; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (54%) FORD MOTOR CO; NEW YORK POWER AUTHORITY; LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: RICHTER, ALLAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



312 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life; 
Hiring?You're Everyone's Best Friend

BYLINE:  By MELINDA LIGOS 

 BODY:
CYNTHIA MCKAY, the chief executive of Le Gourmet Gift Basket Inc. in Castle Rock, Colo., is being stalked.
 Her pursuers, however, are not love-struck loners. They are out-of-work executives and other professionals. 
 They pester her with calls, asking for job leads or referrals. They accost her in her company's parking lot, entreating her to look at their resumes. One man even cornered her on an airplane for three hours to promote his job skills. 
Some of the supplicants are friends. Some are acquaintances. Some are strangers who found her name in a newspaper clipping. They are all looking hungrily for one thing: a job. "Honestly, I'm feeling victimized," said Ms. McKay, whose company has more than 400 distributorships nationwide. "I've never endured this level of harassment."
Business specialists say the recession has created a new, onerous chore for corporate executives: coping with more intrusive, insistent pleas for work than ever before.
"All the rules of networking have flown out the window," said Andrea Nierenberg, president of the Nierenberg Group, a consulting firm in Manhattan. "It's as if they've forgotten their manners."
Some job-seeking former managers don't bother to hide their desperation, as they might have in the past. Marian Salzman, director for strategy and planning at Euro RSCG Worldwide, a marketing communications firm, says an acquaintance recently left a voice mail message that began, "I recognize you are busy, but the courtesy of an introduction to your human resources department is the minimum I demand."
Before Ms. Salzman could return the call, she received a second message from the man, who was seeking a high-level marketing position. "Are you aware that my wife does not work, that my mortgage is significant and that this is the third time I have been out of work in the last five years?" he asked.
Ms. Salzman, who did not submit his name for consideration, said, "That's not the kind of message which inspires confidence."
The most shocking aspect of the trend, experts say, is the experience level of the people who most often commit these networking faux pas: they are not scrappy, young executives, but senior-level ones who should know better.
One of their ploys, Ms. Nierenberg said, is to send mass e-mail messages to everyone in their Rolodexes announcing their availability. She herself recently received a message addressed to more than 25 people that read: "Dear Friend: Happy holidays. I'm still looking for a job. Please forward all of your contacts A.S.A.P."
"This really violates basic networking 101," she said, which emphasizes the personal touch.
Another technique is the friendly call to an executive who happens to be a long-lost acquaintance. The job hunter asks her how she is doing and wonders if she has any job openings or advice.
David Collins, a lawyer at Garfunkel, Wild & Travis in Great Neck, N.Y., says he has been getting at least two such calls a week over the last eight months. He recently received one from someone he didn't remember from the Widener University School of Law in Delaware, who opened the conversation with, "How's it going?" and was soon asking for help in finding a job.
"If you ask me, that's a really weaselly way to go about getting help," Mr. Collins said.
THE self-promotion of some down-on-their-luck managers can be inelegant. Mark Scott, vice president for marketing at HomeBanc, a mortgage company in Atlanta, recalls how an out-of-work business acquaintance set up a breakfast appointment with him, then arrived 30 minutes late and split the check with him. Afterward, she called him every morning with greetings like, "Hi, sweetie, it's me," and requests for any job leads.
The approach backfired. "I wouldn't subject this obnoxious woman on anyone," said Mr. Scott, who fretted that his reputation would suffer if she dropped his name in interviews. He says he prefers to help people he meets at local marketing association functions or at networking dinners he sets up periodically at local bars and restaurants.
"I like people to develop longstanding relationships with me before they ask me for something," he said.
He has a soft spot for colleagues who have shown an interest in his career as well as their own by giving him advice or talking up his expertise. "If you're in it just to help yourself, it's not effective," he said.
THE worst sin that an out-of-work manager can commit, specialists say, is to become a nuisance. After Dane Madsen, chief executive of YellowPages.com, an online business directory, received a resume from an executive he had met recently, he promised to send it along to his chief operating officer. Three days later, the man called him back and complained that he hadn't heard from that officer, who was out of town on a business trip. The job hunter, who was seeking a high-level position in the company's project development department, followed up with more phone calls to Mr. Madsen and sent him more copies of his resume.
"At that point, I wrote the guy off completely," Mr. Madsen said. "If you don't have a little respect for my time, forget it."
Ms. McKay of Le Gourmet Gift Basket says the eagerness can take almost comic forms. Recently, when she invited one unemployed lawyer to send her resume, it arrived in a picture frame. The woman, who was seeking a position as an in-house lawyer, also sent her a postcard from her vacation. It included a big smiling face and the woman's signature.
"It was as if she was my best friend," Ms. McKay said. "I threw the card right in the trash. It was beyond stupid."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cynthia McKay, chief executive of Le Gourmet Gift Basket, has been besieged by job seekers. Some corner her in the company parking lot. (Steve Groer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%) LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: LE GOURMET GIFT BASKET 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%)

PERSON: LIGOS, MELINDA; MCKAY, CYNTHIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



313 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Some Municipal Bonds Leave a Corporate Taste

BYLINE:  By ABBY SCHULTZ 

 BODY:
WHEN Kmart filed for bankruptcy protection last month, more than $218 million in municipal bonds across the country went into default.
 The troubled bonds belong to a class of quirky securities that are issued by municipalities but depend on corporations for their stream of payments to holders. When corporate revenue falters, the bonds can decline in value. A. G. Edwards & Sons, the investment firm, calls them "corporate munis" and includes in the category industrial development bonds, like those issued for Kmart, as well those to finance construction projects for airlines. Such bonds have fallen in price since Sept. 11. 
 Many investors who thought they were holding safe, steady municipal bonds have had some "very unpleasant surprises" recently, said Brian Tournier, fixed-income analyst at A. G. Edwards.
In Kmart's case, many municipalities sold the bonds from 1981 to last November, according to Thomson Financial. They were to be used to build stores for Kmart, repaying investors with revenue from Kmart lease payments. In 1993, for instance, the Industrial Development Authority in Liberty, Mo., sold $3.9 million in municipal revenue bonds on behalf of Kmart, with a coupon of 5.65 percent. The bonds last traded on Jan. 29 at 48 cents on the dollar, giving them a yield to maturity of 18.54 percent. For the moment, payments on the bonds have stopped, and their value will depend on the details of Kmart's emergence from bankruptcy.
Generally, prices of municipal industrial development bonds can fluctuate far more wildly than those of traditional munis with the same ratings, Mr. Tournier said. "I have spent countless hours on the phone with brokers and in some cases with individual clients who own these bonds," he said, "and in most cases they don't understand these bonds are backed by corporations."
More than $6 billion in corporate municipal bonds are sold annually. They reward investors with yields that are roughly one-tenth of a percentage point higher than those of most traditional munis with comparable ratings, Mr. Tournier said.
Fitch, a bond rating agency, found that the default rate in municipal industrial development bonds was 15 percent over a 20-year period ending in 1999; for traditional municipal bonds, it was only 1.5 percent. "Basically, industrial development bonds are corporate bonds in municipal clothing," said David T. Litvack, a managing director at Fitch.
In 2001, the rate of corporate bond defaults was 12.9 percent, a record, according to Fitch. That compares with 5.1 percent in 2000.
A. G. Edwards estimates that investors in high-quality corporate munis take on as much as 11 times more credit risk than investors in munis with equivalent credit ratings.
Because of the deals' structure, the corporate guarantor often isn't immediately obvious. In March 1999, for instance, Perry County, Miss., issued $23.6 million in pollution control bonds for Leaf River Forest Products. The bonds were actually guaranteed by Georgia-Pacific, the forest and paper products company.
"What you don't know unless you have the offering document in hand is that it's secured by Georgia-Pacific," Mr. Tournier said. The bonds' value has fallen in recent weeks on worry that Moody's Investors Service will lower Georgia-Pacific's rating to below investment grade.
BONDS to finance construction of airline projects, like hangars or baggage facilities, have been hurt by a combination of problems. The sector was weakening as the economy began faltering last year, said Mitchell L. Conery, co-manager of the Delaware National High-Yield Municipal Bond fund. 
Then the Sept. 11 attacks, which led to a sharp reduction in air travel, sent prices of such bonds tumbling. Yields on some of the weakest credits, including those sold for projects backed by revenue from US Airways and United Airlines, a part of UAL, went as high as 16 percent. A revenue bond for a United Airlines project at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago fell from a price of 103 cents on the dollar and a yield to maturity of 6.025 percent on Sept. 10 to 45 cents on the dollar with a yield to maturity of 16.4 percent as of Tuesday, said Patrick P. Coyne, co-manager of the Delaware fund. The bond matures in 2016.
To protect against credit risk from any single issue, the fund takes various measures, including holding about 100 different bonds at one time. It did not protect itself against Sept. 11, however. "How do you model a terrorist attack?" Mr. Coyne sad. "You just can't." 
Delaware High-Yield still returned 5.36 percent in 2001, beating the average of 4.95 percent for all high-yield municipal debt funds tracked by Lipper. General municipal debt funds returned 3.9 percent last year, Lipper said. 
Generally, corporate municipal bonds may gain in price as the economy strengthens, but Mr. Conery is cautious. "We don't think we'll see a gangbuster recovery by any means," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Buyer Beware"Bonds sometimes known as "corporate munis" are issued by municipalities but depend on corporations for payments to bondholders. The securities are often riskier than traditional municipal bonds. If corporate revenue is impaired, the bonds' prices will plummet. Graph shows the price of a bond for a United Airlines project at O'Hare International Airport. Bond matures in 2016. Thursday: 45.009 Graph shows progress from February 2001-2002(Source: Standard & Poor's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (72%); AIRLINES (70%) STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: KMART CORP (93%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%)

ORGANIZATION: KMART CORP (KM) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%) SIC5331 VARIETY STORES; 

PERSON: SCHULTZ, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



314 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 3; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2855 words

HEADLINE: The Changing Look Of the New Harlem 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
SO the president of the Abyssinian Development Corporation arrives at the Starbucks on 125th Street to meet with the president of the Forest City Ratner Companies before visiting Harlem Center, their joint venture across Malcolm X Boulevard. They are impressed by the pace of construction at the Gap overlooking the Adam Clayton Powell Jr. State Office Building and former Hotel Theresa.
 This is Harlem, 2002. 
 Parcel by parcel, uptown is being remade, fueled in part by the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone Development Corporation and the state's Metropolitan Economic Revitalization Fund. While it remains to be seen whether the momentum of the late 90's can be sustained amid recession and civic trauma, there are enough projects in the pipeline to guarantee, for now, that the transformation will continue.
"This gives people an opportunity to shop in their own neighborhoods and it generates jobs and opportunities for more revenue to come back into the community," said C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president. "That's not a bad thing." 
The change is not to everyone's liking, however, by any means. Tensions can be keen when racial and ethnic differences are added to the issues inherent in redeveloping any well-established enclave: the economic alienation and displacement of longtime businesses and residents, the tilt of power from community groups to large corporations and the loss or alteration of beloved landmarks. Complicating matters is the frustration felt by local entrepreneurs who sustained Harlem during its leanest years and now watch government subsidies flow to outside developers and businesses.
"The people who are benefiting the most are those who got here last and who have the least need," said Councilman Bill Perkins, who represents central Harlem. "There's a growing, small entrepreneurial movement that is screaming about the unaffordability of commercial spaces. This we hear loudly in Harlem."
But for better or worse -- or both -- the die seems to have been cast. On its key commercial thoroughfares, at least, uptown is looking more and more like the rest of Manhattan.
Harlem may even be getting its first major national corporate headquarters with the planned arrival of Edison Schools Inc. at Duke Ellington Circle, in an office building alongside a new Museum for African Art.
This is not the only cultural complex being planned. The Apollo Theater at 253 West 125th Street may create a performing arts center that encompasses the neighboring Victoria Theater. Meanwhile, it has closed for two months in the first phase of a $50 million renovation.
Across 125th Street from the renovated Studio Museum in Harlem, Harlem Center is now a 540,000-cubic-foot concrete basin -- think six Olympic-sized pools -- from which the steel framework of a three-story structure is soon to emerge. It will house a 57,000-square-foot Marshalls department store, CVS store and Washington Mutual bank branch.
Citarella is planning to open a store on West 125th Street by year-end and move its food preparation center to the former Taystee Cake Bakery on West 126th Street, said its owner, Joseph R. Gurrera.
At the bustling intersection of 125th Street and Lexington Avenue, where the Pathmark supermarket draws crowds, the three-story, 39,000-square-foot Gateway Building is nearing completion, with Duane Reade as its first tenant and Seaman's Furniture to come. The developers are Nina DeMartini-Day, Terrence Moan and Michael Dirzulaitis.
Across 125th Street from Pathmark, columns and beams frame the three-story, 90,000-square-foot, $24 million Gotham Plaza by the Blumenfeld Development Group. It will open this summer, David Blumenfeld said, with Fleet Bank, Children's Place, Payless ShoeSource, Petland Discounts and Rockaway Bedding Centers. Further into the future, Blumenfeld would also develop the East River Plaza retail project at the former Washburn Wire Factory.
In the three blocks between Second and Third Avenue, 125th and 128th Streets, the Potamkin Auto Group is planning a mall of automobile dealerships, and Grid Properties and the Gotham Organization are planning Uptown N.Y., an urban version of the Woodbury Commons outlet center.
Grid and Gotham were the developers, with the Commonwealth Local Development Corporation, of the Harlem U.S.A. retail center on West 125th Street, where the Hue-Man Bookstore is to open in April. Specializing in African-American subjects, it will stock at least 10,000 titles and "house the culture" of Harlem, said Clara Villarosa, who will run the 4,000-square-foot store with Celeste Johnson and Rita Ewing.
Drew Greenwald, president of Grid Properties, recalled the skepticism that greeted plans for Harlem U.S.A. six years ago. "Everybody said, 'It can't work,' " he said. These days, he said, "Most of the projects that have a ribbon cutting tend to happen."
Ground may be broken by the end of the year at Duke Ellington Circle, overlooking the Harlem Meer in Central Park, for a $125 million, 220,000-square-foot cultural and corporate complex to be developed by the Hines real estate company of Houston.
Edison Schools is to move its headquarters there from 521 Fifth Avenue, at 43rd Street, and the Museum for African Art is to move from 593 Broadway, near Houston Street. There is also to be a 650-seat, tuition-free public elementary school managed by Edison. The noteworthy design team includes Venturi, Scott Brown & Associates for the office and school; Bernard Tschumi for the museum; and Gruzen Samton as coordinating architects and planners.
"Architecturally, we're going to come out with a terrific project," said Councilman Philip Reed, whose district includes the site. "The community is going to be supportive of the school and we're going to bring 400 corporate jobs into the community."
VISITORS to the museum and headquarters can be expected to spend at least $2 million a year at nearby restaurants, shops and businesses, said a study by Allee King Rosen & Fleming. The 542 employees at the complex are expected to spend $1 million annually at local establishments.
The complex would occupy five empty lots between 109th Street and 110th Street, renamed Tito Puente Way to honor the legendary band leader. Edison owns the largest lot, on Fifth Avenue, where the 60,000-square-foot museum would be built.
Edison and the museum are negotiating the acquisition through the Economic Development Corporation of four city-owned lots on which a 160,000-square-foot school and office building would rise. It would be about 14 stories, roughly half the height of the nearby Schomburg Plaza. The City Council approved a rezoning in December that would permit offices on the site.
"We felt very strongly that we wanted our headquarters to be in the same community we serve," said Valerie Corbett, an Edison vice president and the project director. The company estimates that 60 percent of its school staff and 80 percent of its students are African-American and Latino.
Sitting at the junction of black and Hispanic Harlem, at the farthest reach of Museum Mile, the site suited the museum's vision of "building a bridge between communities," said Anne Stark, the deputy director. As the museum searched in 1999 for alternatives to its rented space in SoHo, it came upon the block that Edison had been looking at for its headquarters and school. They agreed to proceed together.
The midblock building will be split into two condominiums. Hines will own the 85,000 square feet of office space and lease it to Edison. The 75,000-square-foot school will be owned by a not-for-profit company. The museum will own its home on Fifth Avenue, which will permit it to build up its permanent collection, double its gallery space and quadruple the educational space.
Another ambitious cultural project that is now taking shape is an Apollo performing arts center that might encompass the Victoria Theater, 233 West 125th Street, whose auditorium is only 15 feet apart from the Apollo on the 126th Street side.
"We'd certainly be in favor of any kind of expansion of the activities of the Apollo into the Victoria Theater," said Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, who said the matter was under negotiation. The state owns both the Victoria and the Apollo, which it has leased to the Apollo Theater Foundation for 99 years. One possibility, Mr. Gargano said, is a 3,000-seat theater on the Victoria site. 
Foundation executives said it was premature to talk about reconstruction, demolition, restoration or even acquisition of the Victoria. They focused instead on the renovation of the 1,483-seat Apollo itself, by Davis Brody Bond and Beyer Blinder Belle.
"We've thought long and hard about the best way of holding on to the historical richness of the theater while at the same time bringing it current," said Derek Q. Johnson, president of the foundation. The renovation is to occur in phases; staged so that the performance schedule is not disrupted unduly and also, Mr. Johnson said, "to allow our financial power to meet our real estate aspirations."
Apollo executives see their project in terms of the overall vitality of 125th Street. "The issue is how you keep it busy after 6 or 7 o'clock at night," said David D. Rodriguez, executive director of the foundation. "The key answer is to have a vibrant Apollo."
In the first phase of the renovation, to be completed in October at a cost of about $12 million, the great yellow-and-red blade sign out front will be rehabilitated, the marquee will be updated with light-emitting diodes, the terra cotta facade will be restored, the roof will be repaired, seats will be fixed and carpeting replaced, power capacity will be increased, computer-assisted moving lights will be added and new dimmers, speakers and audio mixing consoles will be installed.
The second phase, costing about $38 million, is to begin next year. It will include the restoration of architectural details and ornament in the auditorium and the construction of a new lobby and gift shop. Seats will be replaced, dressing rooms renovated and restrooms increased. Fiber-optic lines will be extended inconspicuously throughout the theater. All three levels will be made accessible to the disabled.
It is the uncharted phase, involving the 84-year-old Victoria Theater, that concerns Michael Henry Adams, author of the forthcoming "Harlem Lost and Found, An Architectural and Social History: 1765-1915."
Designed by the celebrated theater architect Thomas W. Lamb, the Victoria facade is ornamented with Ionic columns, anthemion leaves, lions' heads, rosettes and rhytons -- horn-shaped cups with animal heads. The Victoria is not a landmark but has been deemed eligible for the National Register of Historic Places, Mr. Adams said. "It is the most architecturally distinguished theater to survive in central Harlem," he said. "It shouldn't be necessary to destroy what is special and unique about Harlem."
One local landmark that has been brought back from near ruin is the former school and convent of Our Lady of Mount Carmel Roman Catholic Church at 445 East 115th Street, once the heart of Italian Harlem, which is being rebuilt as the National Museum of Catholic Art and History.
Dedicated in its own words to promoting "an awareness and appreciation of Catholic art in all its facets," the museum also plans an exhibition on the rich social history of East Harlem as one of its first shows. Although the private museum is a tenant of a parish church, a spokesman for the Archdiocese of New York emphasized that "there is no other relationship of any sort between the archdiocese and the museum."
The $8 million, cellar-to-attic renovation is well along, with new windows, walls, lighting, elevator and cooling equipment all in evidence. Most of the dozen galleries are nearing completion. Another $1.5 million is needed to complete the work, said Edward J. Malloy, chairman of the museum board and president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York. "I feel comfortable that we'll get it done," he said. "A May opening is realistic."
Arthur Rosenblatt, former vice president for architecture and planning at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, is working on the Catholic museum with his colleagues at RKK&G Museum and Cultural Facilities Consultants. "This is not a token effort," he said. "It's a first-class, fully developed museum that's almost real. But like all early efforts, they're spare."
The National Museum of Jazz in Harlem is so spare that it is, so far, nonexistent. But Leonard Garment, the president, said the museum will soon appoint a new executive director, who will hire a staff and begin to address the question of what -- and where in Harlem -- the museum should be.
Among jazz clubs, the "Hottest Spot in Harlem" was Smalls' Paradise. While the Paradise itself is lost, its three-story building still stands at 135th Street and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard (Seventh Avenue). The Abyssinian Development Corporation plans to renovate and expand the building by three floors into the Thurgood Marshall Academy, with an International House of Pancakes at the base. Construction may start next month, said Karen A. Phillips, president and chief executive of the nonprofit development corporation begun by the Abyssinian Baptist Church.
The facade, distinguished by yellow-brick buttresses and Gothic finials, will be restored. There will be lobby displays about Smalls' and the Apex beauty school, another celebrated tenant, and about Justice Thurgood Marshall of the Supreme Court, who lived in Harlem. The architects of the $40 million project are Gruzen Samton.
BERTRAND MILES, a retired television cameraman and former Smalls' patron, has waged a quixotic battle to reopen it as a nightclub. Ms. Phillips said that was unavailing. "The community thinks that if you open the door, it would still be there," she said, "but it's been gone for years. We talked to so many restaurateurs and jazz club operators. But to get those financed in an inner-city area is difficult."
Citibank is financing the restaurant and the Board of Education is financing the school, which is to have up to 700 students.
The Bank of New York has made a $27.5 million construction loan to Harlem Center, at what was once to have been the site of the Harlem International Trade Center. After that project was scuttled, Abyssinian approached Forest City Ratner about responding to a request for proposals.
Bruce C. Ratner, president and chief executive of Forest City Ratner, said his company -- which is known for building commercial projects in developing neighborhoods -- had been approached many times to undertake something in Harlem.
"I'd always been hesitant," he said, "because it's very political in Harlem. There are a lot of different interests."
In this case, he said, Forest City Ratner was persuaded by the participation of Abyssinian and the commitment of state officials, especially Randy A. Daniels, who is now the New York secretary of state.
The project is divided into two parcels and phases. The 23,000-square-foot Gap is on the midblock parcel. On the corner is a 120,000-square-foot retail building. If a tenant can be signed, an office tower of about 150,000 square feet will rise above that. Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates are the architects for both phases; associated with the Ives Group on the $38 million first phase and with HLW International on the second, which could run to $40 million.
Ground-floor rents at Harlem Center and Harlem U.S.A. are $80 to $100 a square foot annually, a sign that 125th Street generally has escalated beyond what many Harlem businesses can afford. Borough President Fields said that has prompted efforts to strengthen other commercial corridors along 116th Street, 145th Street, Powell and Douglass Boulevards.
Cater-corner from the Masjid Malcolm Shabazz at 116th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard, the mosque at which Malcolm himself ministered, Renaissance Plaza has a mix of national and local tenants: Carver Federal Savings Bank, CVS, a Pioneer supermarket, Mail Boxes Etc., Ashley Stewart clothing store and Petland Discounts, as well as a money-transfer office, beauty supply shop and Christian bookstore. A restaurant, Five Loaves and Two Fish, and a fast-food court are to open this year.
These stores occupy the base of a new 241-unit co-op apartment building developed by Jeffrey E. Levine and Stuart Match Suna. The mosque served as community sponsor.
Not everything happens on such a large scale. At 116th Street and Madison Avenue sits a vacant bank, forlorn but quite noble, with an arcade of stout Doric columns.
Carl S. Redding, the proprietor and chef of the popular Amy Ruth's restaurant, 113 West 116th Street, said he had entered into a long-term lease on the Madison Avenue building. He envisions it as a 300-seat seafood restaurant, Noah's Ark, where culinary training would also be offered. Jack Travis Architect would be the interior designer.
The project needs $5 million to become a reality, but Mr. Redding sounded confident. "Harlem needs what I'm trying to put together," he said. "We're ready for it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Hotel Theresa seen from the Gap under construction. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times); The blade sign of the Apollo Theater is to be rehabilitated and the marquee will have light-emitting diode panels. (Davis Brody Bond, Beyer Blinder Belle)(pg. 1); Foundations for the Harlem Center, Malcolm X Boulevard and 125th Street, with the Adam Clayton Powell Jr. State Office Building in the background. Inset rendering shows the Harlem Center stores and office tower.; Two eras of Harlem on 116th Street: the Malcolm Shabazz mosque, left, and CVS store at Renaissance Plaza.; The red-brick school and convent of Our Lady of Mount Carmel is being turned into the National Museum of Catholic Art and History. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times; rendering by Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates)(pg. 6) Chart/Map: "Some Noteworthy Developments in Harlem" 1. Thurgood Marshall Academy and International House of Pancakes; former Smalls' Paradise.2. Citarella store and food preparation center; former Taystee Cake Bakery3. Harlem U.S.A.4. Apollo Theater renovation; possible expansion to Victoria Theater5. Studio Museum in Harlem renovation6. Harlem Center7. Potamkin Auto Group mall8. Uptown N.Y. outlet center9. Gateway Building10. Gotham Plaza11. Pathmark12. Renaissance Plaza13. Noah's Ark restaurant14. National Museum of Catholic Art and History; former school and convent of Out Lady of Mount Carmel15. East River Plaza; former Washburn Wire Factory16. Museum for African Art, Edison Schools Inc. headquarters and elementary school Map of Harlem highlighting above mentioned areas. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); RETAILERS (73%); TRENDS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (65%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (64%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

COMPANY: RATNER COS (91%); EDISONLEARNING INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (84%) GAP INC; UPPER MANHATTAN EMPOWERMENT ZONE (ORGN) 

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (91%); NAICS611110 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (63%); SIC8211 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (63%)

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W; FIELDS, C VIRGINIA (BORO PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



315 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: JERSEYANA; 
Closing the Barn Door

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLL 

DATELINE: WAYNE 

 BODY:
AFTER 56 years of countless gallons of ice cream scooped and tens of thousands of burgers flipped, the Old Barn Milk Bar is just one more shuttered building. 
 A hand-written sign on the door thanks customers for decades of patronage, but says the barn will be closed forever. 
 "It's the economy, it's everything," Gerald McMinn Jr., an owner of the barn, said recently as he stood behind the counter stamping out a cigarette. "I just got tired of doing it." 
But it is not simply the closing of this mainstay that has the town rattled, but the future of the barn, a Dutch timber frame that built in 1790 and the last of its kind in Passaic County.
The McMinn family has a contract to sell the property to Fred Meyers, the owner of the Preakness Chevrolet dealership next door, and the deal is expected to be sealed by late spring. The barn was never designated a historic landmark, and so there are no restrictions on demolishing it.Tesidents and history buffs are concerned that the car dealership will knock down the barn for additional space.
"There is no real plan yet, but probably the barn would not be continued," said Herbert Guston, Mr. Meyers's attorney.
Residents remember the Milk Barn as a place to go after Little League games or to cool off on a hot summer's night. People would wait in line for as long as 40 minutes for a huge cone and then sit on the hoods of their cars or on lawn chairs and chatter while trying to keep the towering scoops of ice cream from falling onto the hot asphalt. "It was the social gathering place of the town, and I'm sorry to see it go," Marge Arenson, a 41-year-old homemaker, said.
For now, Mayor Scott Rumana of Wayne Township said the town had a few ideas about what to do if the barn was indeed endangered.
"We are going to do all we can to save it," Mr. Rumana said. "We have a few places in town where we could move it. It could be a welcome center for our bike path. Or if there is room, we could move it downtown with some other historical buildings."
In 1930, Olaf Haroldson bought the property on the Hamburg Turnpike and opened an ice cream shop in the barn. But because of gasoline rationing during World War II, business never materialized, and Mr. Haroldson sold the barn to Robert McMinn, a veteran, in the mid-1940's.
Mr. McMinn ran the business until the mid-1980's, when he passed the business down to his son, Joseph, and a nephew, Gerald, who both closed the barn doors on Dec. 10.
In a statement made public by Donald Beshada, a lawyer for the two men, the family expressed its gratitude to community members for their support and nostalgia.
"Unfortunately, the realities of operating what, in essence, has become a seasonal business in a very competitive environment, combined with other problems and concerns, led to the informed decision to sell the property," the statement said.
Mr. Beshada said there had been negations with other ice cream vendors to take over the business, but the discussions proved fruitless.
Inside the barn's dark dining room, the tables are etched with thousands of names and initials inside hearts.
"It was a place where a lot romances started and ended," said Tim Blixt, 50, a lifelong resident of Wayne.
"It was never a problem to see 100 people lined up waiting for the ice cream, but it was more than that," said Mr. Blixt. "A lot of it was the charm of the old building."
Terry Fitzpatrick, a 53-year-old salesman who lives in Wyckoff, recalled spending five years behind the counter of the Milk Barn doing everything from scooping cones to washing dishes, and said he remembered the look on people's faces when they got a cone for the first time. 
"First-time customers were stunned because the cones were very big," Mr. Fitzpatrick said. "If you go to a Carvel or a Dairy Queen today and you order a scoop, maybe it's the size of a half-dollar. At the barn, we would make them the size of a snowball."
As Bryan Corrado, a 22-year-old teacher from Totowa, put it: "It's something that went along with your childhood. The barn was part of growing up, and unlike Little League and childhood innocence, it was something you could hold on to as you grew up, and now it's gone."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Old Barn Milk Bar, a fixture in Wayne for 56 years, has been sold to a car dealer next door. Many fear that the 1790 Dutch timber frame barn will be razed, and the mayor has proposed moving it. (Nancy Wegard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE CREAM (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); HISTORY (72%); NEW CAR DEALERS (68%); HISTORIC SITES (67%); WORLD WAR II (63%); GASOLINE (50%) BARNS 

ORGANIZATION: OLD BARN MILK BAR (WAYNE, NJ, RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: RUMANA, SCOTT (MAYOR); HOLL, JOHN; MCMINN, GERALD JR; MEYERS, FRED 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) WAYNE (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



316 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: VIEW; 
Tuleh Tells: Designer Confidential

BYLINE:  By JOSH PATNER 

 BODY:
A FEW weeks ago, Andre Leon Talley, Vogue's editor at large, came bursting through the door at Tuleh. He was not even halfway in the room when he boomed out a question: "What does it take to survive?"
 I hadn't the faintest idea how to respond, because truthfully I have never been certain Tuleh will survive. I felt as if he were asking me to share a secret formula. I was stumped then, but I will share my secrets with you now. 
 As this New York Fashion Week kicks off in particularly uncertain times, the question of survival seems all the more pressing. My partner, Bryan Bradley, and I consider our survival almost every day, and some days almost every hour. Exactly four years ago this week, long before big spenders were pinched by the recession and the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 made women question their shopping habits, Bryan and I opened Tuleh with high hopes, high-interest credit cards and $225,000 in savings and family loans. We were going to make the most beautiful clothes in New York! Revive the great legacy of American dressmaking! We would have a salon of our own, a signature perfume, assistants, money, fame, all of it. 
Since then we have sold our dresses to some of the finest stores, including Bergdorf Goodman and Neiman Marcus, and among our clients are a bouquet of the uptown social roses who fill the party pages. We have received encouraging reviews from fashion critics, including Ginia Bellafante of this very paper, who after our fall 2000 show noted "a tasteful sexiness that made you want almost all the clothes that went by."
But the truth of it? We are still packing and shipping boxes ourselves, putting off bill collectors, far from any realization of our dream. Editors and buyers won't find Tuleh on the fashion calendar this week, because there isn't any money to spend, so there is no collection to show. At least not now. 
We have never had a financial partner. We have written at least 15 business plans (aspiring designers be warned: learn to deal with a spread sheet) and talked with at least a dozen potential investors. One guy owned a bowling alley and thought that a fashion investment would increase his luck with the ladies. At times it seems as if half of our debt is in glossy press kits, dispatched to anyone who might have an interest in a fledgling brand. We have turned down about half the deals, and been turned down in equal number. 
It is brutal out there for independent designers. This is the era of the mega group: LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, Prada and Gucci dominate the game. The business pages are filled with the financial woes of department stores, where customers have come to expect they can buy everything on sale. Even well-heeled shoppers are wary of overspending or seeming conspicuous.
I will share some financial facts with you. I am not shy about it. When you are a designer trying to build a house, you get used to opening your books on demand. It becomes like dropping your pants at a checkup. 
Our first season we had $75,000 in orders, a figure that has nearly doubled with each season. But as of today, we have about $12,000 in the bank. There has never been any cash to support our growth. We don't even have a line of credit. How has Tuleh survived? Bryan and I will it to survive. Every day. We are owed about $200,000, which, God willing, will be collected over the next six weeks; our current debt is more than that. Manufacturing the runway samples for a collection (excluding payroll, insurance, rent, etc.) costs about $175,000. To produce a fashion show in the group tents in Bryant Park requires a minimum of $40,000. Our shows, which have never been in the tents (we are snobs), have cost considerably more. Keeping up with the cash flow could give a guy dementia. 
But I have learned that money is not the answer. Money has doomed more designers than it has made. Yes, a designer must have respect for money. But managing money is a talent of its own. I don't believe it is a talent that true designers -- people actually cutting clothes -- have. In my opinion, a designer has no business working as a business person. 
Distracted by a constant lack of funds, we spend far more time chasing cash than great design. Believe me, we have trotted some clunkers down that expensive runway of ours. Fashion does, however, have a built-in blessing: there is always next season. I think the first secret of survival is knowing when to turn the page. 
Designers give up any claim to a normal life. We never eat out with friends, and don't have a summer house, a 401(k) plan, even a paycheck. When you own a business, you say goodbye to your sex life and to a fit body. 
Expect instead to say hello to cold, greasy Chinese food, candy, old fried chicken, cigarettes when you don't even smoke, anything to keep your nerves under control. Because you are indebted to anyone who lent you money, did you a favor, returned your call, your nails will be bloody stubs. The small details will get away from you, then the big picture, and then suddenly the whole game. You will beg, plead, humiliate yourself to collect payment from stores while you try desperately to pay your bills. Your mother's calls never get returned. I have tried to chain half-dead seamstresses to their sewing machines late at night before a show. So we come to the second secret: keep focused on making beautiful clothes. 
I think that a lot of people become designers to get invited to A-list parties. Yeah, we dress all the right girls. But in four years we have been invited to only one A-list party. It was in our honor. Aerin Lauder Zinterhofer gave a dinner for us at her home after our fall 2001 show at Harry Winston last March. It was going to be our breakthrough night. Everyone was at the dinner, or rather everyone but us. The show had been a mess: the pants were all hemmed six inches too long. An extravagant fur came down the runway with a huge workroom tag hanging from the armpit. A model wearing a $6 million necklace came out with her pants unzipped. Bryan and I showed up at Aerin's door two hours late, feeling puny and mortified. Third secret: keep your ego in check. A dressmaker should never be rude. 
So why do we even try to survive? Does somebody have a gun to our heads? Are we addicts? What exactly are we addicted to? Sometimes I think we are addicted to the idea of surviving, of proving the doubters wrong. But there are far more subtle, and ultimately more compelling, addictions that drive us on. 
The fourth secret is succumbing to your addictions. I am absolutely addicted to Jacki Deena Tutelman, a saleswoman at the New York office of Ratti fabrics, the Italian mill that makes our prints. Jacki has perfect nails. She pronounces "georgette" as if it were "zior-zette." So glamorous. Amanda Cutter Brooks, our in-house muse and best friend, looks so pretty in our clothes that it shocks my senses -- I can't believe I had anything to do with it. How can we consider closing when our Neiman Marcus buyer, Hila Ekelman, says she has a customer who depends on Tuleh? I worship Raymond Chou, our main contractor, who knows more about clothes than Christian Dior did. Sometimes it is just an idea in my head that keeps me going. And no addict could ever get the pleasure Bryan and I take in seeing a woman turn on in Tuleh. It is a major rush and a very powerful feeling. 
Secret No. 5: learn from criticism and compliments alike. Getting reviewed is a grisly experience. I wouldn't wish it on anyone. Ironically, while nothing feels better than a good review in the heat of the moment, it can leave you stuck the next time. Good reviews can make a designer try to do the same thing again, and then what would there be to buy or to photograph? It is almost better to get a bad review if it makes you work harder. But it sure feels lousy. 
The last secret for survival: our most valued critics are the women who wear the clothes and the people who sell the clothes to them. Good designers must never stop listening. (After all, I'm a guy. I have never given anything I design a test drive.) We have learned that salespeople are the single greatest source of market research in our industry, yet theirs are the least-heard voices. They can tell you how best to finish a seam to make a dress alterable, how much a blouse should really cost, why velvet never sells. 
How has Tuleh survived? There is only one reason: the clothes. The only thing a designer can even hope to control is the clothes. Everything else is madness. It is true that we have been supported by the press, but far less than other designers have been. Our buzz sometimes buzzes out. But Princess Firyal of Jordan called to say that the coat she ordered fits like real couture. And Kim Hersov, an editor at Harper's & Queen, called from London to ask if we could make up a few things we thought she couldn't live without this season. And Helen Ytuarte, a globe-trotting fashion editor, keeps coming back for more. Fortunately, some women love their Tuleh. 
So thank you, pretty ladies. Keep shopping.

GRAPHIC: Photos: WISH WE WERE THERE -- Tuleh on parade in 2001. Now it's a Fashion Week no-show. (Corina Lecca for The New York Times)(pg. 1); THE TEAM -- Bryan Bradley, left, and Josh Patner are still chasing the dream. (Rob Schoenbaum for The New York Times); A SETTING -- In 2001, Tuleh staged a show at Harry Winston. (Corina Lecca for The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); FASHION SHOWS (75%); FASHION DESIGN (75%); RETAILERS (73%); TERRORISM (68%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (68%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%) APPAREL 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (82%)

ORGANIZATION: TULAH (CO) 

TICKER: MC (PAR) (82%); LVMH (BIT) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (82%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (82%)

PERSON: PATNER, JOSH; BRADLEY, BRYAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



317 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2303 words

HEADLINE: Love's Journey 

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ; Additional reporting was provided by Laura Puertas in Peru and Seth Kugel.

 BODY:
THIS is a love story. But there is no princess, no white knight. Do not expect a dozen red roses, or dinner at Daniel. There are, however, hearts, aches and letters. Lots of letters.
 For much of the past year, Melania, 42, has lived in a small, dark house in Richmond Hill, Queens, with three middle-aged Peruvian women. She shared a bed with one of the three sisters, their room filled with fake flowers and stuffed teddy bears, some wrapped in plastic, and none of it belonging to Melania. 
 More than 3,000 miles away, in her native Peru, her husband of 26 years, Antonio, and three of their four daughters live in one of the most crowded districts of Lima. Their modest but tidy concrete house sits atop a hill cut by narrow, unpaved streets. They have running water from midnight until noon. There is never hot water for a bath. They cannot pay their bills. 
In January 2001, Melania, hoping to ease her family's finances, boarded a flight from Lima to Washington. She wondered during the 10-hour journey where she was going. "Sometimes I imagined buildings filled with light, all of glass," she said. "I imagined the ground shining like mirrors."
One year, two cities, an expired tourist visa, four apartments and several jobs later, Melania has a more earthbound vision of the United States and of New York. Now Peru seems to be the lighter, more fantastic place.
She keeps letters from her family, which she reads every week. She handles them gently, these Easter eggs, Hello Kitties, happy birthdays, merry Christmases, Powerpuff Girls, rough-cut hearts, poems in childish script.
They spill like leaves from her hands; pledges of love and devotion pour from the pages. It is an intimacy of superlatives, as if adjectives can make up for miles: millions of kisses, the best, the most beautiful. Her youngest daughter, Andrea, sent a math problem. "Mamita, I'm giving you this problem as your homework: 109 + 99 = ." In the blank, Melania wrote 208. "It's my punishment for not being in Peru," she said of the homework.
Melania is not a pioneer. The archetypal immigrant tale features a man striking out across the sea, establishing himself and eventually sending for his family. But immigration has increasingly become an equal opportunity endeavor. Today, most legal immigrants are women, said Guillermina Jasso, a sociology professor at New York University. According to government data, women have made up the majority of new legal immigrants 21 to 65 years old almost every year from 1972 through 1998. That figure does not count those who became legal residents under the provisions of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. 
Although data for illegal immigrants are fuzzier, some estimates are that the male-female ratio among the illegal is 60 percent male to 40 percent female.
Melania is not alone. Some 700,000 of the nation's 8.5 million illegal immigrants live in New York State, most of them in New York City. 
Increased border security in the last five years, coupled with heightened vigilance by the government since Sept. 11, have made it harder for illegal immigrants to come and go. Increasingly, they must choose between an old world and a new one. "If she leaves now, they may take note that she overstayed her visa, and they may be less likely to issue her a new one than they would have pre-Sept. 11," said Jeffrey Passell, a demographer at the Urban Institute.
So, Melania stays. She and her family speak several times a week on the phone, but they have no idea when they will meet again. Antonio is a husband without a wife, Melania a mother without children. They all share a love that is both sharpened and distorted by distance. They are a family in mourning with each other, for each other.
LIKE many in Peru, Antonio and Melania have spent their lives slipping in and out of work, sometimes driven to the scrappy world of informal commerce. More than half of Peru's population lives in poverty. 
"I am typical of those little girls who become strong at a very young age," said Melania, who started working at 6, soon after her mother died. At 9, she sold coffee and sandwiches on Lima's streets.
After two companies Antonio worked for went out of business, he started driving an unofficial taxi. Melania worked from home, sewing, teaching, making and selling stuffed animals, and baby-sitting. Five years ago, she opened a pastry shop called La Reina, but when the Peruvian economy slumped in 1998-99, the business failed.
"We prepared the pastries to throw them out," she said. "Nothing sold." The school bills -- $100 each annually for Rosalyn, studying to be an accountant, and Liz, studying to be a nurse, and $50 a month for 8-year-old Andrea -- were impossible. There was a pile of debt: the house, the car, medical bills. The oldest daughter, Nathaly, does not live at home.
Today, the family's monthly budget is $450. Antonio earns between $270 and $400 a month, driving his cab and working occasionally as an electrician. 
"We are a mature couple, so we made a decision," Antonio said during a recent interview. "A very painful one."
He would stay in Lima, but Melania would join the small army of Peruvian expatriates who in 1999 sent home $819 million. "I was more courageous," Melania said. 
Nathaly and Andrea, who is shy, didn't see their mother off. 
"When we got home, Andrea asked for her Mami," Rosalyn said. "We told her: 'Oh, yes, Mami will come later. She has gone on a trip, and when she comes back, she'll bring us some little gifts.' The house was very sad those first days. More than anything, my father was sad. He was a bit stunned by what he felt for my mom."
Antonio had met Melania when he was a 21-year-old assistant at an insurance company and she was 14. "I spoke to her, and she responded," he said.
"We fought," said Melania, recently over pasteria napoletana, torta di limone and coffee at the elegant Italian restaurant in TriBeCa where she had been a pastry chef. Her father managed the building where Antonio worked; Melania sometimes helped with the cleaning. She swept Antonio with a broom when he passed; she threw water on him as she washed the floors.
"One day he said, 'You bother me so much,' grabbed me, and kissed me against my will," Melania said. 
Later, he asked whether she had liked his kiss. " 'Ah, no, it was hateful,' I told him," she said, laughing at her own impetuousness. "I liked having him always at my side. I didn't want to be alone." 
The kisses continued. Antonio started picking her up from school, Melania said, recreating the dialogue of their courtship:
"Don't come to my school to pick me up," Melania told him.
"I'm not going to let anything happen to you," he said to her. 
"And why do you take such good care of me?"
"Because one day, you're going to marry me. Because you're going to fall in love with me, be my girlfriend, and be the mother of my children. Do you know that the mother of my children has to be the most beautiful person in the whole world?"
WHEN the school year ended, Melania's father found her talking with Antonio and forbade her to see him again. "I started crying," she said. "And I told him the truth: 'But, Papi, I love him.' " 
Then, Melania said, her father schemed. "He went to the police and told them, 'Sir, I found my daughter nearly being raped by this man.' "
The police arrested Antonio, whose parents tried to persuade Melania's father to drop the charges. They pleaded. They brought gifts. "They brought a basket with rice, sugar, oil, everything for my stepmother," Melania said. "And for my father, they brought a case of beer." 
After a week, her father relented. But, Melania said, the police said they would release Antonio only if he married her. " 'According to what you have told us, he has sinned against your honor and the honor of your daughter,' " the police said. " 'So, the only way for your daughter's honor to come out clean is if she marries him.' "
The couple's parents settled on a plan: Melania and Antonio would marry, but divorce right away.
On Aug. 23, 1975, Melania, dressed in everyday clothes, and Antonio, who had bought his bride a bouquet of artificial white roses, were wed in a civil ceremony. Their parents waited outside.
"Fortunately, I have a cousin, a very trustworthy guy, a very good person, and I had asked him to lend me -- I don't know where I get these ideas -- to lend me his motorcycle so we could escape after we got married," Antonio said. 
"My husband's cousin was waiting outside with a running motorcycle," Melania said. "So my husband grabbed me, and said, 'As soon as I give a signal, run as fast as you can.' "
Antonio said, "It was practically like a kidnapping."
Of her father's response as they fled, Melania said, "I only heard, 'My daughter!' "
Antonio had indeed found the mother of his children. Melania was three months pregnant on their wedding day.
Melania's life is buttressed by the letters from her family, and her letters home are also treasured. Just as she sends a vision of herself home, so, too, she creates an image of New York.
"What has made an impression on her about life in New York is that everyone has their time regimented," Antonio said. "Everyone works. It's not like here in Latin America. We'll run into a friend on the street corner, and we'll be chatting, sometimes about silly things. But there, no. There everything runs like a machine, people are very orderly, organized. All this has made an impression on my wife."
Last May, Andrea sent a wish list to her mother: a Barbie doll, a car, two computers with the Internet, a four-story house with a staircases, a garden with a pool.
Andrea keeps her mother's letters under a stack of books in her room. "My dearly beloved little ones," reads one letter from Melania. "I wish I could write you every day, tell you minute by minute what I do, what I think. I assure you that the stores would run out of writing paper." 
Still, no volume of paper can add up to her being there. "I miss her physical presence most, Antonio said. "She was the orchestra of the house."
For his birthday Jan. 18, Melania had a small orchestra go to her family's home and play Peruvian music. "When they arrived, everyone was surprised," she said. "They sang, 'We were sent by Myli, your wife in New York.' " 
"I always joke with her," Liz said. " 'Mami, when are you coming?' Or I tell her, 'Mami, I'm heading over there.' She laughs and says, 'O.K., come tomorrow.' "
The truth is that it's hard to get out of Peru. Antonio does not want to cross the border illegally, and has applied for a visa. "I want to go to New York," he said. "I am willing to do any kind of work."
LAST week, the sky in Queens was thick and white. One of Melania's housemates baby-sat at the house. Two children raced around, laughing and grabbing the fingers of a houseguest. On Saturdays, the sisters do the laundry and Melania cooks dinner. It looks a little like a family. "Almost," Melania said. Rain ran down the windows. "The sun is shining in Peru," she said.
Ten days ago, it was 80 degrees in Lima. Antonio wore Bermuda shorts. He woke up at 6 a.m. and had canihua, a cereal of roasted quinoa with milk, cinnamon, and cloves, for breakfast with his daughters. They spoke, as usual, of Melania.
"When I get up, I always greet my mother as if she were here," Liz said. "I have some stuffed animals that she sent me, so I say good morning to them as if they were my Mami." 
For breakfast Melania ate oatmeal and toast with American cheese. After the attack on the World Trade Center, she lost her job, and with it, a big part of her community of friends. As she looks for another job, she does the rounds of relief agencies. She gets $693 every two weeks from the nonprofit agency Safe Horizon, roughly what she used to earn at the restaurant, and collects some money from churches and the Asociacion Tepeyac, an immigrant advocacy group in New York, where she also takes free English classes. After breakfast, she picked up her check from Safe Horizon and cashed it. Later, she wired $200 to her family. 
Antonio spent the morning at an auto shop, supervising repairs on his car. Liz walked three blocks to the open-air market to buy ingredients for lunch: potatoes, yellow peppers, garlic, onion, crackers, cheese, milk, a live chicken. The family ate together.
Melania ate alone: chicken McNuggets, a salad.
In the afternoon, as the family watched a news program about corruption during the Fujimori era, Melania bought her daughters CoverGirl smudge-proof mascara, vitamin C, lipstick and nail polish.
"Sometimes she calls at 7 a.m. to remind us not to forget to put water in Andrea's lunch box," Liz said.
From a distance, Melania realized, her life in Peru seemed a collection of details: waking her daughters, making beds, cooking, shopping, helping with homework. She had escaped. 
And the freedom was unbearable. 
"I felt like a thief had come in the night, and had robbed me of all of my family, and all of my house, and that I was all alone in the world, without a house, without family, without children, without a husband, without anything," she said. "I was alone, alone in the world. I felt my arms were empty, and the only thing to do was to cry and cry and cry."
Her job at the restaurant helped. "Before, I cried every day," she said. "After I started work, I cried only once a week."
Melania was working on Sept. 11. She saw people jump from the towers. For weeks, she dreamed of hands reaching out to her, calling for help. 
She telephoned her daughters. They told her to come home. "I said, 'Mama, come back, please come back,' " Rosalyn said.
Melania said she told her children: " 'No risk, no gain. You have to learn this from your mother.' "
Monday, Melania and her housemates quarreled. Tuesday, she left in search of a new home. She phoned her daughters. They called her, "My little Mami, the brave."

GRAPHIC: Photos: When Melania and Antonio married in 1975 (bottom), they never imagined that Melania (left) would journey to the United States to support her family back in Peru (top). She says that she sometimes feels "all alone in the world." (Veronica Salem for The New York Times); (Matt Moyer for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Melania saves all the letters she gets from her husband, Antonio, and her daughters. The notes help bind the family together, but mere paper can't make up for her absence. "She was the orchestra of the house," Antonio says. (Photographs by Matt Moyer for The New York Times above and Veronica Salem for The New York Times); From a distance: Melania's family is more than 3,000 miles away. (Matt Moyer for The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (87%); LEGISLATION (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (65%); REFUGEES (62%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (56%); PERSONAL FINANCE (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; WOMEN 

PERSON: KINETZ, ERIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) PERU (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; PERU

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



318 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: Car Dot-Coms: The Dust Settles 

BYLINE:  By CATHERINE GREENMAN 

 BODY:
WHEN Simon and Karen Garrett started shopping for a Honda Civic, they took the usual first steps in the car-buying process. The couple, who live in Brighton, Mich., test-drove a Civic at their local dealer, Brighton Honda, and got a quote that was reasonably close to the manufacturer's suggested price. Then, like many Internet-savvy consumers, the Garretts went home and compared the quote at several automotive Web sites, including Autobytel.com, cars.com and Edmunds.com.
 After running the numbers, Dr. Garrett, a chemistry professor at Michigan State University, realized he could find a better price online. "A couple of the sites came up with quotes that were considerably less than the dealer's," he said. "One was about $1,000 less." But instead of buying the car online, Dr. Garrett went back to his dealer with a printout. The dealer matched the online quote, and a Civic was sold. 
 In the end, Dr. Garrett felt more comfortable buying locally. "We talked about getting it through some faceless online dealer, but we were a little worried that we might have to drive a long way only to find out that the car was not as advertised," he said."We preferred to work with someone local." 
The Garretts' experience encapsulates a pesky reality that car-selling sites have struggled with since their inception: buyers use the Internet for research, but the moment of truth tends to occur at dealerships.
"The vast majority of consumers still turn to the Internet for information that helps them negotiate with dealers in the traditional ways, as opposed to looking at the Internet as an alternative means to close the deal," said Chris Denove, a partner at J. D. Power & Associates, a research firm in Agoura Hills, Calif. "This probably won't change in the near future."
It may also explain why, after millions of dollars have been spent and hundreds of marketing minds have been sapped, several of the Internet car sites that started in the late 1990's are no longer around.
The so-called referral sites, like Autobytel, Carpoint.com, and InvoiceDealers.com, continue to operate with varying degrees of success. They refer shoppers to dealerships; the consumers must first fill out online forms describing details like the make, model and features of cars they want, as well as how far they're willing to travel and what financing and insurance packages they are seeking.
Autobytel says it earned about $52.3 million last year in fees from dealers; it says its fourth-quarter revenue was up $3.7 million from a year earlier, to $20.5 million. Carpoint will not disclose its revenue from dealer fees, or its total revenue for 2001, but it says it generates $8 billion worth of leads annually. InvoiceDealers says it has been profitable since June 2000.
The referral sites still struggle to sign up dealers, who must pay several hundred dollars a month to receive customer leads. "When dealers work with a referral site charging on a per-lead basis, they have to factor that into the sale price, and that gets expensive," said Jim Ziegler, a dealer consultant in Atlanta.
And the closing rates from Internet leads can be low. A J. D. Power study released in November found that the typical Internet shopper visited 6.8 auto sites before buying.
"The public has double-crossed the dealers every time they've tried to make a sincere effort on this thing," Mr. Ziegler said. "Consumers are registering with several services, and dealers are paying $25 to $30 per lead for the same lead, or paying for a lead that's miles away."
Other dealers, however, have found that referral sites have significantly helped their business. "The leads from Autobytel are fantastic," said Tom Vann, owner of Team Hillsdale Chrysler in Hillsdale, Mich. Mr. Vann said it cost him about $7,000 a month to get roughly 500 customer leads from Autobytel, and that those leads accounted for 40 to 50 percent of his monthly sales. But Mr. Vann said some sites generated many serious buyers while others produced few good leads.
Sites that let shoppers "name their price" -- like LiquidPrice.com,
BestOffer.com, and the auto service of Priceline.com -- have either shut down or are struggling to adapt the many variables of auto retailing to the online world.
"In an environment where there's an increasing amount of incentive activity, the car-buying transaction doesn't lend itself well to the online experience," said MaryAnn Keller, an independent automotive consultant who was president of Priceline's Auto Services unit from July 1999 to November 2000. "The deal is going to be determined by the dealer based on a person's credit rating, what they are buying and other factors. It's an industry where the manufacturer's suggested retail price has become largely irrelevant, and there are many other variables to consider." Those variables, she said, are often too complex to be negotiated online.
Some sites, like CarOrder.com, which shut down in February 2001, and Greenlight.com, which merged with CarsDirect.com that same month, arranged high-volume deals with dealerships to offer no-haggle prices to consumers. CarsDirect continues to work with its network of 3,000 dealers to sell directly to consumers, but it is also taking steps toward becoming a referral service. It recently began DirectConnect.com, a referral service that charges dealers $299 to $1,299 a month for leads within specific territories.
Who is clearly succeeding in the online car buying world? Sites like AutoTrader.com, and cars.com, which are essentially Internet classified advertising services for new and used car dealers. At AutoTrader, dealers spend an average of $500 to $600 on classified listings, said Jody Scott, a spokeswoman. She said the site now had more than 1.8 million cars for sale.
Cars.com lists 500,000 new and used cars that are also advertised in 150 newspapers owned by seven companies, including The New York Times Company. For $1,200 to $2,200 a month, depending on the market, dealers can list all cars on their lots. For $20, an individual can buy an ad that is posted until the car sells.
To cover their bases, many car-selling sites rely on revenue sources outside car sales. Autobytel says that about 40 percent of its business comes from sales of banner advertising on Autobytel and its three other sites (Autoweb.com, CarSmart.com and AutoSite.com), as well as from sales of insurance packages and dealer training programs.
Sites geared to helping consumers search for car prices and features, like Edmunds.com and Kelley Blue Book (kbb.com), also receive a large chunk of revenue from automakers' er advertising. "Many manufacturers realize that car buyers are coming to our site at some point in time as they make their final decision," said Stephen Henson, vice president for marketing and business development at Kelley Blue Book.
Whatever direction they are taking, the remaining auto retailing sites have adjusted their strategies to include not just the consumer, but also the dealer. "In 1996 or 1997, there was a fair amount of hubris as far as the role the dealer would ultimately play in the car-buying process," said John Holt, president and chief executive of the Cobalt Group, a Seattle-based company that builds and operates Web sites for manufacturers and dealers.
CarOrder.com, for instance, went out of business in 2000 after burning through a $100 million investment from its original parent, Trilogy Development Group. CarOrder had hoped to buy marginal dealerships to gain access to a supply of cars, which it would then sell at prices that undercut conventional dealers.
Now, Mr. Holt said, strong dealer relationships are crucial to the survival of any sales site. Jeffrey Schwartz, president and chief executive of Autobytel, said of dealers, "They are our principal customers, and the heartbeat of the company."
Car-selling sites that are not affiliated with manufacturers or dealers face growing competition from automakers and from dealers who strike out on their own with ambitious Web sites that let consumers configure models and compare prices.
"There's been a tremendous growth in manufacturers' sites over the last year," said Julia Ask, an analyst at Jupiter Media Metrix in New York. Ford and General Motors have also gotten into the dealer referral game with Forddirect.com and GMbuypower.com.
Analysts agree that the consumers who do buy online tend to visit manufacturers' sites to learn about the cars' features, but they prefer to negotiate through independent sites. "When it comes to finding hard facts and figures about specific vehicles, most feel that the manufacturer's site is the better source," Mr. Denove said. "But when it comes to filling out a referral form, most consumers believe that the independent sites are the way to go." Those sites still outsell manufacturers' sites by two to one, Mr. Denove added.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 24, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Automobiles section on Feb. 10 about automotive Web sites included an outdated figure for the percentage of revenue that Autobytel, an online service that refers car shoppers to dealerships, receives from banner advertising. In 2001, sources other than dealer fees, including advertising on its four sites, dealer training programs and insurance packages, accounted for 26 percent of revenue; the 40 percent figure was for 2000.
The article also referred incorrectly to a dealer-referral business recently begun by CarsDirect.com. A shopper can use the service, called CarsDirect Connect, by entering a ZIP code and desired vehicles on the CarsDirect site, not at DirectConnect.com. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Short and Checkered History of Auto Web Sites" lists features and specifications for auto web sites. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%) AUTOMOBILES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: AUTOBYTEL INC (57%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: ABTL (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: GREENMAN, CATHERINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



319 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF; 
A Lurid Tale, Overtaken by Events

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

 BODY:
THRILLERS blending business dealings and derring-do form a genre in their own right, and "The Day Trader," by Stephen W. Frey (Ballantine Publishing Group, $24.95), fits admirably into this high-octane niche. It is a tale of market misdeeds and murder with characters ranging from traders shorting stocks to table dancers dealing in quite different commodities.
 But there's a problem: after the bull market days that seem to have inspired the book -- and that certainly inspired many day traders to gamble their life savings on magical stock valuations -- fact has become stranger than any fiction. 
 Consider, now, an author scanning that figurative blank page (or, more likely, a glowing screen and a blinking cursor) for the beginnings of a plot. Where to begin when reality has already outpaced what would once have passed for the fantastic? 
How about, for instance, a story about a big accounting firm shredding a client's internal documents? Improbable? Or a chief executive from an energy giant with close ties to the White House subpoenaed to face congressional inquiries of the company's collapse? Too unlikely? Or, maybe the discovery of a foreign-exchange trader who, his employer says, ran up $750 million in losses? Could that happen? (Ask Allied Irish Banks, Ireland's biggest bank.)
Financial thrillers, of course, are a particular breed. Ideally, they should leaven a sinewy plot with enough insider detail to give the outsider an initiation into a secretive world and still offer enough realism to draw in the expert.
Mr. Frey, a principal at Winston Partners, a private equity firm in McLean, Va., and the author of successful novels like "Trust Fund" and "The Takeover," achieves those goals easily, drawing on his own experience in corporate finance and in the mergers and acquisitions unit of J. P. Morgan.
From the first page, the reader is invited into the disconsolate world of Augustus McKnight, a sales representative at a paper products company, unhappy in his job, picked on by a vindictive boss and going home to an unhappy marriage in which he suspects his wife of infidelity.
But Mr. McKnight's world turns out to be even more complex when, finally, a stroke of luck on the initial public offering of a stock gives him the capital to fulfill his longstanding ambition of becoming a day trader. The move transports Mr. McKnight from a world of predictable slights and minor deceits into a high-risk play in which the imponderables ultimately go far beyond the rise and fall of the stock market.
Of course, this is meant to be a fast-paced read -- and it is, barely slowing for the technical passages that explain, for instance, an initial public offering or a lock-up provision. If anyone starts reading this book not knowing what put options or margin loans are, he will certainly finish the book with a working knowledge.
As the plot unfolds, Mr. McKnight swerves between a hint of romance and murder (swerving, literally, on one occasion in the sleek new BMW that is the token of all success). Mr. Frey takes the reader along on a roller coaster that almost moves fast enough to cloak the occasional improbability in the plot.
In quick succession, the narrative encompasses a motley array of day traders who share utter duplicity and a passion for elusive riches. There is, too, a sympathetic police officer who investigates after Mr. McKnight's wife is found slain.
To twist the narrative tighter, Mr. McKnight is the beneficiary of a million-dollar life insurance policy on his wife, enough to give any day trader a start-up stake and make any police officer, sympathetic or not, suspect murder. As the plot strips away half-truths that had defined his life, Mr. McKnight must confront realities he had never suspected.
BEYOND that, though, the book comes as a reminder of just how fast the financial and business world has changed since the days -- only a couple of years back -- when day traders were making headlines as contributors to the volatility of a bull market that was racing toward the bursting of the Internet bubble. Then, as the book reminds, stock was king not just as the currency of pay packages and takeovers, but as the stuff of dreams among small investors hunched over computers and swapping tips on Internet bulletin boards.
These days, the market's gyrations reflect a flight from risk that has become all the more apparent since the Enron affair raised doubts about the financial health of once-unassailable corporate icons. If individual investors once thought they could make their fortune on a wise play in the stock market, they are far more worried now about the health of their 401(k) plans.
But one thing that shines through Mr. Frey's traders is humanity's capacity for hope -- defined as an optimism that denies fact and, in the stock market's case, gravity. Like gamblers everywhere, the players in "The Day Trader" thrive on the belief that a twist of good fortune will redeem all their past errors. 
It has not been long since such beliefs transformed day traders into symbols of the bull market. Given the speed of economic change, it could well be that Mr. Frey's latest work is not so much a story of times past as a signal that the get-rich-quick dream is just hibernating.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (90%); LITERATURE GENRES (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); MERGERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); BONDS (73%); SUBPOENAS (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (63%); PAPER & PACKAGING (50%); PAPER MFG (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: BALLANTINE PUBLISHING GROUP (58%); ALLIED IRISH BANKS PLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BALLANTINE PUBLISHING COMPANY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: FREY, STEPHEN W; COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%); IRELAND (54%)

TITLE: DAY TRADER, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



320 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; 
Commodities: Down So Low They Have Room to Grow

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
STOCKS may be stalled right now, but at least they have recovered nicely from the sell-off after Sept. 11. Commodities have not. That may be an opportunity for adventurous investors.
 There are two reasons for investors to be interested in commodities. One is that if the economy is set for a rebound, a rally could be in store because commodity prices are very low. The other is that commodities tend, over time, to move in the opposite direction from stocks, so they are a good way to bring diversification to a portfolio. 
 First, the rally. Since Sept. 11, the Goldman Sachs Commodity index is down 17 percent while the Dow Jones-AIG commodity index is off 11 percent. The difference exists because the Goldman index, which consists of 26 commodities, gives more weight to energy. The AIG index, not as well known, was unveiled in November with more than a decade of data; it has 20 energy, metal and food commodities. It has been lower than it is now less than 20 percent of the time since 1990.
So there is room for commodities to rise, if the economy is indeed turning around. Demand should increase for energy commodities and industrial metals if manufacturing picks up around the world.
"If commodity prices just go back to where they were before Sept. 11, that is a double-digit gain," said Adam De Chiara, senior vice president at AIG Trading Group, which is working to increase awareness of its commodities index.
Now, for diversification. In their most recent decline and rally, commodity prices performed this role quite well. As prices of goods from crude oil to coffee, copper to pork bellies, and zinc to sugar were falling 42 percent from May 1997 to February 1999, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 49 percent. But from February 1999 to January 2001, commodities climbed 56 percent while the S.& P. 500 eked out a 6 percent gain.
All the major commodity sectors declined last fall, with crude oil and crude oil products leading the way with a 62 percent plunge. Precious metals had the smallest fall, declining 12 percent. In the rally, crude oil led again, with a surge of 210 percent, while grains fell 20 percent.
Diversification, however, is not a route to big returns and is not always a buffer. Last year, commodity prices and stocks both fell sharply. Diversification is a way to balance a portfolio so that when there is bad news in one sector there may be good news elsewhere. Success depends, in part, on owning a basket of commodities so that local factors that affect price, like the weather, do not become too dominant. "The wider you cast your net, the more likely those micro factors will cancel each other out," Mr. De Chiara said.
Analysts do not advise going whole hog into commodities because they are mainly a portfolio diversifier. Five percent seems right.
The problem for individual investors is that buying commodities is complicated and risky. There are futures contracts on the two commodity indexes. But owning even one represents a big exposure for small investors. The face value of the AIG futures contract is over $50,000, which is much more than 5 percent of most small portfolios.
In addition, it is easy for investors to get sucked into much bigger losses than they expect with futures contracts because they can buy a contract on margin for much less than its face value.
One possible option, although still risky, is the Oppenheimer Real Asset fund. It is a $120 million mutual fund that tries to match the performance of the Goldman Sachs total return commodity index, which also includes fixed-income investments to enhance returns. An investor can get in for $2,500.
In 1999 and 2000, the Class A shares of the Real Asset fund performed spectacularly. It rose 37 percent in 1999 and 44 percent in 2000, as the S.& P. 500 climbed 20 percent and 10 percent. But last year, there was no hiding from declines. The Real Asset fund declined 31 percent, while the S.& P. 500 fell 13 percent. So far this year, the Real Asset fund is off 0.6 percent. That is less than the 5 percent decline for the S.& P. 500, but holding on for the year will be an adventure.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "One-Stop Diversification"Commodity prices tend to move in the opposite direction of stock prices, helping to diversify a portfolio. Graph shows the S.& P. 500 INDEX and the DOW JONES -- AIG COMMODITY INDEX from 1997-2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (89%); FUTURES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); PORK (76%) FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



321 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Olympic Cheer: Put Out More Flags

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY 

 BODY:
IT was a diplomatic tango as delicate as any performed in the halls of power. But this international incident unfolded at the 19th Winter Games, when the International Olympic Committee last week rejected a plan by American athletes to march in the parade of nations with a tattered flag that once flew at the World Trade Center. This irked more than a few self-styled patriots, and the I.O.C. eventually allowed eight athletes to carry the flag early in the opening ceremony.
 Such confrontations are inevitable, given the abrasive marriage between nationalism and transnationalism that has always existed in the modern Olympics. Nowhere are there more expectations for sport to transcend the politics of international borders, but nowhere does it fail more visibly. 
 In some ways, the flag-waving of the Games is becoming more of an anachronism, as borders open up and the influence of nation-states wanes next to the power of organizations like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, and corporations that span the globe. The euro is now circulating to surprising enthusiasm. But the events of last week, as well as the history of the Olympics, show that not only is nationalism far from exhaling its last breath, but the Games remain crucial in perpetuating it.
"Every couple of years, these sports reflect the dialectic between the national and the international," said Jeffrey O. Segrave, a sports historian at Skidmore College. "It's a way of taking stock of ourselves, of what we've made of this planet, which is a sense of increasing global identity on the one hand, and on the other hand you have this sense of national identity."
Outside of war, the Olympics may well be the world's most visible forum for nationalism. Having a delegation in the opening ceremony legitimizes a country as much as joining the United Nations, said Peter Donnelly, a professor of sports sociology at the University of Toronto. When the Taliban lost power, there was immediate speculation about whether Afghanistan would field an Olympic team (it didn't), as if this could complete its transformation from a pariah state. 
But even more than participating in the Games, the awarding of an Olympic site to a country is seen as a validation of the host's nationhood. When the I.O.C. gave Beijing the 2008 Summer Games last year, many Chinese said their homeland had finally been recognized by the international community.
Competition in the Olympics is often the only chance that countries with little diplomatic clout have to reinforce their national identity. The Winter Games are dominated by often overlooked nations like Canada and Norway. In the 2000 Summer Games, Cuba spoke with its fists when it won more gold medals in boxing than any country since 1970. (Its geopolitical nemesis, the United States, won no gold medals in the event for the first time since 1948.)
SINCE its founding, the Olympics have been rooted in nationalism, despite organizers' efforts to dress it in politically neutral garb. In the second half of the 19th century, a British doctor named W. P. Brookes organized the Olympian Games in his country to strengthen candidates for the army.
The founder of the I.O.C., Baron Pierre de Coubertin, had similar motives, said Mark S. Dyreson, a sports historian at Penn State. De Coubertin was taken with Brookes's idea while searching for a way to build up the French army, which had been routed in the Franco-Prussian War. Only later did he promote the Olympics as a venue for international good will.
The first modern Olympic Games, held in 1896 in Athens, ignited conflict between colonizer and colonized, a dynamic that continued for decades, said David C. Young, a classicist and Olympic historian at the University of Florida. Edwin Flack, an Australian runner and Oxford student, insisted in 1896 that his two medals go to Australia, only to have Britain take them. In Stockholm in 1912, Russia tried coercing a Finnish runner into declaring his three medals for Russia, which had taken over Finland in 1809. A 1956 Melbourne water polo match between Hungary and the Soviet Union almost ended in a riot, coming as it did shortly after the anti-Soviet uprising in Hungary. "It was a subject country trying to gain independence," Young said.
Then there are the most infamous expressions of nationalism: Adolf Hitler using the 1936 Berlin Games to promote Nazism and Palestinian terrorists murdering 11 Israeli athletes in Munich in 1972, as well as the exchange of cold war boycotts between the United States and many Eastern bloc countries during the 1980 and 1984 Summer Games in Moscow and Los Angeles.
But one of the most famous social statements at the Olympics pointed to the Games as a potential forum for transnational politics. It came in Mexico City in 1968, when two American medal winners, John Carlos and Tommie Smith, raised their gloved fists in a black power salute as they stood on the awards podium. With "The Star-Spangled Banner" playing, the two were rejecting what their nation represented to emphasize what they insisted was the universal blight of racism. 
That defiant gesture shook the Mexican government as much as that of the United States; days before the Olympics, government troops in Mexico City had killed what historians now estimate were hundreds of student protesters. By kicking Carlos and Smith off its Olympic team and sending them home, Washington demonstrated its allegiances during the political conflicts of the 1960's that superseded borders.
These days, transnationalism can show itself in a far different manner. During the 1996 Summer Games in Atlanta, Visa ran ads promoting a "Visa decathlon team" made up of sponsored athletes from different countries. Multinationals like McDonald's and Coca-Cola now pay the equivalent of more than $50 million to be called "worldwide sponsors." These messages of universality are far different from anything that Carlos, Smith and de Coubertin could have imagined.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Helping athletes get their bearings in Salt Lake City. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TERRORISM (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); HISTORY (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); TALIBAN (68%); HIJACKING (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); SOCIOLOGY (61%); PARADES & MARCHES (57%) OLYMPIC GAMES; WINTER GAMES (OLYMPICS); FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA; OLYMPIC GAMES (2002); TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%) UTAH, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); CHINA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (73%) SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



322 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Where the Minorities Rule

BYLINE:  By GREGORY RODRIGUEZ; Gregory Rodriguez is a senior fellow at the New America Foundation, a nonpartisan research institute.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
FOR more than two decades, a mural on the wall of a public housing project in East Los Angeles has been exhorting the neighborhood's mostly Mexican-American residents to stop thinking of themselves as members of a minority group. "We are NOT a minority!" the image of a finger-wagging revolutionary declares. 
 After a generation of mass migration, this slogan is becoming a statistical reality in Los Angeles and other areas across the Southwest. Last week, the Census Bureau announced there are more immigrants in America than ever before in the nation's history -- numerically though not proportionally -- and the largest single block is from Mexico. While Latin American immigrants now live in all parts of the country, 1 in 2 Latinos are in two states: California and Texas. Even as the Census Bureau has announced that Hispanics are on the verge of becoming the largest minority group, many live in cities or states where they are either already the largest minority group or members of the majority. 
 As a result, many 1970's-era policies designed to integrate nonwhites into the mainstream have been rendered moot or now serve to ensure white participation in predominately nonwhite programs and school districts. Indeed, in cities and counties where Latinos are either the single largest ethnic group or have become the absolute majority, it is often unclear what diversity means and at what ends integration policies should aim. More significant, class is replacing race as the primary political preoccupation of the predominately Mexican-American cities of the Southwest.
Last year, just days after the Census Bureau announced that the nation's most populous state, California, had become the first big state where whites were in the minority, the San Diego City Council banned "minority" from official documents and discussions. Arguing that the word was outmoded and demeaning, council members pushed the debate into the national spotlight.
For many Latinos in heavily Hispanic regions, the term has become too confining and parochial for their reality. Their growing demographic presence in the Southwest has translated into increased local representation and wider political aspirations. No longer playing a supporting role, Mexican-American officials are diversifying their political portfolios and expanding their electoral bases. "Now that we are no longer banging on the door to get in, but are seated at the table," said the Los Angeles City Council president, Alex Padilla, "we have the responsibility to address broader issues that affect the entire city, state and country. The Latino agenda becomes safer communities, good schools, jobs -- in other words, non-ethnic considerations." As Latino politics mature, race-specific issues take a back seat to matters of economic mobility. 
The debate that has flared up over the redrawing of two California Congressional districts shows how changing demographics are reshaping Hispanic political strategy. Last year, when the Latino rights organization Maldef (the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund) charged that the redrawing discriminated against Latinos, prominent Latino lawmakers and union officials argued that non-Latinos could well represent the interests of Latino constituents. In The Los Angeles Times, the liberal state senators Martha Escutia and Gloria Romero argued against creating Latino-majority districts through civil-rights litigation. "We should not relegate ourselves to a few court-imposed barrios," they wrote in an op-ed article. 
Foreshadowing this transition toward majoritarian politics, California's lieutenant governor, Cruz Bustamante, declared three years ago that Latino elected officials "have to de-ghettoize ourselves." 
This sentiment is being felt in other fields. While cultural politics don't always adhere to the same internal logic as electoral politics, Latinos' shift toward majority status has also begun to affect the ethnic marketplace. Last year, for example, the film director Robert Rodriguez said he believed Latino audiences don't want to see Latino-specific films "because they don't want to feel like a niche." 
In her book on the emergence of the Hispanic consumer market, Arlene Davila, a New York University anthropologist, argues that while ethnic marketing has brought unprecedented attention to Latinos, it also defines them away from the American mainstream. 
What more and more Southwest Latinos can agree on is that they are becoming less content with the circumscribed opportunities that their official minority status and multiculturalism now afford them. For example, in the Los Angeles Unified School District, which is 71 percent Hispanic, Latinos' majority status actually puts them at a disadvantage when applying to magnet schools. Originally developed as an alternative to forced busing, the city's select magnet program was designed to integrate ethnic minority students and encourage them to look beyond their neighborhoods.
But today, whites' newfound minority status gives them an advantage when applying to magnet schools. While the district is only 9 percent white, 22 percent of its magnet students are. The racial formula used to balance the makeup of the magnets also ensures that blacks and Asians are over-represented, while Latinos make up no more than 40 percent. While such policies were designed a generation ago to allow members of ethnic minority groups in the door, today, in many parts of the Southwest, they are becoming glass ceilings.
NONE of this is to say that integration is not a major concern in the heavily Hispanic regions of the country. But the focus is shifting toward the socioeconomic integration of immigrants. Changing demography does not eradicate the traditional obstacles that newcomers still face in America. Indeed, politics in many cities that have survived wholesale ethnic succession indicate that future battles will be fought along economic lines.
Weeks before last year's mayoral race in El Paso, Tex., a city nearly three-quarters Mexican-American, Pat O'Rourke, a former county commissioner, declared that all longtime El Pasoans were culturally Hispanic. "We are all Mexicans in this valley," he wrote. "What causes resentment among groups today is not ethnicity, but economic differences."
Indeed, two years ago, in McAllen, Tex., a coalition of churches and schools working to improve the city's socioeconomic ills successfully championed a ballot measure that changed the at-large election system to create single-member political districts. Opposed by Mayor Leo Montalvo because it would dilute Hispanic voting power, activists argued that ethnicity was no longer as important as geography and class. 
Of course, in most of America, Latinos remain a fledgling minority group. The immigrant experience in the South or Northwest, where Latino immigrants have a small but growing presence, bears little resemblance to life in the Southwest. In most regions, the term "minority" and traditional integration policies still make sense. "In Oregon, Latinos are the largest minority group, but we're still only 8 percent of the state," says Amalia Alarcon-Gaddie, director of the Metropolitan Human Rights Center in Portland. "Here we do still need to be vigilant about minority integration." 
Still, last year demographers concluded that Texas, the second most populous state, could follow California and become the second majority-minority state by 2004. Hispanics are now the largest ethnic or racial group in its two biggest cities, Houston and Dallas.
Though the emergence of Latino America has been depicted as the addition of one more color to the nation's multicultural rainbow, the Mexican-American experience in the Southwest is subsuming the region's entire color spectrum and challenging American notions of minority membership.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A mural at Union Station in Los Angeles celebrating the many faces of the city's diversity. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ETHNICITY (89%); POLITICS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); CENSUS (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); HISTORY (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (72%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (62%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MINORITIES (US); HISPANIC-AMERICANS; BLACKS; QUOTAS; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; ASIAN-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%)

PERSON: RODRIGUEZ, GREGORY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



323 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Unlike Market Bubbles, This Variety Doesn't Pop

BYLINE:  By Jennifer 8. Lee 

 BODY:
Many of today's most popular toys are infused with circuits, infrared sensors and quasi-artificial intelligence, but how about a toy that can entertain simply by not disappearing?
 At least two toy companies at the American International Toy Fair in New York, which begins this weekend, are pinning their hopes on bubbles that won't pop for days. 
 Spin Master Toys of Toronto will be showing off Catch-A-Bubble, which produces catchable and stackable bubbles. The product, created by Peter Fish, an Australian toy inventor, has already been a hit in Australia and Singapore. Spin Master executives spotted the bubbles at a toy show in Hong Kong last month and signed a contract with Mr. Fish within hours. They have a suggested retail price of $2.99.
Jakks Pacific Inc. of Malibu, Calif., has its own version on exhibit, a product called Liqualoons. It says Liqualoons will be available later in the year at a suggested retail price of $4.99. Jennifer 8. Lee

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYS & GAMES (93%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (73%); EXHIBITIONS (66%); TRADE SHOWS (65%) TOYS; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS 

COMPANY: JAKKS PACIFIC INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SPIN MASTER TOYS; JAKKS PACIFIC INC 

TICKER: JAKK (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (69%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (69%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (69%)

PERSON: LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (76%); AUSTRALIA (69%); HONG KONG (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



324 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: WHAT THEY'RE READING 

BYLINE:  COMPILED BY KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
 Peter Caswell, 45
Chief executive, Advent Software

BOOKS -- "The Origins of Order: Self- Organization and Selection in Evolution" (1993) and "At Home in the Universe: The Search for Laws of Self-Organization and Complexity" (1995), both by Stuart Kauffman
WHY -- "Business is fundamentally a 'complex system' in the scientific sense. Trying to understand the nature of complexity, why some people, businesses, economies, cultures and even ecosystems stagnate into complexity or chaos and others don't is both fascinating and energizing. Working to figure out how to apply the lessons to day-to-day, month-to-month and year-to-year business, and to life, is one of the great challenges of the new century."

Edward A. Snyder, 52
Dean, University of Chicago Graduate School of Business

BOOK -- "Nonzero: The Logic of Human Destiny" by Robert Wright (2001)
WHY -- "Wright says that humans have thrived over the span of history because we have evolved to favor cooperation and indeed that we are on a path of increasing complexity and interdependence. Are the attacks of Sept. 11 a bump in the evolutionary road or have we reached the logical limit? How will global businesses and markets adapt to terror?"

Robert D. Hormats, 58
Vice chairman, Goldman Sachs International

BOOK -- "Walking the Bible" by Bruce Feiler (2001)
WHY -- "The author goes back to all the lands mentioned in the Bible and describes them as they are now and back in those days. It relates current passions in the Middle East to their antecedents."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); TERRORISM (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOK TRADE 

COMPANY: ADVENT SOFTWARE INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%) ADVENT SOFTWARE INC; UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO; GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP 

TICKER: ADVS (NASDAQ) (91%); GS (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%)

PERSON: CASWELL, PETER; SNYDER, EDWARD A; HORMATS, ROBERT D; O'BRIEN, KATHLEEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (69%) MIDDLE EAST (71%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



325 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: Working Until 70, If Work Is Available 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Workers Find Retirement Is Receding Toward 70" (Economic View, Feb. 3), in which Louis Uchitelle described how Americans must stay on the job until their late 60's or early 70's in order to live well in retirement: 
 Just where are all these workers going to work until age 70 when many are now being laid off at 50 and are unable to find new jobs because they are "too old"? 
Unless business is willing to temper its view that only young people are employable and workers are "old" at 40, this will continue to be a problem.

MARGARET EISZNER
Kalamazoo, Mich., Feb. 4




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); OLDER WORKERS (86%) RETIREMENT; LABOR; AGED; OLDER WORKERS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: EISZNER, MARGARET; UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



326 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Big Farms Making a Mess Of U.S. Waters, Cities Say 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: DEDHAM, Iowa 

 BODY:
By the time the Raccoon River winds through the western hills here, passing corn fields and livestock pens before reaching Des Moines miles to the east, it is so polluted the city has to put it through a special nutrient filter to meet government standards for drinking water.
 The culprits are not industrial plants or mines belching toxins into the river. They are Iowa farms, which send fertilizer and animal wastes into the groundwater and into the river. 
 "Farmers are the problem," said L. D. McMullen, the general manager of the Des Moines Water Works. "And they are entirely unregulated." 
The issue goes beyond Iowa. Across the country, metropolitan water agencies are battling increasing pollution from the countryside. The river pollution is spreading and helping to cause dead zones in the open seas. A recent study by the Pew Oceans Commission, an independent group examining government policies, called huge livestock feedlots and farm fertilizer runoff among the fastest-growing sources of pollution in oceans thousands of miles away. 
As a result, the $171 billion, 10-year farm bill, once seen as a parochial issue for rural lawmakers, has been scrutinized by members of Congress from urban and suburban districts who realize that the upheaval in agriculture has implications beyond the grocery store. 
The bill includes several proposals to reduce water pollution, like increased money to encourage farmers to practice conservation, increased money to protect wetlands, and limits on subsidies so the federal program will not underwrite further farm consolidation. On Thursday, the Senate voted to limit a farmer's annual subsidy to $275,000, half of the current limit. It is unclear if that cap will survive negotiations with the House, which has voted to keep the current limit, $550,000. 
In Iowa, farmers cultivated land with the help of more federal subsidies than farmers in any other state -- $6.75 billion in five years. In a state with no national parks or forests, which keep the land in its natural state, the Iowa countryside has been awash in fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides and animal wastes, some politicians, scientists and environmental groups say.
"We have the most subsidies and the lowest amount of public lands of any state in the union," said Senator Tom Harkin, the Iowa Democrat who is chairman of the Agriculture Committee. 
In the last six years there have been 152 fish kills in Iowa -- leaving 5.7 million fish floating dead in rivers and lakes polluted by fertilizer runoff or leakage from hog and cattle manure lagoons. 
Half of Iowa's lake beaches were temporarily closed last year because of agricultural pollution, said Craig A. Cox, executive vice president of the Soil and Water Conservation Society, based in Iowa.
"Over the last 20 years, we've farmed fence row to fence row, encouraged by federal subsidies, and changed the whole landscape of Iowa," Mr. Cox said. "Farmsteads with groves of trees, patches of wetland and well-planted river banks have been eliminated. Without those natural buffers, we've short-circuited the natural filters and ended up with these water problems."
But those who have large farms say it is wrong to blame them for water pollution. John E. Conrad and his three brothers operate a 5,000-acre spread in Rose Hill, Iowa, that received $921,654 in subsidies over five years and is among the top recipients in the state. 
When the government started paying farmers to practice conservation, the Conrad brothers planted grass strips along most of their streams. They have resisted building manure lagoons for their 3,000 hogs in confinement pens; instead they recycle the waste on their fields.
"We have everything the smaller farmer has for conservation," Mr. Conrad said. "If our subsidies were limited, we'd go out of business." 
The relationship between federal subsidies and the water problems begins with farm payments that encourage big farms to grow bigger, buying out smaller farmers who tend to be better conservationists, said Michael Duffy, an agricultural economist at Iowa State University.
The big farmers then "plant for subsidies, not for the market," Mr. Duffy said, producing some of the best yields of corn in the state's history. A glut in the global market means farmers are paid $2 less than their cost per bushel. But federal subsidies essentially make up the difference. That cheap corn is then bought by large farms, which feed it to animals, leading to profitable business for meat packers. 
"The most drastic charts don't begin to show the revolution in agriculture in the last 10 years," Mr. Duffy said. "Sometimes I think the government is wearing blindfolds when it ignores how the farm program is creating the misery out there."
The number of big farms has doubled over the last two decades while middle-size family farms that manage to stay in business have lost half their earnings. The average number of hogs per farm shot up to 1,300 in 2001, from 400 in 1995, creating the huge manure lagoons scattered across Iowa.
At the same time, the state's water quality has declined, although debate continues about who bears the greatest responsibility. 
Without taking sides, the Iowa Farm Bureau has created programs to plant trees and grass buffer strips and to monitor water pollution. 
For Mr. McMullen, the water manager in Des Moines, about 70 miles east of here, there is little doubt that agriculture and livestock are the source of his city's water problems. Two Iowa State University scientists recently reported how huge hog manure lagoons were seeping into the state's groundwater.
"The water quality this December is the worst we've had in winter," Mr. McMullen said. "And we're expecting the worst spring on record."
For the first time, he and other city water managers are lobbying Congress to put money in the farm bill to clean up water pollution at its source, the fields and livestock pens.
Last summer Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman agreed to give the state an additional $40 million to improve water polluted by excess nitrates.
While farmers may be reluctant to accept responsibility for water pollution, they are eager to be part of the solution. Jon Judson, a farmer and biologist, persuaded his neighbors to plant borders of native big blue stem and switch grasses to filter runoff. 
Mr. Judson's mission was financed by wealthy Iowans who built their homes around an artificial lake that was becoming cloudy. 
Now, through the fog covering his farm, Mr. Judson can point to nearby fields where every stream is lined with frozen grasses and new bare trees break the monotony of low Iowa sky. 
"Once farmers saw the benefits they brought to a neighbor, then it wasn't hard to get them to put conservation into practice on their land," he said.
"They saw what they had forgotten -- that it pays to take care of your soil and water."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jon Judson, a farmer and biologist, persuaded his neighbors near Dedham, Iowa, to plant borders of big blue stem and switch grasses to filter runoff. (Steve Pope for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION (94%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); MAMMALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RIVERS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); FERTILIZERS (89%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (89%); ANIMALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); LAKES (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (77%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (76%); EROSION CONTROL (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); WETLANDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (69%); SUBURBS (69%); POLITICS (69%); HERBICIDES (61%) WATER POLLUTION; AGRICULTURE 

ORGANIZATION: PEW OCEANS COMMISSION 

PERSON: BECKER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (93%) IOWA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



327 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: City Hall Seeks Refinancing To Reduce Debt Payments 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
With the Federal Reserve cutting interest rates 11 times in just over a year, many homeowners have refinanced their mortgages at more favorable terms. Now New York City officials want to take advantage of low interest rates to refinance some of the city's $40.8 billion in outstanding debt.
 Refinancing the debt could save the city as much as $200 million by some estimates and would basically entail selling new bonds with lower interest rates to pay off the city's old high-interest bonds. 
 But to do so, the city must first persuade the federal government to ease some restrictions it places on municipal debt. The city may also relax some of its own policies governing debt refinancing. 
The issue has taken on new urgency as the city struggles to close a deficit estimated at $2.9 billion to $4.7 billion for the fiscal year that begins on July 1. 
So far, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has been silent about details of the austerity budget, which he plans to announce on Wednesday. But he has made it abundantly clear that all city agencies should expect cuts and that he is dead set against raising taxes. So city officials are looking for other ways to raise and save money, including debt refinancing.
The city constantly borrows money by selling bonds to pay for capital projects like building schools and other public buildings and repairing roads. Unlike businesses, though, the city often finds itself unable to wait for favorable market conditions to sell its bonds, so it sells bonds even when interest rates, and therefore the cost of borrowing, are high.
The city's growing debt load is causing concern among fiscal monitors. The city and state comptrollers have warned that the city could soon find itself paying 19 cents of every dollar it collects in taxes to pay off its debts, money that it could otherwise spend on things like more police officers or teachers. 
When interest rates fall, the city can try to refinance its debt. This is most often done by selling new bonds at the lower interest rates, and putting the proceeds of that sale into an escrow account that earns enough interest to pay off the cost of the original bonds that were sold. Thus, those high-interest bonds are retired, and the city is left paying back the second set of bonds at the lower interest rate. The process is known in the industry as advance refunding.
Now, though, with the city in dire fiscal straits, it finds itself unable to take advantage of tantalizingly low interest rates because of a 1986 federal law that prohibits local governments from refinancing debt more than once. Municipal bonds are tax exempt, and officials wanted to limit the number of interest-earning tax-exempt bonds put in circulation to pay for the same public project.
New York City has already refinanced much of its high-interest debt, only to see interest rates continue to plummet. Its hands, therefore, are tied. If the federal restriction is eased, the city can refinance the debt a second time at the lower rates, saving more money.
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has proposed a bill that would permit a second advance refunding in some cases. Her proposal would allow New York City, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the city's water authority and its hospitals to refinance their debt a second time in cases where the original debt issuance has been paid off. This could be done in cases in which the city has already redeemed one series of high-interest bonds by issuing lower-interest bonds, only to see interest rates fall further.
The Bloomberg administration plans to ask the federal government to approve the change, said Jordan Barowitz, a mayoral spokesman.
Before leaving office, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani wrote a letter to Senator Clinton praising the proposal to allow second advance refundings. "This would result in savings for the city of up to $200 million," Mr. Giuliani wrote in the letter, dated Nov. 16.
The city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., said that he would support allowing a second refinancing. "This would allow us to take advantage of what are almost historic low interest rates," he said. 
Mr. Thompson said that his office was considering relaxing some restrictions that his predecessor, Alan G. Hevesi, had placed on debt refinancing. As comptroller, Mr. Hevesi adopted a policy of refusing to allow an advance refunding to go forward unless it provided a certain level of savings up front and did not drive up the amount of money that the city had to pay on debt service in any future year.
While fiscal monitors praised that strict policy, some municipal finance experts said that some refinancing proposals could be good deals over all even if they did not show a savings every year. 
Mr. Thompson said his office had received several proposals for debt refinancing, including some that did not conform to Mr. Hevesi's standards. "We're looking at it," he said. "We haven't made a final decision. I think the thing that everyone is interested in is in generating savings in ways that are prudent."
Diana Fortuna, the president of the Citizens Budget Commission, said that the rules under Mr. Hevesi had served the city well and that the city should think twice before relaxing them. "The point is to protect future New Yorkers," she said. "Without standards, it's too tempting to push costs into the future to solve a budget crunch today." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CITIES (92%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TAX LAW (87%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PROPERTY ESCROW (78%); MAYORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); TAX INCREASES (71%); SCHOOL BONDS (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (65%) FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) COOPER, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



328 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Planner Joins Group Overseeing Restoration of Lower Manhattan 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
Alexander Garvin, a member of the City Planning Commission and an adjunct professor of urban planning and management at Yale University, will join the agency created to come up with a development plan for the World Trade Center site and the surrounding areas, a spokesman said yesterday.
 Mr. Garvin will hold the title of vice president for planning, design and development for the agency, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, said Edward G. Novotny, a spokesman for the corporation. 
 He will continue to serve as a city planning commissioner in addition to his role as planning director for NYC2012, the nonprofit organization that is leading efforts to bring the Olympic Games to New York City in 2012.
Several officials, including Gov. George E. Pataki and Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, gave Mr. Garvin high marks for his commitment to the city over the years.
"I am very pleased that Alex Galvin has agreed to serve as chief planner for the L.M.D.C.," Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said through a spokesman. "He is a gifted urban planner and committed public servant who brings tremendous perspective and vision to the job. I know his work on behalf of the L.M.D.C. will prove instrumental in reshaping and revitalizing Lower Manhattan." 
Mr. Garvin said through a spokesman: "We need to develop an appropriate way to honor those who perished on Sept. 11th. The residents, business and property owners of Lower Manhattan expect to get back to normal as quickly as possible."
Tara Snow, formerly a policy adviser to Governor Pataki, was appointed the corporation's vice president for community and government relations, to serve as the liaison to government agencies and public officials.
Matthew Higgins, a former press secretary for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, was appointed vice president for communications for the corporation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); HIJACKING (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TERRORISM (64%); OLYMPICS (55%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%) LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP; CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC) 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%) GARVIN, ALEXANDER; CARDWELL, DIANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



329 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Turn Out the Lights; the Party's Over; 
After Enron, Deregulation Is Looking Less Sexy

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
The electricity business was starting to get sort of sexy as deregulation brought new ideas and styles to New York starting in the late 1990's. Blow-dried hipster capitalists were in; starchy government regulators were out. A frontier mentality, epitomized by companies like Enron, the once-giant Houston-based energy trader, blew into New York bearing all the trappings of Marlboro Country. Wildcatters, roughnecks and bright-eyed dreamers staked their claims. 
 Pass the word: the starch is back in town. Government, which was, at least in theory, supposed to be exiting stage right as deregulation proceeded, is instead assuming in many ways a more central role than ever in how energy in New York -- and other states as well, notably California -- gets made, distributed and sold. 
 The even keel for electricity supply that has been predicted for New York City this summer is made possible not so much by the rough-and-tumble open market as by the state bureaucrats at the New York Power Authority, which built 10 house-size power plants around the city last year, providing 400 extra megawatts of power, which is expected to be crucial come July and August. 
At the same time, state conservation and efficiency programs put together last year promise to reduce electricity use during peak periods, like hot summer days, energy experts say, giving New York important breathing room this year to address its long-term energy needs.
But the frontier mentality is also on the run for reasons that go deeper than mere megawatts. The terrorist attack in September, state officials said, reinforced as never before the connection between energy dependability and energy security, which they say must be the government's province. Protecting the system -- through measures like diversification of fuel supplies -- has become a major element in the state energy plan being completed this spring. 
At the same time, the collapse of Enron, which was considered the leading voice for reducing government regulation to a minimum, has made fusty bureaucrats look good by comparison.
California -- both in its energy meltdown last year and its subsequent response, with things like energy-efficiency construction standards -- has further inspired those who think that more should be rendered unto the public sphere and less to the market.
"The Enron mantra that government can screw up anything it touches and markets are superior -- this argument no longer has any credibility whatsoever," said William Hogan, a professor of public policy and administration at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, who is a leading authority on electricity regulation.
"If you stand up after Enron and 9/11 and say something like that, people look at you like you're crazy," he said.
Few experts suggest that the pendulum has shifted so far that states like New York will reverse course altogether and return to the old fully regulated monopoly days, even if they could. (Most power plants that were owned by utilities have been sold to other owners, for one thing.)
But experts from fields as varied as environmentalism and economics say the momentum is clearly toward government, as one industry official put it, "with a thumb on the scale."
Historians say that the deregulatory tilt also had very broad social and economic forces behind it. Many people probably now associate the beginnings of deregulation, in the 1970's, with the conservative get-government-off-our-backs mentality that propelled people like Ronald Reagan into office, as governor of California, and later, as president. But crucial support also came from the political left, said Richard Abrams, a professor of history at the University of California at Berkeley who studies government-business relations.
Although business was irked by pollution and affirmative action laws passed in the late 1960's and early 1970's, Professor Abrams said, there was also a groundswell of opinion against big monopolies fueled by the leftover social impulses of the 1960's. Ma Bell became an object of ridicule, and was later broken up. Ralph Nader argued that regulation tended to reinforce the status quo, rewarding companies that were already connected.
Now, some energy industry officials say they fear things could tip too far the other way.
"The rush to regulation scares me," said M. William Brier, a vice president for communication at the Edison Electric Institute, a trade group. He said that the industry's task, at a moment when people are anxious and things seem to have broken down, is to keep things in perspective. The Enron scandal, he said, is about financial markets and accounting, not about energy and electricity.
"It doesn't have anything to do with us," he said.
For the new government interventionists, there is also a fine line to be walked. The chairman of the New York State Energy Planning Board, William M. Flynn, said that the terrorist attack last fall forced a shift in thinking about energy security by the people formulating the state's new energy plan, which will be released in late spring or early summer.
But Mr. Flynn, who is also president of the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, which administers a $150 million-a-year fund for conservation and efficiency programs, said his marketing efforts have drawn the line at linking things like energy self-sufficiency or conservation programs directly to public concerns about possible terrorist disruptions.
"It makes talking about these issues much more serious," he said. "But no, we don't have an overt emphasis on security. The programs speak for themselves."
Some electrical-system administrators say that the current period of quiet in the electricity market in New York -- with lower prices, lower demand and adequate supplies forecast through the summer -- also heightens and complicates government's responsibility to keep residents and business leaders focused on long-term needs. 
Many power plants that were proposed for New York are now unlikely to be built because of a tightening in the financial markets as a result of the Enron debacle, and many ratepayers might not think about electricity when the lights stay on and the bills don't go up.
But that is when it falls to government to stand at the mountain top and take the long view, said Steve Sullivan, a spokesman for the New York State Independent System Operator, which runs the state's power grid. 
New York State will need 7,300 megawatts of new power supply over the next five years, he said, but the money and the will must be committed now.
Other experts say that government gets too much credit as it is.
Jerry Taylor, the director of natural resource studies at the Cato Institute, a research group in Washington that favors limited government and free markets, argues that most state conservation and efficiency programs do not really work at all.
The real reason that demand was shaved off the anticipated peaks in New York last year and the summer before, which was far hotter, was the rate structure, Mr. Taylor said. The system allowed higher prices to be passed onto consumers. That meant that when supplies got tight, prices rose, sending a powerful economic signal to customers -- especially big businesses that had the most to lose -- to cut back energy use. 
In California, by contrast, price caps on electricity kept it cheap even during last year's crisis, which gave people and businesses little economic incentive to conserve, compounding the crisis, Mr. Taylor said.
In New York, the rate structure for utilities sends signals that many environmentalists say are also completely contradictory to the state's official goals.
Because utilities like Consolidated Edison, which serves New York City and its northern suburbs, make their profits by moving as much energy through their wires as they can, they have no interest -- or at best a conflicted interest -- in having their customers using less electricity through steps like conservation.
Under the old regulated system, by contrast, utilities were rewarded for reducing demand. Now the state discourages conservation with one hand and encourages it with the other, the critics say. The result might look like smart government, but it depends on your point of view. 
"We still don't have a good long-term strategy, or even a medium-term strategy," said Ashok Gupta, a senior energy economist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a New York-based conservation group. "We have ideology followed by crisis management, but no strategy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ten small new power plants in New York City are among several factors putting a free-market mentality on the run. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (94%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); CITIES (70%); TERRORISM (64%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ENERGY AND POWER; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK POWER AUTHORITY; ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



330 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: BackTalk; 
If Elected . . .N.C.A.A. Needs A Fresh Man

BYLINE:  By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

 BODY:
This early in my Year at School, I am certain of what I absolutely know because I know so little. I have attended a few meetings at an N.C.A.A. national convention and I have read many of the hundreds of overwhelmingly supportive e-mail messages sent to thelipsite@aol.com. Most have come from faculty members concerned that their schools have become sports entertainment centers to the detriment of the academy and reform-minded athletic administrators.
 Before I form entangling alliances, lose my innocence, start to see nuances, I would like to offer myself as a candidate for the National Collegiate Athletic Association's presidency, a position that will be available at year's end. The incumbent, Cedric Dempsey, a longtime athletics administrator, recently asked for an extension of his eight-year term to effect reforms, specifically to defuse the financial "arms race" among the major powers. The response of the executive committee was, in effect, "Thanks and so long, Ced." 
 Dempsey has been criticized, perhaps not fairly, as failing to address many of the major issues facing college sports, including the widening gap between rich and poor programs, and the further decline of academic performance among the men who play football and basketball. He was making more than $700,000 a year.
Enter the fresh man. I am not in this only for the money. It's a vision thing.
There has been a growing movement within the N.C.A.A. to hire a university president as its head and send the message that educators are ready to take control of sports. To hire a former coach or sports administrator, the line goes, would be letting foxes guard the henhouse. Beyond the obvious sexism and species-ism of that cliche is its self-service; university presidents are at least as much part of the problem as coaches and athletic directors.
After all, Knute Rockne at Notre Dame, Jerry Tarkanian at the University of Nevada-Las Vegas, and now Bob Knight at Texas Tech were all hired by presidents who wanted to buy national attention for their institutions of higher learning without having to go to the trouble and expense of stocking the library or recruiting superstar faculty members. And in every one of those cases, the tactic worked.
So let's get back to my candidacy. There are three main planks in my platform.
ONE. Let's give the 115 schools of Division I-A, the top sports entertainment centers, a break in their struggle to keep their athletes students. I would create three graduation tracks: Grind, Party and Jock. Each would have its own entrance and eligibility requirements. Only Grinds, for example, would be allowed to take such courses in the newly created Athlo-American Studies Department as "Flooding the Zone and the Clash of Civilizations" (why jocks are different); "College Concussions and Middle-Aged Depression" (the medical aspects of competition); and "Pay for Play" (whether the University of Minnesota is getting its money's worth by subsidizing athletics, primarily football, at nearly $9 million a year). 
Students who opt for the Party track would be required to attend all football and basketball games and rallies, home and away, as well as a specified number of other men's and women's sports. They would be graded on the creativity of their cheering and body paint.
Athletes, with permission, would be allowed to take Grind or Party courses. But those in conferences that have booked late weeknight television games, such as the Atlantic Coast, would have no classes scheduled before noon.
TWO. Let's have racial quotas, although I would prefer to call it Color Coordination. An institution's percentage of black or Hispanic or Native-American athletes would be measured against its percentage of black or Hispanic or Native-American Grind and Party students. That will help us arrive at a proper proportion of black or Hispanic or American Indian faculty members and coaches. How will I enforce this without spending the rest of my presidency in court? Easy. Any school in compliance with Color Coordination can be sure that no one on its campus will be investigated by my Resume Inflation task force.
THREE. Let's end the fabricated battle of the sexes. Wise guys have been eliminating so-called minor men's sports and saying that the cuts were necessary to comply with the equity provisions of Title IX. Blame the women when it's all about keeping those bloated football squads with their 85 (85!) scholarships and their enormous costs. Meanwhile, some very intense athletes are being dumped, like gymnasts and wrestlers ("Guys hugging each other on the floor, what could be wrong with that?" asks the Syracuse lawyer Karen DeCrow, who has been handling many Title IX settlement agreements). Tell the truth so athletes don't hate women for the wrong reasons.
Unless I am elected -- or someone in my league is (lotsa luck finding that person!) -- expect the end of college sports as we know it. The N.C.A.A. will be submerged by creeping Olympism, which leads to total commercialism. The nation will be revolted by an Enron-level college football scandal. ("Call it Endrun," says the coach and former Olympian Pat Connolly.) 
Congress will decree sudden death by asking the reform-minded college presidents of the Knight Commission, their warnings unheeded all these years, to preside at jock divestiture. Sports teams will be disengaged from their universities, as cabooses are unhitched from trains.
Is that what you people want instead of me?

This Series So Far
This is the third article in a series that will explore the role of college sports in American culture. Previous articles have included insights into sports' administration and direction gained from the N.C.A.A.'s annual convention last month in Indianapolis and the disparate views of a university president and a discriminating fan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (92%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); CELEBRITIES (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (58%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; SURVEYS AND SERIES 

COMPANY: SA VISION CARE PTY LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (94%) NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSN 

PERSON: LIPSYTE, ROBERT; DEMPSEY, CEDRIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (67%) NEVADA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



331 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: Cleveland Case Poses New Test for Vouchers 

BYLINE:  By JACQUES STEINBERG 

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
The other afternoon at St. Rocco School on this city's gritty west side, the first graders in one classroom were reading aloud from a book about the four food groups while the fifth graders down the hall were rattling off the economic attractions of various American cities.
 That they did so under the portraits of Jesus and the Virgin Mary, on a day in which all of them would be required to pray at Mass, was not unusual for a Roman Catholic school in the United States. 
 But what distinguishes St. Rocco from Catholic schools in other parts of the country is that the State of Ohio is paying the bulk of the tuition for half of the school's 200 pupils, who are the recipients of vouchers designed to help them and several thousand other children in Cleveland flee failing public schools. 
The question of whether such an arrangement amounts to outright government aid to parochial schools and thus violates the Constitution's separation of church and state will be taken up by the United States Supreme Court this month. The justices are scheduled to hear oral arguments on Feb. 20 on the legality of the state's six-year-old tuition voucher program, which is open only to parents in Cleveland, where barely a third of public school students graduate from high school.
A complicating factor that the justices may well consider is this: Many of the pupils who receive the tuition assistance were already attending parochial or other private schools, raising questions about whether the program is ending up assisting parents who had already found the ways and means to educate their children outside the public schools.
In the current school year, the state has awarded publicly financed vouchers, worth as much as $2,250, to 4,456 students in kindergarten through eighth grade, mostly from families living at or below the poverty low. Each is permitted to attend 1 of 50 private schools that has agreed to accept them. Like St. Rocco, nearly all of those participating schools are affiliated with the Catholic church or other religious groups. Fewer than 1 percent of the pupils in the program are in nonreligious private school. 
In a voucher program in Milwaukee, a third of the 10,000 participants are enrolled in nonreligious private schools. So the Cleveland case, by contrast, provides the court with the opportunity to make an unambiguous statement about the constitutionality of a state-financed program that funnels nearly all of its money, through parents, to religious schools.
The court will be hearing Ohio's appeal of a decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which found that the program was unconstitutional, ruling that it had the "impermissible effect of promoting sectarian schools." Several years ago, the Supreme Court declined to hear a challenge to the Milwaukee program. 
An endorsement of the Ohio program by the Supreme Court could prompt other states and cities, and perhaps the Bush administration, to consider following the lead of Cleveland, Milwaukee and Florida, which has initiated a similar pilot program. 
A negative ruling, if broad enough, could effectively silence the private-school wing of the so-called school choice movement. Voucher advocates have had to rely primarily on religious institutions because such schools are usually among the few with tuition low enough to have an incentive to accept the vouchers, which may still be less than what the school normally charges. 
"If you look at the voucher conversations that have taken place to date, the constitutional ambiguity has served as a deterrent for states to go the voucher route," said Eric Hirsch, an education analyst at the National Conference of State Legislatures, a nonpartisan organization with no position on such programs. "This case, in clearing up some of these problems, could lead to potential passage of legislation in this area." 
But the Cleveland case also gives the court an opportunity to explore whether the Ohio voucher program is succeeding in meeting what supporters here and elsewhere cite as its primary mission: to provide an escape route for low-income pupils, especially blacks, mired in an inner-city public school system that is among the lowest-rated in the nation.
Many of the Cleveland families receiving vouchers, which are distributed via lottery, are indeed poor, with a median income of about $20,000 annually. But an analysis by a private group found that at least 33 percent of the pupils who received the vouchers here in the last school year were already enrolled in parochial or other private schools, and thus had never intended to go to public schools, let alone transfer out of them with the state's help. 
While half of the students who participate in the voucher program are black, the proportion of students in the public school system who are black is closer to three quarters, according to state records, suggesting that blacks may not be applying in numbers proportionate to their school population. Whites, by contrast, apply for the program in numbers that are almost double their representation in the public school population, the records show. 
State officials said that they had no firm figure on the total number of parents who applied for vouchers, because some who received them ultimately gave them back and others who were initially rejected were encouraged to apply again. 
At St. Rocco, nearly every family that secured a voucher was already sending its school-age children to the school. And more than half of those families were white. Among the recipients is Kendall Stefanowicz, 39, who has three sons at St. Rocco and who said that without her three vouchers she would have had to get a job to supplement the income of her husband, a truck mechanic. 
"I can stay home with my kids," said Mrs. Stefanowicz, explaining that her husband's income was less than $50,000 a year. "I can do homework with them. I don't have to be stressed out." 
Opponents of vouchers say that Mrs. Stefanowicz's rationale for accepting the state's help -- echoed by other parents at the school -- is a diversion of the program's primary aim and suggests that parents who benefit are those who would have been sending their children to religious schools without the aid. St. Rocco's, like other religious schools, encourages the parents of current students to apply for the program. 
"It is not accomplishing the goal that is most often ascribed to it by proponents," said Zach Schiller, a senior researcher at Policy Matters Ohio, the nonprofit organization that analyzed the school histories of the voucher participants, and which counts at least one voucher opponent on its board. "It is not serving largely as a way for inner-city African-American students to leave the public school system."
Supporters of the program disagree. They point to statistics, also compiled by Policy Matters Ohio, which suggest that 46 percent of the students who receive vouchers do so on entering kindergarten, and many of them may have ended up in public school had the program not existed.
"At some point, these parents made a fundamental choice," said Joseph P. Viteritti, a professor of public policy at New York University and the author of a 1999 book, "Choosing Equality" (Brookings), which supports vouchers for low-income students. "The question is, should they be burdened financially because they made that choice?"
Professor Viteritti and other voucher proponents also argue that while 99 percent of the voucher recipients in Cleveland attend a religious school, the program was not designed to engineer that result. 
In the program's first year, in 1996, about a quarter of the recipients attended nonreligious private schools. But in the years since, several of those schools either went out of business or became charter schools, which are public and receive more money per pupil from the state than if they were schools in the voucher program. While the state invited suburban public schools to accept the voucher students, none agreed to do so.
In the end, voucher parents say, they should be entitled to direct part of their taxes to a school of their choosing, whether public or private.
"It's basically a G.I. Bill for kids," said Clint Bolick, vice president of the Institute for Justice, a public-interest law firm that has defended the Cleveland, Milwaukee and Florida programs. "Not a single dollar crosses the threshold of a religious school until a parent chooses not to avail himself or herself of a public education."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ohio is paying the bulk of tuition for half the 200 pupils at St. Rocco Roman Catholic School in Cleveland, where Todd Petrencsik teaches. (David Maxwell for The New York Times)(pg. 1); St. Rocco's Roman Catholic School in Cleveland, where Sister Judith Wulk, above, is principal, benefits from an Ohio voucher plan. The plan helps Kendall Stefanowicz, left, whose sons attend the school. (Photographs by David Maxwell for The New York Times)(pg. 30) Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Where the Pupils Go and When"In Cleveland, 3,741 students received vouchers in the 2000-2001 school year; 4,456 received them for the 2001-2002 school year. SCHOOLS STUDENTS ATTENDED THE YEAR BEFORE RECEIVING VOUCHER*Kindergarten: 46%Private school: 33Cleveland public school: 21 *Based on 2000-2001 school year TYPE OF SCHOOL STUDENTS ATTENDED WITH VOUCHER+Islamic: 4Secular: 9Christian denominations other than Catholic: 14Catholic: 74% +Based on 2001-2002 school year (Sources: Policy Matters Ohio; Catalyst: For Cleveland Schools)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); RELIGION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); CHURCH & STATE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (77%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (72%); LITIGATION (67%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VOUCHERS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; PRIVATE AND SECTARIAN SCHOOLS; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (82%) ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; SUPREME COURT (US) 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (95%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) CLEVELAND (OHIO); OHIO

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



332 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
For Teams, It's Survival of the Fittest. For Fans, Check Your Scorecards.

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Twelve years ago yesterday, Bud Selig stood at a microphone at a hotel in a Chicago suburb and proclaimed, "On Feb. 16, if there is no agreement, camps won't be opened."
 Selig, at the time, was the owner of the Milwaukee Brewers and chairman of the owners' labor committee. The labor agreement with the players had expired on the last day of 1989, and because the two sides had not worked out a new agreement the owners were planning to lock the players out of spring training for the third time in 17 years. 
 Selig appeared at that news conference with Commissioner Fay Vincent, Deputy Commissioner Steve Greenberg and Charles O'Connor, the owners' chief negotiator. As teams prepare to begin spring training this week, Selig is the only one of the four left in baseball, which is again without a labor agreement between the owners and the players. 
Unlike that spring, camps will open this year despite the lack of a new agreement. Yankees pitchers and catchers will be the first to work out Thursday, and pitchers and catchers from the other 29 teams will follow in the ensuing four days. 
If the owners had their way, only 27 other teams would follow the Yankees in opening camp. The Montreal Expos and the Minnesota Twins would no longer exist under the owners' contraction plan. But the Expos, under an unusual ownership arrangement, will begin working out next Sunday, and the Twins, who could have a new, more traditional owner sometime this year, will start the following day.
The threat of contraction will continue to hang over clubs throughout the season because the owners say they are determined to proceed with their plan for 2003. The teams will be in a contest of survival of the fittest.
But after all of the uncertainty this winter, fans will need a scorecard to figure out the roster of the major leagues for this season. Forget all of the player moves that have sent stars hither and yon, check out the location of the owners and front office personnel.
John Henry will be in Boston instead of Florida, Jeffrey Loria will be in Florida instead of Montreal and the Expos will play under the aegis of Major League Baseball.
Jeff Torborg will manage in Florida instead of Montreal, John Hart is the general manager in Texas instead of Cleveland and Dave Dombrowski is the team president in Detroit instead of Florida. Tom Kelly is retired after 15 years of managing the Twins, relinquishing his status as dean of major league managers to Bobby Cox of Atlanta, who enters his 13th season in the same job. 
Along with all these high-profile changes come the usual high-profile player shifts: Jason Giambi, Oakland to New York (Yankees); Roberto Alomar, Cleveland to New York (Mets); Mo Vaughn, Anaheim to New York (Mets); Gary Sheffield, Los Angeles to Atlanta; Juan Gonzalez, Cleveland to Texas; Moises Alou, Houston to Chicago (Cubs); Tino Martinez, New York (Yankees) to St. Louis.
Robin Ventura is not leaving New York, but he is moving from Queens to the Bronx. Barry Bonds stayed in San Francisco. On the other hand, Mark McGwire, Cal Ripken and Tony Gwynn will not be playing anywhere. They retired and are awaiting their ticket to the Hall of Fame five years from now.
Where will Major League Baseball be five years from now? Probably negotiating another collective bargaining agreement and living on the labor edge once more. 
Some people on the players' side believe the owners would have locked out the players as soon as the World Series ended last November -- yes, November -- if not for Sept. 11. The owners desperately wanted to change the economic system before another signing season went by, but the shellshocked public would never have tolerated a baseball labor war.
Some people on the players' side suspected a spring training lockout a la 1973, '76 and '90, but the negotiators never had much of a chance to negotiate this winter because they were busy haggling over contraction. 
"I've said lockout's not on my radar screen and that's the case," Selig reiterated the other day, speaking now as the commissioner. He was reminded, though, that he said last month, "You never rule anything out forever, obviously." 
"I'll hold to that," he said, "but it really isn't on my radar screen. I don't want to think about that. We have so much going for us. We have things we have to correct and with hard work I hope we can. I hope we can negotiate a deal. There can't be anybody on the face of the earth who wants another work stoppage."
This is the 10th time since the creation of the players' union in 1966 that spring training has arrived without a new, comprehensive labor contract in place. Eight of the previous nine instances have produced a work stoppage, three times via spring training lockout and five times via strike, four of which resulted in time lost during the season.
Only twice, in 1980 and in 1993, has a season begun without a new agreement completed and not been interrupted or ended by a strike. That history could be viewed as ominous for the 2002 season. "The past history isn't good," Selig said, "but I'm hoping this year will be different."
The union will never give up its bargaining leverage by pledging not to strike, but like Selig, Donald Fehr, the head of the union, looks forward to a peaceful outcome sometime this year.
"The dynamics of bargaining are such that if people are negotiating and moving forward and everyone is trying, you have an attitude on the players' side and hopefully on the clubs' side that that reflects that," Fehr said. "If that's not happening, you have a different attitude and the result is different."
Complicating these negotiations could be the impending departure of Paul Beeston, baseball's chief operating officer, who has been the clubs' primary negotiator. He is expected to leave his job by the start of the season March 31, meaning baseball will have its eighth lead negotiator in a three-decade period when the players have had two.
The commissioner was not prepared to say who would replace Beeston at the bargaining table. "Paul and I have a lot of talking to do before we get to that point," Selig said. "We'll work all those things out."
In the meantime, the baseball-playing part of spring training will go forward. The Arizona Diamondbacks, who unseated the three-time World Series champion Yankees, have spent a largely quiet winter. They lost David Wells, before they really had him, to the Yankees but signed Rick Helling for their starting rotation. If nothing else, the National League champions confused the union's player representative structure because Helling, formerly of Texas, was the American League player rep.
The Rangers let Helling go but signed so many other pitchers as free agents that they could put together a starting rotation and a relief corps from them alone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%) BASEBALL 

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (82%); MONTREAL EXPOS (82%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (58%)

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (72%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); MINNESOTA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



333 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: In Ottawa, Group of 7 Balks on Aid To Argentina 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
World finance ministers signaled today that they were not prepared to support fresh aid for Argentina until its new government developed a realistic way of containing social unrest and stemming financial panic.
 Argentine President Eduardo Duhalde wants as much as $20 billion in aid from the International Monetary Fund to help shore up the nation's finances as it prepares to allow its currency to float freely on international markets. 
 But several ministers from the Group of 7 industrialized nations said Mr. Duhalde's government had yet to adequately address budgetary problems or to settle on viable plans for restructuring its foreign debt and its banking system. 
"We've been very supportive of the steps Argentina has taken," said Finance Minister Paul Martin of Canada, who served as the chairman of a two-day meeting of financial ministers and central bankers here. "But we believe it's very important that Argentina work closely with the I.M.F. in order to bring about a plan that will be sustainable."
The Group of 7, which includes Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Britain and the United States, met at a government retreat at Meech Lake outside Ottawa amid a surge of optimism that industrialized nations had begun to rebound from the economic shock of Sept. 11.
Though the world is still undergoing its most severe economic downturn in more than a decade, the officials here predicted that that the United States would recover from its recession by midyear. The American economy did not shrink in the fourth quarter of last year as many economists had expected. Instead, it posted a marginal growth of 0.2 percent.
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, who claims that his own bullish forecasts of economic resilience in the United States were unjustly dismissed last year, said he now expected the United States economy to expand at a rate of 3 percent to 3.5 percent later this year.
European economies began to shrink in late 2001. But business confidence has increased and European economic officials said today that they expected modest growth in the first quarter of this year. "It is now safe to say that the risk of a recession in the world economy, which could not be ruled out in late 2001, not seems to have faded away," said Wim Duisenberg, president of the European Central Bank.
But Treasury officials and their counterparts in Europe and Canada expressed alarm about the state of the Japanese economy, which is undergoing its third recession in a decade and has experienced a prolonged period of falling prices, or deflation. Deflation can depress economic activity because both consumers who buys products and businesses that make them expect prices, and profits, to decline in the future. Japan, the ministers fear, could undercut the nascent world recovery.
So far, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's government has not delivered on promises to tackle economic problems with radical solutions. The central bank has kept interest rates at zero. But it has rejected calls to pump large amounts of money into the economy to raise prices and stimulate consumer demand.
At the weekend meeting, Japanese officials outlined what they called an aggressive plan to implement long-promised measures to combat falling prices, though they provided few new details.
"People were satisfied," Mr. O'Neill said of the Japanese presentation. "They volunteered to discuss what they were doing and intend to move ahead with speed."
But Mr. O'Neill added that he remains concerned that Japan move decisively to deregulate industry and write off bad loans. He also reiterated that Japan should avoid trying to stoke export growth by weakening the value of the yen against the dollar.
In their official communique, the Group of 7 ministers encouraged Argentina to work closely with the International Monetary Fund to agree on a budget and plans for restoring growth and stability. On Tuesday, Argentina's new economy minister, Jorge Remes Lenicov, is scheduled to travel to Washington to seek help. 
But officials with the Group of 7 said privately that they did not expect to consider a fresh infusion of aid right away. While European officials, especially France, appeared more sympathetic to the Latin American nation in the midst of economic chaos, they did not publicly challenge the American position opposing a quick resumption of aid, which was cut off in December
Mr. O'Neill said the United States stood ready to help Argentina as much as possible, but suggested that official loans were not the answer. "What we did not consider was an endless flow of money from the rest of the world's taxpayers," Mr. O'Neill said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); RECESSION (89%); DEFLATION (89%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (63%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; CURRENCY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%) GROUP OF SEVEN; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: PAUL MARTIN (58%) KAHN, JOSEPH; DUHALDE, EDUARDO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (97%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



334 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2053 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: CASUALTIES; 
Uncertain Toll in the Fog of War: Civilian Deaths in Afghanistan

BYLINE:  This article was reported by Barry Bearak, Eric Schmitt and Craig S. Smith and was written by Mr. Bearak. 

 BODY:
In an age of eavesdropping warplanes and satellite-guided bombs, the Pentagon finds itself accused of sometimes relying on faulty intelligence in Afghanistan, leading to an unnecessary toll of civilian deaths.
 Scrutiny has grown since a predawn raid on Jan. 24, when U.S. commandos killed at least 21 men presumed to be Taliban and Al Qaeda fighters. Officials in the interim Afghan government have since joined grieving survivors in calling the attack a tragic mistake, with some surmising the Americans were duped with false information by a scheming local warlord. 
 A full-fledged investigation by the Pentagon's Central Command is under way, which is unusual. Despite scores of credible reports about possibly misdirected airstrikes and sizable civilian losses -- accounts from the United Nations, aid agencies and journalists -- the military has made detailed inquiries into but a few cases, like the bombing of Red Cross warehouses in Kabul twice within 10 days in October. 
Most often, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and military spokesmen have dismissed accusations of mistakes as enemy propaganda. They express confidence in their targeting and regret any "collateral damage." They maintain that extraordinary efforts have been taken to minimize civilian losses, something that even most critics of the war effort would not dispute.
Nevertheless, certainly hundreds and perhaps thousands of innocent Afghans have lost their lives during American attacks, a scattering of bodies extraordinarily difficult to tabulate. 
Many mournful Afghan families demand a reckoning.
"Tell me why our homes were destroyed and 55 people -- even little children -- are dead?" asked an angry young man named Gul Nabi, standing in December among the 15 obliterated houses of a village named Madoo. "There were no Arabs here," he said, referring to Al Qaeda fighters. "There were only farmers who lived a good life and prayed to Allah for peace."
The American military routinely reviews the effectiveness of its air raids, but by its own admission it has faced insurmountable difficulty in tracking the toll of civilian deaths. Mr. Rumsfeld has called the task "next to impossible," citing a lack of ground access to bombed targets.
That leaves much unknown. American weaponry, according to a statement Mr. Rumsfeld made in October, is "probably 85-90 percent reliable."

Assessing the Damage
For the Afghanistan campaign, the Air Force created a special assessment team at its air operations center in Riyadh to look at cases of possible civilian losses and other unintended damage. Pilot reports, targeting data and aerial reconnaissance photos are examined. The team has reviewed "several scores" of reports and acknowledged a handful of bomb malfunctions that have led to unintended casualties.
Mistakes caused by bad intelligence are harder to investigate. Credible reports about such instances are referred to Central Command headquarters in Tampa, Fla. Field investigations are necessary. Customarily, none have been assigned because of the difficulty of getting troops to the sites.
The military ordered its investigation of the Jan. 24 commando raid only after Hamid Karzai, Afghanistan's pro-American interim president, personally complained to Gen. Tommy R. Franks, commander of the operation in Afghanistan.
"The military knows they'll get pummeled about issues relating to civilian casualties, and they don't have a clue how to address it in a nonpropagandistic way," said William H. Arkin, a former army intelligence analyst who is a military adviser to Human Rights Watch. "The subject ties them in knots. It's an irritant, and they avoid it."
For a war that has so riveted the world's attention, there are tremendous gaps in knowledge about what has occurred. Some of this was deliberate. For months, the Taliban excluded any foreign observers. Much of what they claimed about civilian casualties has proven to be false.
But now, even with the Taliban gone, truth remains hard to come by. The sites of past air raids are often in remote locations that are only reachable on unsafe roads. Memory, as always, can be a chameleon. In the Muslim tradition, bodies are buried soon after death. Some answers disappear in the turned earth.
"What we were challenged with each and every time, particularly in the early weeks of the war, was that we did not have people on the ground to check," said Rear Adm. Craig R. Quigley, senior spokesman for the Central Command.
Now, about 4,000 American troops are in Afghanistan. But most investigations would be unreliable because of the amount of time that has passed, the admiral said. Some of the damage has been repaired, many of the witnesses have moved away.
"You just don't find much," he said.
If that is true, many mysteries will remain unresolved.
What happened at the village of Karam in Nangahar Province on Oct. 11? The Taliban claimed 200 civilians were killed in an air raid. Some survivors put the death count at 50, some 100, some higher. Reporters, visiting the scene days later, found a hamlet of demolished mud huts and interviewed devastated family members. Mr. Rumsfeld called the claims of a high death toll "ridiculous" and said secondary explosions proved that a major arms dump had been struck.
What happened on Dec. 1 when bombs leveled several villages near Tora Bora, the cave complex where Osama bin Laden was thought to be hiding? America's anti-Taliban allies in the region said the bombs killed at least 115 civilians and called for the raids to stop. Doctors Without Borders, the aid organization, said they transported 72 dead, including women and children, and left many more bodies behind. The Pentagon said its planes had hit only its intended targets.
What happened on Dec. 20 when American planes attacked a convoy in Paktia Province, killing as many as 50 to 60 people on the road and in surrounding villages? The Pentagon said that Taliban leaders were in the vehicles and that the enemy fired first, using antiaircraft missiles. Survivors claimed the convoy was bringing tribal elders to Kabul for the inauguration of the interim president.
What happened on Dec. 29 in an air raid on Niazi Qala, a village in Paktia? Some survivors said more than 100 civilians were killed. The Pentagon claimed it had hit a Taliban ammunition depot, and journalists later found a huge cache of tank rounds and mortar shells. Villagers, however, said anti-Taliban forces had earlier taken control of the munitions and that many of the people killed, including women and children, had congregated for a wedding.
"We've got about 300 incidents in our database, and I'd say about a third involve some civilian casualties that would be worth taking a second look at," said Mr. Arkin, the Human Rights Watch adviser, who is also an adjunct professor at the U.S. Air Force's School of Advanced Airpower Studies.

Human Rights Accounting
The rights group is making plans to send researchers to Afghanistan in March to estimate the number of civilians killed and to investigate those attacks that might have arisen from an illegitimate use of force.
America's use of cluster bombs will be studied. Each one sprays a huge area with more than 200 soda-can-size armor-piercing bomblets. Some fail to detonate on contact.
"The duds in effect become land mines that explode when touched," said Joost Hiltermann, executive director of the Human Rights Watch arms division.
By some calculations, he said, the American bombing campaign may have left 36,000 unexploded canisters strewn across Afghanistan's rugged landscape, an estimate that Admiral Quigley said was too high. He declined to provide a better number.
Rights groups often take the lead in counting civilian deaths, and some experts believe it would in the Pentagon's interest to provide its own numbers.
"It hasn't been a major focus of attention for the military, which may well be a mistake.' said Eliot A. Cohen, a professor at Johns Hopkins University who directed the Air Force's definitive study of the 1991 Persian Gulf war. "Frequently, the human rights community will, in the absence of good numbers, put out bad numbers."
A few researchers have already done some arithmetic, basing their calculations on various news reports. Prof. Marc W. Herold, an economist at the University of New Hampshire, added up at least 3,767 civilian casualties from Oct. 7 to Dec. 6. Carl Conetta, co-director of the Project on Defense Alternatives, used a more stringent distillation of media accounts and concluded that a better guess would be 1,000 to 1,300 deaths.
Whatever the total, the Pentagon would likely continue to insist that it is a bare, if inevitable, minimum. "There is no question but from time to time, innocent people, noncombatants, undoubtedly are killed and that is always unfortunate," Mr. Rumsfeld has said repeatedly.
Military officials describe a rigorous process of picking targets. In Afghanistan, the Pentagon has used multiple sources of intelligence, including local Afghans, U-2 spy planes, reconnaissance satellites, unpiloted Predator drones and RC-135 Rivet Joint planes that collect electronic transmissions. Sources are crosschecked for accuracy. 
Commanders then determine which aircraft to dispatch, the type and size of bomb, and even the best approach route to minimize the threat to civilians. Lawyers review the targets, also evaluating the risk to civilians.
"This has been the most accurate war ever fought in this nation's history," General Franks told the Senate Armed Services Committee last week.
About 60 percent of the 18,000 bombs, missiles and other ordnance used since the air campaign began on Oct. 7 were precision-guided, up from fewer than 10 percent of munitions in the Persian Gulf war, military officials said.

A Raid Gone Awry
But word-of-mouth, rather than faulty high-tech gear, is the main suspect in the seemingly misbegotten Jan. 24 raid. In the pitch of night, relying on surprise, American soldiers and some commandos from an allied country burst into two compounds near the village of Hazar Qadam in Oruzgan Province, more than 100 miles northeast of Kandahar. They were expecting to find secreted members of the Al Qaeda or Taliban leadership. And they were hoping to catch them napping.
Nayaz Muhammad, 27, said he was asleep in a school when he was awakened by a blast. Most of the 11 other men in the room died almost immediately in a barrage of gunfire. He escaped by diving out a window. The attackers were bathing the building in light. He managed to flee to a barn.
"I didn't know why they were shooting," Mr. Muhammad recalled days later.
Neither did Muhammad Yunas, a former district government chief, who had been sleeping in the other compound. He saw the charging Americans.
"I told my men, 'Don't shoot, they're our people, they'll come to talk,' " he said. "We were amazed. Why would the Americans come to attack us?"
In the morning light, 21 lay dead, villagers said. Nineteen had been pulled from the school by neighbors. Two of the corpses had their hands bound behind their backs with white tape, witnesses said. The others were burned beyond recognition.
Hours later, back in Washington, a victory was being announced. The commandos had destroyed a large cache of weapons, it was reported. Twenty-seven prisoners were taken. They were being questioned. Some might be high-level Taliban.
But within two weeks, the raiders themselves were on the defensive. Mr. Rumsfeld conceded that friends might well have been mistaken for foes. Villagers insisted the weapons cache was merely a storehouse for confiscated arms. The 27 prisoners were released to Afghan authorities.
Meanwhile, the military investigation began. Was the raid legitimate? If not, where had the American military gotten the false intelligence? General Franks said that at least some of the detainees were criminals, if not enemy warriors. 
Many Afghan officials from the area say the Americans listened to lies and were drawn into a feud between factions fighting to control the town. They wonder why the military did not go to Oruzgan and ask around.
Ahmed Wali Karzai, the president's brother, is based in Kandahar. He said he had tried to settle the dispute. Instead, people are needlessly dead.
"I hope that the Americans are brave enough to name the person who gave them that information," he said.

GRAPHIC: Map of Afghanistan highlighting Oruzgan: American forces led a deadly Jan. 24 commando raid on Oruzgan. (pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); TALIBAN (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AL-QAEDA (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); HIJACKING (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); FAMILY (69%); AIRLINES (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BEARAK, BARRY; RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



335 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: POULTRY INDUSTRY QUIETLY CUTS BACK ON ANTIBIOTIC USE 

BYLINE:  By MARIAN BURROS 

 BODY:
The poultry industry has quietly begun to bow to the demands of public health and consumer groups by greatly reducing the antibiotics that are fed to healthy chickens.
 Long a mainstay of poultry farming, antibiotics have been justified as a means of preventing infection in chickens as well as enhancing growth. Opponents have bitterly criticized the industry for a strategy that they say contributes to a much larger public health problem: the growing resistance to antibiotics of disease-causing bacteria in humans. 
 Now it appears that with little fanfare, the industry has begun to acquiesce. Three companies -- Tyson Foods, Perdue Farms and Foster Farms, which produce a third of the chicken consumed by Americans each year -- say they have voluntarily taken most or all of the antibiotics out of what they feed healthy chickens. In addition, the industry is turning away from an antibiotic used to treat sick birds because it is related to Cipro, the drug used to treat anthrax in humans. Some corporate consumers, including McDonald's, Wendy's and Popeye's, are now refusing to buy chicken that has been treated with it. 
But despite the overall decrease in antibiotic use, there is no way for the consumer to know whether one of these companies' chickens has been treated with antiobiotics. This is especially true of drugs used to treat sick chickens, like the Cipro-related antibiotic. Treating a few sick birds requires treating the entire flock, and flocks often number more than 30,000. The only way for consumers to be certain the chickens they buy have not been treated with antibiotics is to purchase those labeled antibiotic-free, or organic. 
Many opponents of the prevailing agricultural practices see these developments as a major step toward combating antibiotic resistance. But in the absence of any monitoring by the federal government, some remain skeptical about assertions that antibiotic use has been reduced. Because farmers are not required to report antibiotic use in animals, the reduction cannot be documented. 
For more than 20 years, poultry producers have stoutly defended the use of all antibiotics. The National Chicken Council, an industry trade association, maintains that antibiotics have always been used responsibly. "People well aware of antibiotic resistance in the industry are skeptical that we are the root of the problems," Richard Lobb, spokesman for the council, said.
Many public health advocates say the use of antibiotics in poultry causes disease germs to become resistant not only to those drugs but also to the closely related drugs used to treat human diseases. The theory is that stronger, more drug-resistant strains of bacteria grow when competing organisms are killed off. Strong resistance to a drug may cause it and others in its chemical class to become ineffective for treating some diseases. 
Experts say that another significant factor in the emergence of drug-resistant bacteria is the overuse of antibiotics in human medicine. 
The turnaround on the part of three major companies is a powerful recognition of public health officials' longstanding concerns. Foster Farms says it uses no antibiotics at all, except to treat sick birds. Perdue says it is using only antibiotics that are not the same as or similar to those used in human medicine. Tyson says it has cut back on antibiotics that are similar to those used on humans, and now uses only two when a flock is at risk of disease. 
"If they are not using millions of pounds of antibiotics in chickens, there is that much less pressure on disease-causing organisms to develop resistance," said Dr. Margaret Mellon, the director of the food and environment program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, a public advocacy group. "That means the antibiotics will work at lower concentrations."
The three companies, which sell a total of 216 million pounds of chicken a year, have quietly made the changes over the last three to four years, though Mr. Lobb suggested that the trend had been going on longer than that. Dr. Mellon and other leading opponents of animal antibiotics said they were unaware of the new farming practices. 
"I was surprised but delighted that companies are making the changes they say they are making," said Rebecca Goldburg, a senior scientist with the organization Environmental Defense. "For many years the animal industry has disregarded or even denied concerns about antibiotic resistance, but this shows they are beginning to take them seriously."
The Union of Concerned Scientists estimates that 26.6 millions pounds of antibiotics are used for animals each year, with only 2 million pounds used to treat sick animals. These figures are estimates because farmers can buy many antibiotics without prescriptions. 
For the last three years, the European Union has tightly regulated animal antibiotics related to those used in human medicine, which are called medically important. In Denmark, the restrictions have resulted in a drop of about 60 percent in overall use of antibiotics from 1994 to 2000. 
"Currently we are not using medically important antibiotics nontherapeutically that would be used in human medicine like penicillin, tetracycline and sulfonamides," said Dr. Hank Engster, vice president of technical services for Perdue. "The primary reason is that we want to make absolutely sure if there is any question that we are in no way, shape or form contributing to antibiotic resistance in humans. We want to make sure there is no overuse."
Tyson says it made the decision for economic reasons. "We looked at the cost-benefit ratio of antibiotics and determined we could just as effectively do it without them," said Ed Nicholson, a company spokesman. "If we can raise birds without doing it, why do it?" 
There is no evidence that a reduction in the use of antibiotics for healthy chickens will increase the risk of getting sick from eating them.
On the contrary, the continual use of antibotics makes bacteria more resistant.
While some processors have been reducing such use in healthy chickens, there has been an equally significant effort to ban a newer class of antibiotics, called fluoroquinolones, in chickens that are sick. The chicken drug, which is very similar to Cipro, is called Baytril. Both are manufactured by Bayer A.G. 
Even the Food and Drug Administration, which has done little in the past to curb the use of antibiotics in animals, has been trying to ban Baytril since October 2000. Cipro is used to treat not only anthrax but also food-borne illnesses like campylobacteriosis and salmonellosis. 
Walt Riker, a spokesman for McDonald's, said the company decided a year ago not to serve chickens that had been treated with fluoroquinolones. "Based on the science and some of the concerns raised and its limited application, it was easy to discontinue the use of it," he said.
Foster Farms does not use fluoroquinolones. Tyson and Perdue still do. Perdue and Foster Farms say fewer than 1 percent of their chickens are treated with any antibiotics because of illnesses.
In December, Keep Antibiotics Working, a coalition dedicated to reducing the use of antibiotics in animals, wrote to 50 poultry producers, telling them about three studies published in October in The New England Journal of Medicine confirming the links between antibiotic overuse and drug-resistant bacteria found in meat and poultry products. The coalition, which includes the Union of Concerned Scientists, Environmental Defense, the Center for Science in the Public Interest and the Natural Resources Defense Council, asked each company to "commit to eliminating the nontherapeutic use of medically important antibiotics in your production practices." 
After the Food and Drug Administration gave the poultry industry permission to use fluoroquinolones to treat chickens in 1995, contrary to advice from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the increase in bacteria resistance among humans rose from almost nothing to about 18 percent. The most recent preliminary government report indicates a reduction in bacterial resistance to about 14 percent, which may be attributed to a reduction in use as processors and purchasers turn away from it. 
The Food and Drug Administration says that even though there has been a reduction, the level of resistance is unacceptable. Among those supporting its call for a ban are the American College of Preventive Medicine, the American Medical Association and the American Public Health Association. 
But once an animal drug has been approved, it is very difficult to take off the market against a company's wishes. One manufacturer, Abbott Laboratories, agreed immediately to withdraw the product. But Bayer has not and is fighting the proposed ban. 
Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, has told Bayer that if it does not voluntarily remove Baytril from the market, he will introduce legislation to ban its use in animals. Representative Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, plans to introduce similar legislation in the House.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Three companies, Tyson Foods, Perdue Farms and Foster Farms, say they are voluntarily taking most or all of the antibiotics out of what they feed healthy chickens. These chickens are being grown for Perdue. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. 26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIBIOTICS (96%); POULTRY (96%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (90%); ANTHRAX (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); BACTERIA (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DRUG RESISTANCE (89%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); MEATS (78%); ANIMALS (75%); BIRDS (73%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (72%) POULTRY; ANTIBIOTICS; CONSUMER PROTECTION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: FOSTER FARMS INC (57%); TYSON FOODS INC (57%); PERDUE FARMS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: TYSON FOODS INC; PERDUE FARMS INC; FOSTER FARMS 

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424440 POULTRY & POULTRY PRODUCT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (57%); NAICS112330 TURKEY PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (57%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (57%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (57%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (57%)

PERSON: BURROS, MARIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



336 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Vice President Of a Nonprofit Is Indicted 

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
A vice president of the nation's largest community development organization has been indicted on charges that he embezzled $1.8 million from one of the group's subsidiaries, the Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, said on Friday.
 The official, Martin W. Turkowitz, 46, of West Hempstead, N.Y., was vice president of the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, a national group that raises money to create housing and stimulate economic development. He was also the chief financial officer of a subsidiary, from which he is accused of stealing the money. 
 The charges came after a co-worker at the Local Initiatives Support Corporation who admitted to collaborating in the scheme had a change of heart and came forward, said Michael S. Levine, an executive vice president and general counsel of the national group.
According to the indictment, the $1.8 million was taken from Local Initiatives Managed Asset Corporation, a subsidiary that buys loans on the secondary market from nonprofit groups. Mr. Morgenthau would not say whether the co-worker would be charged.
Mr. Levine said that the subsidiary's wire transfer procedures had been tightened and that its losses were covered by insurance.
Mr. Turkowitz, an accountant, had a salary of $100,000, but he also volunteered his services at several other nonprofits, Mr. Morgenthau said. "He wouldn't charge them," Mr. Morgenthau said. "He would just steal from them."
The indictment also charges Mr. Turkowitz with stealing $160,000 from 1997 to 2000 from one of those groups, the Accountability Project, which raised money to supplement the work of the office of the former public advocate, Mark Green. 
Mr. Turkowitz pleaded not guilty at his arraignment Wednesday and was released on $150,000 bail. His lawyer, Ronald J. Aiello, did not return telephone calls on Friday.
Laurel W. Eisner, the former general counsel for the public advocate's office, said the money from the Accountability Project was taken in small increments and repaid within weeks. In all, she estimated that no more than $50,000 was missing.
She said that Mr. Turkowitz started pro bono work for her organization in 1995. "He came to us so highly recommended," she said. "He was sweet, gentle and unassuming -- just the kind of guy you'd never suspect." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMBEZZLEMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (77%); PRO BONO LAW (72%); WIRE TRANSFERS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (68%); BAIL (63%) EMBEZZLEMENT; NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: LOCAL INITIATIVES SUPPORT CORP (ORGN) 

PERSON: TURKOWITZ, MARTIN W; PRISTIN, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



337 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF; 
MacArthur Air Traffic Was Off 10% Last Year

BYLINE:  By Stewart Ain 

 BODY:
Long Island MacArthur Airport, shut down for three days after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, experienced a 25 percent reduction in passenger travel in September compared with a year earlier, according to figures released by the Town of Islip, which owns the airport. Overall air traffic for the year was off 10 percent. 
 The figures showed that in 2000, 2,274,558 passengers traveled into and out of MacArthur, a record year, but that volume slipped to 2,048,544 for 2001. 
 There was a dramatic one-month drop in passenger traffic from August, when 223,465 passengers traveled through MacArthur, to September, when there were just 121,251 passengers. In September 2000, the figure was 167,533 passengers. 
Pointing out that air traffic had been down even before the Sept. 11 attacks, a Town of Islip spokeswoman, Patricia Pasciutti, said the economic downturn probably contributed to the falloff. "The airport is market-driven and its numbers will be determined by what is happening in the economy," she said.
MacArthur Airport is about the same size as Westchester County Airport, which experienced a similar 10 percent drop in passenger travel, according to Susan Tolchin, the communications director for Westchester County, which owns the airport.
 Stewart Ain

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); AIRLINES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; MACARTHUR AIRPORT (LONG ISLAND, NY); TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING 

PERSON: AIN, STEWART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) ISLIP (NY); NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



338 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: WORTH NOTING; 
For Barnegat, About Time To Put Up That Clock

BYLINE:  By Jo Piazza 

 BODY:
Six years ago, concerned that downtown Barnegat lacked an appropriate symbol of its prosperity, a group came together and raised $5,000 to buy a large outdoor clock.
 Clearly, it was needed. 
It seems the town forgot about the clock and the money sat in the bank -- for six years. 
 Then along came Deputy Mayor John Ryan, who revisited the issue last June, and the township decided to provide matching funds for the clock. But the town's economic development committee, which is currently focusing its efforts on the downtown area, wanted its own little slice of the glory.
One committe member, John Ullman, says he is worried that one person's vision may not be what is best for the town, and that he and his 
peers want more of a say in the selection of a clock.
"I think what happened was a complete misunderstanding and the clock was sort of on a difficult path," Mayor Dolores J. Coulter. 
The clock was supposed to be chosen and delivered in the spring. But further meetings are likely to delay its arrival until September.
"If anything, it was overenthusiasm," said Mr. Ryan. "Barnegat itself is going through almost a renaissance and I guess I got overenthusiastic and didn't tell everybody about it, but we will have a clock. We'll just get it three months later."
 Jo Piazza

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%) WATCHES AND CLOCKS 

PERSON: RYAN, JOHN (DEPUTY MAYOR); PIAZZA, JO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%) BARNEGAT TOWNSHIP (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



339 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Political Briefing; 
Hawaii G.O.P. Eyes Governor's Office

BYLINE:  By B. Drummond Ayres Jr. 

 BODY:
For more than four decades, Hawaii has been one of the most Democratic states in the Union. But the state's economy has slumped in recent years as tourism, agriculture and military spending have declined, and Republicans have made some minor inroads here and there. 
 This year, however, Republicans have their eye on the biggest prize of all: the governor's office, which is open because term limits prevent Gov. Benjamin J. Cayetano from running. 
 The party has a strong, well-financed candidate, Linda Lingle, the former mayor of Maui, who came within 5,000 votes of defeating Mr. Cayetano, a Democrat, four years ago. The leading Democratic candidate, Mayor Jeremy Harris of Honolulu, is slipping in the polls after coming under investigation for possible illegal fund-raising.
Before the investigation -- Mr. Harris denies any wrongdoing -- he and Ms. Lingle were running even in most polls. Since the investigation began, Ms. Lingle has taken a significant lead.
In a poll released last week by The Honolulu Star-Bulletin, her "favorable" rating stood at 46 percent; that of Mr. Harris was down to 37 percent.
The pollster, Wanda Kakugawa of Market Trends Pacific, said that given all the publicity the investigation had received, she was "not surprised" by the poll's results.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Linda Lingle; Jeremy Harris 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); TERM LIMITS (71%); FUNDRAISING (68%); TRENDS (65%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES; ETHICS 

PERSON: LINDA LINGLE (79%) AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; LINGLE, LINDA; HARRIS, JEREMY (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) HAWAII

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



340 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Counting the Way to San Jose 

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN 

 BODY:
THE home of tangled and confusing freeways is now likely to be less so. Last month, in a move that will uplift the hearts of mapmakers and intimidated tourists in rental cars, California decided to join the rest of the country by numbering its freeway and interstate exits. From San Ysidro just across the Mexican border (Exit 1) to Hilt just south of Oregon (Exit 796), it will bring the fine art of global positioning to Everyman. 
 The state Department of Transportation, which is going to spend $20 million to $30 million on the effort, had been planning to revamp or replace 23,000 signs on 92 different routes anyway, to take advantage of new sign technology that is more reflective and easier to see at night. So they decided to add numbers while they were at it. What we want to avoid is the last-minute weave over three or four lanes of traffic, said Dennis Trujillo, a spokesperson for Caltrans, the state transportation authority. Installation of the new signs began last week. 
 Those over 40 will probably welcome the news, which makes signs easier to see and California freeways --never the most relaxing places --more idiot-proof. "For most California natives, it won't make a difference, because we know the exit names anyway," said Daniel Faigin, a San Diego highway enthusiast. "But we'll lose a bit of history."
 To Alan Hess, the author of "Googie: Fifties Coffee Shop Architecture" (Chronicle Books, 1985) the change was inevitable."The exit numbers neatly digitize the landscape," he said. "Numbers are how people locate themselves in the world today, especially in an era when global positioning satellites and computers can precisely identify the position of every rock and coffeehouse on the planet."
 Few are deeply mourning this small step toward conformity, but making changes is often more than a simple matter of economics and efficiency. Freeway names --and sometimes even numbers --can inspire deep affection. "The Hollywood, the Pasadena and since O.J. the 405 are terms of regional endearment and have become part of the national vocabulary," said Arthur Krim, a highway historian based in Cambridge, Mass. 
 The new exits are designed for travelers passing through, not locals, notes Paul Prejza, whose Culver City environmental design firm, Sussman/Prejza, has created directional signs for Philadelphia, Santa Monica, Long Beach and Disney World. Names of older freeways like the Santa Monica, have "associative power," he said. "You knew where it was going to take you." No such information may be gleaned from I-10. 
 Even those with no sense of direction can take heart in knowing that the sun sinks in the west. But the new system will doubtless allay the anxieties of missing exits late at night. And no one doubts California individuality will survive. 
 "We'll still have our solar-powered emergency phones along the freeway," notes Paul Groth, an architectural historian and a geographer at the University of California at Berkeley. "Now that's California."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "The Rules of the Road"Layers of federal and state authority tend to add wrinkles, but there are some organizing principles to America's highways. One organizing principle and one wrinkle: Chart shows one organizing principal and one wrinkle in America's highways.Note: Not all interstates are shown EXIT STRATEGIES VARY+In some states, interstate exit numbers imply the distance traveled, making it easier for drivers to locate themselves without a map. Some states number exits consecutively, without regard to distance, making it more difficult to figure one's location without a map.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); HISTORY (69%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (69%); WRITERS (64%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; MAPS; INTERSTATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: BROWN, PATRICIA LEIGH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



341 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Job Data May Show a False Positive

BYLINE:  By Leslie Eaton 

 BODY:
WHAT New Yorker isn't looking for a ray of sunshine to brighten the economic gloom? Well, there is a pretty good chance that January's job figures will contain just such a bright spot - and that it will be wrong.
 The official tally of jobs in New York City, scheduled to be released early next month, is likely to show increased employment at stores, in finance, maybe even over all. At least, it will show increases "after adjustment for seasonal factors." And that's the problem. 
 Seasonal adjustment has nothing to do with adding more salt, and everything to do with trying to make dry data reflect what goes on in the real world. Most of us routinely engage in a little seasonal adjustment of our own.
 Say, for example, you always put on five pounds between Dec. 1 and New Year's Day, and then work it off at the gym over the next six months. When you step on the scale on Jan. 1, you don't say "Yikes! I'm turning into a blob!" You say, "Here we go again."
 But what if, one year, there were a sugar-plum shortage, and you gained only two pounds? You'd probably be relieved. But you'd be even happier if you used economics-style seasonal adjustments, because then you could claim that you actually lost three pounds. And so you would have, compared with what you usually weigh at the time of year.
 Lots of industries are buffeted by seasonal factors. When employment in the construction business drops sharply in December, economists say "Yep, it's winter," not, "There's a crisis in construction!" Educational employment drops sharply in July and picks up again in September, reflecting a seasonal factor known to many children as "summer vacation."
 So far, so good. But moving from theory to economic practice is tricky, because economists have to quantify common sense trends (as well as some that aren't obvious at all). It's not enough to say that stores in New York City always hire extra clerks in the fall and lay them off after Christmas.
 Economists want to know, how many do they usually add? Are they adding more than usual? Or fewer? So the numbers-crunchers look at history. And this year, that's a problem.
 "You can't seasonally adjust for terrorist attacks," says Marc M. Goloven, an economist at J. P. Morgan and a skeptic on seasonal adjustments.
 In 2000, a boom year, retailers added 36,700 jobs in the fall; seasonal adjustments would show you that's 4,000 or so more than you would expect. In 2001, stores added only 18,300 jobs from September to December, which works out to a seasonally adjusted loss of more than 14,000.
 But if stores did not hire as many people as usual last fall, it stands to reason that they did not lay off as many as usual last month. Which in seasonally adjusted terms would show up as job growth, notes Barbara Byrne Denham, chief economist of The New York Stat, a newsletter devoted to the city economy.
 Phantom job growth shoed up in the national jobs data for January, which have already been released, she said. For example, retailing jobs dropped by almost one million, but after seasonal adjustment, they rose by 62,000. And the finance and real estate sector showed a 32,000 job loss, which was seasonally adjusted up to a 9,000 job gain.
 The fact that the total number of jobs remained down, even after seasonal adjustment, probably has to do with the poor performance of manufacturing. Ms. Denham said. (Manufacturing is not, of course, a major factor in New York City's economy any more.) The results for the state and the city will be complicated by an annual adjustment, called benchmarking, which is likely to revise last year's jobs data downward.
 The New York City comptroller's office, which produces widely watched seasonally adjusted jobs numbers based on data fro the New York State Labor Department, says it is aware that its January results could be a little skewed. "If you misread it, you may think there is an improvement when in fact there is none," said Jacques Jiha, a deputy comptroller.
 The comptroller's office cannot muck around with the computer model that produces the seasonally adjusted data, he said, but it will be careful to interpret the data accurately.
 If seasonal adjustments are so prone to problems, why use them at all? Well, consider this: Since September, New York City has lost more than 100,000 jobs, after seasonal adjustment. The non-adjusted figure is under 16,000 (a fraction of the jobs actually located in the World Trade Center). Which number do you think is right?

GRAPHIC: Chart (The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRENDS (76%); CHRISTMAS (75%); RETAILERS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); CHILDREN (62%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2002 



342 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Midtown; 
A Dealership Redesigned to Allow Buyers Near Cars

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
IF the Manhattan Auto Group really wanted to hide its new-car showrooms from potential buyers, the current design of its building on 11th Avenue between 54th and 55th Streets could not be much better.
 The main entrance off 11th Avenue is primarily for cars, not people. Some vehicles are visible at the ground level, but there is no way for a potential customer to get to them and there are no salesmen stationed with them. 
 A determined visitor who finds the small pedestrian door on 11th Avenue has to take an elevator to the second floor to find cars for sale and people to talk to about them. Or if the visitor choose not to take the elevator, he or she can dodge moving vehicles to get to another ground floor door deeper in the building, maneuver past the service desk and get on an escalator to the second floor. 
Gary B. Flom, president of Manhattan Auto Group, which sells a broad variety of cars, trucks and sport utility vehicles produced by the Ford Motor Company and its affiliates, admits the situation is less than ideal. So the group has drawn up plans to re-configure the building to move showrooms down to the ground level, divert the service entrance to 54th Street and build a people-friendly entrance on 11th Avenue. The new design includes an indoor test track, so buyers of Land Rovers can get a taste of the great outdoors in Midtown Manhattan.
Part of the plan, which will cost $13 million to $14 million, is to add to car sales by making the showrooms more accessible to potential shoppers. But it has also been made necessary by Ford Motor's acquisition of lines of vehicles beyond its traditional Ford, Mercury and Lincoln brands.
In addition to these lines and Ford trucks, the dealership also sells Jaguar luxury and sports cars, Mazda sedans and sports cars and those Land Rover sport-utility vehicles. "The addition of these new brands in recent years has made our existing showrooms much too crowded," Mr. Flom said.
The proposed revisions, which are expected to begin this summer and take about a year to complete, will essentially reverse a previous remodeling in 1997, when Ford Motor bought the 340,000-square-foot building and altered it for a total of $73 million to house its only Manhattan dealership. At the time the company had fewer brands and felt the need to emphasize service.
The building, which is the centerpiece of Manhattan's automotive row on the West Side was originally completed in 1929 as the Packard Motor Company Service Building. It was designed by Albert Kahn, a leading industrial architect of the early 20th century, and many of the gargoyles, rosettes and other exterior decorations he specified remain in place on the upper floors.
Packard was a luxury car that many automotive enthusiasts considered superior to Cadillac at a time when there were very few imports. The original building included a cobblestone test track on the roof so prospective buyers could find out for themselves how smoothly a car would ride on the rougher roads of the period. The inclusion of the off-road track in the new design suggests that automotive marketing tactics have changed little over the decades.
Packard used the building until 1945 (the company itself was shut down in 1958), and it was subsequently a Cadillac showroom and a sales center for antique Oriental rugs. Ford bought the building in 1995 and remains the major stockholder in Manhattan Auto Group.
Although most dealerships around the country are independently owned, automobile manufacturers that want to maintain a presence in Manhattan often operate what are known as "company stores" because of the high cost of real estate. In that, the automakers are not much different from fashion retailers who operate high-profile stores in prime shopping locations such as Madison Avenue without the expectation of making much or anything in profits.
"They do it to maintain the brand here," said Faith H. Consolo, vice chairman of Garrick-Aug Associates, a brokerage firm specializing in retail spaces.
Unlike suburban auto dealers, who have the luxury of putting different brands of vehicles in different buildings, the dealer here will house all the Ford product lines under one roof. So careful thought is being given to how the different types of vehicles are displayed, the details of the showroom and even the clothes worn by the sales representatives to reflect the image of each product line.
The service desk, which now occupies the center of the ground floor, will be moved to the third floor and a new 11th Avenue pedestrian entrance installed. The first floor will be converted into a shopping mall, with a central corridor connecting multiple showrooms. An escalator will carry visitors to the second floor, where there will be more showrooms.
GLASS panels two stories high on the outer walls are intended to give passers-by a view of the interior, and a 30-foot-high atrium above the 11th Avenue entrance and a circular glass balustrade on the second floor are expected to create an open, light-drenched appearance. 
Because Jaguar and Land Rover vehicles are imported from England, a British architecture firm, SDA Associates, is assisting with the interior design, along with Cityscape Architects of Farmington, Mich., and FordLand of Dearborn, Mich. 
Selling cars to people who live in Manhattan -- who constitute the great majority of the dealership's buyers -- is different from selling to those in other parts of the country, Mr. Flom said. "People in Manhattan relate to cars differently than elsewhere because they are not as dependent on them for their daily commute as people in the suburbs," he said. He said that people who buy cars in Manhattan select them to reflect their chosen lifestyle and that 60 percent of the dealership's sales are luxury models or sport utility vehicles.
Hence, a lot of effort has been given to image promotion in the showrooms. For example, a visitor who heads for the 54th Street side of the building will encounter what is called the "Ford Outfitters Center," which is to say Ford branded S.U.V.'s. Because these vehicles are supposedly associated with a rugged outdoor life (although most are used almost entirely on the road), this space will include a rock climbing wall and displays of bicycles and kayaks.
"The rock climbing wall will be fully functional, and we will have rock climbing seminars," Mr. Flom said. Talks on bicycling and kayaking will be offered as well, he said. The sales people will wear clothes suggesting they spend a lot of time outdoors.
Farther back in the building will be a showroom for Ford brand trucks and vans. Although Ford's F-150 pickup truck is a best seller nationally, it has little appeal to Manhattanites, Mr. Flom admits. Instead, he said, he sells Econoline vans to businesses and tradesmen. Sales associates in this room will wear work clothes, he said.
Farther in will be Ford cars and, when it goes on sale later this year, the Think electric-powered car.
At the front of the 55th Street side of the building will be the display for Land Rover, the four-wheel drive vehicles that have been featured in countless films about British colonies and former colonies in Africa and Asia. The marketing buzz words for Land Rover buyers, Mr. Flom said, are worldly, sophisticates, adventurous, savvy and wise.
The off-road test track will be close to the 55th Street side of the building and will have an entrance and exit on the street. The track will be separated from the showroom by a wall and will have its own air handling system to deal with exhaust fumes.
The exact layout of the track has not been completed yet, Mr. Flom said, but will probably include uphill and downhill sections and rocky surfaces to demonstrate the capabilities of the vehicles.
The Jaguar and Lincoln Mercury showrooms will be on the third floor and will be partially visible from the first floor, thanks to the atrium and glass balustrade. 
The decorating themes for each brand will be repeated in the third-floor service offices. The actual service work is done on the upper floors of the seven-story building, which are connected by a pair of spiral ramps.
Mr. Flom said the effort is to appeal to people who own cars in Manhattan. Ford Motor owns most of the dealership, but Mr. Flom said "all decisions are based on the demands of the local market."

GRAPHIC: Photos: After the 1929 building designed by Albert Kahn is renovated, the dealership will have multiple showrooms. (SDA Partnership Ltd.); (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); SEDANS (78%); SALES PROSPECTING (78%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (73%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (72%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (61%) AUTOMOBILES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%)

ORGANIZATION: MANHATTAN AUTO GROUP; FORD MOTOR CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



343 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
To Learn What People Want, Trade 'Idea Stocks'

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

DATELINE: SOUTH POMFRET, Vt. 

 BODY:
BUSINESS students from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology participating in a mock stock exchange at a vacation lodge here last month received instant feedback. As the 30 or so traders pecked away tensely on their network of laptop computers, sighs and nervous giggles signaled the gyrating value of their portfolios.
 Except for its unusually informal setting, the exercise resembled the kind of simulated trading of stocks or bonds that is routine in the finance curriculum at many business schools. 
 But this was a marketing class conducted by Ely Dahan, a professor at M.I.T.'s Sloan School of Business. The students were not trading securities but the traits of various goods and services, like automobiles and ski resorts. The exercise was part of an effort by Professor Dahan and colleagues at M.I.T. to prove that simulated trading could answer that most basic of all product development questions: What do consumers want? 
One session here traded "stocks" representing the Pontiac Aztek, Acura MDX and other rivals in the new market segment that melds sport utility vehicles, minivans and cars. The students also traded the characteristics of ski resorts -- whether skiers could drive to the resort or had to fly to it, for example, and whether it had crowded slopes. Other sessions focused on designs for laptop-computer carrying cases and variations on hand-held digital assistants.
In as little as 20 minutes, the students arrived at fairly stable rankings of the relative worth of what they were trading. More intriguingly, as was driven home by interviews with skiers nearby at Mount Killington, the relative values arrived at through the trading closely paralleled consumer preferences divined much more laboriously through traditional field research.
"It's amazing that you can get effective results in areas where people don't know that much," said Jay Livens, an M.I.T. student, after Professor Dahan showed the outcomes of their vehicle trading.
The closing prices were generally consistent both with consumer sentiments culled from more traditional market research and with previous trading experiments at M.I.T. In just minutes, for example, the trading echoed the disappointment with the Aztek and enthusiasm for the MDX demonstrated by car buyers over the last year. "General Motors might have been able to save itself a lot of pain if it had run trading like this a couple of years ago," Professor Dahan said.
To participants, market research had never seemed so cool.
"I feel like we are at the genesis of a potentially great idea," said Kristina Larson, a first-year student.
IN real markets, the value that buyers place on goods -- reflected in prices -- is established as a byproduct of the exchange of goods. In Professor Dahan's markets, buyers' opinions are the whole point of the exercise. If the operations of regular markets are like fishing for food, then Professor Dahan's work is like fishing to gather data about pollution levels in the ocean.
Professor Dahan's research was inspired by the successes of several Internet-based trading exchanges that have been called "decision markets" by Robin Hanson, an economics professor at George Mason University. The most renowned one, the Iowa Electronic Markets, has often outperformed pollsters in predicting election results. The market, operated by the Henry B. Tippie College of Business at the University of Iowa, permits investors to buy and sell shares in a candidate, based either on how much of the vote they expect the candidate to receive or simply on whether the candidate will win or lose. Participants can invest up to $500 under a special clearance from the Securities and Exchange Commission that protects the market from being charged with illegal sponsorship of gambling.
Another virtual market, the Hollywood Stock Exchange (www.hsx.com), has become one of the movie industry's most trusted predictors of how new films will perform at the box office. The exchange has more than 850,000 registered members. After completing the free registration form, traders get two million "Hollywood dollars" to play with. Movies are listed as soon as the exchange hears of plans to make them, and investors project how well they expect them to perform in their first four weeks at the box office. Each Hollywood dollar equals $1 million of film revenue.
If a film is trading based on expectations that it will gross $80 million in its first four weeks, investors who think it will reach $100 million buy shares. Those who anticipate weaker results sell.
The Hollywood Stock Exchange, owned by a British subsidiary of Cantor Fitzgerald, the Wall Street firm, sells data about the trading to entertainment companies.
Several companies have experimented internally with similar trading programs. The most successful experiment, Professor Hanson said, was at Hewlett-Packard in 1997. Predictions of Unix workstation sales, derived from trading shares in different projections by Hewlett-Packard sales managers, repeatedly proved more accurate than official estimates by the unit's marketing group. The trading apparently filtered out the tendency of sales executives to be optimistic in their projections to superiors.
Professor Dahan is trying to forecast the appeal of competing packages of product features, some of which may never exist other than as ideas. Such trading cannot be measured against a real outcome, as in an election. But the trading of product attributes may help a business pick the most popular combinations of features early in the design process.
Trading contests may also help a company find consumers who are especially knowledgeable about its business -- or one in which the company wants to expand. Such consumers, called lead users, are prized in the product development world.
Professor Dahan's main goal is to permit product developers to do research that is fast, easily modified and ultimately much more thorough. The technique now viewed as the best, a polling practice called conjoint analysis, was developed in the late 1960's. Marriott used it to design its Courtyard by Marriott chain (the slogan: designed by business travelers for business travelers).
But conjoint analysis for more than a few attributes is unwieldy because the possible combinations mushroom quickly to unmanageable numbers. That is a big shortcoming in a world where many products have more than 100 distinguishable features that might influence consumers, Professor Dahan said.
In theory, trading can establish simultaneous values for scores or even hundreds of product attributes -- just as it does each day for thousands of publicly listed stocks. That assumes that large groups of people are willing to trade for fun or for modest rewards.
Professor Dahan, 44, had his attention drawn to stock trading by two M.I.T. colleagues, Tomaso Poggio, a neuroscientist, and Andrew Lo, a finance expert. They suggested that he apply related research in which they had been involved to M.I.T.'s Virtual Customer Initiative, which seeks ways to use the Internet and other tools to speed product development. Despite the intriguing results, Professor Dahan remains a cautious champion.
"I think businesses will be trading these stocks like crazy in the future, but this is just a complement to other techniques," he said. "It would be heresy among marketing academics to say we no longer need to measure individual preferences. Trading doesn't reflect them."
Professor Dahan said research suggested that in 38 percent of the trades, sellers like the specific products or features more than the buyer. Presumably, the sellers unload the stock because they think the price will fall. 
HOW often game traders will behave as normal financial investors, however, is one of many areas about which little is known. Other questions involve what rewards are needed to keep enough traders playing and how to determine winners.
Professor Hanson says he thinks the biggest hurdles to the spread of research-driven trading in business may be cultural. Companies continuously make investments based on assumptions about the future that are, in essence, bets. But stock trading is so obviously speculative that many of them may be reluctant to be seen using a form of it as a data source for important decisions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Skiers at Killington, Vt., complete surveys for Julie Smith, an M.I.T. student, to test the accuracy of a marketing class experiment. (Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); RESORTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SKIING (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); CURRICULA (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); SKIING FACILITIES (74%); MOUNTAINS (74%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (72%); BONDS (72%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (70%) MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; AUTOMOBILES; SKIING; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%) MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: DAHAN, ELY (PROF); FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



344 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1101 words

PERSON: Charles K. Gifford 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Laid Back in a Tight Banking Spot

BYLINE:  By LYNNLEY BROWNING 

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
CHARLES K. GIFFORD is having the last laugh so far.
 Few investors or Wall Street analysts thought he would ascend to his current position as chief executive of FleetBoston Financial, the big New England bank. After all, the company he now leads was formed when Mr. Gifford sold the venerable BankBoston, which he had led for nearly five years, to his rival, Fleet, in 1999. 
 The deal gave Mr. Gifford, a bank president's patrician son, the No. 2 position at the new company, under his archrival, Terrence Murray, a millworker's rough-and-tumble son, whose aggressive acquisitions and cost-cutting contrasted sharply with Mr. Gifford's more restrained management style. Though the terms of the sale had promised Mr. Gifford the top job at the end of last year, Wall Street thought Mr. Murray would deny Mr. Gifford his throne by squabbling with him, extending his own reign or selling the bank.
None of that happened. "The landscape is littered with acquisitions where accessions don't work," said Mr. Gifford, 59, stretching a foot onto a leather chair at his 26th-floor office in downtown Boston. "But there was never a moment when I thought I wouldn't be C.E.O."
That doesn't mean Mr. Gifford, who took over as planned on Dec. 31, can relax. FleetBoston, the nation's seventh-largest bank, with $204 billion in assets, has some significant problems, making the next year or so a make-or-break time for its new leader, securities analysts say. "The company's struggling right now," said Gerard Cassidy, a banking analyst at Tucker Anthony.
Soured venture capital investments and bad loans to Enron and Kmart, combined with the financial crisis in Argentina, where FleetBoston is a major force, were contributors to the bank's $507 million loss in the last quarter. Its stock is down 26 percent over the last 12 months, and that has led to talk that it is a takeover candidate, possibly for Citigroup. FleetBoston's investment bank, Robertson Stephens, is struggling to branch out from serving technology companies, its core clients before the Internet bubble burst. Moreover, Mr. Murray has remained as board chairman -- a position that Mr. Gifford is supposed to inherit next year -- prompting a few analysts, like Michael L. Mayo of Prudential Securities, to wonder if a power-sharing arrangement exists.
Mr. Gifford, who goes by Chad, dismissed talk that anyone other than himself was calling the shots. (Mr. Murray, who goes by Terry, was traveling and unavailable for comment.) But Mr. Gifford said he "would be a fool" not to consult Mr. Murray on the most important issues. He said he had no plans to sell the bank, but he added that "acquisitions aren't foreign to me, and they're part of the future of Fleet, inevitably."
For now, Mr. Gifford's biggest challenge is to make the bank profitable in an environment where he can afford few acquisitions -- certainly not at the pace of the old Fleet, which Mr. Murray transformed over two decades from a tiny Rhode Island bank into a regional powerhouse by gobbling more than 50 banking and investment companies. "The legacy Chad has been handed is to deliver on those deals," said Judah S. Kraushaar, a banking analyst at Merrill Lynch. 
With that in mind, Mr. Gifford is turning to an alternative source for growth -- improving service so his 20 million customers buy more FleetBoston products and services, like mutual funds, insurance, mortgages and estate planning.
It won't be easy. FleetBoston has been regarded as one of the worst big banks for customer service. The bank, which has the biggest market share in New Jersey, Massachusetts and Connecticut and is a major presence in New York, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Maine and eastern Pennsylvania, ranked at the bottom of a Consumer Reports survey on customer satisfaction in 2000. Customers surveyed cited long lines at teller windows, confusing A.T.M. receipts and slow telephone help.
Mr. Gifford, who began his career at BankBoston's predecessor in 1966, acknowledged that a consumer annoyed by poor service was less likely to buy a bank's investment products. "We have to earn the customer's trust," said Mr. Gifford, whose attire during a recent interview included gray flannel slacks with a navy cotton belt bearing outlines of the island of Nantucket. He owns a summer home there and sails a 13-foot Beetle Cat sailboat, despite a jolting experience as a teenager in 1956 when he was rescued at midnight from the Andrea Doria, the Italian luxury liner that sank off the island. 
Improving customer service is a task to which the mannerly Mr. Gifford, who studied history at Princeton, appears suited. He won widespread employee support when he began holding "town meetings" -- a staple of the old BankBoston, at which workers could ask questions -- and monthly senior officer meetings. Mr. Gifford, who lives with his wife, Anne, in Manchester, N.H., 55 miles north of here, and commutes in a chauffeur-driven limousine, is regarded as more approachable, "somewhat touchy-feely, with more interpersonal skills" than his predecessor, in the words of one Wall Street analyst.
Last April, while Mr. Gifford was president and chief operating officer, he began to strengthen customer service through a $50 million program that eliminated some A.T.M. and checking fees and simplified A.T.M. receipts. 
Now Mr. Gifford is reorganizing FleetBoston's departments and profit-and-loss sheets according to customer affluence levels, rather than product and distribution lines. The bank will market more types of basic deposit accounts and credit cards to lower-income customers. Customers will see more A.T.M.'s and branches in busy areas, and wealthy customers will have a greater choice of customized investment advice and products from FleetBoston's Quick & Reilly brokerage firm, as well as trust and estate-planning services. FleetBoston will also hire 500 tellers in coming weeks for what it calls "high priority" branches.
Of course, the renewed focus on service reflects more than good intentions on the part of Mr. Gifford. Wall Street, skeptical of the benefits of many bank mergers, wants to see growth through improvement of existing operations. 
Mr. Gifford says his customer focus is a cultural revolution for the bank, where acquisitions and tight budgets had created a "do things fast" ethos that had neglected the customer. Mr. Gifford's friends think his personality will help. 
"He's a person who's accessible; he genuinely likes people," said Robert K. Kraft, owner of the New England Patriots, the Super Bowl champions. "He and Terry had complementary styles. Chad's a relationship guy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles K. Gifford, the new chief executive of FleetBoston Financial, in the bank's offices in Boston. His relaxed style contrasts sharply with that of his predecessor, Terrence Murray. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%) BANKS AND BANKING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); UNITED FINANCIAL BANCORP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW ENGLAND BANK & TRUST CO (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FLEETBOSTON FINANCIAL CORP 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); UBNK (NASDAQ) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GIFFORD, CHARLES K; MURRAY, TERRENCE; BROWNING, LYNNLEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%); ARGENTINA (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



345 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1825 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
Scandal's Ripple Effect: Earnings Under Threat

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
WHEN Enron caved in last December, investors with the good fortune to have none of the energy giant's stock in their portfolios no doubt breathed a collective sigh of relief.
 But it has become increasingly clear in the two months since Enron's bankruptcy filing that an investor did not have to own Enron shares to have been hurt by the largest business scandal in decades. Each revelation in the saga has added to suspicion that Enron may not be an anomaly, that much greater risk resides in stocks today than investors had thought. 
 So it is not all that surprising that stock prices have sunk since early December. Recent data has shown that an economic recovery may be imminent, but the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has fallen almost 4 percent since Enron failed, while the Nasdaq composite has lost almost 6 percent. Only the Dow Jones industrial average has held its own, losing just 1 percent in the last two months. 
If and when the Enron mess fades from view, stock prices may well rebound, reflecting the expected economic resurgence. 
But Enron's aftershocks could instead have a more lasting and deleterious effect, not only on the shares of companies that are aggressive in their accounting, as Enron was, but also on stock prices over all. In that new world, companies may be forced to make adjustments that will hurt their results. Among other things, they will incur higher expenses and pay more to borrow -- lowering reported earnings. And earnings -- the genuine, unadulterated kind -- are what shellshocked investors suddenly care deeply about.
In the broadest sense, Enron has shown investors that very bad things can happen to companies that engage in questionable practices to keep reported earnings up and stock prices aloft. But during the bull market of the late 1990's, few investors cared about nitty-gritty details. Little wonder that the current rush to examine corporate accounts is turning up disturbing questions at several companies, including Tyco International, the AES Corporation and the Elan Corporation. In recent days, their stock prices slumped. Any company is now suspect if it has used a lot of off-balance-sheet financing, has made many acquisitions, has used joint ventures to create revenue or has been a serial user of restructuring charges.
"All of these mechanisms that were designed to present a company's financial condition in the best possible light are now going to meet a very much higher standard of review and disclosure," said Jonathan Cohen, portfolio manager at JHC Capital in Greenwich, Conn., and former chief of software and Internet research at Merrill Lynch. "Undoing these mechanisms is going to take air out of the dirigible that has been inflated over the course of many years."
Investors hoping for a quick rebound in stock prices must face another harsh reality, gleaned from history. Crises that occur in the midst of bull markets typically wind up delivering only short-term blows to stocks, but crises in bear markets usually exacerbate the existing downturn. And the bear market continues. 
"People expect that the effects of a crisis will quickly be overcome and the market will go up," said Stephan R. Crandall, principal at Crandall, Pierce & Company, an investment research firm in Libertyville, Ill., who has studied market reactions to dire events going back to 1940. "But there hasn't been a crisis yet, if we are in a bear market that has lifted us into a bull market. The reality is, you always come back to the fundamentals that were in place prior to the crisis."
THE Enron collapse, coming on the heels of a wild spike and distressing decline in stock prices, has so angered investors that they are forcing executives to change their practices. "Up until very recently, management was rewarded by engaging in certain types of bad behavior," said Howard Schilit, president of the Center for Financial Research and Analysis in Rockville, Md. "Now that reward structure has been flipped 180 degrees. The market is saying, 'We are fed up with people not telling us the truth.' "
Companies that continue to operate in the old, anything-goes mode will be punished by investors, Mr. Schilit predicted. Other companies -- those with simple accounting, understandable businesses and internally generated earnings growth rather than growth by acquisition -- will be rewarded by fresh investor appreciation. 
Regulators are already mandating some behavioral changes. Last Thursday, for example, the Securities and Exchange Commission proposed new rules for analysts that call for increased oversight of research department activities by firms' compliance departments. This oversight would increase costs and reduce profits at brokerage firms.
Executives at many companies, meanwhile, are scrambling to meet new demands from investors for clarity and total accuracy in financial disclosures. Some companies are being forced to restate recent earnings to reflect a new, more conservative approach to accounting.
Last Wednesday, the Cornell Companies, an operator and builder of prisons, said that it was examining its off-balance-sheet transactions and that its past financial reports, which had been audited by Arthur Andersen, might have to be revised. Cornell's shares fell 43 percent on the news.
Other companies may be compelled by their auditors to bring debt that had been shunted off to so-called special-purpose entities back onto their balance sheets. That would cause problems for many companies. Not only would companies face severe limits on their future borrowing capacity, they would also increase their interest expenses and reduce their earnings. Lower earnings would mean less money to finance operations or research and development. And it would mean fewer dollars to buy back shares, an activity that has helped many companies keep their stock prices up in times of poor performance.
Because they are hidden from view, off-balance-sheet obligations at companies are impossible to assess fully. Certainly, banks and brokerage firms are heavy users of so-called structured financing methods, as are companies that have financing arms to help customers buy their goods -- like Ford Motor, General Electric and I.B.M. 
Andrew Smithers, who runs Smithers & Company, an economic consulting firm in London, offered one way to judge the size of off-balance-sheet debts: look at total debt in the financial sector, which has been rising faster in recent years than that of businesses and households. As recently as 1996, financial debt amounted to 32 percent of total debt in the private sector. Now it stands at 36 percent.
Some financial debt is household obligations, like automobile leases, Mr. Smithers said. But he thinks most of it represents off-balance-sheet debts of corporations. 
"U.S. companies are already highly leveraged," he said. "It is unlikely that they could take on balance sheet much of their off-balance-sheet debt without many companies being in breach of their debt covenants." If, for example, just half of all financial debt were moved onto corporate balance sheets, the leverage would jump to 163 percent of companies' net worth, based on replacement cost of assets, Mr. Smithers said.
If their balance sheets are hobbled by such crushing debt loads, companies will no longer be able to tap debt markets for capital. They will instead have to go to the equity markets. That won't help investors, though: a jump in the supply of shares could also depress stock prices over all.
Another hit to earnings, though probably not in the immediate future, involves the current accounting for stock options. Now, companies take tax deductions when their workers exercise options, but if three senators have their way, those companies will be forced to compute the costs of options grants and deduct them from revenue. Most companies do not do this, referring to the costs of such grants only in footnotes to their financial statements.
As a result, companies benefit from options grants in two ways. First, the grants make companies' earnings look better than they would if options were deducted from revenue, as are other employee costs. Second, companies receive a tax benefit equal to the difference, known as the spread, between the strike price of an option and the price of the stock when an employee exercises it. 
Because option grants have become so huge in recent years, changing the way companies account for them could put big pressure on earnings. According to Sanford Bernstein & Company, a brokerage firm in New York, the value of such grants at the nation's 2,000 largest companies rose to $162 billion in 2000 from $50 billion in 1997. Bernstein estimates that if the nation's 500 largest companies had deducted the cost of options from their revenue, their annual profit growth from 1995 to 2000 would have been 6 percent instead of the 9 percent that was reported.
In recent years, companies that are heavy users of options, including Microsoft, Cisco Systems and Dell Computer, have erased much if not all of what they owed in taxes. But when it became clear that stock option deductions had helped to wipe out more than $625 million in taxes that Enron owed to the government from 1996 to 2000, concern about preferential treatment of corporate stock options got new life.
The three senators -- Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat; John McCain, the Arizona Republican; and Peter G. Fitzgerald, the Illinois Republican -- are expected to introduce legislation this week requiring companies to deduct stock option costs from their revenue if they intend to take the tax deduction for options that are exercised. 
"With Enron, you saw excessive incentives within that company to pump up their per-share earnings to keep their options in the money at all times," Mr. Fitzgerald said. "I am concerned that overuse of stock options could promote further the pump-and-dump syndrome that we've seen from companies like Global Crossing." 
As a matter of course, corporate lobbyists will mount a feverish campaign to defeat such a bill. But after the Enron collapse, misleading accounting -- an accurate description of the current treatment of stock options -- is a no-no, and the lobbyists may be beaten back. 
Enron-related pressure on earnings comes as corporate profits are already declining. According to Moody's Investors Service, profit margins sank in the third quarter of 2001 to 7.5 percent, the lowest since the 7.4 percent at the end of 1982. 
THAT is all the more reason for investors to obsess about earnings and the true value of a company rather than its share price. 
John C. Bogle, founder and former chairman of the Vanguard Group, the mutual fund giant, sees another implication from the Enron mess. "There will also be a much more rigorous focus on what realistic growth for a company can be," he said.
That would indeed be a tectonic shift for investors. For years, the corporate fabulists were in charge. Now, it's the realists' turn.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Lingering Effects"According to one study, when a crisis occurs during a bear market, it takes an average of 12 months before the bear market ends. CRISES DURING BEAR MARKETS: The Six Day WarYEAR: 1967DAYS OF INITIAL DECLINE: 3MARKET LOSS: -1.8%MONTHS BEAR MARKET CONTINUED: 35.8TOTAL MARKET LOSS: -26.9% CRISES DURING BEAR MARKETS: The Tet offensiveYEAR: 1968DAYS OF INITIAL DECLINE: 11MARKET LOSS: -3.7MONTHS BEAR MARKET CONTINUED: 27.7TOTAL MARKET LOSS: -26.9 CRISES DURING BEAR MARKETS: Kent State shootingYEAR: 1970DAYS OF INITIAL DECLINE: 13MARKET LOSS: -6.7MONTHS BEAR MARKET CONTINUED: 0.8TOTAL MARKET LOSS: -14.0 CRISES DURING BEAR MARKETS: Iraq invades KuwaitYEAR: 1990DAYS OF INITIAL DECLINE: 22MARKET LOSS: -14.3MONTHS BEAR MARKET CONTINUED: 2.3TOTAL MARKET LOSS: -18.4 CRISES DURING BEAR MARKETS: Attack on U.S.S. ColeYEAR: 2000DAYS OF INITIAL DECLINE: 1MARKET LOSS: -3.6MONTHS BEAR MARKET CONTINUED: 11.3TOTAL MARKET LOSS: -20.9 CRISES DURING BEAR MARKETS: Bush-Gore vote countYEAR: 2000DAYS OF INITIAL DECLINE: 25MARKET LOSS: -5.5MONTHS BEAR MARKET CONTINUED: 10.5TOTAL MARKET LOSS: -25.0 Average in a bear marketYEAR: --DAYS OF INITIAL DECLINE: 15MARKET LOSS: -9.9MONTHS BEAR MARKET CONTINUED: 12.1TOTAL MARKET LOSS: -23.6 (Source: Crandall, Pierce & Company; analysis based on Dow Jones industrial average)(pg. 12) Chart: "Bootstrapping"American companies have helped push their own stock prices higher by using cash to repurchase shares. Graph shows the value of buybacks (in billions) since 1995. (Source: Thomson Financial/Securities Data)(pg. 12) Chart: "Overextended?"The average American company owes much more than it is worth. Graph shows corporate debt as a percentage of book value since 1995.(Source: Economy.com)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); SCANDALS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); BONDS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (61%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); ELAN CORP PLC (63%); AES CORP (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP (ENE) 

TICKER: ELN (NYSE) (63%); AES (NYSE) (63%); TYC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (63%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (52%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (52%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



346 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Oversight; 
The Biggest Casualty of Enron's Collapse: Confidence

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
SPECIAL purpose vehicles. Credit derivatives. Gain-on-sale treatment. Off-balance sheet financing. Enron may have collapsed, but the market for esoteric accounting is still booming. And that is bad news.
 Securities markets are all about numbers, from sales and profits to debt outstanding. If investors cannot believe the figures put out by public companies, they will be much less willing to risk their money on stocks. 
 For two generations, a rigorous system of private disclosure and public oversight has given American investors confidence that they will not be fleeced when they buy stocks. As a result, far more Americans than Europeans or Japanese own stocks, and the United States stock markets are the world's largest. This has provided the American economy with a constant pool of cheap capital, which has made it the most flexible and innovative in the world, and contributed greatly to the 1990's boom. 
But Enron's collapse has put that hard-won confidence at risk. Enron is not the first big company to be felled by bad accounting. Well before it collapsed, regulators and some professional investors worried that the system of oversight was breaking down. But the fact that a company as large and well-known as Enron could essentially be vaporized in a matter of months has shaken even the most cynical investors on Wall Street.
Accounting lapses were not the only reason Enron failed, but it is only one of many corporations that has used accounting to inflate profits or hide losses. Too often, accounting at big companies is impenetrable, or flat-out deceptive, experts say. And unless that changes, public confidence in the markets could slowly erode, driving small investors away from stocks. If that happens, the economy will lose one of its biggest advantages -- and the sense that ordinary Americans have of being able to participate in and profit from the same economic system as the wealthy could weaken.
So when Paul A. Volcker Jr., the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, said last week, "Accounting and auditing in this country is in a state of crisis," he was not just speaking to men in green eyeshades, but to the millions of Americans who hope to pay for their retirement or their children's educations by investing in stocks.
History suggests what could happen. After the 1929 crash, said Charles Geisst, a finance professor at Manhattan College and author of "Wall Street: A History," a series of Congressional hearings revealed that companies routinely failed to disclose important facts about their finances and that corporate insiders routinely profited at the expense of small investors.
Many Americans simply stopped buying stock, Professor Geisst said. Not until the 1950's did ownership recover. Then, slowly, ownership increased, and today about half of all Americans own stock either directly or through mutual funds. In the wake of Enron, that trend may reverse, Professor Geisst said: "It wouldn't surprise me to see a flattening out of the number of households that are in the market." Until Enron's implosion, many investors, both individual and professional, ignored accounting issues. Wall Street's conventional wisdom held that while a few companies might be inflating their profits, the market as a whole was essentially honest.
THAT is now in doubt. In 1998, a survey of 160 chief financial officers at public companies found that two-thirds of them had been asked by other executives to misrepresent their companies' results. Twelve percent admitted giving in to the pressure.
Last year, a study by Financial Executives International, a trade group for corporate executives, found that public companies had revised their financial results 464 times between 1998 and 2000, nearly as many restatements as in the 20 previous years combined, and the problem probably worsened last year.
Some of the world's best-known companies, including I.B.M. and AOL Time Warner, are on the list of companies that allegedly use aggressive accounting practices to lift their earnings.
"You have to wonder how much this kind of fooling around has become generalized," said Joel Seligman, dean of the Washington University School of Law in St. Louis and co-author of an 11-volume work on securities law. "There are some major corporations which have some pretty fuzzy disclosures."
No single event fully explains the breakdown in financial reporting standards, experts say. Accountants, Wall Street, securities lawyers, Congress and the companies themselves all share the blame.
"The system of checks and balances has let investors down," said Arthur Levitt, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Corporate executives have enormous financial incentives to stretch or break accounting rules, and accountants and lawyers, who are supposed to give their clients honest advice, too often sign off. And even when they are capable of deciphering the tricks companies have used to inflate their results, Wall Street analysts and money managers often look the other way, Mr. Levitt said.
"The business community tends to look at these things in terms of what can we get away with, rather than what's right," he said. "Optics has replaced ethics."
Meanwhile, the S.E.C., the last line of defense for investors, is badly understaffed, said Ira Lee Sorkin, a securities lawyer who formerly headed the agency's New York office. With 3,000 employees, the agency must supervise 500,000 brokers and tens of thousands of stocks and mutual funds, Mr. Sorkin said. "Do you want the S.E.C. with 3,000 people to find everything?" he asked. "You've got to be nuts."
Despite all the problems, the core of the system remains strong, said Mr. Seligman, the dean of Washington University. But this crisis needs to be resolved before investors lose faith in the integrity of the markets. Already, even a hint of an accounting irregularity can cause Wall Street to flee a company's bonds and stocks en masse.
In the last month, shares in Tyco International, a giant Bermuda-based conglomerate, have fallen 50 percent on questions about Tyco's accounting, even though Tyco has said it is not under S.E.C. investigation and continues to be supported by PricewaterhouseCoopers, its auditor.
To restore confidence in American markets, Congress and regulators need to take specific steps to strengthen the disclosure regime, Mr. Levitt said. Funding for the S.E.C. needs to be increased so that additional staff can be hired. And financial statements need to be simplified so they can be understood by even small investors. Wall Street analysts need to disclose more clearly whether they own the stocks they recommend, and whether their pay is based on the investment-banking work their firms provide for the companies they write about. In addition, accounting firms should not provide consulting services for the companies they audit.
PROFESSOR GEISST and other experts said even more steps are possible. Congress should consider requiring companies to switch auditors every few years so firms do not grow too cozy with their clients. Corporate executives should disclose more quickly when they buy and sell their company's stock. Boards should be strengthened, perhaps by including directors who are accounting professionals and do not own the company's stock, said Robert Tucker, an accounting professor at Fordham University.
"We need to protect the person out there who is not necessarily reading Footnote 16," Mr. Tucker said. "The weighting of the balance between investors' interests and clients' interests has been lost."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Enron's promotional twisting puzzle made in the company's colors and imprinted with the company's stated values. (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BONDS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); TRENDS (71%); ETHICS (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKRUPTCIES; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ETHICS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



347 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: How Will Washington Read the Signs? 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
LET the reforms begin.
 For more than 20 years, the federal government has given companies fairly free rein, allowing them to operate with less and less regulation. Enron's collapse may well halt that trend. As Congressional hearings unfolded last week, with some witnesses invoking the Fifth Amendment and others providing new details of chicanery, policy makers were lining up to fix American business. Suddenly, there may be a political price to pay for not acting, and the race to regulate is on. 
 So while President Bush has proposed stricter rules for 401(k) plans, some Democrats want to go further. Accounting experts and some regulators argue that American companies should report profits in clearer ways and that those who audit the books should be held to higher standards.
Members of Congress have proposed other new laws. Harvey L. Pitt, the laissez-faire chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, has said that in Enron's wake, no issue should be off the table. Paul H. O'Neill, the Treasury secretary, said last week that executives should face harsher penalties for releasing misleading financial statements.
With its grand scope, stretching from trillion-dollar capital markets to $10,000 retirement accounts, Enron's move into bankruptcy protection could ignite the most important business changes in decades. It could be a modern version of the 19th-century railroad trusts, which came to symbolize American business run amok and eventually became a catalyst for a sweeping recalculation of the ties between the public and private sectors.
Of course, Enron may also end up as just a more spectacular version of recent scandals, like those involving Drexel Burnham Lambert in the 1980's and Penn Central in the 1970's, that riveted parts of the country but did little to alter the landscape.
The outcome will depend largely on how long the Enron collapse holds the attention of Washington and the public, and on whether other once-envied companies also come to be seen as houses of cards kept standing by financial sleight of hand. 
Some trade-offs already seem clear. New regulations are bound to impose costs on business and cause unintended consequences, much as earlier disclosure rules helped create Enron's byzantine system for hiding conflicts of interest. Some analysts worry that the proposed solutions will create troubles far bigger than Enron. Leaving the financial system in its current form, on the other hand, promises more of the devil the country now knows.
The last two decades have brought mainly affirmation for the American preference for the free market, as the United States has become more prosperous than its chief economic rivals, Europe and Japan. Enron's downfall has offered a crash course in the problems that can fester in this free market, where global deregulation and rapid technological change rule.
"There is something very broad-based going on, and it's not anything that passing a couple of laws is going to change," said William T. Allen, the director of the Center for Law and Business at New York University. "Enron is a profound shock to the system because the fundamental causes are pervasive in the economy."
Here are the main changes under consideration.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Otto Steininger)(pg. 13); (Otto Steininger)(pg. 1) Chart: "What Happens Next?"Here are proposed regulatory remedies, and the likelihood of their becoming reality. LIKELY: Allow selling of company-contributed stock in 401(k)'s after three years. UNLIKELY: Restrict amount of company stock employees may hold in 401(k) plans to 20 percent. LIKELY: Create a new regulator for the accounting profession. TOSSUP: Ban accountants from selling consulting services to audit clients. TOSSUP: Force companies to count stock options as an expense on income statements. VERY UNLIKELY: Mandate separation of lending and investment banking by reinstating the Glass-Steagall Act. UNLIKELY: Lower barriers to investor lawsuits, reversing a 1995 law. LIKELY: Make the current bankruptcy bill friendlier to consumers. (pg. 13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ACCOUNTING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); TRENDS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); ETHICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); AUDITS (74%); CORPORATE TAX (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); US 401K PLANS (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); SCANDALS (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; COMPANY REPORTS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%) ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



348 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Blunt Question, Blunt Answer 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
We were just finishing a lunch hosted by a U.S. diplomat for Arab editors in London when one of the editors turned to me and said: "I hope you will not be insulted, but I have to ask you this question because it's around: Are Jews in the media behind the campaign to smear Saudi Arabia and Islam?"
 Wow. It is not a question I often get over coffee, but it was asked sincerely, by a serious Arab journalist who wanted a serious answer. I said that I was not insulted and that I knew this question was everywhere -- everywhere -- in the Arab-Muslim world today, so let me take a stab at it. 
 My first instinct was to ask a question back: When Jewish reporters in Beirut and Israel were at the forefront in covering such stories as the Sabra and Shatila massacre of Palestinians, why did no one in the Arab world ask whether they were part of a Jewish conspiracy? When Jewish congressmen and commentators led the campaign for U.S. intervention to save the Muslims of Bosnia and Kosovo and to roll back the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and protect Saudi Arabia in the Persian Gulf war, why did no one in the Muslim world complain about a Jewish conspiracy?
The truth is that Jewish commentators and lawmakers have probably been more outspoken in support of using American force to rescue Muslims in the last 15 years than any other group -- including American Muslims.
So, to begin with, maybe -- just maybe -- there is no Jewish conspiracy against Muslims or Saudi Arabia at work here. Maybe, just maybe, many Americans are upset because 15 Saudis took part in the Sept. 11 attacks, private Saudi charities financed Osama bin Laden and hundreds of Saudis fought with Al Qaeda against America in Afghanistan. And these hard facts have hardened U.S. opinion against them.
It will be a tragedy if Arabs and Muslims adopt the position that there is no conceivable reason why Americans might be upset with them today and that any criticism they face in the U.S. media is entirely the result of some Jewish campaign of vilification.
Why a tragedy? First, because it will reinforce all the reasons why the Arab-Muslim world has fallen behind in economic development, education, science and democratization. Because whenever a people reduces all its problems to a conspiracy by someone else, it absolves itself and its leaders of any responsibility for its predicament -- and any need for self-examination. No civilization has ever prospered with that approach. (And several courageous Arab journalists have started to point that out.)
Blaming someone else is not a substitute for analyzing or coping. (That also applies to Israelis who say Yasir Arafat, alone, is the source of all their problems.) Only in a society that embraces self-criticism can the political process produce real facts to cope with real problems. Look at the excruciating process of analysis, self-criticism and accountability that America went through after Vietnam. Few Arab-Muslim countries have ever done anything like that after a war, let alone after 9/11. Until they do, their conclusion that America or the Jews are behind all their problems is escapism, not analysis.
Second, persisting in this will only widen the gulf between America and the Muslim world because such conspiracy theories are based on a total misunderstanding of America. The standard view of America in the Arab-Muslim world is that America is rich and powerful because it is crass and materialistic. And since America is just about material interests -- not values -- why can't it understand that its real material interests are with the Arabs, not with Israel? The Jews must be manipulating things.
The truth is exactly the opposite. America is successful and wealthy because of its values, not despite them. It is prosperous because of the way it respects freedom, individualism and women's rights and the way it nurtures creativity and experimentation. Those values are our inexhaustible oil wells. Americans naturally gravitate toward societies that share those same values, and they recoil from those that don't.
There are two kinds of blame: one that is a result of self-analysis and self-criticism, and one that is an attempt to avoid self-analysis and self-criticism. We have all known people who endlessly blame their mothers or fathers for all their shortcomings, never themselves. Some eventually grow out of it and thrive. Some never do -- and they go through life angry, miserable and never achieving their full potential. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); RELIGION (92%); JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); WRITERS (78%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); HIJACKING (72%); DESERT STORM (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%) TERRORISM; ISLAM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JEWS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) ;AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (85%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (55%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (97%); ISRAEL (92%); KUWAIT (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GULF STATES (79%); KOSOVO (70%) SAUDI ARABIA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



349 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: A New Scrutiny of Somalia as the Old Anarchy Reigns 

BYLINE:  By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: JAMEAO, Somalia 

 BODY:
Aghanistan may have been a failed state, but it was a state that Somalis could gaze upon with envy. 
 Somalia is so fractured that the nominal government controls less than half its capital city and some coastal strips. The north has two breakaway states, and in the rest 30 clans with overlapping borders go to war over land, cattle raids and blood feuds. 
 With no central bank to object, businessmen have privately printed billions in the national currency, the shilling, rendering it almost worthless. The country's biggest exports, beef and camel meat, were banned 14 months ago for fear of Rift Valley fever, which can be fatal to humans. And in 12 years of civil war, warlords have shelled or looted everything. 
Nonetheless, and despite a disastrous street battle in 1993 that unraveled its successful effort to feed Somalia, the United States has taken a new interest in the country since Sept. 11, believing that it may become Osama bin Laden's hiding place, a refuge for experienced terrorists and a breeding ground for new ones.
The fear that the Americans will bomb or invade, omnipresent a month ago, has now ebbed. But American and European warships patrol the coast, looking for ships or planes smuggling in lieutenants of Al Qaeda. There have been unconfirmed reports that American and British commandos have entered -- but only on reconnaissance missions.
As Prof. Ken Menkhaus, an expert on Somalia at Davidson College in North Carolina, wrote in a recent academic paper, "There are at this time no terrorist bases or training camps in Somalia, and everyone in the U.S. government knows this."
The president of the transitional government, Abdikassim Salad Hassan, says the same but has cautioned: "That does not mean that terrorist elements are not present. They could be. That's why we are inviting the United States and international community to come see the facts on the ground."
No one publicly argues that Mr. bin Laden himself is here. Saying there are no secrets in Somalia, and with the United States offering a big reward for his capture, everyone makes the same joke: "Somalis are very enterprising. Someone would take bin Laden's money to hide him, and his neighbor would take the $25 million from America." 
Indeed, chaos and confusion abound. In Mogadishu, the nominal capital, AK-47's are everywhere and hotel taxis are trailed by trucks full of hired gunmen to protect guests from unemployed gunmen seeking kidnapping victims. On the coast, pirates attack Red Sea shipping. 
The languid coastal boulevards are awash with garbage and sand. The cathedral in Mogadishu is shot to pieces, statues have been sold for scrap and the American Embassy was demolished for its reinforcing steel bars. Blocks of houses stand stripped not just of furniture, but of tiles and toilets for resale.
With so much else gone, the warlords now extort "tolls" on roads and tiny airstrips and buy arms to fight for more spots for toll booths.
Somalia scholars say that this land may be the base for people -- perhaps 25 or so -- linked to Al Qaeda. The Bush administration has named a Somali fundamentalist group, Al Itihaad al Islamiya, or Islamic Unity, as a terrorist organization, whose camps Mr. bin Laden probably visited.
But Al Itihaad is not what it once was, "a nasty, arrogant group with an authoritarian agenda that used to be very violent," according to a researcher in northern Somalia. 
Al Itihaad's camps in Al Waq, Luuq and elsewhere were crushed in the mid-1990's by Ethiopian troops in helicopters and armored cars, who killed or captured hundreds.
"They wiped them out," said a United Nations security officer. "There have been no bases since '98." 
The courts based on Islamic law that Al Itihaad and less radical groups set up in Mogadishu, underwritten by businesses sick of extortion by warlords, have largely been dismantled, their gunmen absorbed into the growing national army.
Some leading radical sheiks fled, reportedly to Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia and Dubai.
Jihad is still preached in some schools and mosques, but a Kenyan aid official who was a journalist in Somalia said the prominent sympathizers of Al Itihaad are now "a conservative religious organization that helps make business connections, sort of like Opus Dei," the Roman Catholic society. 
Any committed terrorists in Somalia, she added, "are so scattered that bombing the Brixton mosque would be more effective" -- a reference to the mosque in south London attended by some terrorist suspects. 
The prime minister, Hassan Abshir Farah, has publicly promised to keep terrorist sympathizers out of his government. "We can find and arrest anyone they tell us to," he said.
But the American focus on terrorism has become a tool in internal Somali politics, the latest psychological weapon in the war between factions for control of the bulk of the territory called Somalia.
That war -- waged by the Transitional National Government, which has its headquarters in Mogadishu, and the Somali Restoration and Reconciliation Council, based in Baidoa -- comes to a crux here in Jameao, a town of grass huts occupied by troops so poor that they bring their own AK-47's and buy bullets a handful at a time.
Jameao sits astride a road, a major artery to the coast, that symbolizes Somalia's paralysis. Six days a week, the road is closed. On Mondays, both sides dig up their mines to let a food convoy pass, and charge it steep tolls.
The provisional government was formed in August 2000 after five months of negotiations in Djibouti. Headed by Mr. Abdikassim, 58, an interior minister under the Soviet-era dictatorship of Mohammed Siad Barre, it has the backing of many expatriate Somalis, many Mogadishu businesses, some Persian Gulf states and now the United Nations, which sees it as Somalia's last hope.
Its army commander, Gen. Ismail Kasim Naji, now feels bold enough to say that his troops could easily overwhelm the remaining warlords in Mogadishu who have not joined.
"These people are rebels," he said. "We're still trying the process of reconciliation, but if they're not present at the next Nairobi conference and don't fall in with us, we'll destroy them." The next government-building conference in Nairobi, Kenya, is expected in about six weeks.
But his troops have not been paid for five months. Of $400 million in aid promised by Arab states, only $25 million from Saudi Arabia and Qatar has arrived, officials complain.
The government craves American recognition, help with its budget and closer ties, particularly with the Pentagon. American diplomats who deal with Somalia are in Nairobi and visit infrequently.
In November, President Bush froze the funds and cut the satellite links of Al Barakaat, the country's biggest employer, saying its money-transfer network helped terrorists. But the administration has not publicly offered evidence and the company is frustrated at being unable to appeal.
Meanwhile, the Reconciliation Council in Baidoa, composed of warlords who did not take part in the Djibouti conference, has seized upon the American action as fodder for its campaign to paint the provisional government as terrorist controlled.
"Abdikassim and the Transitional National Government are the political expression of Al Qaeda- and Al Itihaad-connected organizations," insisted Abdullahi Sheik Ismail, the council's co-chairman. "Over 70 percent of their Parliament members are elements of the diaspora closely linked to these."
Mr. Abullahi, a former ambassador, said Al Itihaad's "hidden force, according to my information, is now 10,000 people." Asked where they were, he quoted Mao's dictum that guerrillas must live among the people like a fish in water. 
Another council member, Mohammed Said Hirsi, nicknamed General Morgan, put their secret foes at precisely 20,480. Mr. Said Hirsi was General Siad Barre's son-in-law and is remembered for massacring entire towns. 
Outside experts dismiss this, but the council warlords have used their connections to get American attention. Five Americans introducing themselves as "U.S. government employees" visited Baidoa on Dec. 9 accompanied by Ethiopian soldiers, their hosts said.
Behind the scenes lurks Ethiopia, the regional power, a country with a large Christian population and a thousand years of enmity with predominantly Muslim Somalia.
"Current political divisions in Somalia are very much a reflection of a proxy war between Ethiopia and the Arab world," Professor Menkhaus wrote. "Ethiopia has its own agenda in Somalia, one which includes exaggerating the threat of Islamic radicalism in Somalia to the U.S."
The Rahanwein Resistance Army, the clan militia guarding Jameao and Baidoa, refuses to let reporters visit its boot camp in Manas, where Ethiopian trainers have been spotted.
Ethiopia is also involved in the civil war in Puntland, the independent state in northeast Somalia, and in Addis Ababa it shelters former warlords who have lost their troops. They include Hussein Mohammed Aidid, a former American marine and water department clerk in West Covina, Calif., who in 1996 took over the subclan of his father, Mohammed Farah Aidid, who fought the battle depicted in the movie "Black Hawk Down."
Mr. Aidid holds regular press conferences in the Ethiopian capital, labeling people in the Mogadishu government as terrorists. 
For now, the Restoration Council may be even more cash-strapped than the new government. After agreeing to let a reporter tour the Jameao front with two Baidoa-based generals, a representative quietly asked if a car could be hired for them.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rahanwein Resistance Army guards Baidoa and Jameao, where clan leaders are challenging the transitional government.; Farhan Yousuf, 21, who works as a hired gunman, testing an AK-47 at a gun market in Mogadishu, a city where chaos and violence abound. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) Chart: "IN THE REGION: Control in Somalia"Two governments, two breakaway states, five clan groups and over 30 individual clans fight for control within Somalia. (Source: United Nations) Map of Somalia highlighting area controlled by two governments, two breakaway states and various clans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); SHOOTINGS (83%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); MARITIME PIRACY (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); HIJACKING (72%); BEEF (71%); CIVIL WAR (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (70%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); AIRLINES (66%); MILITARY VESSELS (66%); NAVAL VESSELS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); POLITICS (63%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (62%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (57%); TROPICAL DISEASES (55%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%); DAVIDSON COLLEGE (54%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%) MCNEIL, DONALD G JR; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); SOMALIA (98%) SOMALIA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



350 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
If U.S. Smiles, Will Europe Beam?

BYLINE:  By CONRAD DE AENLLE 

 BODY:
THE smart money over the last two years has shifted from the new economy to the old economy. This year, the right move may be from the New World to the Old World: the European market.
 To stock investors, the United States has been a more rewarding place than Europe for several years. Since the market lows in September, however, Europe has begun to close the gap, and many strategists in Europe and on Wall Street believe that European stocks will benefit more than domestic ones when the American economy rebounds from recession. 
 "Our view is that Europe will outperform the U.S. this year," said Steve Tyson, head of global equities at AXA Investment Managers in London. In a recession, he said, European investors focus more on recovery across the Atlantic than on their own backyard, and as evidence mounts that economic growth is resuming in the United States, European stocks will benefit.
"Europe tends to perform better than the U.S. in economic upturns, and it's starting from cheaper valuations," he said.
In this view, however, the market in Europe will be risky if economic recovery in the United States is delayed. As trading during the last couple of weeks has shown, when the American market stumbles, the European market can suffer a humiliating defeat. Furthermore, there is little consensus about the sorts of stocks that will outpace the averages, even if the European market produces a sustainable rise.
Some fund managers suggested investing in the most economically sensitive industries, like steel and chemicals, while others encouraged sticking with solid, steady growers like food producers. The best way to invest in the region may be to buy a broadly diversified mutual fund, either an actively managed fund or one that replicates the portfolio of a benchmark stock index.
The faith placed in Europe is rooted in history and valuation. European stocks tend to generate stronger returns when the American economy recovers. Because European markets have lagged behind those in the United States in recent years, European stocks are relatively cheap. On a price-to-earnings basis, they now cost only 50 percent of American stocks, on average, compared with 80 percent historically.
Robert Pelosky, a strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, called Europe "our preferred destination for new equity investment among the three major regions." Strategists at Salomon Smith Barney recently downgraded the United States in global model portfolios in favor of Europe, citing cheaper valuations.
Joseph Rooney, a strategist at Lehman Brothers, said he expects Continental Europe to outperform this year, also based on discrepancies in valuation, as well as investor sentiment about the two economies.
"One of the most striking features of the financial landscape at present is the extent of the divergence in growth expectations between the U.S. and Continental Europe," based on business confidence readings and revised earnings estimates, he wrote to clients. He added that he did not see any stresses in the European economy that warranted such wide gaps in expectations.
MR. TYSON at AXA said expectations of economic growth in Europe were almost beside the point. European investors usually do not bother waiting for the region's economy to show signs of recovery, he said, because they hold the American economy in such esteem that they assume it will give their own economy the lift it needs. "For us, European economic recovery will follow U.S. economic recovery just as night follows day," he said, adding that economists had begun to catch glimpses of daylight in the United States.
"We think the U.S. upturn is already under way," he said. "You can see that in the purchasing management and confidence indicators. Europe will follow with a three- to six-month lag in economic activity, but the market will perform at the same time as the U.S.," only more strongly, he added.
Among the large European stocks he recommends are the BT Group, formerly British Telecommunications; Nestle; TotalFinaElf, the French oil company; and Banco Santander Central Hispano, the Spanish bank. All four are listed on stock markets in the United States.
Adrian Fowler, head of pan-European equities at Aberdeen Asset Management in London, predicted stock market gains this year of 10 percent in the United States and 15 percent in Europe. He said European stocks offer good value, both in the context of their own history and in comparison with American stocks. He said he expects further interest-rate cuts by the European Central Bank, which should help the markets in Europe, as well as "a decent restructuring story."
European companies are not as aggressive as American ones in cutting costs and disposing of underperforming assets, he said, but they are still running ahead of investors' expectations.
He prefers owning industrial companies that are in position to benefit from a sudden need to rebuild inventories as the economy starts to bounce. These include steel makers and chemical producers. Construction is another economically sensitive sector he favors. Those three, he said, "have done reasonably well in the last few months, and they have a way to go; valuations are not yet stretched."
By contrast, he advised avoiding the more defensive groups, to which investors turned last year, like food and pharmaceuticals, where "the complete reverse is the case; valuations are stretched, and these are the ones investors will ditch as they incorporate a more optimistic economic view."
HE particularly likes stocks including Usinor, the French steel maker; Pechiney, the French aluminum producer; Volvo, the Swedish truck maker; and Stora, a Finnish forest products business. Pechiney and Volvo, which sold its carmaking business to Ford Motor in 1999, have listings in the United States.
Alex Darwall, a fund manager at Jupiter Asset Management in London, said he prefers to remain neutral about the European economy and stock market when scouting for investments.
"I never make a specific case for Europe, other than to say there are fantastic world-beating companies that happen to be in Europe," he said.
Among his world beaters, all of which have American listings, are Reed International, the British publisher that jointly owns Reed Elsevier with Elsevier of the Netherlands; Air Liquide, a French supplier of industrial gases; Nestle; L'Oreal, the French cosmetics company; and Dassault Systemes of France, a maker of software for computer-assisted design and manufacturing. Dassault Systemes split off from Dassault Aviation more than 20 years ago.
L'Oreal is attractive, he said, because "sales keep going up at a very good pace," whatever course the economy takes.
He described Air Liquide as "a world leader, big in America," in an industry enjoying long-term growth. "If you believe in things like fuel cells, industrial gases will play a big part in that," he said.
Dassault Systemes is one of his favorites, in part because it has a blue-chip customer base that includes American heavyweights like Boeing. Citing its entrepreneurial spirit, Mr. Darwall praised Dassault -- or insulted it, from a Frenchman's point of view -- by describing it as "far more American in its outlook than European."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A trader at the Paris bourse. Market strategists say they expect European stocks to benefit more than American ones from an economic recovery in the United States. (Reuters) Chart: "Poised to Break Away?"Some analysts think European stocks are ready to outperform those in the United States for the first time in years. Graph shows Morgan Stanley Capital International indexes, calculated in U.S. dollars for the United States and Europe from 1980-2000. (Source: Morgan Stanley Capital International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (85%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (69%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (66%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: AXA INVESTMENT MANAGERS UK HOLDINGS LTD (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%)

PERSON: DE AENLLE, CONRAD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



351 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Budget Plan Has Billions for the State 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
WHEN President Bush was mapping the way for the military to prepare for the 21st century, he found that the path leads right through Connecticut. Old submarines converted for radically new purposes, next-generation helicopters and engines for futuristic fighter jets, all made in Connecticut, were in the defense budget Mr. Bush unveiled last week and will bring billions of dollars in contracts to the state.
 "The president's budget, and his priorities, are really good news for the state," said Donald Klepper-Smith, chief economist and director of research at Scillia, Dowling & Natarelli, a consulting firm in New Haven. And this year will probably be a harbinger of the years to come, he said. 
 "The events of 9/11 have led us to realize that the world is a different place, and there are security issues that are going to change permanently," Mr. Klepper-Smith said. "Look at what has gone on in the airline industry. If that's any indication, I think we can look forward to a long-term increase in defense spending, as a percentage of total spending."
In the budget, Electric Boat in Groton would get money to build a new submarine, Sikorsky in Stratford money for more helicopters and Pratt & Whitney in East Hartford would build more engines for a variety of military planes.
Peter M. Gioia, an economist with the Connecticut Business and Industry Association, said even after the Cold War ended, defense was important to the Connecticut economy.
"At its height, during Vietnam, defense probably represented 8 to 10 percent of the state economy, which is an awful big chunk of the economy," Mr. Gioia said. "Even though it's declined, it's still about 5 percent, which makes it more important than it is in many states."
The health of that sector means Connecticut is poised to benefit as Mr. Bush rebuilds the military. In fact, he noted, some of the military contracts that will flow to Pratt & Whitney, the jet engine maker, will likely help it through a serious slowdown in commercial aviation that started early last year because of the recession and intensified after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
"Connecticut's defense technology has always been cutting edge, and in his State of the Union speech the president was talking about the need to make sure our fighting men and women have the best technology possible, so that bodes very well for the defense industry here," Mr. Gioia said.
Not everyone was impressed by the president's proposed $379.3 billion defense budget, up almost $80 billion from a year earlier. Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, a member of the Armed Services Committee, noted that the actual increase in discretionary spending is much smaller.
"The president's proposed $35 billion increase dwindles substantially when you factor in inflation, critically important pay raises mandated by Congress and owed to our troops, necessary improvements to military health, and other obligations we must meet," Senator Lieberman said. "What's left over is less than $10 billion, which is not nearly enough to meet the military's essential needs for procurement and transformation."
But for most defense companies in the state, while the Pentagon faucet might not have been opened to the torrent it gushed in the Cold War, the 2003 fiscal year budget proposed by Mr. Bush represents a lot more than the trickle of the last 10 years.
Electric Boat, which makes nuclear submarines, was one of the biggest winners in the budget. It will get a large share of $2.5 billion that will cover the cost of building a Virginia-class submarine in the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1, and advance costs for another submarine in the following year.
In addition, the money to convert four of the Navy's oldest nuclear-tipped ballistic missile submarines increased from less than $50 million two years ago to $1 billion in Mr. Bush's budget. The conversion will enable the warships to sneak in close to an enemy coast and fire conventional missiles or deliver dozens of commandos, two capabilities that are expected to be in demand in the war on terrorists.
"We're pleased that the president's budget recognizes the continuing need for submarines, and we're hopeful that submarine programs will fare well as Congress begins its review," said Neil D. Ruenzel, a spokesman for Electric Boat.
Neither of those contracts will require any increased employment beyond the 500 to 1,000 people Electric Boat expected to hire this year, though the company now expects the number will be closer to the higher end of that range.
But there is increased pressure on the Navy to increase its production to two submarines a year, from one now, which would boost employment at Electric Boat considerably.
The president has allocated $279 million to buy 12 Blackhawk helicopters for the Army, and $395 million for 15 MH-60 helicopters for the Navy, both made by Sikorsky. Sikorsky, a subsidiary of United Technologies Corporation, and its partner Boeing will also split $915 million for continued development of the Comanche helicopter.
Pratt, also a United Technologies company, will provide engines for almost $12 billion in fighter jets and military cargo planes that are in production or under development, including the Air Force's new F-22 Raptor and the Joint Strike Fighter, expected to be used by all the services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AIRLINES (77%); HELICOPTERS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; DEFENSE CONTRACTS 

COMPANY: PRATT & WHITNEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (54%) PRATT & WHITNEY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HAMILTON, ROBERT A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



352 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3358 words

HEADLINE: Again, a Time Of Uncertainty In Atlantic City 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN WARNER 

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY 

 BODY:
THOSE betting on Atlantic City these days troubled as they are -- point hopefully to the Borgata, a $1 billion casino resort and spa rising in the uncluttered marina district. When it opens next year, the Borgata will be the first new casino hotel here in 13 years.
 More than two decades ago, when political and civic leaders prevailed upon the State Legislature to push through legalized casino gambling in this struggling resort, few expected that Atlantic City would have to reinvent itself again so soon. Yet that is precisely what is happening. Part of the problem, many concur, is that when the city began reinventing itself the first time after the arrival of casinos in 1978, it did not finish the job. 
 "We've made great strides in 20 years," said Wallace R. Barr, the chief operating officer of Park Place Entertainment. "The island has cleaned up a great deal since legalization of casinos, but there's still a distance yet to go." 
Atlantic City was already trying to absorb competition from the casinos in Connecticut, slot machines in Delaware and even Internet gambling, which is still in its infancy. And there are proposals to put slots at racetracks in Pennsylvania and New York City.
But the biggest threat is now coming from another faded resort area trying to reinvent itself in the Catskill Mountains of New York, otherwise known as the Borscht Belt -- once home to sprawling hotels and golf resorts -- where analysts predict casino gambling could be under way by 2004.
If that were not enough, even the Miss America Pageant -- Atlantic City's last link to its days as a wholesome holiday destination -- has threatened to leave town after 81 years if the city does not come up with a greater financial incentive.
"This is a critical time for Atlantic City," said Donald J. Trump, who with three casinos in his portfolio is the second-largest casino owner in Atlantic City. "We are facing the biggest threat in the 20 years since the gambling initiative was approved."
That is why so many observers here are putting their money on the Borgata, with its bronze towers, 4 entertainment rooms, 11 restaurants and a spa whose amenities include 22 treatment rooms.
Yet gleaming towers and large stage shows aside, Atlantic City still suffers from the tawdriness that led it to the one-armed bandits in the first place. The chasm between the glittering casino properties along the Boardwalk and the rest of Atlantic City remains, and all of the city's players say the ultimate payoff will not come until economic development extends beyond the casino floor. The problem is, that challenge rests as close as the seaminess of both Pacific Avenue on one side and the Boardwalk on the other.
After 20 years of solid growth, the revenue stream here has slowed since 1996, barely keeping ahead of inflation. Indeed, if not for a surprisingly strong December, the market would have recorded its first decline last year. Casino revenue itself grew by just 0.1 percent, to $4.3 billion, in 2001.
Simply put -- and on this business analysts, local officials and casino operators agree -- elderly gamblers making the 100-mile bus trip from New York to play the slots will not by themselves restore the city to economic health.
Yet for much of the past decade, casino owners have focused their capital reinvestment on their high-profit gaming floors while remaining reluctant to build more hotel space beyond what has been needed to comp the high rollers.
"The properties have largely commoditized themselves as a collection of slot machines in a box," said Bob Boughner, chief executive of the Borgata, a joint venture of Boyd Gaming Corporation and MGM Mirage.
For more than 10 years, casino owners here have been reluctant to reinvest in their properties while gambling continues to spread to riverboats in the Middle West, Indian reservations in the West and points in between. While some owners encountered financial problems because of overexpansion or the economic trough in the aftermath of the Gulf War, others were simply constrained by a lack of space.
"They had to make choices," said Mr. Boughner. "You saw entertainment venues removed in favor of slot machines. I respect those decisions, but they have had some longer-term impacts."
So now, as Atlantic City copes with the resulting lack of growth, it faces new and formidable competition.
Currently, Atlantic City draws 35 to 38 percent of its business from the New York metropolitan area, including North Jersey. New York City alone accounts for 20 percent of the revenue in Atlantic City, said Tim Wilmott, president of the Casino Association of New Jersey and Eastern division president of Harrah's Entertainment Inc. 
When casino gaming arrived in Connecticut nine years ago, Atlantic City lost most of its customers from New England, or about 10 percent of its market, said Mr. Wilmott. Slot machines in Delaware, he said, chipped away a bit more.
Now, Mr. Wilmott said, the Catskills could cost Atlantic City about 15 percent of its revenue -- hardly a small portion.
For his part, Mr. Trump said he was more concerned about slot machines at New York City racetracks, which would be allowed under the legislation proposed to bring gambling to the Catskills. "That's an even greater threat to New Jersey," he said. "You don't even have to travel. You're there on the subway in 10 minutes."
For Atlantic City, the challenge has been the same: attracting visitors who will venture from the slot machines long enough to enjoy dinner and a show and spread some spending around. Unfortunately, in the past this is precisely what the hotels and casinos did not want.
Yet the days of unrestrained comping may be over, to a large extent a victim of its own success. Mr. Barr of Park Place said the lower revenue growth in the past few years was to some extent a result of casino owners reining in discount programs that were eroding their profit margins.
Andrew Latz, the owner of landmark Knife and Fork restaurant, had his own views on the widely used practice of comping -- none of them good.
Mr. Latz, who bought the Knife and Fork from his father and reopened it several years ago, after the casinos and their policy of comping gamblers helped to drive it out of business, complained: "They comped everything for everybody. If you got everything for free why would you ever leave the casino?"
Sometimes it seems that there are as many possible cures for Atlantic City's ills as there are two-by-fours on the Boardwalk. Mr. Wilmott said that the answer to Atlantic City's plight was more hotel rooms. For instance, he said Atlantic City currently had 12,000 rooms -- nearly impossible to get in the summer or on weekends -- as against Las Vegas, which has 120,000.
"As a market, we have got to get people to stay here overnight and expand our reach beyond 200 miles," Mr. Wilmott said. "It's a chicken-and-egg thing. We've seen in Las Vegas that people will spend more of their budget in nongaming areas. But we're not there yet."
On the other hand, said Mr. Barr of Park Place, Atlantic City is benefiting right now as a getaway point for a day or for mini-vacations rather than flying off to Las Vegas.
Indeed, Atlantic City posted strong revenue growth, 6 percent, in January amid continued concern about the economy and terrorism.
In the long term, however, Mr. Barr said the city needed to offer more hotel rooms to attract air service and customers from such markets as Chicago, Atlanta and Raleigh-Durham. 
"We're at a crossroads to some degree in the rooms equation," said Mr. Barr. "To attract airplane flights we need rooms to attract the patronage. Now, 40 to 50 percent go out as comps or at a discount to gamblers."
In the past, the thinking went like this: Shows or dining rooms were merely loss leaders. But according to Robert Stewart, a spokesman for Park Place Entertainment, the largest casino operator in Atlantic City, about half of all the revenue earned in Las Vegas comes from activities other than gambling.
"It hasn't reached that level of parity in Atlantic City, but we believe by developing new entertainment experiences that we will be moving toward that new model in Atlantic City," said Mr. Stewart, whose company sponsored Britney Spears' December concert at Boardwalk Hall.
That is where the Borgata and all that it promises comes in.
Mr. Boughner said Atlantic City needed nothing short of major new development, not simply a face-lift, something not easily done in a time of economic uncertainty.
"Customers are tired of that," he said. "They know this product was not up to snuff when compared to Las Vegas or other emerging gaming markets. Every level is ready to trade up, from the bluest of collars to the whitest of collars."
Yet not everyone is wedded to exactly the same approach. For his part, Jason Ader, an analyst at Bear Sterns in New York, said Atlantic City should focus on becoming a strong regional draw with a sophisticated East Coast feel rather than trying to lure guests with mega-themed hotels and a family-fun approach.
"When you look at the successful models in Las Vegas and other regional markets, Atlantic City is behind the times," said Mr. Ader. "The Borgata will be very exciting and a breath of fresh air for the existing product which is many ways has become antiquated."
The Borgata, now under construction in Atlantic City's marina district, will add 2,010 new rooms -- larger than the typical ones -- to Atlantic City's inventory.
In this regard, Mr. Boughner said the Borgata had an advantage over the older casinos because with 30 acres to work with, his hotel and gambling rooms could spread out more than those crammed onto the existing spaces along the Boardwalk.
He also said his property would be the first to benefit from new casino legislation loosening regulation of the design of the casino floor and allowing slots to be placed outside the main casino.
"I believe the Borgata will expand the market in Atlantic City," he said. "The billion-dollar question is by how much?"
Nor is the Borgata alone in bracing for the coming challenge. Its neighbor, Harrah's Atlantic City Casino Hotel, is completing a $113 million hotel tower that will open in April with 425 rooms. Harrah's sister property, the Showboat Casino Hotel, broke ground in January on a $90 million 500-room addition.
In addition, the Tropicana is planning a $225 million expansion that will add 500 rooms, parking and 700 new slot machines. But Joe Cole, a spokesman for Tropicana's owners, Aztar Corporation of Phoenix, said the project, set to open in summer 2004, had been delayed four or five months so the opening would not conflict with the fanfare expected to greet the Borgata.
Other plans, however, have been postponed because of concerns about getting large sums from the financial markets in the current economy, competition from other regions and bettors who have less money to spend. For instance, Resorts Hotel Casino has delayed plans to construct a new tower, citing an inability to get financing. And Park Place Entertainment has not progressed with preliminary plans to enlarge the casino and add theater space and suites at the Atlantic City Hilton.
One big question remains: What will happen with MGM Mirage's remaining acreage adjacent to the Borgata? It had planned to build a major resort but is now rethinking every part of its plan for the parcel once known by the businesslike name of the H-tract but rechristened Renaissance Pointe by its owners.
"We're at a very delicate point in the timing," said Alan Feldman, a spokesman for MGM Mirage. "We all know Atlantic City is far too dominated by the gaming portion of what we do and does not have enough yet of the competitive nongaming amenities -- wonderful hotels, great restaurants and theater. The development of Renaissance Pointe is going to give Atlantic City the wherewithal to withstand future competition."
To Mr. Wilmott, the MGM Mirage is crucial. "Unlike Las Vegas, there's not a lot of developable land in Atlantic City, and MGM Mirage controls all of it. What they do with their land holdings will determine how the city will grow in the next five to seven years."
And for Mr. Trump, the answer for now is a simple one. He has put off any decisions until he knows more about what will happen in New York. He said he and other Atlantic City operators planned to mount a legal challenge to New York's legislation, which passed swiftly as an economic stimulus measure after the terrorists attacks of Sept. 11.
But whether Mr. Trump even has the ability to do much with his properties is a question. In November, prompted by what he said were the events of Sept. 11, Mr. Trump announced he would deliberately default on a $90 million interest payment due on $1.8 billion in bonded indebtedness.
"It's a different world," he said in an interview. 
Indeed, it may well be.
Marvin Roffman, a Philadelphia investment manager who tracks the casino industry, said that although bond holders agreed to negotiate with Mr. Trump during the last recession, they might not go along this time -- though Mr. Trump insists they are.
But Mr. Roffman said the likelihood of new competition for Atlantic City had thrown off the odds for strong growth. "It could be catastrophic for a number of operators, especially the highly leveraged," he said. "Who is the most highly leveraged? The Donald."
In trying to look toward the future and the shape that Atlantic City might take, Steven Kent, a casino analyst at Goldman, Sachs, said the casinos themselves might develop along two separate tracks, with flashy new players on one side of the tracks and weaker ones in the old neighborhood, mirroring the dichotomy between the casinos and the rest of Atlantic City.
"You may have in two years a bipolar market where you have the new part of Atlantic City and the older part that will find it difficult to draw new customers and grow," he said. "They may add a smorgasboard to steal market share, but it won't create the same impact as a new mega-casino."
Mr. Wilmott also voiced some concern about the creation of winners and losers among casino operators.
"It could become more of a market of haves and have-nots," he said. "There are properties that have made capital investments in Atlantic City and others that haven't. With the Borgata coming, it's going to make those properties that haven't put capital in more vulnerable."
In the meantime, at least two of Atlantic City's biggest players are hedging their bets by staking out properties in the Catskills. Park Place Entertainment has an agreement to acquire Kutsher's Country Club, a sprawling resort in the Catskills, and Harrah's has said it is also looking for an operation there.
"There are people who suggest this puts Atlantic City in jeopardy," Mr. Stewart of Park Place said. "Our view is that no matter what we do there's going to be an expansion of gaming in the Northeast. What Atlantic City must do to compete is to continue to develop its best assets and create new reasons for people to come."
Even with its unfulfilled potential beyond the Boardwalk, casino gambling remains a viable development strategy for Atlantic City said James Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers.
"The alternative would be Asbury Park," Mr. Hughes said, referring to the seaside resort to the north that is marked by vast tracts of oceanfront abandonment.
Rather, Mr. Hughes said that Atlantic City needed to capitalize on the critical mass of casinos it already has, which would be difficult to replicate in Connecticut or upstate New York.
"There was concern that if you add more casinos, you just cut the pie into smaller pieces rather than thinking that the more casinos you have the bigger draw you'll be, expanding the whole pie," said Mr. Hughes. "I think the latter is the case."
More important, he said that after years of neglect there were indications that casino development was starting to pay off for Atlantic City as a whole. 
"Initially, the downside was that there was no spillover effects, and that's still true," he said. "But compared to, say, 15 years ago, there has been some progress."
Atlantic City and its casinos -- which have created nearly 50,000 jobs -- draws 34 million visitors a year, and has funneled $450 million back into the community through the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority since 1987.
Five years ago the city opened its new $268 million Convention Center, which last month opened its arms to 50,000 people for an air-conditioning and refrigeration convention -- the largest here since Lyndon B. Johnson accepted the Democratic presidential nomination in the old Convention Hall in 1964.
The authority has also helped finance the Sandcastle, a minor-league baseball stadium that opened four years ago, as well as a neighboring ice arena. Last year, a $90 million renovation was completed at Boardwalk Hall, which is now home to the Boardwalk Bullies of the East Coast Hockey League.
And next year, a $70 million outlet shopping center, which will nearly double the city's retail base, is scheduled to open along 10 blocks of Michigan Avcenue between Arctic Avenue and the Boardwalk.
In addition, revenue from casinos that has been reinvested has financed low-income housing as well as health care facilities and centers for the elderly, children and people with disabilities. And many of the city's new attractions -- including a $330 million road easing access to Renaissance Pointe -- were also financed with taxpayer dollars.
Yet Mr. Trump said that with the threat of the Catskills hanging over its head, New Jersey needs "to make a big investment in Atlantic City if and when competition comes."
If Atlantic City is to grow through its current plateau, he said, it needs to invest in tourism.
"We've done some things, but we need to do a lot more," he said. "What Atlantic City needs is beautification and a reason to be there. It should be a fantastic destination resort, a beautiful environment. We've got some great buildings in Atlantic City, but people want to go outside of a building."
Some insist that is already being done. James Kennedy, executive director of the casino redevelopment authority, said new projects in the city were coming together. 
"We've redeveloped pockets throughout the city, and last year the pockets here and there began to touch each other," Mr. Kennedy said. "It's beginning to knit together, and that's having a major impact."
Still, Mr. Kennedy acknowledged that over the years officials and casino operators had come up short on predictions that Atlantic City was about to turn the corner.
"What's different this time is how close we are to that corner," he said. "We've been announcing for a decade we're almost there, but we're absolutely right there at the corner now."
For his part, however, Mr. Roffman is not ready to take the bet.
"You have people wearing rose-colored glasses who say the Borgata spells a new beginning and Atlantic City will get a critical mass in hotel rooms and tap markets from more distant locations," he said. "But they have been saying that for 22 years."
Mr. Wilmott is optimistic, but he says Atlantic City still has a way to go. For instance, he said Atlantic City needed to convince air carriers and tour operators that there would be enough rooms. Indeed, Atlantic City suffered a blow when Continental Airlines halted service in Atlantic City shortly after Sept. 11.
Tourism officials have also set out to mine the driving market. Research shows that 50 million people live within a 300-mile radius of Atlantic City, though only about 15 percent have been here.
With all that is going on, Mr. Wilmott said Atlantic City would turn the corner this time because of the investment in such projects as the Convention Center and Boardwalk Hall, by taxpayers and by casino operators who were planning to build 4,000 new hotel rooms in the next two years.
"There has been a tremendous amount of capital improvement in this city," he said. "This is something that cannot be done overnight, repositioning a city that 25 years ago was significantly decayed and blighted. But 25 years later, we're in a position to make it happen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Atlantic City, a chasm remains between the glittering casinos along the Boardwalk, left and below, and the rest of the resort. For that reason, many are putting their money on the Borgata, a $1 billion casino resort and spa rising in the uncluttered marina district, top right. Donald J. Trump, who owns the Trump-Plaza, above, says Atlantic City is facing the biggest threat in 20 years because of challenges from the competition and the stumbling economy. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 9); These days, Atlantic City is a crazy quilt of old and new. In 1978, few expected that the resort would have to reinvent itself so soon. Yet that is precisely what is happening. Part of the problem, many concur, is that when the city began reinventing itself the first time, it did not finish the job. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (95%); RESORTS (92%); GAMING (92%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL AMENITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MOUNTAINS (65%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (64%) GAMBLING; CASINOS 

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (63%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (89%) WARNER, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); CATSKILL MOUNTAINS

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



353 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Who Stands To Benefit As Military Expands

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH'S 2003 budget calls for a $48 billion, or 14 percent, jump in military spending, the biggest increase in two decades. While a sizable chunk is for pay raises, health care and the impact of inflation on programs, weapons procurement would rise 12 percent, reversing a general decline through most of the 1990's.
 Assuming that Congress approves the bulk of the plan amid patriotic fervor, this implies good times for companies that produce equipment, some of which recently proved itself in the war in Afghanistan. 
 Howard A. Rubel, aerospace and defense analyst at Goldman Sachs, took time last week to discuss the industry and which companies were best positioned to benefit. Following are excerpts from the conversation.

Q. Is this military buildup seen as a pretty big deal on Wall Street?

A. You bet. Many weapons systems and platforms of the 1980's are becoming obsolete. Sept. 11 shined a bright light on a host of needs. For example, the average age of the Air Force fleet is somewhere around 23 years, compared with around 16 years then. If current trends continued, we could be looking at a fleet averaging very close to 30 years, an extreme situation for a country that prides itself on being technologically advanced. We had thought there would be a 4 to 7 percent increase, to about $350 billion; twice that is quite striking.

Q. I suppose it's telling that none of the older systems are to be eliminated. Didn't we expect at least one of the three new jet fighter programs to be canceled or cut?

A. We're using 40-year-old B-52's to bomb the Taliban, but it is the precision weapons they carried that made the substantial difference. The force multiplier of technology really worked. And look what happened: we got all three fighter programs.

Q. What surprised you in the budget?

A. It's hard to have a lot of surprises in a $379 billion budget; it requires a lot of planning. The surprise was the overall size and also dividing it into two elements, the core and an additional $10 billion for discretionary items.

Q. Most of the stocks, with the exception of Boeing, are trading near 52-week highs. How do you appraise the group now?

A. There's opportunity for the stocks to deliver very good returns, but it's not a straight line. They are affected by political perceptions, technological innovations and the performance of individual companies. We're at a point where all three are favorable, and this will continue for a while. This industry is much more tightly run, more efficient than the way it used to be.
My call is that we'll see share prices move up in line with earnings growth of from low single digits to midteens, versus probably 7 percent for the market as a whole. But most of the expansion of price-earnings multiples is behind us. We have the group overweighted and have for some time.

Q. Which are your favorites among the military contractors?

A. What I am recommending is a mix of names. One is Boeing. All the civil aviation stocks took a tremendous pounding the first week the market reopened after Sept. 11. To walk away then would have been selling at the bottom, and since then they've provided pretty good returns. While you're going to see declining output at Boeing, its price reflects the essential market risk.
Their space and defense business alone is worth in the low $30's, and with the stock at about $40 you have a call on the global economy when it turns. You don't pay much for a very powerful commercial franchise. Some of its space and defense programs, such as missile defense, are at important crossroads, and they are in the heart of the market as a key supplier of satellite systems such as Wide Band Gap Filler. The company should generate $2.5 billion-plus in free cash this year and possibly more than $3 billion next year, a 9 percent free cash flow yield. The stock should be trading today in the mid-to upper $40's.

Q. What are your other favorite military companies?

A. Last month we added Rockwell Collins, a leading supplier of avionics, to our recommended list. The stock got pounded because investors associated it almost exclusively with Boeing, but the reality is that only about 8 percent of Collins's sales are to Boeing directly. It should earn $1.20 a share this fiscal year and $1.40 in 2003. It has a unique franchise, with many of their commercial applications also serving the military, and a spectacular balance sheet.
Of course, we also like a couple of the big guys that are pure plays, like Lockheed Martin and General Dynamics. All the major companies have evolved to meet changing needs.

Q. Which companies' stocks would you avoid?

A. We have Northrop Grumman and Raytheon as market performers. We're not recommending them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rubel 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); DEFENSE ACQUISITION REFORM (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); APPROVALS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); TRENDS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BOEING CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (55%) GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: RUBEL, HOWARD A; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



354 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
On Tax Cuts And Deficits, A Battle Of Believers

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH sent his budget plan to Congress last week, igniting a partisan battle over how to allocate the government's revenue during a time of war and recession.
 But with surpluses giving way to deficits and the prospects evaporating for substantially reducing the national debt, the debate will also focus new attention on a fundamental difference between the two parties. 
 Do budget deficits and rising debt inherently harm the economy by pushing up long-term interest rates? Or are deficits, and a reasonable level of debt, acceptable prices to pay for taking steps like cutting taxes that will help the economy in the long run?
Since early in the Clinton administration, most Democrats have embraced the idea that fiscal discipline creates a virtuous cycle. They are convinced that paying down the national debt by maintaining annual surpluses helps the economy by putting downward pressure on interest rates. 
Conversely, Democrats say, running deficits means more government borrowing and upward pressure on rates. To them, Mr. Bush's budget is a travesty. It shows three years of deficits followed by at least another seven years in which much of the money assumed to be reserved for debt reduction -- the Social Security surplus -- is eaten up by other needs, primarily last year's tax cut and increased military spending.
"If you're not able to pay down the debt, that means the federal government is competing with private-sector borrowers for money, driving up the cost of interest rates," said Senator Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. 
"That's a hidden tax on every American family," he said. "Higher mortgage payments. Higher car payments. Higher college loan payments. And so I think we want to think very carefully about what this means to the economic future of the country."
Balderdash, Republicans say. 
The Republicans say they are all for balanced budgets. But they favor fiscal austerity not because of interest rates, but because they believe in small government and the primacy of market forces. 
More to the point, they believe in tax cuts as an economic cure-all. Slavish adherence to maintaining surpluses would make carrying out the tax cut championed by Mr. Bush last year -- and further tax cuts -- complicated if not impossible.
Republicans tend to argue that the first order of business is to get the economy going full-throttle again. After that, they say, surpluses will take care of themselves. 
"It's a good economy that leads to a good budget situation, not the other way around," said R. Glenn Hubbard, the chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers. "The seeds of the good budget for the 1990's were largely the roaring economy and spending restraint."
Democrats, Mr. Hubbard said, have never been able to prove that long-term rates, which move in response to a wide array of factors, are affected in any big way by deficits. "We have very little empirical evidence to suggest much of a link between deficits and interest rates," he said. 
The most-cited piece of economic research on the topic was done in 1998 by N. Gregory Mankiw of Harvard University and Douglas Elmendorf of the Federal Reserve Board. They found that "the interest-rate effects of typical changes in government debt are quite small," Mr. Mankiw said.
But he said focusing exclusively on interest-rate implications of long-term fiscal policy oversimplifies the economic issues. He said those range from generational equity -- do we want to dump all this debt on our children? -- to national savings and approaches to shoring up Social Security.
DEMOCRATS also have some powerful allies on their side. Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, is one. Though a Republican and an ardent believer in tax cuts, he has said publicly several times in recent months that the worsening fiscal outlook has had an effect on long-term rates. 
In any case, the changes to the fiscal outlook are considerable. This year, the White House projects that the national debt held by the public in the form of Treasury securities will fall by roughly $1 trillion, to $2.5 trillion, over the next decade. A year ago, the White House projected that the debt could be wiped out by 2011.
Because of the worsened fiscal outlook, Congress will have to increase the government's debt limit again in the next few weeks. Don't look for the debate to end there -- or anytime soon.

GRAPHIC: Chart shows the federal budget deficit or surplus and the 10-year treasuries since 1995. (Source: Congressional Budget Office, Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); STUDENT LOANS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%) CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); KENT CONRAD (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



355 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 5

HEADLINE: EVENING HOURS; 
Encores

BYLINE:  By Bill Cunningham 

 BODY:

CORRECTION-DATE: February 24, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with the Evening Hours column on Feb. 10 about a benefit for the Juilliard School on Feb. 4 misidentified the woman shown with Dan Lufkin. She was Jeannie Leff, not Cynthia Lufkin.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Feb. 5: The Museum of the City of New York held its Winter Ball benefit in its East Harlem building on Fifth Avenue, with 900 guests attending and $175,000 being raised. 1. 11:05: NATANE BOUDREAU. 2. 10:35: ALEXIA PICKETT, left, and VICTORIA LINDGREN, two of 20 women on the ball's committee who borrowed dresses from Ungaro, a sponsor. 3. 11:10: BETH BUCCINI. 4. 11:05: PATTI McGRATH and NEWTON P. S. MERRILL, the museum's board chairman.; 5: The literary committee of the National Arts Club held its 34th annual Literary Award Dinner at its Gramercy Park location. The event, attended by 200 guests, honored the Irish author Edna O'Brien. 5. 6:40: From left, EDNA O'BRIEN, MARJORY BASSETT and JANET JAMES PURDY.; Feb. 5: The Design Industries Foundation Fighting AIDS benefited from Elle Decor magazine's annual Dining by Design show. At this year's event at the Hammerstein Ballroom, 50 designers created 58 fantasy table settings for 1,000 guests, who raised more than $500,000. 6. 8:55: The COUNTESS OF ALBEMARLE was among the guests with an interesting above-the-table neckline. 7. 8:40: LITA BOSSERT. 8.8:35: VICTOIRE TAITTINGER. Champagne Taittinger is a sponsor of the event. 9. 8:10: From left: MISH TWORKOWSKI, who designed this feathered-tree table; AMY FINE COLLINS; and ROBERT RUFINO.; Feb. 4: The American Foundation for AIDS Research, also known as Amfar, held a benefit dinner at Cipriani 42nd Street. It was attended by 500 guests and raised $600,000, with the money also going to Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS. 10. 7:45: Dr. MATHILDE KRIM, Amfar's founder, flanked by the evening's hosts, MATTHEW BRODERICK, left, and NATHAN LANE. 11. 7:50: MARISKA HARGITAY, left, and ASHLEY McDERMOTT.; Feb. 6: Associated Black Charities, which represents volunteer groups that provide health and human services, raised $500,00 at its Black History Makers dinner. Nearly 500 guests attended the event at the New York Marriott Marquis. 12. 6:30: From left, DICK GREGORY, an honoree; RAY GERALD; and Dr. SHIRLEY ANN JACKSON. 13. 6:35: DANIEL BLACK, left, and H. CARL McCALL, who was an honored guest.; Feb. 4: The Juilliard School was the beneficiary of an evening celebrating the Richard Rodgers Centennial. The festivities, at the school's theater, were attended by 650 guests, and raised $1.2 million. Dinner and dancing were in an adjacent tent. 14. 8:55: Front row, MARY RODGERS GUETTEL, left, and her sister, LINDA RODGERS EMORY, the daughters of the composer. Rear: BERNADETTE PETERS, KAREN ZIEMBA and GLENN CLOSE. 15. 9:20: CYNTHIA and DAN LUFKIN, the event's chairmen. 16. 9:10: SHULER HENSLEY and AUDRA McDONALD.; Feb. 6: Tiffany & Company held a cocktail party and auction for the Wildlife Conservation Society. It was attended by 300 guests and raised $60,000. 17. 7:45: CHRISTINA MAY, in a sea creature costume designed by Angus Strathie, was one of two dancers who greeted guests. 18. 8:05: CELESTINA WALLIS.; Feb. 4: Hedge Funds Care, a coalition of hedge fund industry professionals, raised more than $1 million for its programs aimed at preventing child abuse at a dinner attended by 800 guests at the Grand Hyatt Hotel. 19. 6:25: WALT FRAZIER, left, and ROB DAVIS, founder of Hedge Funds Care.; Feb. 1: Steve and Robert Forbes were the hosts of a nightcap at the "21" Club, having invited 250 guests who attended the World Economic Forum. 20. 9:40: The Forbes family, from left, KIP, STEVE, LYDIA, ROBERT and SABINA FORBES II.; Feb. 6: Bide-a-Wee honored search and rescue dogs, and their handlers, many of whom worked at ground zero. The event, attended by 250 humans at the Pierre, raised $300,000. 21. 7:15: From left, CRISTOPHE, CAMILLE and COLLETTE, dachshunds. 22. 7:10: Police Officer VERONICA HAMMER of the New York Police Department, with SMITTY, a German shepherd who was honored.; Feb. 6: Saks Fifth Avenue held a reception at its Cartier boutique in honor of the New York Botanical Garden, with 150 guests attending. 23. 8:25: Each guest received a key, but only one key opened a case to a free Cartier bracelet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARTIES (SOCIAL) 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); DESIGN INDUSTRIES FOUNDATION FIGHTING AIDS (59%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (59%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (59%)

PERSON: MARISKA HARGITAY (79%) CUNNINGHAM, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



356 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: SOAPBOX; 
John Q. Public Library?

BYLINE:  By FRANZ LIDZ; Franz Lidz, the author of "Unstrung Heroes," a memoir, is a senior writer at Sports Illustrated.

 BODY:
EVER since the city of Macon christened its minor-league hockey team the Whoopees, we've been thinking of other communities whose names might lend themselves to similarly evocative couplings, like, say, the Spokane Words or the Juneau Whats or the Nome Chomskys. Imagine a Pusan football team called the Boots, or an Algiers soccer squad dubbed the Hisses. And while you're at it, consider the Cali Flowers, the Vichy Swabs, the Delhi Contessas and the Augusta Winds. 
 New York City may be playing a similar name game now that Mayor Bloomberg has asked the private sector to help it through the current financial crisis. To tap into the philanthropic largess of corporations and wealthy donors, Mr. Bloomberg has offered naming rights for areas in the city in much the same way the Selwyn Theater on 42nd Street recently signed an $8.5 million, 10-year deal to change its handle to the American Airlines Theater. 
 In time, the naming offers may even extend to municipal landmarks. Of course, a cynic might say Mr. Bloomberg himself bought the naming rights to the entire city. But that's the subject for another column.
Happily, Crazy Eddie's is no longer around to underwrite the Guggenheim Museum (one Crazy Guggenheim was quite enough, thank you). But what if Nathan's hot dogs donates millions to the U.N.? Can we expect the United Nathans? Or if John Quincy Adams VIII not-so-quietly finances the New York Public Library. There's kind of an empty Everyman ring to the John Q. Public Library.
Sure, some pairings sound relatively benign: the Calgon bath oil bead company might do well to prop up the Algonquin, thus creating the Calgonquin. 
And the Lefrak City complex in Queens could bequeath part of its profits to the Frick Collection, thereby forming the LeFrick & Frak Collection. But please, Wish-Bone salad dressing: Stay away from the Waldorf-Astoria. The last thing this city needs is a Waldorf Salad Astoria. If Grand Central Terminal got sizable contributions from Oldsmobile and Oprah Winfrey, could New Yorkers coexist with the Grand Olds Oprah? 
Other partnerships sound equally unpalatable. If somehow the boxing scribe Bert Sugar and the former "Brady Bunch" actress Eve Plumb pooled their cash to save the Staten Island Ferry, well, care to work this one out for yourself? Similarly, if U-Haul hitched itself to the Museum of Modern Art, would arts patrons think twice about spending a day at U-MOMA?
In his rush to shore up the city's economy, Mayor Bloomberg should start in his own backyard. If Gracie Mansion were to get a windfall from McDonald's, Manhattan would have its first McMansion.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); SOCCER (73%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (60%); FERRIES (50%) NAMES, PERSONAL; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); OPRAH WINFREY (50%) LIDZ, FRANZ 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); JUNEAU, AK, USA (92%); PUSAN, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); ALASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



357 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: The World: Thrown Together; 
Unwittingly, Arafat Plays the Matchmaker

BYLINE:  By SERGE SCHMEMANN 

 BODY:
SEATED together last week in the Oval Office and proclaiming their mutual commitment to a future Palestinian state, President Bush and the Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, were the image of personal amity and political optimism. 
 It was an image that testified eloquently to the inaction and ineptitude of Yasir Arafat, who, still under virtual house arrest in the West Bank by the Israeli military, has managed to push the central broker in the region, the American government, squarely into the camp of his nemesis. 
 In fact, lately, the biggest gap between Mr. Bush and Mr. Sharon seems to be whether they should exert fierce pressure on Mr. Arafat (Mr. Bush) or dump him altogether as a peace partner (Mr. Sharon). 
Mr. Arafat's feat was all the more impressive because the Bush administration, after initially trying to stay clear of the Middle East, tilted toward the Palestinians last fall, when President Bush called for a "state of Palestine" -- a formula Washington had hitherto avoided. And after Sept. 11, Washington's first instinct was to woo Arab support. 
But Mr. Arafat's failure to back up his denunciations of terrorism with action, and the Israeli capture of a shipload of weapons apparently ordered through two of the top terror dispensers on America's list -- Hezbollah and Iran -- infuriated the administration. It yanked its envoy, Anthony C. Zinni, out of the region, and left the Palestinian leader at the mercy of Mr. Sharon.
"Not only did the violence of the past 18 months enable Sharon to ride to power, but Arafat has been the glue that's kept the disparate parts of the Israeli government together," said David Makovsky, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East policy. "And now it's brought Bush and Sharon together. Once again Arafat is the great unifier."
He and other experts do not believe that the United States has embraced Mr. Sharon's hawkish views. But with the peace process in shambles, Washington's focus is now on demonstrating to Mr. Arafat -- and to potential successors -- the need to stop terror. 
There was also speculation that Mr. Bush may have invited Mr. Sharon to discuss a possible attack on Iraq. Such an attack would need Israel's cooperation, if only by promising not to strike back if Saddam Hussein launched missiles its way, as he did in the gulf war. 
Still, the overall impression of Mr. Sharon's White House visit was that the United States had given a free hand to the very Israeli regarded by Arabs as the least likely to make peace. 
So the visit did not go down well in the Middle East. Mr. Sharon, after all, has never concealed his contempt for the Oslo agreements, and his version of a peace deal would give the Palestinians far less than what Mr. Arafat rejected at Camp David in July 2000. In fact, he was elected in the heat of a new intifada precisely because the Israelis concluded that Oslo had gotten them nowhere, and it was time to get tough again. 
Recently, Mr. Sharon also told interviewers that he wished Israel had killed Mr. Arafat 20 years ago, back when Mr. Sharon was orchestrating the controversial invasion of Lebanon. And Mr. Sharon was instrumental in the establishment of Jewish settlements on occupied territories, one of the central Palestinian grievances. 
Given how Mr. Sharon is regarded by the Palestinians and in the Middle East, will this administration's clear alignment with him damage America's credibility and national interests in the region?
"The first thing in every conversation is the absence of evenhandedness by the United States," said Judith Kipper, a Middle East expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies who just returned from a trip through Kuwait, Qatar, Dubai and Saudi Arabia. "It's really, really an issue." 
Ms. Kipper found that extensive television coverage of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict had deepened passions in the streets, and that the Arab governments were having an increasingly difficult time explaining their support for American mediation when American-built F-16's were pounding Palestinian targets, Israeli tanks were entering Palestinian lands -- and the Bush administration criticized only Mr. Arafat. 
Similar sentiments could he heard in the meetings of the World Economic Forum in New York last week, though there is also ample reason to believe that major Arab players in the Middle East would not bemoan Mr. Arafat's exit, and that even his lieutenants are dismayed at where he has led them.
Martin Indyk, the Clinton administration's ambassador to Israel and now a senior fellow with the Brookings Institution, said it was clear to all that Mr. Arafat had forced the United States' hand. He argued that the support America showed for Mr. Sharon could be translated into concrete influence over the Israelis, once the United States reentered the fray. 
Over the years, Mr. Sharon has outlined a basic concept of a peace deal, but it is a far cry from what the Palestinians were discussing with his predescessor. More recently, Mr. Sharon has said that if the violence ended, he would be more generous.
Perhaps, but American support has for now removed any pressure on Mr. Sharon to approach the Palestinians more flexibly.
"Arafat is a great partner for Sharon in a sardonic way, because he relieves him of the necessity to tell Israelis -- forget Americans -- what kind of concessions he is ready to make," said Nahum Barnea, a columnist for the Israeli newspaper Yedioth Ahronot.
"When people ask him the question of the day after" -- meaning after Mr. Arafat is gone -- "he is always very vague on purpose."
WITH so few prospects for a return to peace talks, there is a certain cold realism in staying on the sidelines until something changes, most likely the Palestinian leadership. The problem is that all the while, suicide bombs will be going off in Israeli streets, to be followed by more retaliatory raids. And all the while, the sense of hopelessness, and perhaps resentment of American inaction, will grow.
"The point is, something's got to give," warned Mr. Indyk. "Either a disastrous string of terrorist attacks endorsed by Arafat to bring the whole house down and provoke Sharon, or some political agreement, or Iraq. Something's going to give."
"I think the greatest problem with our policy at the moment, where we are losing points in the Arab world, is the unwillingness to get engaged in an effort to stop the violence," he said. "Instead, we are withholding engagement as some kind of leverage, saying we'll only get involved when Arafat gets serious. It needs to be the other way around."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ariel Sharon, the Israeli prime minister in Jerusalem last month. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); HEZBOLLAH (78%); DESERT STORM (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); TERRORISM (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ARAFAT, YASIR; SCHMEMANN, SERGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



358 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Budget Fuss; 
Is What's Good for Bush Also Good for the G.O.P.?

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WHEN NASA announced last week that it was moving millions of dollars of space shuttle work and hundreds of high-wage jobs from California to Florida, federal officials explained that they were taking the most efficient course to cut expenses at the space agency. Yet there was another, unspoken, explanation: the election of 2004. Since Florida was the most contested state in the 2000 election, White House officials are already doing all they can to shore up support there for 2004.
 By contrast, President Bush lost California, and his political advisers see it as a long shot for 2004. So why not boost central Florida's flagging economy -- as well as Mr. Bush's political fortunes in the state? That philosophy makes little sense to the Republican congressman from the California district slated to lose the NASA jobs, Howard P. (Buck) McKeon, who faces re-election in November and called it "penny-wise but pound foolish." 
 For all the gamesmanship over the budget Mr. Bush proposed last week, the most intense struggle is between the politics of the 2002 and 2004 elections. No one should question that the president's priority is assuring his own re-election. That imperative infuses every move of his administration -- from the fine print of the budget to his utterances in the State of the Union address. If he can help Republicans in November, all the better. 
Mr. Bush's aides say he is determined not to repeat the miscalculation of his father, who did not focus on his re-election until it was too late. But the result might differ starkly from the nearer-term objective of Republicans in Congress: to win in 2002.
It is in Mr. Bush's interest, of course, not to jeopardize his party's drive to win back the Senate and retain control of the House. But, inevitably, the president's interests are bound to collide with others in his party.
THE budget is Exhibit No. 1. Given the terrorist attacks, Republicans have not dared question Mr. Bush's emphasis on military spending. But the focus on the military also enhances Mr. Bush's most politically impregnable role: as the endlessly mobilized commander in chief who pledged to stake his presidency on rooting out terrorists. "If this were a budget for '02, it would look at lot different than it does," said Charles Cook, who publishes a nonpartisan newsletter on congressional elections. "There aren't a lot of gravy train items in this budget."
Indeed, many Republicans insist that if he were on the ballot in November, Mr. Bush would not have included such an array of cuts in domestic programs to pay for the military buildup and for his tax cuts. But Republicans find they have competing interests even among themselves. Despite their party's rallying cry of fiscal restraint, many are distressed that Mr. Bush's proposals to cut members' domestic projects will imperil them in November.
Other Republicans, like Representative Tom Delay, the House majority whip, argue that Mr. Bush should balance the budget -- and not endanger lawmakers who based their elections on fiscal discipline and preserving the Social Security surplus. Mr. Delay, for one, vigorously resisted the administration's budget, telling White House officials that he does not want his congressional incumbents to become identified with a budget that calls for deficit spending. (Mr. Delay knows he has little chance of convincing the White House to balance the budget, but he wants to demonstrate to conservatives that at least he tried.)
THE administration's focus on 2004 is apparent in more than just the budget. It is no accident that the president's travels this year have followed the map of states that top the Bush target list for winning in 2004, particularly Florida and Pennsylvania. That also helps explain why his advisers sometimes seem more focused on electing Republican governors rather than members of Congress in states like Florida, Illinois and Michigan: they could help him immensely in 2004.
"Their priority is to protect the president," Representative Tom Davis of Virginia, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said of the White House. "But that's not all bad." If Mr. Bush stays popular, Mr. Davis said, it can only help Republicans this year.
Tom Cole, a former chief of staff to the Republican National Committee, was more blunt. "It's not going to help the White House to get their brains beat out in 2002," he said. "I doubt that they're going to do anything that seriously or consciously puts the House in jeopardy."
But in private conversations, officials at the White House and at the Republican Party often seem more attuned to the politics of 2004 than 2002. Some even suggest that it would be futile to fret about November. They say the best thing they can do for the party is to keep Mr. Bush's popularity above 80 percent. "Their focus is almost exclusively on Bush," said one outside adviser to the White House. "They feel almost powerless in the midterms; it's like, we could win a few, we could lose a few."
Republicans who face the voters in November do not see it that way. The competing interests between the White House and members of Congress flared to the surface last week when Representative Bill Young, a Florida Republican, the chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, complained to Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the White House budget chief, that the administration was depriving members of pet projects for their districts.
"All wisdom on the allocation of federal grant funding does not reside in the executive branch," Mr. Young wrote in a letter to Mr. Daniels. "Members know the needs of their districts better than civil servants working in Washington, D.C."
Another example of the tension between 2002 and 2004 is in the firestorm over Mr. Bush's pledge to provide $20 billion for rebuilding New York. For all the sympathy for New York and the terrorist attacks, some Republicans had argued against full funding, noting that New York is about the last state Mr. Bush could win in 2004. Early last week, Mr. Daniels even derided the lobbying for money from New York Democrats, calling it "a money-grubbing game."
But Mr. Bush reversed course and assured New York it would get its full funding (though it still does not actually exist in the budget). Some advisers said Mr. Bush, besides truly believing New York deserved the money, wanted to tamp down the controversy over Mr. Daniels' infelicitous remarks. Others said there was a 2004 motive in helping New York. If he brushed off New York, that could spill over and also hurt him in states like New Jersey and Connecticut, which are more apt to vote Republican.
The White House focus on 2004 was also apparent in the way the administration leaked sections of its budget before the actual document was announced on Monday. In the run-up to the announcement, officials highlighted portions of the budget that appeal to constituencies that Mr. Bush wants to win over in 2004. They also pointed to a host of provisions that would make the case that Mr. Bush is a "compassionate conservative."
There was a measure to give food vouchers and nutrition counseling to more lower-income women and young children each month; millions more to strengthen black and Hispanic colleges; millions to help low-income families pay for their next home, and millions to provide prescription drug benefits to the elderly.
But while Democrats squawked that these proposals were mere window dressing, many Republicans squawked just as loudly that their biggest concern was here and now. Even Republicans who pride themselves on balanced budgets are seeking to protect their domestic projects back home on everything from education proposals to rural programs to highway funds to health care for veterans.
An example of the strains between the White House and congressional Republicans is on Social Security. Representative Davis pleaded with the administration not to submit to Congress a measure to overhaul and partly privatize Social Security, warning that Democrats have "chopped our people to pieces" when Republicans have dared to try to tinker with Social Security. Heeding such worries, the White House did decide to put off pressing legislation on Social Security.
BUT the congressional side did not win a complete victory. In his State of the Union address, Mr. Bush still mentioned his desire to overhaul Social Security, which gives Democrats ammunition to make it an issue in the fall.
Yet, as exercised as everyone has become over the budget, this much is important to remember: It is far more a political document of the president's priorities and political positioning than a road map of how federal dollars will be allocated. The White House -- and the Democrats -- know that many of the proposed domestic cuts will never be made.
That is why Representative Todd Tiahrt, a Kansas Republican, hardly seemed alarmed about the proposed cut of a popular education project in his district. In fact, he said, "I'm pretty pleased with the president's budget." He knows his project will survive.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Happy trails: Watching the Discovery lift off from Cape Canaveral. The Bush administration said that to save money it would shift space shuttle contracts from California to Florida, the most tightly contested state in the 2000 presidential election. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SPACE INDUSTRY (73%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (67%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (66%); COUNTERTERRORISM (61%); TERRORISM (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (61%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTIONS; SPACE; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; SPACE SHUTTLE 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (84%) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION; NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA; FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



359 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: How Will Washington Read the Signs?; 
Greater Authority for the S.E.C.

BYLINE:  By Stephen Labaton 

 BODY:
The S.E.C. will be the locus of many changes, starting with the choice of four new commissioners to join the chairman, Mr. Pitt. The new political climate has significantly widened their agenda.
 "The commission has been stood on its head," said Patrick McGurn, director of corporate programs at Institutional Shareholder Services, which advises large investors. "It's going to be subject to much more scrutiny." 
 In addition, President Bush has named an advisory group, which includes Mr. Pitt, Mr. O'Neill and the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, to study several options. Many of its recommendations could affect the commission. Even before Enron became a household name, Mr. Pitt had begun to review the agency's financial disclosure regulations. He has said they too often encourage opaque reporting by companies more interested in avoiding liability than in enlightening investors. 
Commission officials are preparing to suggest new legislation to give them greater authority to suspend or bar unethical executives and directors from serving at public companies. Mr. Pitt has also endorsed in principle a proposal by Senator Jean Carnahan, Democrat of Missouri, to require prompt electronic disclosures of stock trades by senior executives. And Mr. Pitt is preparing new rules to enable executives to share the information they receive about future industry trends, although investor groups have said they fear that the proposals may insulate executives from any consequences of misleading projections.
The agency must also battle heavy turnover. It has struggled to recruit and keep top-quality lawyers, who can earn far more in the private sector.
Although Mr. Bush has said he will seek tougher disclosures and penalties, his proposed budget has left critics wondering how committed he is to more stringent enforcement. Congress adopted a measure last year to pay S.E.C. prosecutors the same as bank regulators, but Mr. Bush's budget provides a raise that barely exceeds inflation.
"This is a paltry increase," said Representative John J. LaFalce of New York, the ranking Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee. 
White House officials say that with a budget deficit and other pressing programs, they can afford to spend no more on enforcement. Stephen Labaton

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BUSINESS ETHICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); ETHICS (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); BONDS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%) STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER SERVICES (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); RUSS CARNAHAN (57%) LABATON, STEPHEN; PITT, HARVEY L (CHMN); O'NEILL, PAUL; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



360 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE AFGHAN-AMERICANS; 
Exiles, Torn Between Countries, Want to Help Rebuild Afghanistan

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va. 

 BODY:
When she was growing up in a southern province of Afghanistan, Sheila Jahan said, her mother implored her to become a doctor. Today, Dr. Jahan, 42, is a busy neurologist in this suburb of Washington. She wears elegant clothes, drives a Mercedes and sends her 14-year-old daughter to a private school. From the outside looking in, her life appears perfect.
 The tears in Dr. Jahan's round dark eyes suggest otherwise. As she watches her homeland emerge from two decades of war, she is caught in a tangle of emotions. She is joyful, at the sight of the Afghan flag, a banner that has not been used for nearly 30 years, rising over the reopened embassy in Washington. She is sad that her parents did not live to see this day. She is bursting with pride and love for Hamid Karzai, Afghanistan's interim leader, whom she praised as "like a brother, a father whom I know is not lying," after hearing him speak during his recent visit to the United States. 
 But most of all, Dr. Jahan is yearning to go home. 
"I am torn between two countries," she said the other day, kneading a damp tissue between her fingers as she spoke. "My plan is to have a clinic, to go for one month, then come back for three months here. It is my duty. I have to go."
As Mr. Karzai sets about rebuilding his tattered nation, countless Afghan-American professionals are heeding his call for help.
A conference on Afghanistan reconstruction was held at the Hilton hotel here in conjunction with the Karzai visit. Several hundred engineers, computer experts, businessmen, educators and doctors, including Dr. Jahan, turned out to hear Mr. Karzai speak. Later, in small working groups, they plotted how to reverse what Haron Amin, the new charge d'affaires at the Afghan Embassy in Washington, calls Afghanistan's "brain drain."
As Afghanistan's elite, these professionals are, in Dr. Jahan's words, "the privileged ones." Some are retired, nearing the end of their careers. Others are in their 20's and, having left Afghanistan as toddlers, barely remember their home country. Despite jobs and mortgages and commitments here, they are determined to help rebuild Afghanistan, physically and intellectually.
"There are legions, ready to march," said Don Ritter, a former Republican congressman from Pennsylvania who leads the board of the Afghanistan America Foundation, a nonprofit organization that opened an office in Kabul last month and is working to connect Afghan-Americans with rebuilding projects. "These people are almost obsessed with moving back, in waves of talent, with their skills -- business, entrepreneurial, educational, medical."
Afghanistan's needs now are very basic, things most Americans take for granted. One businessman, M. Z. Ghaznawi, said he wanted to go back and build glass factories so people could have proper windows.
"Without glass, how can we live during the cold time?" he asked.
Still, obstacles to returning remain. Security is a big issue; no one wants to return if it is not safe. There is the matter of dual citizenship; many Afghan-Americans say they would like to be able to travel with Afghan passports and vote when Afghanistan has elections.
Finances, too, will play a role. Some young Afghan-Americans are proposing that Congress make it easier for them to help in the reconstruction by forgiving their student loans.
"It will be a rough start, but I think within the next six weeks to two months, we will be able to repatriate some," Mr. Amin said. "But it will not be an easy task."
The Census Bureau estimates that 25,000 to 51,000 people of Afghan ancestry live in the United States, but Afghan-American groups put the figure at 150,000. They are concentrated in pockets of California and New York and in the Washington area.
This small slice of immigrant America has long felt invisible. For years, Afghan-Americans have watched, brokenhearted, as their homeland has sunk deeper into despair, abandoned by the world. 
"We cried and we cried and we cried," said Weis Sherdel, 28, a systems analyst, "and nobody heard our voices."
Some remain bitter. But with the international spotlight now shining on their country, most Afghan-Americans are looking forward, not back.
"We've been in the desert for so long, and are so thirsty," said Zalmi Niayz, the owner of Creative Contractors and Remodeling in Annandale, Va. "We finally see water."
Mr. Niayz, a burly man with an easy smile, left Afghanistan when he was 16. He is now 46. He attended high school in Northern Virginia and college at the University of Arkansas, and he says he feels comfortably American. "I have Afghan values," he said, "but I dream in English."
Those dreams include reclaiming his family's house. The house, a large three-story building in the nicest section of Kabul, is still standing, Mr. Niayz said. It has been occupied by Taliban soldiers in recent years and, since the new government took over, by the Northern Alliance. Mr. Niayz has the deed, now worn and faded.
Recently, Mr. Niayz formed a nonprofit organization, the Afghan Reconstruction Association, so he could bid on building projects. He has drafted a 200-page report, "A Vision for Developing a 21st Century Afghanistan," which he shared with Mr. Karzai and members of his cabinet. He also told them about the deed, and asked how he could get his house back. He said it was his dream to house charity workers in it and to live there when he was in Kabul. "My heart," he said, "belongs home."
For young people, the draw to return seems especially strong. Many watched their parents abandon houses and careers to take menial jobs, driving taxis or delivering pizza, in the United States.
Most of the young people have worked hard, too. Mr. Sherdel lived through 10 years of war in Afghanistan and arrived in the United States when he was 14. He supported his family by working at a Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurant when he was in high school, and he attended the University of Virginia after graduating fourth in his class. For him, and for others, to go back would be to realize a long-held family dream.
"I remember my father, when the summers would be 100 degrees he would be outside laying tar," said Nadia Aman, 25, a systems analyst in Springfield, Va. Her father was a high official in the Afghan finance ministry in the 1970's. "For over 10 years, we didn't buy a house because there was always talk of going back," Ms. Aman said.
Some can capitalize on their family names. Mr. Sherdel is the grandson of a former mayor of Kandahar. Mr. Niayz, the contractor, is the son of a prominent factory owner. Raihana Rasouli, 28, the executive director of the Afghanistan America Foundation, is the granddaughter of a former mayor of Kabul. Two years ago, she founded her own group, Afghans 4 Tomorrow.
"We have no funds, no grants; for two years we have been doing this from our own pockets," Ms. Rasouli said. Her brother, 23, is in Afghanistan assessing the country's needs, and she plans a trip in March. "You have to go there and feel the people, feel the land, see the land," she said.
As Afghan-Americans organize financially, they are also organizing politically.
Among their leaders is Waheed Momand, 52, a biomedical engineer who left Afghanistan in 1982, three years after the Soviet invasion. Among Afghans' tales, his is familiar. He and his wife trekked through the mountains to Pakistan, mostly on foot. They lived there as refugees, then made their way to Germany, to be reunited with their daughter, who had been sent to live with grandparents. Today, the family lives in Northern California, where Dr. Momand is president of an umbrella organization, the Afghan Coalition.
Until Sept. 11, groups like Dr. Momand's concentrated on social and cultural matters and helping Afghan immigrants. More recently, they have been electing delegates to represent them in dealings with the United States and the new government in Afghanistan. The Northern California election was on Jan. 6.
"This was really the first democratic election ever held in any Afghan community in more than 30 years," Dr. Momand said. "That was really an historic thing."
Despite the determination of Dr. Momand and others to return, it is unlikely that many Afghan-American professionals will move home for good. Some of the young ones, like Mr. Sherdel and Ms. Aman, support their parents financially and are not free to leave. The older ones have children to worry about.
Dr. Jahan said she was investigating boarding school in the United States for her daughter. Asked if the separation would be difficult, she recalled a conversation with her own mother, who died in India a year after the family left Afghanistan.
"I said, 'Mommy, how could you love your country so much you would die for it?' She laughed at me. She said, 'You are too young to understand that your duty is to your country.' Now I understand."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Zalmi Niayz, a contractor in Annandale, Va., with the deed to his family's Kabul house, which he hopes to reclaim for charity workers.; Dr. Sheila Jahan, a neurologist, said: "My plan is to have a clinic, to go for one month, then come back for three months here. It is my duty." (Photographs by Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (88%); HIJACKING (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CHILDREN (76%); TERRORISM (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); GLASS MFG (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; AFGHAN-AMERICANS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%) STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY; KARZAI, HAMID 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



361 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-18

Indignity Joins Poverty In Fast-Growing Bombay
For Bombay, India's financial capital and symbol of the country's ambition, supporting the basic human needs of its citizens is a challenge of mammoth proportions. 3

New U.S. Focus on Somalia
Since Sept. 11, the United States has renewed its interest in the fractured nation, believing it may become a hiding place for Osama bin Laden or a terrorist refuge. 4

No New Aid For Argentina
World finance ministers said they were not prepared to support fresh aid for Argentina until its new government comes up with a realistic way of stemming financial panic. 11

NATION CHALLENGED 14-16

Afghan Civilian Deaths Leave Families With Doubts
Perhaps thousands of innocent Afghans have lost their lives during American attacks -- including a raid last month under Pentagon investigation in which at least 21 suspected Taliban or Al Qaeda fighters died. The scattering of bodies is almost impossible to tabulate, and many Afghan families demand a reckoning. 1

Welcome Test for Kabul Women
Female students joined their male counterparts in taking the entrance exam at Kabul University for the first time in five years. 14

Help from Afghan-Americans
Afghan-American professionals are heeding a call for help from Hamid Karzai, the interim Afghanistan leader, hoping to lend their expertise in rebuilding the tattered nation. 15

NATIONAL 20-30

Poultry Industry Cuts Back Its Use of Antibiotics
The poultry industry has begun to bow to the demands of public health and consumer groups by greatly reducing the antibiotics that are fed to healthy chickens. Companies have long justified the use of antibiotics because it prevents infection in chickens and promotes their growth. Opponents say the practice contributes to a much larger public health problem: the growing resistance to antibiotics of disease-causing bacteria in humans. 1

Two Tales of Enron
Investigators are gaining a clearer picture of what happened to Enron in the 11 months before its collapse. It is two different tales -- the public image of an innovative powerhouse and the hidden truth of a company plagued by secret financial troubles. 1

Voucher Plan to Be Tested
A voucher program in Ohio intended to help thousands of pupils flee failing public schools will be taken up by the United States Supreme Court this month. 1

Farm Pollution Faces Scrutiny
Metropolitan water agencies are battling increasing pollution from farms, which send fertilizers and animal wastes into rivers and groundwater. 20

An Athlete's Troubles
Olga Korbut, who found celebrity in the 1970's as an Olympic athlete, has had a hard landing in the years that followed. 20

Town a Big Source of Drug
A doctor in Grover, N.C., has been accused of prescribing the painkiller Oxycontin to patients who abused or resold the drug. 22

NEW YORK/REGION 33-36

City Hall Seeks Refinancing To Reduce Debt Payments
New York City officials want to take advantage of low interest rates to refinance some of the city's $40.8 billion in outstanding debt. The city, by some estimates, could save as much as $200 million by selling new bonds with lower interest rates to pay off the city's old high-interest bonds. 35

SPORTSSUNDAY SP1-15

World Record Set at Olympics
Jochem Uytdehaage of the Netherlands captured the gold medal in men's 5,000 meter speedskating, breaking the world record set earlier in the event by Derek Parra, who won the silver. SP1

Kari Traa of Norway dominated the women's moguls competition, easily winning the gold medal. SP8

OBITUARIES 38-39

Princess Margaret
The younger sister of Queen Elizabeth II, whose troubled private life aroused worldwide sympathy, she was 71. 38

James Blackwood
The last surviving founding member of the famed Blackwood Brothers gospel quartet, he was 82. 39

Chess 37
Weather 40
Cong. Vote 34

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); POULTRY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (87%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (86%); WATER POLLUTION (85%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TALIBAN (76%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); ACADEMIC TESTING (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); BACTERIA (69%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (69%); ANIMALS (67%); AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (64%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (64%); CELEBRITIES (63%); OLYMPICS (60%); FERTILIZERS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (50%) JEWELS AND JEWELRY; CORRECTION STORIES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (71%); HAMAD KARZAI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (94%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



362 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Hearing One Tree; 
Never Have So Many Missed the Forest

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE biggest news out of 10 Congressional hearings on Enron last week was the claim on Thursday -- sharply contradicted by others -- by Jeffrey K. Skilling, the company's former chief executive, that he had known nothing about the company's questionable partnerships.
 But the biggest idea probably came Wednesday, when Senator Tom Daschle, the majority leader, said that Congress should reach beyond the Enron case itself to see if the apparent sins of Enron and its auditor-enabler, Arthur Andersen, were widespread in American business. "It would be very helpful for the Congress to broaden its inquiry to determine how pervasive these practices actually are," he said. 
 Right now, Congressional committees are chasing the scandal and the television lights like 7-year-old soccer players all flocking to the ball. At last count there were 13 committees and subcommittees at work on Enron. Tom Mann, a Congressional scholar at the Brookings Institution, said never before had as many committees jumped at an issue at once. 
That is especially unusual because this is not a typical topic for a Capitol Hill probe. Congress has always been, according to Joel Silbey, a Cornell historian, "much more willing to investigate political corruption than economic corruption."
The executive branch has been Congress's primary investigative target, from the first inquiry, the 1792 House probe of the military disaster that befell the St. Clair expedition in Ohio, through Watergate and Iran-contra. Government corruption by private interests has been another favored topic, in the Credit Mobilier and Teapot Dome scandals in particular.
But much as Democrats hope that the connections between Enron leaders (and their money) to the Bush administration might produce evidence of that kind of corruption, this case may be more like another, rarer sort of inquiry -- an investigation of a serious problem in the economy in which the government is not involved, but perhaps should be.
As Professor Joel D. Aberbach, a U.C.L.A. political scientist and a student of Congressional investigations, suggests, the questionable Enron-Andersen relationship "touches on some fundamental issues about the free enterprise system," especially the trust investors can place in audits.
The concern is not just academic. Two-thirds of the American public, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News Polland another by ABC News, say they believe that Enron's accounting problems are widespread among American corporations. Stock market jitters suggested similar fears on Wall Street last week.
The most striking past investigations of business were the "money trust" probe in 1912 and 1913 (also known by the name of its chairman, Representative Arsene P. Pujo, a Louisiana Democrat) and the stock market investigation of 1932 to 1934 (unique among Congressional probes because it is not named after a chairman, but after its chief counsel, Ferdinand Pecora).
The evidence of bankers' collaboration and control of the economy from the Pujo investigation shaped the Federal Reserve Act. The revelations of Wall Street double-dealing by the Pecora probe in the Senate banking committee led to the Securities Exchange Act -- and the Securities and Exchange Commission, whose approach to accounting is now under heavy criticism.
But despite Mr. Daschle's suggestion, and requests by a handful of senators for a single select committee to look into the subject, one big investigation seems unlikely, even in the Senate. It's almost too late already. Senator Edward M. Kennedy said last week that "a lot of the committees are well down the road already," with subpoenas served, documents in hand and hearings planned. It's almost unheard of for a chairman to give up a piece of a high-profile inquiry that may make the evening news. Mr. Daschle will settle for efforts to coordinate the probes.
Another reason for not having one special committee do it all is timing. It would take weeks at least -- on the unrealistic assumption that both parties worked together -- to establish one.
SO will Congress answer the question of whether Enron's problems are, in fact, widespread? Representative James C. Greenwood, the Pennsylvania Republican who heads the House commerce committee's investigative subcommittee, says he doubts that the sins are commonplace. "This hasn't been a 'here we go again' experience," he said. "This is different and rotten and unbelievable. That makes me think this is rare." Mr. Greenwood acknowledged the countervailing "cockroach theory -- if you see one cockroach going across the floor, there's a pretty good chance there are others behind the baseboard." But he said he doubted that his subcommittee would "start calling in other companies and ask them whether they do this."
In the Senate, the most comprehensive probe will probably come from the banking committee's examination of accounting and auditing standards and practices, on the theory that investors and the public should be able to depend on audits to prevent or expose sleazy practices. Senator Paul S. Sarbanes of Maryland, the chairman, said, "It's going to deal with accounting standards, oversight, public disclosure of financial devices, auditor independence, all the things relating to investor protection and corporate responsibility."
He said he was not sure whether big accounting firms would be called to testify. With witnesses from Enron unlikely to be called, there will not be the constant headlines Mr. Pecora produced when he questioned famous financiers like J. P. Morgan Jr. "Careful analytical examination," in the chairman's phrase, does not draw television cameras.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the lasting effects of Congressional investigations referred incorrectly to the House testimony of Jeffrey B. Skilling, a former chief executive of Enron. He said he had not known that partnerships with the company were improperly used to hide losses. He did not say he knew nothing about the partnerships.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey K. Skilling, center, the former Enron president, before testifying to Congress. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CORRUPTION (88%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); HISTORY (71%); ETHICS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); ATHLETES (54%); SOCCER (54%) BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ETHICS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%) ENRON CORP; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (71%) SKILLING, JEFFREY K; CLYMER, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



363 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 6460 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: The Company Unravels; 
Enron Buffed Image to a Shine Even as It Rotted From Within

BYLINE:  By KURT EICHENWALD with DIANA B. HENRIQUES; Jeff Gerth, Richard A. Oppel Jr., Richard W. Stevenson, and Don Van Natta Jr. also contributed to this article.

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Kenneth L. Lay strode onto a ballroom stage at the Hyatt Regency Hill Country Resort in San Antonio, walking between two giant screens that displayed his projected image. Before him, bright light from the ballroom's chandeliers spilled across scores of round tables where executives from the Enron Corporation waited to hear the words of Mr. Lay, their longtime chairman and chief executive.
 This meeting of hundreds of Enron executives in the first week of January 2001 was a time of revelry, a chance to celebrate a year when business seemed good -- even better than good. At night, according to executives who attended, Champagne and liquor flowed from the open bar, while fistfuls of free cigars were available for the taking. Executives could belly up to temporary gambling tables for high-stakes games of poker. Others found their excitement in the company-sponsored car race; one executive had even hired a truck to transport his three Ferraris from Houston for the event. 
 Now, as waiters wearing bolo ties scurried about, the executives listened eagerly to Mr. Lay's descriptions of Enron's recent year of success, and the new successes that were within reach. Already, Enron was near the top of the Fortune 500, a multibillion-dollar behemoth that had moved beyond its roots in the natural gas business to blaze new trails in Internet commerce. For 2001, Mr. Lay said, the company would take on a new mission, one that would define everything it did in the months to come: Enron would become "the world's greatest company." The words replaced his image on one of the screens.
But it was not to be. For, unknown to almost everyone there, Enron was secretly falling apart. Even as the celebrations unfolded, accountants and trading experts at the company's Houston headquarters were desperately working to contain a financial disaster, one that threatened -- and ultimately would destroy -- everything Enron had become. A handful of executives were struggling to sound the alarm, but with Enron's confidence in its destiny, the warnings went unheeded.
"We were so sure of what we were doing and where we were going," one executive who attended the San Antonio meeting said. "We didn't know we were living on borrowed time."
Investigators picking through the wreckage of Enron, seeking to understand what caused its collapse in December, have explored its byzantine partnerships and financial strategies. From these details, a clearer picture has begun to emerge about what happened inside the thick walls of Enron during its last 11 months. It is two completely different tales -- the public image, polished by its most senior officers, of an innovative powerhouse on the verge of reshaping the world, and the hidden truth of a company plagued by secrets, whose executives were struggling to hold it together. It was like a gleaming ocean liner seemingly powering forward, its passengers dining in luxury, while, below the waterline, its sweaty crew frantically bails against the force of an in-rushing sea.
By the final days, the sea had won. Attempts by Enron executives to seek a rescue from their powerful friends in Washington and last-ditch efforts to save the company through a merger had ended in failure. When the company finally sought bankruptcy protection, it marked the biggest, fastest corporate collapse in American history.
Details of Enron's last year were pieced together from internal records of the company and its auditor, audio and video tapes, court documents, partnership records, Congressional testimony and information from a report by a special committee of the company's board and from interviews with current and former executives, government officials and lawyers involved in the case.
With the speed in which they traveled from confidence to collapse, executives who once thought they could see their futures clearly and who believed in their employer have found their faith fundamentally shaken. "Given the events at Enron, given the short time period in which it happened, given the economic disaster, it fundamentally challenges everything I think about the way companies work," said Allan Sommer, former vice president for corporate systems at Enron. "If Enron was able to hide this the way they did, why couldn't other companies do it, too?"

Riding High
Power on Parade At Bush Inauguration
As a chilly rain soaked the streets of Washington on Jan. 20, 2001, the motorcade of President George W. Bush moved past the reviewing stand, near where he had just taken the oath of office. As the new president headed toward Pennsylvania Avenue, the cheers of supporters mixed gamely with the boos of protesters, an aural reminder of the divisions that had split the country during one of its most disputed elections ever.
Nearby, in the exclusive "Pioneers" box on the parade route, Ken Lay watched the festivities. He was there amidst an elite group of about 200 men and women who had each raised $100,000 for Mr. Bush's campaign. Nearby, other Enron executives watched the parade from the elegant Willard hotel and office complex, two blocks from the White House, where the company's law firm, Vinson & Elkins, has its Washington office.
It had been a weekend to savor. Enron and its top two executives had kicked in $300,000 for the inauguration, and the company was one of the few to donate $50,000 for the Texas State Society's 2001 Black Tie and Boots Inaugural Ball, where Mr. Bush and the first lady stopped by to salute their Texan friends, including Mr. Lay.
The day after the inauguration, Mr. Lay attended a private luncheon at the White House, where he was able to spend a few minutes with the new president, a luncheon guest said. That night, Enron hosted a private dinner for several congressmen. Mr. Lay did not attend, but his second in command, Jeffrey K. Skilling, did.
Enron's sharp elbows had already been noticed in Washington. Curtis L. Hebert Jr., then chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, had gotten a call from Mr. Lay early in the year. As Mr. Hebert recalled the incident, Mr. Lay said that Enron would continue to support him in his new job if he dropped his reservations about electricity deregulation. Mr. Hebert said he had refused. In an interview earlier this year, Mr. Lay remembered the events differently, saying that Mr. Hebert sought Enron's support at the White House. Either way, the message was clear: Enron, a generous contributor to the Bush campaign, would use its White House access to advance its interests.
Its power base in Houston seemed secure. Its stock price was hovering around $80 a share -- not its high, but not far from it. And on Feb. 5, scores of special bonus checks were cut for Enron executives, who would collect tens of millions of dollars because of the company's strong reported profits.
The mood that same day was far less jubilant in the nearby offices of Arthur Andersen, Enron's outside accounting firm. There, David B. Duncan and Thomas H. Bauer -- two of the firm's lead accountants on the Enron account -- joined a group of six colleagues in a conference room for a meeting. Six more Andersen executives were patched in by speakerphone.
For a significant amount of time, according to notes of the meeting, the Andersen accountants debated a critical point: What should they do about two partnerships -- called LJM1 and LJM2 -- that had been set up 18 months earlier by Enron's chief financial officer, Andrew S. Fastow? 
Since mid-1999, Enron had engaged in a score of transactions with the Fastow partnerships. It sold the LJM1 partnership a stake in a Brazilian power project and, later, purchased it back. It sold the same partnership a stake in any future gains on one of its technology investments, a complex arrangement that allowed it to report a paper profit on the deal.
On its face, this arrangement partly reflected a common financing technique: decreasing the company's risk by moving its holdings into separate partnerships that could be sold to outside investors more willing to assume those risks. And Enron's board, which had approved Mr. Fastow's dual role in 1999, had ordered that top management -- Richard A. Causey, the chief accounting officer; Richard B. Buy, the chief risk officer; and Mr. Skilling -- carefully monitor these deals.
Later, the board's special investigators concluded that these partnerships, and others they spawned, had been twisted at Enron into a tool for making the company seem far more profitable that it really was.
If those allegations are true, there is no sign from the notes of the Feb. 5 meeting at Andersen's Houston office that anyone there knew it. Still, the accountants seemed uncomfortable with the LJM arrangement. To solve that, they drew up a "to do" list, which included suggesting that a special committee of the Enron board be set up to review the fairness of the LJM deals, according to the notes. They also decided to make sure with Enron that LJM met accounting tests that allowed it to be treated as a separate entity, rather than as a subsidiary whose financial results would have to be shown on Enron's books.
The opportunity to cross to-do's off the list came just one week later, on Feb. 12. That day, the Enron board's audit and compliance committee held a meeting, and both Mr. Duncan and Mr. Bauer from Andersen attended. At one point, all Enron executives were excused from the room, and the two Andersen accountants were asked by directors if they had any concerns they wished to express, documents show.
Subsequent testimony by board members suggests the accountants raised nothing from their to-do list. "There is no evidence of any discussion by either Andersen representative about the problems or concerns they apparently had discussed internally just one week earlier," said the special committee report released last weekend.
That same day, though, Enron's board approved a big decision: Mr. Skilling, long the second in command at Enron, would be taking over as chief executive. Mr. Lay would remain as chairman.
In stepping aside, Mr. Lay left to Mr. Skilling -- whose manner was seen by many as far more abrasive and abrupt -- the delicate task of explaining Enron to its critics. By the time Mr. Skilling was named chief executive, the company had become a lightning rod for political outrage over the electric power crisis in California, which was experiencing brownouts and price spikes. Enron's traders bought and sold electric power, and California utility officials were accusing it and other national power companies of manipulating that esoteric market to reap windfall profits at consumers' expense. Enron and other major trading companies denied the accusation, but there were demands for a full-scale investigation.
In late March, a television crew from "Frontline," the PBS news magazine, visited Enron's sleek office towers in Houston as they prepared a documentary on the power crisis. Mr. Skilling responded to the company's critics on camera. "We are doing the right thing," he said during an interview in a fishbowl room at the edge of Enron's busy trading floor, where traders were buying kilowatt-hours in one part of the country to sell at higher prices elsewhere. "We are looking to create open, competitive, fair markets. And in open, competitive, fair markets, prices are lower and customers get better service."
He added: "We are the good guys. We are on the side of the angels."
After the interview, as Mr. Skilling led the film crew out onto the trading floor, he was asked what his top priority would be as chief executive. His answer came lightning-fast: "To get the stock price up," he said.
Few people outside Enron knew how important that single goal was.

Seeking a Quick Fix
Struggling to Avoid Posting Huge Losses
What made Enron's stock price so important was the fact that some of the company's most important deals with the partnerships run by Mr. Fastow -- deals that had allowed Enron to keep hundreds of millions of dollars of potential losses off its books -- were financed, in effect, with Enron stock. Those transactions could fall apart if the stock price fell too far.
Indeed, Enron's contracts with some of these partnerships had provisions, called triggers, that required Enron's stock price to stay above certain specific levels. If it did not, and if Enron's own credit rating fell, Enron faced a variety of consequences, all of them damaging to its reported profits.
When Enron's stock was trading as high as $90, the stock prices attached to these triggers -- $57.78 a share in one case, $47 a share in another, $28 in a third -- no doubt seemed absurdly low. But as Enron's share price hovered around $70 a share in early March, the risk these trigger provisions would be activated grew. Enron's deals with a quartet of Fastow partnerships known as the Raptors -- deals that were keeping roughly $504 million in red ink off Enron's books -- were especially worrisome.
For months, Enron's accountants had been struggling to keep the Raptors afloat. Like many of the Fastow partnerships, they were financed, directly or indirectly, with Enron stock. They had been formed to assume the risks of future losses on Enron's portfolio of volatile technology stocks, so that Enron could erase those risks from its own financial statements.
But under accounting rules, Enron could only keep those losses off its books if the Raptors remained financially healthy enough to fulfill their obligations. As the Nasdaq boom in technology stocks fizzled, the losses that the Raptors had promised to cover were ballooning. At the same time, Enron's stock was falling in value, reducing the Raptors' ability to cover those losses. The Raptor structure was in peril, and if it failed, Enron would have had to accept that $504 million write-off.
One reason the Raptors were so shaky may have been the fact that, according to the board report, they had already paid out more than $160 million to Mr. Fastow's LJM partnerships, whose investors included Merrill Lynch, J. P. Morgan Chase, Citigroup, the MacArthur Foundation and the Arkansas Teacher Retirement System.
As the March deadline for financial reporting approached, and as Enron's stock continued a slide that brought it below $60 a share, the company's financial experts struggled to find a way to make the Raptors strong enough to meet the accounting tests that allowed Enron to avoid reporting the gargantuan losses. According to the board committee's report, senior Enron employees said Mr. Skilling was "intensely interested" in the Raptor credit problems and called resolving them "one of the company's highest priorities." Mr. Skilling disputes that account, insisting that he was only vaguely aware of the credit problems.
Finally, on March 26, just days before the end of the first quarter, the accountants found a way to refinance the Raptors, using a series of complex and fragile transactions that were still vulnerable to further declines in Enron's stock price. The accountants and financial officers celebrated their ingenuity, according to the board report. But they had merely put off the inevitable.
"Especially after the restructuring," the report says, "the Raptors were little more than a highly complex accounting construct that was destined to collapse."
But while this frantic rescue effort was under way, Enron executives put the final touches on a separate deal that allowed some of them to get millions. The same day the Raptor deal was completed, Enron did another deal, this one with a supposedly unrelated partnership named Chewco.
Chewco owned a stake in yet a third Enron-linked partnership, called JEDI, and wanted to sell that stake to Enron. Enron agreed to buy it for $35 million. What few inside Enron -- and almost no one outside Enron -- knew was that Chewco was actually controlled by Michael J. Kopper, a managing director on Mr. Fastow's staff. After all the debts and fees were settled, Mr. Kopper and his domestic partner, William D. Dodson, had gotten about $10 million from their Chewco investment, according to the board's report. Neither Mr. Kopper nor Mr. Dodson have returned repeated telephone calls seeking comment.
Two weeks later, on April 17, Enron presented its first-quarter results to investors, and the company's executives were positively giddy. With the huge Raptor losses shuffled away, Enron reported $425 million in earnings, another banner quarter.
That day, the company set up a conference call with Wall Street analysts. As they waited on hold for the executives to come on the line, the analysts listened to faint music. Suddenly, an operator broke in, announcing the arrival of Enron's top brass.
"I hope you all heard that music that was on," Mr. Skilling announced, according to a tape recording of the conversation. "We're all dancing here. It's pretty good stuff."
For about 15 minutes, Mr. Skilling laid out the details of Enron's performance. Nothing was said by any of the Enron executives about the Raptors, the single most important transaction in the quarter.
"So in conclusion, first-quarter results were great," Mr. Skilling said. "We are very optimistic about our new businesses and are confident that our record of growth is sustainable for many years to come."
With that, the executives opened the call for questions. When asked about reserves the company had for its exposure in California -- where the state's biggest utility, Pacific Gas and Electric, had filed for bankruptcy protection in the wake of the power crises there -- Mr. Skilling almost bristled. Enron had been in the business for 10 years, he said; it analyzed the credit quality of every trading partner it had -- some 5,000 in total -- every day. There was no reason for anyone to worry about credit exposures; Enron knew everything it needed to know.
Later in the call, Richard Grubman from Highfields Capital Management was called on to speak. Mr. Grubman was not a booster of Enron stock -- indeed, he had made investments that would have allowed him to profit if the stock declined -- and he questioned why Enron did not release its balance sheet, listing its assets and liabilities, at the same time it reported its profits.
Mr. Skilling said that was not Enron's policy, but Mr. Grubman pressed the issue.
"You're the only financial institution that can't produce a balance sheet or a cash flow statement with their earnings," Mr. Grubman said, at last. 
Mr. Skilling paused. "Well, thank you very much," he said. "We appreciate it."
Then Mr. Skilling turned to his colleagues in Houston, and muttered a vulgarity. The group in Houston laughed; some of the analysts on the line, who had heard everything, were stunned.

Questions of Conflicts
A Corporate Lawyer Raises Red Flags
For Jordan Mintz, the 20th floor of Enron's Houston headquarters was a study in dysfunctionality. 
After 18 years as a tax attorney, Mr. Mintz had been delighted in October 2000, when he had been moved to that floor to work as a lawyer with Mr. Fastow's finance division. After two days of orientation, Mr. Mintz set to work, finding files upon files of documents detailing the transactions of the Fastow partnerships.
What he saw troubled him. Mr. Fastow was negotiating deals on behalf of the partnerships across the table from his own subordinates, who were representing Enron. Approval sheets for those deals had not been signed by Mr. Skilling, the chief operating officer, even though they all had a line for his signature. The whole situation seemed fraught with peril. 
Mr. Mintz sought out Mr. Causey, the chief accounting officer, and Mr. Buy, the chief risk officer. He told them he wanted to approach Mr. Skilling, now the chief executive, about the unsigned approval sheets, and also to make sure that he was still comfortable with Mr. Fastow's built-in conflicts.
Mr. Causey was blunt in his advice. "I wouldn't stick my neck out," he said, according to Mr. Mintz's Congressional testimony. Mr. Mintz interpreted that as a warning to avoid tangling with Mr. Skilling over the partnerships, he said.
Eventually, the three men agreed that Mr. Mintz should send a memo to Mr. Skilling, diplomatically raising his concerns. So, on May 22, Mr. Mintz wrote a confidential memo to the Enron chief executive saying he wanted to bring over the unsigned paperwork for Enron's deals with Mr. Fastow's partnerships during the previous year so that Mr. Skilling could sign them.
"To that end, I will arrange to get on your schedule to assist you in this regard," Mr. Mintz wrote. "Alternatively, I can send such approval sheets to you as a package and you can sign them at your convenience.
Mr. Skilling never responded, according to Mr. Mintz's testimony.
Increasingly worried, Mr. Mintz decided he needed an independent review of the partnership arrangements. So without informing his superiors, he retained, on behalf of the company, an outside law firm -- Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson from Washington -- to take a look. 
In June, he got his answer. The Fried, Frank lawyers raised some questions about the candor of the company's previous public descriptions of the arrangements and made some preliminary recommendations about how to handle such disclosures in the future if Mr. Fastow decided to sell his stake to Mr. Kopper, as he had indicated he might do. Comforted somewhat, Mr. Mintz hoped the sale to Mr. Kopper, which went through in July, would make life on the 20th floor a bit less difficult.
To the world outside the Enron tower, of course, the company seemed as powerful and fascinating as ever.
On June 12, Jeff Skilling was featured as the final speaker at the Strategic Directions technology conference in Las Vegas, where he planned to share his vision of how Enron was creating a robust trading market in cyberspace. The executive who introduced him noted that Enron was being hailed as "America's most innovative company" and that Mr. Skilling had been declared "the No. 1 C.E.O. in the entire country."
With that, a video tape shows, Mr. Skilling bounded onto the stage, tieless and in a sports coat. The Internet, he told the crowd, had barely begun to show its usefulness to business. American industry would be transformed by its prowess, and the future of Enron would be found there, he said. "We couldn't do what we're doing now without the technology of the Internet," he said.
After a lengthy speech, Mr. Skilling asked for questions from the assembled crowd. One of the last questioners asked Mr. Skilling for his thoughts about the power crisis in California, and what the state should have done differently to avoid its problems.
"Oh, I can't help myself," Mr. Skilling said, according to the tape. "You know what the difference is between the state of California and the Titanic?"
The crowd laughed appreciatively.
"I know I'm going to regret this," Mr. Skilling said, almost to himself. 
He looked back at the audience. "At least when the Titanic went down, the lights were on," he said.
State officials reacted in outrage when they heard of Mr. Skilling's jest, and the bad relations between California and Enron worsened. Nine days later, Mr. Skilling traveled to California, where a protester hit him in the face with a cream pie.
But that public pratfall was minor compared to the damage being inflicted on Enron's stock. By mid-June, its stock price had fallen below $50 a share, alarmingly close to those "trigger" prices that had once seemed so ludicrously remote. One trigger -- at $47 -- was embedded in the Raptor partnerships, which had been propped up so painstakingly in the spring. On Monday, July 23, Enron's stock closed at $46.66. It would never rise above $47 again.
As the stock price fell, the Fastow partnerships that had insulated Enron from losses for years came under increasing pressure, pressure that would ultimately send Enron into a death spiral.
By then, the world inside Enron would seem very different. On Aug. 14, stunning the market, Jeff Skilling announced he was resigning after just six months as chief executive, citing undisclosed personal reasons. He left assuring investors that the finances of Enron had never been better.

More Disturbing Questions
An Employee Worries If 'We Will Implode'
"Has Enron become a risky place to work? For those of us who didn't get rich over the last few years, can we afford to stay?"
The words almost leapt off the one-page, unsigned letter to Ken Lay. After Mr. Skilling's resignation, Mr. Lay had returned as chief executive and had been meeting with employees, encouraging them to write about their concerns anonymously.
But this letter was not some mundane complaint. The writer described in detail problems with Enron's partnerships, problems that the letter claimed would cause huge financial upheavals at the company in as little as a year. "I am incredibly nervous that we will implode in a wave of accounting scandals," the letter's author wrote. "Skilling is resigning for 'personal reasons,' but I think he wasn't having fun, looked down the road and knew this stuff was unfixable and would rather abandon ship now than resign in shame in two years."
Mr. Lay took a copy of the letter to James V. Derrick Jr., Enron's general counsel, who agreed it needed to be investigated. They decided to assign the task to Vinson & Elkins -- which had helped prepare some of the legal documents for some of the partnerships. Enron wanted answers fast, and told the outside lawyers not to spend time examining the accounting treatment recommended by Arthur Andersen -- although that was the heart of the letter's warnings.
The letter writer soon identified herself as Sherron S. Watkins, an accountant who had been laid off the previous spring, after eight years, and who had then been rehired in June to work for Mr. Fastow. Ms. Watkins and Mr. Lay made an appointment to talk on Aug. 22. Two days earlier, Ms. Watkins shared her worries with James A. Hecker, an Andersen accountant she knew.
"Sherron told me that she was concerned about the propriety of accounting for certain related-party transactions," Mr. Hecker wrote in a memo to the file the next day.
After Mr. Lay met with Ms. Watkins, Vinson & Elkins began its investigation. Lawyers from the firm interviewed Mr. Fastow, Mr. Duncan from Andersen, and other people involved in the transactions.
But even as the lawyers were poking through Mr. Fastow's department, his conflicted role in the partnerships continued to create friction. Mr. Kopper, who had sold his Chewco assets to Enron so profitably months before, was insisting that Enron cover the $2.6 million tax liability from the sale, according to the board committee report.
Mr. Fastow checked with Mr. Derrick, Enron's general counsel, and was told "unequivocally" that there was no basis for it to be made, according to the board's report. Nevertheless, Enron's treasury department received orders to cut the check. On Sept. 18, the $2.6 million was sent to Chewco.
"There is credible evidence that Fastow authorized the payment to Chewco," the special committee's report says, adding that the payment -- done against the explicit instructions of Enron's general counsel -- was "one of the most serious issues we identified in connection with the Chewco buyout."
Three days later, on Sept. 21, the Vinson & Elkins lawyers investigating Sherron Watkins' warnings reported their findings to Mr. Lay and Mr. Derrick. There was no reason for concern, the lawyers reported. Everything in Mr. Fastow's operation seemed to be on the level. They promised a written report in a matter of weeks.
By then, it would be too late.

The Deals Unravel
The News Gets Worse And Shares Plummet
By late September, Enron was essentially doomed, although it would be weeks before that reality sank in.
As most of the nation focused on the initial horror and the anguished aftermath of the September terrorist attacks, Mr. Lay was trying to reassure his own shaken work force, already stunned by Mr. Skilling's abrupt departure and their stock's continuing decline. In e-mail messages and conversations, he assured employees that Enron was strong and that its stock -- for many, the bedrock of their retirement plans -- would rebound.
But that optimistic prospect had actually evaporated, sometime during those weeks, when auditors from Andersen discovered a mistake they had made, more than a year earlier, in Enron's books. The way they accounted for the Enron shares that had been used to finance the Raptor partnerships had incorrectly added $1 billion to the assets on Enron's balance sheet. Correcting the mistake would reduce those assets by $1 billion.
By this point, Mr. Lay and his advisers had also decided to dismantle the Raptor arrangements. That meant that the investment losses kept at bay for so long would have to be reported to shareholders. It also meant that an additional $200 million would have to be trimmed from Enron's assets. 
On Oct. 15, Vinson & Elkins delivered its report saying that no further investigation into the partnerships was necessary. The next day, Enron announced it was deducting $1 billion from its third-quarter earnings, producing its its first quarterly loss in more than four years.
The next morning, the news for investors got even worse. The Wall Street Journal had reported that $35 million of Enron's losses were related to its dealings with two limited partnerships run by Mr. Fastow.
As one thread pulled away, the whole garment unraveled. The stock price, which had been in the low $30's, dropped to just above $20 a share on Monday, Oct. 22. During part of the price collapse, Enron employees with huge percentages of their retirement funds in Enron stock could not sell their shares because the company, coincidentally, was shifting the administration of its retirement plan. Employees' accounts were temporarily frozen.
With the market clamoring for action, on Oct. 24, Enron placed Mr. Fastow on leave. He would never return to the company.
The next day, Enron began casting about for a lifeline. Stanley Horton, the head of Enron's pipeline group, had lunch with Stephen W. Bergstrom, the president of a Houston rival, Dynegy Inc. Mr. Horton opened up, telling his competitor about the troubles unfolding at Enron. While he had not cleared the idea with Enron's chairman, Mr. Horton suggested that a merger of the two companies was the answer.
Intrigued, Mr. Bergstrom called Dynegy's chief executive, Chuck Watson, who was out of town attending his ailing mother in the hospital. The deal struck Mr. Watson as interesting -- Dynegy had long resented the shadow of its crosstown competitor -- but he insisted on hearing from Mr. Lay. The call came that afternoon, and the two men agreed they would meet the next morning.
Enron, concerned that it needed advice before proceeding further, reached out to the law firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges in New York. Thomas Roberts, a Weil, Gotshal partner, was already planning to fly to Dallas the next day for a college scouting trip with his daughter. He agreed to hop a quick flight down to Houston from there.
Meanwhile, on the 20th floor in the Enron building, things were getting worse. Officials from Enron called Mr. Bauer at Andersen, asking some technical accounting questions. As they chatted, one of the Enron officials dropped a bomb: it appeared that Chewco, which had been counted as an independent entity, did not meet the accounting requirements for such a designation. 
Over the coming days, according to a memo he wrote for the file, Mr. Bauer learned that papers for a secret side deal had been drawn up involving Mr. Fastow and Mr. Kopper when Chewco was formed. That side deal had shifted the ownership of Chewco away from independent investors, a fact that meant Chewco -- and even JEDI -- had never been independent entities. Instead, all of Enron's transactions with them had simply been transactions with itself. The accountants at Andersen informed Enron that the hiding of the side deal may have been a criminal act.
Even with talks under way with Dynegy, the chances that Enron would survive must have seemed slim. The stock price had fallen to just above $15 a share, and was still sinking. Credit rating agencies were considering a reduction in Enron's rating, which would only increase the financial pressure. On Oct. 26, with options running out, Mr. Lay reached out to his friends in Washington.
He telephoned Donald L. Evans, the commerce secretary and one of President Bush's closest friends, with whom he frequently spoke. But Mr. Evans was in St. Louis for the day. 
On Saturday, Dynegy's Mr. Watson arrived at Mr. Lay's home, and the two men hammered out a deal in the kitchen. Mr. Lay agreed that he would step down from the merged company. At the same time, Mr. Roberts and a colleague from Weil, Gotshal headed to Enron to explore other options for the company. The lawyers thought they would be there for a couple of hours; they did not leave that day.
By Sunday, Mr. Lay was back on the phone to Washington, this time calling Paul H. O'Neill, the Treasury secretary, at his apartment in the Watergate. Mr. Lay described Enron's problems, suggesting that the company's collapse could put the entire financial system at risk. Mr. O'Neill then asked Peter R. Fisher, the under secretary for domestic finance, to examine that thesis. Mr. Fisher ultimately advised Mr. O'Neill that such aftershocks were unlikely. 
On Monday, Oct. 29, Mr. Evans returned to his office and telephoned Houston. Mr. Lay "indicated that he would welcome any support the secretary thought appropriate" in dealing with the credit rating agencies, said James Dyke, Mr. Evans's spokesman.
Later that morning, Mr. Evans went to the weekly meeting of the administration's economic team at the Treasury Department. Before going into lunch in a small conference room off the Treasury secretary's office, he pulled Mr. O'Neill aside and mentioned the call from Mr. Lay. Mr. O'Neill responded that he had also received a call, and that he, too, had decided against intervening.

Time Runs Out
Lurching Toward Bankruptcy Court
On the surface, the Dynegy deal seemed to be Enron's salvation. The two boards tentatively agreed to the merger on Nov. 7. But by then, Enron had announced that its storied financial performance since 1997 had been an illusion, one created in large part by Mr. Fastow's partnerships.
The news jolted an already disbelieving marketplace: Correcting the improper accounting for its dealings with Fastow partnerships since 1997, Enron reported, meant $600 million in previously reported profits were wiped out.
Enron assured the Dynegy officials that its businesses were sound, and its only problems stemmed from a temporary panic in the market, triggered by the news of the $1.2 billion equity reduction.
Mr. Lay worked hard to reassure investors that the surprises were over. "Everything we know, you know," he said in a conference call with analysts.
But again, the truth of Enron was far different than its projection of strength. The company was hemorrhaging cash; it burned through $2 billion in just the week after it signed the merger agreement. Worse, it could not account for where a large portion of that money had gone. And it told Dynegy nothing about it.
On Nov. 19, the bottom dropped out. Enron filed its quarterly report, known as a 10-Q, revealing the drain of cash and the fact that payment on a note had been accelerated because of the troubles; Enron owed $690 million, payable within days.
At Dynegy, executives were outraged. They had received little advance warning that the revelations in the filing were coming. And now, with the market in a full-blown panic, Enron shares dropped from $9.06 a share to $6.99 a share on Nov. 20.
Mr. Watson of Dynegy was soon on the phone with Mr. Lay, and sent a follow-up letter documenting their discussion. "We have not been consulted in a timely manner regarding developments since November 9," the letter said. "We were not briefed in advance on the issues in your 10-Q. Our team had to make repeated phone calls to your finance and accounting officials in an attempt to obtain information. Some of the most significant information in the Q was never shown to us at all."
Calls went out the night before Thanksgiving to lawyers, bankers and advisers. The day after the holiday, Enron sent a corporate plane to New York to bring everyone to Houston. In Houston, a series of proposals were floated that weekend for a debt "holiday" for Enron until the merger was completed. But, trying to wriggle its way out of the $690 million debt payment that was due, Enron had made commitments that prevented any deal from going forward.
The negotiations now moved to the Doral Arrowwood Resort and Conference Center in Rye Brook, N.Y. The advisers took up several conference rooms; only once were they disturbed, when a wedding reception was held outside where they were working.
On Monday, Nov. 26, it seemed that an agreement had been reached for a deal at a reduced price. Mr. Lay and the contingent from Enron headed to the airport at Teterboro, N.J., where the corporate plane awaited them. But just as they were taxiing on the runway, a call came through on one executive's cellphone with news that Mr. Watson was saying he could not sign off on a deal without his board's approval. The airplane headed back to the hangar, where Mr. Lay took part in a conference call with advisers and Dynegy officials.
On Wednesday morning, Nov. 28, some of Enron's directors gathered in the company's board room; others phoned in. They were prepared to discuss possible changes in the merger agreement. But before that started, Mr. Lay was notified that he had a call waiting outside.
Mr. Lay left the room for a few minutes, then returned looking downhearted. "I just talked to Chuck Watson," he said, according to a person who was there. "He said he's terminating the merger."
Time was up. Enron had no options left. Beginning at noon on Monday, lawyers descended on Enron again, struggling to assemble a list of creditors and other information they needed to finally seek bankruptcy protection. At 7 p.m. Saturday, Dec. 1, the board of Enron met for a several-hour meeting. Finally, the motion to declare bankruptcy was put before the directors. They unanimously supported it.
The lawyers worked through the night, putting the finishing touches on the filing. Then, early in the morning of Dec. 2, Steven Vacek, a paralegal in Weil, Gotshal's Houston office, sat down in front of a computer and signed onto the Internet site for the Federal Bankruptcy Court in New York. The necessary information was filled in, and the attachments made. 
At 4:28 a.m., Mr. Vacek clicked the "submit" button. The bankruptcy petition was filed.
Enron, which was supposed to have found its future in cyberspace, instead had turned to the Internet to declare its demise.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Enron: The Final Year"Well into the fall of 2001, the Enron Corporation and its top executives maintained a public face of confidence in the company's profits and prospects. Information disclosed since Enron's collapse, though, paints a portrait of a company that was crumbling within. JAN. 8In the midst of California's energy crisis, Gov. Gray Davis denounces Enron and other energy companies as "out-of-state profiteers." JAN. 20Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's chief executive, and Jeffrey K. Skilling, its president, attend the inauguration of George W. Bush. FEB. 5Bonus checks worth millions issued to Enron executives. Accountants at Arthur Andersen, Enron's auditor, discuss concerns about LJM partnerships. FEB. 12Mr. Skilling is named chief executive. Andersen accountants voice no concerns when questioned by the Enron board's audit committee. FEB. 22Mr. Lay and other Enron officials meet with Vice President Dick Cheney's energy task force at the White House. MARCH 7Mr. Lay and other Enron officials meet with Mr. Cheney's energy task force. MARCH 8Jordan Mintz, an Enron lawyer, sends a memo to the chief risk officer, Richard B. Buy, and the chief accounting officer, Richard A. Causey, raising questions about LJM partnerships. MARCH 26Financial problems in the Raptor partnerships, set up by Andrew S. Fastow, Enron's chief financial officer, are temporarily repaired. Enron repurchases Chewco's stake in JEDI, paying $35 million. The deal gives Michael Kopper, an Enron executive, a return of more than $10 million. APRIL 17Mr. Lay and other Enron officials meet with Mr. Cheney. Enron announces $536 million in profits for the first quarter. MAY 5Enron's stock closes below $59.78, a trigger point that could unravel one of Enron's partnership deals. MAY 22Mr. Mintz writes a memo seeking Mr. Skilling's signature on Enron's paperwork for its LJM deals. Later, he arranges for an independent review of LJM by outside lawyers. JUNE 12At a Las Vegas conference, Mr. Skilling makes a derisive joke about the California energy crisis. JUNE 21During a visit to California, Mr. Skilling is hit in the face with a pie. JULY 23Enron's stock price falls below $47 a share, a trigger price that threatenes the Raptor partnerships. AUG. 14Mr. Skilling suddenly resigns as chief executive, citing personal reasons, Mr. Lay retakes the job. AUG. 15Sherron S. Watkins, an Enron vice president, writes to Mr. Lay expressing concerns about Enron's accounting practices. AUG. 22Ms. Watkins meets with Mr. Lay and gives him a letter in which she says that Enron may be an elaborate hoax. SEPT. 26In an online forum with employees, Mr. Lay calls Enron stock "an incredible bargain" and says that "the third quarter is looking great." LATE SEPT.Arthur Andersen concludes that accounting for Raptor partnerships was improper, prompting Enron to unwind the deals. OCT. 10Enron officials meet with members of Mr. Cheney's staff to discuss energy policy. OCT. 16Enron reports a third-quarter loss of $618 million. OCT. 17Enron reduces the assets on its balance sheet by $1.01 billion to correct an accounting error involving the Raptor partnerships. The company freezes the assets in its 401(k) retirement plan to allow for administrative changes. OCT. 22The S.E.C. opens an inquiry into Enron's accounting. OCT. 23In a conference call, Mr. Lay reassures investors and tells them there was no conflict of interest stemming from the transactions with the partnerships. OCT. 24Mr. Fastow, the chief financial officer, is put on leave. OCT. 25An Enron executive contacts a Houston rival, Dynegy Inc., to begin exploring a merger. OCT. 26Mr. Lay calls the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, about Enron's problems. Mr. Lay meets with Chuck Watson, Dynegy's chairman. OCT. 26Mr. Lay talks to Paul H. O'Neill, the Treasury secretary. The Treasury Department ultimately concludes that Enron's failure would have limited impact.OCT. 27Arthur Andersen auditors learn that Chewco was not independent of Enron in earlier deals, which results in Enron reducing its profits in previous years by $600 million. OCT. 29According to Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans, Mr. Lay calls to request help, particularly with an impending credit rating review by Moody's Investors Service. Mr. Evans says he did nothing. Moody's lowers Enron's rating. NOV. 8Enron discloses that it overstated profits for the previous five years by $586 million. NOV. 9Dynegy agrees to buy Enron for about $9 billion. NOV. 19Enron discloses that as a result of its woes, it will have repay a $690 million note within days. NOV. 28Dynegy calls off the merger. NOV. 29The S.E.C. investigation expands to include Arthur Andersen. DEC. 2Enron files for bankruptcy protection. Graph tracking the daily closing price of Enron stock since January 2001. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); POKER (69%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (65%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (63%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); ETHICS (60%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%) BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%) EICHENWALD, KURT; HENRIQUES, DIANA B 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



364 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: New York Energy Crisis 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Electricity Crisis Eases in New York" (front page, Feb. 5): New York City's energy crisis has not gone away. Far from it. 
 Certainly, the slump in the economy and the events of Sept. 11 have slowed the growth in electricity demand, but they have not stopped it. We project this summer's peak demand to be approximately the same as last year's, when our service territory set an all-time usage record. 
 When the economy rebounds, the city will likely encounter record-high demands in the summer of 2003 and 2004. More aggressive conservation programs will help, but we can expect the tight electric supply to continue unless more generating plants are constructed. Approval and construction of power plants can take two or more years. The city will need 2,000 to 3,000 additional megawatts of supply over the next few years. Yet very few new-generation projects are under construction, and many projects are being delayed while our power needs remain at record-high levels.

KEVIN BURKE
President, Consolidated Edison
New York, Feb. 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (72%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC 

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: KEVIN BURKE (64%) BURKE, KEVIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002 



365 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Digital Sensor Is Said to Match Quality of Film 

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
If Carver Mead is right, photographic film is an endangered species.
 Dr. Mead, who is 67, was a pioneer of the modern computer chip industry in the 1970's. But he has never stopped inventing. And on Monday his Silicon Valley start-up, Foveon, plans to begin shipping a new type of digital image sensor that outside experts agree is the first to match or surpass the photographic capabilities of 35-millimeter film. 
 The company's sensor chip is being used in a single-lens reflex camera that Sigma, a Japanese camera and lens maker, plans to begin selling for about $3,000 later this month. A second generation of Foveon's sensors is scheduled for shipping this fall and, if other camera makers embrace it, could become available early next year in more popular brands of digital cameras selling for less than $1,000. 
The first new sensor the company is now shipping is made by National Semiconductor and will have approximately 3.53 million pixels. Such a resolution would put the device in the middle of the market for digital image sensor chips used in digital still and video cameras. Because of the new technology's color-capturing technique, however, its designers say it is actually comparable to existing sensors with 7 million pixels that are currently available only in cameras costing $6,000 or more. 
"It will completely transform the industry," George Gilder, an economist and an information industry analyst, said of Foveon's sensor.
Executives at Eastman Kodak, one of the largest makers of both consumer and professional digital cameras, say they have talked with Foveon about possibly using the company's sensors in at least one part of the Kodak product line. 
"We've been very aware of what they're doing and monitoring their progress," said Madhav Mehra, manager of Kodak's professional digital-capture group. "Our contention is that if this technology gets proven out, it's very significant." 
If Foveon is to realize its goal of becoming a dominant player in the market for digital image sensors, the company will need to attract manufacturers like Kodak. The sensor market is currently dominated by consumer electronics giants like Sony and the big European chip maker ST Microelectronics, which have invested billions of dollars in their own technologies. 
"I have no doubts this is a great technology," said Chris Chute, a senior analyst at the International Data Corporation, a research house. "The rub is that the market has heavily entrenched competitors. The No. 1 digital camera manufacturer in the world is Sony. They're the 5,000-pound gorilla compared with little Foveon." 
Still, photography experts say Foveon's approach to sensors could be the most significant breakthrough in digital photography since the original black-and-white sensor was invented at Bell Laboratories in 1969. Foveon's sensor significantly simplifies the process of capturing a digital image and avoids most of the color aberrations that have plagued digital photography. 
The current crop of digital sensors capture light using a mosaic of red, green and blue filters that limit color information to one color per picture element, or pixel, on the sensor surface. The technique requires the chip to perform as many as 100 calculations per pixel to approximate the color, which can cause inaccuracies. The limitations also sacrifice picture resolution and limit the sensor's ability to operate in low light. 
"Most digital cameras don't do a good job of giving you the colors you actually see," Dr. Mead said. 
Foveon's sensor, rather than break images into separate colors and distribute them among separate pixels, captures color by measuring how deeply photons of light penetrate the surface of the imaging material. Not only is there higher resolution from a given number of pixels, but there is less loss of light and less need for the correcting calculations that can distort the image.
"There is no longer any need to use film," Dr. Mead said.
With more than a billion film cameras in the world, conventional photography is unlikely to disappear soon, in the view of Don Franz, publisher of the trade publication Photo Imaging News. But Mr. Franz notes that the digital camera market is growing fast, with about 8 million digital cameras sold in the United States last year and an additional 10 million internationally, for a global market valued at about $8.6 billion 
Alexis Gerard, publisher of The Future Image Report, a newsletter that tracks the digital photography market, said the industry was at "a crossover point" in terms of digital technology and Foveon's technology could help speed the transition. "Having a sensor that measures all three colors at every element at full exposure has been the engineering holy grail," Ms. Gerard said. 
Industry experts say that one of the most intriguing aspects of the Foveon sensors is that they might allow for a hybrid digital camera that performs equally well for both video and still photography. Currently, the markets for still and video digital cameras are separate because most sensors cannot easily adjust from high resolution for still pictures to lower resolution for moving images. 
Foveon's new sensor technology, which the company calls X3, is a departure from the two types of image sensors that have proliferated in a wide range of consumer products: CMOS, which is pronounced SEE-moss and stands for complementary metal-oxide semiconductor, and a more complex variety called C.C.D., for charged coupled device. 
Two years ago, Foveon was concentrating on expensive, professional cameras based on CMOS sensors but abandoned them after coming up with the X3 approach.
Foveon is being deliberately vague about its manufacturing methods but says its design greatly reduces the cost of making sensors and could create an opening for American chip makers in the digital-sensing field. National Semiconductor, one of Silicon Valley's oldest chip companies and the maker of Foveon's current sensors, is an investor in Foveon.
Brian L. Halla, National Semiconductor's chief executive, is optimistic but does not assume it will be easy to gain ground on the entrenched players. "Sony has invested in a brand new C.C.D. FAB, and they could fight this technology by driving price down," Mr. Halla said. A FAB is a chip-fabrication plant. 
Dr. Mead, who founded Foveon in Santa Clara, Calif., in 1997, was a longtime physicist at the California Institute of Technology before his retirement two years ago. In the 1970's he pioneered design techniques that helped form the basis for the modern semiconductor industry -- most notably, a process known as very large system integration, or V.L.S.I., which made it possible to imprint tens of thousands of transistors on a single silicon chip. 
Dr. Mead was a co-founder of Synaptics, the dominant maker of computer touchpads. He also helped start Impinge, a maker of analog semiconductor technology, and Sonic Innovations, a maker of hearing aids. 
"Carver's strength is his clever understanding of physics," said Carlo Sequin, an electrical engineering professor at the University of California at Berkeley, who was the co-inventor of the digital video camera at Bell Labs in 1973. "He comes up with fundamental shortcuts to make things simple again."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 15, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Monday with an article about a digital image sensor that rivals the abilities of 35-millimeter film mislabeled the order of the three color-sensing elements in the device, made by Foveon. As light hits the sensor, it passes through a blue layer, a green one and then a red one (not red, blue and green). Because of an editing error, the article misstated the definition of V.L.S.I., the abbreviation for a process that makes it possible to imprint tens of thousands of transistors on a single silicon chip. It stands for very large scale integration, not very large system integration.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carver Mead, the founder of Foveon, first made his name as a chip pioneer in the 1970's. (Associated Press)(pg. C3) Chart/Diagram: "Color Sense"A new digital image sensor by Foveon is designed to improve upon conventional digital sensors by enabling each picture element -- or pixel -- to receive all three basic colors of light, instead of only one. CONVENTIONAL IMAGE SENSORColor filters are arranged in a mosaic pattern on top of a single layer of photodectors. FOVEON'S X3 SENSORThe new sensor has three separate layers of photo detectors embedded in silicon. Each filter lets only one wavelengh of light - red, green or blue - pass through to any given pixel, allowing it to record only one color. Because silicon absorbs different colors of light at different depths, each layer captures a different color. Stacked together they create full-color pixels. The result is an image that captures only 25% of the red and blue light and 50% of the green. The sensor is able to capture an image's full range of color. Diagram of the new digital image sensor. (Source: Foveron)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (90%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); IMAGE PROCESSING & COMPUTER VISION (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS & SUPPLIES MFG (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (77%); COMPUTER PERIPHERAL MFG (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (67%) PHOTOGRAPHY; MOTION PICTURES; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (92%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (61%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (56%); STMICROELECTRONICS NV (51%); BELL LABORATORIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOVEON CO; NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP; SIGMA (CO) 

TICKER: STM (PAR) (51%); STM (NYSE) (51%); STM (BIT) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (61%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (50%)

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN; MEAD, CARVER 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



366 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: WRITERS ON WRITING; 
Essentials Get Lost In the Shuffle Of Publicity

BYLINE:  By ANN BEATTIE 

 BODY:
I have come to dread book tours because they so often coincide with world events and with personal events that are sad, preoccupying and bizarre. I was promoting a book when the O. J. Simpson jury suddenly announced that it had reached a verdict. My husband and I were having lunch in the bar of our Seattle hotel. We were of course riveted to the television. Between beverage and entree came the pronouncement: not guilty. What? 
 But there was little time for me to question my husband, whom I hold personally responsible for explaining all things inexplicable. I had to race back to the room to be interviewed. This is, for writers, the equivalent of the tiger led from its moated promenade to its zoo cage at night. 
 The interviewer had heard the news, and it certainly was something. But he had recently interviewed another writer (a friend, as it happens) who had made quite an impression by announcing forcefully that he didn't have to keep doing what he was doing, and if his book didn't find an audience, he could and would quit. What did I think of that? 
I thought he was probably burned out from his book tour. But the interviewer hardly listened to me; he still seemed stunned at the vociferousness of the writer who might quit. I said that writing and going on increasingly unproductive book tours took a toll. I suggested that the writer might have been having a bad day. I secretly felt that he was right, that the point comes when you realize it's not worth it anymore. Maybe it's fun for a first-timer. But to a writer who can't be reinvented, who can't be anything but the work she creates, I have serious doubts about the value of a book tour. 
Even without it, things are complicated enough: we're our own preliminary editors; we teach; we review; we do committee work; we suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous numbers of blurb requests. I wrap and mail my old running shoes and send them to far-away cities for celebrity auctions benefiting charities that I've never heard of but that are as plentiful as flu.
It's now a familiar feeling that while I'm publicizing a book, I'll be pulled in two directions. I'll force myself to get through an interview when I'm preoccupied with what might be happening nationwide in the wake of the Simpson decision. Years before, I remember arriving for a photo shoot in New York and hearing not the usual make-placid-writers-hyper music but the radio, giving news of a plane burning in the desert: President Jimmy Carter's failed mission to free the captives from Iran. And, a lifetime before that, getting in a cab, as a college girl winner of the Mademoiselle contest, on her way to some ridiculous, scheduled event, giving the address and hearing the disgusted reply, "Don't you know Robert Kennedy's been shot?" 
I was photographed on vacation in Florida before "Picturing Will" came out. The picture of me smiling appeared on Page 1 of The New York Times Book Review. I was wait-listed for the first flight out the next morning: my father had had a stroke. Too often, things out of my control have called my attention to my book's meager place in the larger scheme. Quite simply, awful things have happened with such regularity that I am now able to skip humility and proceed directly to ludicrousness.
After continued prodding from the Seattle journalist, I said that life on the road could turn into a house of mirrors of a writer's real life. Whereas you might by nature be merely perplexed, you discover, reading your remarks, that you have stated opinions bitterly and emphatically. Though your friends appreciate your humor ("malevolent angels," Harry Mathews once called my husband and me), you sometimes stop yourself in mid-sentence before an audience, having morphed into Judge Judy. 
Though you know you're looking at a distortion -- those photographs aren't really you; those questions don't concern anything you've given serious thought to, so it's difficult to judge the veracity of your response -- you've nevertheless been made to see yourself as an emphatically dithering person with big ears and a nasty squint. My friend the writer, I thought, must have been having a nasty squint day. 
I knew about those: six books sold the previous night (three to a former student still protesting his grade, one to a skinhead who also collects butterflies, "only the wings," one to someone who says, "Just your name; no inscription," one to a person who likes your work "because it's not too serious."), dead cellphone, missed plane, loved one with a mysterious pain in his chest that is now shooting down his left arm, review faxed from publicity department that criticizes not only your current novel, but your entire presumptuous career, annotated, "Oh well!"
It's easy to make a book tour sound like appalling fun, and of course complaining in this culture is not condoned (search the self-help shelves, and get into the right sort of chat room), but I can, for a moment, ignore the naysayers about my naysaying, I have a question: What did I ever think I was doing out there, and what do I think I'm doing now?
Clinging to youthful assumptions by trying to be the good girl? Formerly, I was young. I approached travel as if it were a school assignment. I accepted the fact that a book tour was part of the process and must also have assumed that it made sense. My first "tour," in 1976, when my first two books were published simultaneously, took me only to New York for a day or two, where I was interviewed by several publications in my hotel room. I didn't read anywhere. I don't recall that there were many readings in those days, except a few at colleges.
By 1980, when my fourth book was published, I was sent to bookstores (ah, for the late, great Books & Company), where amazing crowds showed up. That book's prominent, glowing review didn't hurt. (I still remember asking my editor, Rob Cowley, what "faute de mieux" meant. Poor man, he had to answer me.) Bookstore owners were loyal. They wanted my books before the reps described them; they also wanted a visit. Looking back, it seems we were all having our version of the 80's party, that time when the economy was expanding like bread baked with triple yeast, and we had nice, expensive cheese to spread on it, cholesterol be damned.
Audiences read. They talked to me about Raymond Carver and Joy Williams. They recommended writers I hadn't heard of. They were there to talk about writing, and they offered information instead of asking random questions. Though they didn't write (or were modest), I felt as if we were in this together.
There are still dedicated lovers of literature, but increasingly, when people approach me, they want anecdotes about writers, or they want me to recommend a writers' colony. They ask whether I'll lend my services to a fund-raiser. (Goodbye, shoes.) They have tried to sell me raffle tickets, which is bleakly amusing: a request signifying more than the questioner realizes.
There's an industry out there, sprung up around writers. To many, writing is not so interesting as being a writer, and when writers go on tour, it reinforces people's belief that it's all a package: you create something (details saved for future memoir), you get out there and network and promote it all the way to success, because success is the American Way.
In my opinion, writers have been overexposed, caricatured, asked specious questions to elicit amusing answers, their faces printed on coffee mugs. There are too many of us, and M.F.A. programs graduate more every year, causing publishers to suffer snow-blindness, which has resulted in everyone getting lost. There are those who maintain that bookstore chains have made things more difficult for individual writers. We are all inundated with endless appearances from writers who become Mary Poppins every time they publish again: they drop out of the sky to be booked anywhere and everywhere, say sensible things (the opposite is also nice, and will suffice), then disappear. 
Writers are afraid not to be out there, for fear they'll be completely lost in the shuffle, but paradoxically, by getting out there we add to the problem. Nothing is made better by audiences', and the media's, silly attempt to glamorize writers. Any photographer will tell you it's a nightmare assignment to shoot some writer at home (they don't do anything), just as it is the writer's nightmare to realize that her unglamorous life will be symbolized by the ordinariness of her desk. No wonder Annie Lebovitz took me to a Laundromat and photographed me in front of a dryer.
It would be wrong not to be humbled, at times humiliated, by my years on the road. But it would also be wrong to deflect a serious issue with humor. When I started out, I wasn't a so-called "literary writer" I was a writer. The more we are separated into smaller categories, the more the audience is condescended to, the more attention is focused on the writer's life, at the expense of considering the work, the more we will continue to perpetuate the delusion that the writer is there -- conveniently there, out on the road -- to be projected upon. To come to conclusions about the writer is irrelevant to the writer's work. We can only hope that our work transcends us.

Writers on Writing
This article is part of a series in which writers explore literary themes. Previous contributions can be found at The New York Times on the Web:
 nytimes.com/books/columns

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ann Beattie's novel "The Doctor's House" is being published this week. (Mike Hentz for The New York Times)(pg. E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); VERDICTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%) WRITING AND WRITERS; SURVEYS AND SERIES 

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (50%) BEATTIE, ANN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



367 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1753 words

HEADLINE: Marching Orders at the Met; 
'War and Peace' Climax Calls for a Cast of 346 and a Horse

BYLINE:  By RALPH BLUMENTHAL 

 BODY:
Deep under Lincoln Center the Russian army was learning how to march.
 Down there, on the Metropolitan Opera's C-level stage, three floors below ground, time was short. In less than four weeks, 160 raw recruits from the ranks of New York's unemployed actors would have to stop bumping into one another and take on Napoleon in the Met's first production of Prokofiev's "War and Peace" on Thursday. 
 "You're an army; you need discipline," exhorted Peter McClintock, an assistant director, as confused troops right-faced to the left and struggled to stay in step. His colleague Irkin Gabitov, from the Kirov Opera and himself a former Russian officer, put on a brave front. "Three more months and it'll be great," he said. 
There was much else to rehearse besides. In terms of the cast this is probably the biggest thing ever put on by the Met, and it has been a long time coming. The company first tried to stage the freshly composed "War and Peace" as far back as 1943 during a grimly real war of survival. But the Met's eager general manager, Edward Johnson, could not make a deal with skittish Soviet commissars and censors, and then the cold war intervened. The Bolshoi Opera of Moscow came over to stage it at the Met in 1975, and the English National Opera presented it there in English in 1984. Now the Met is finally doing it and doing it big with a mixed American-Russian cast worthy of, well, a Russian novel.
Tolstoy's 1869 masterpiece with its 365 chapters and 500-plus characters was boiled down considerably by Prokofiev as he struggled to please Stalin under the guns of the invading Nazis. But this "War and Peace," a co-production with Valery Gergiev and the Mariinsky Theater of St. Petersburg, which will have 10 performances at the Met, is hardly a study in minimalism. 
No fewer than 52 soloists -- headed by Dmitri Hvorostovsky and Anna Netrebko, making her Met debut -- sing the parts of 68 characters. (There is some doubling up of roles.) And the monumental final scene calls for 346 people onstage along with a horse (Napoleon's). All told, in addition to the soloists there are 227 extras, 120 choristers and 41 dancers, dwarfing even "Gosford Park" and "The Royal Tenenbaums" put together. 
The spires of Moscow blaze in film effects contrived by the set designer, George Tsypin; the projection designer, Elaine McCarthy; and the film director Andrei Konchalovsky in his Met debut as stage director. Oh, and the stage is not flat. It is a steeply rounded revolving dome, evoking the earth, "mir" in Russian, the same word as peace. 
"There's nothing that comes close," said Joseph Volpe, the company's general manager, shrugging off comparisons to other spectacles. At an unusually expensive $3 million to $4 million, it was substantially underwritten by the opera benefactor Alberto W. Vilar. 
With one of the largest stages in opera, the Met is no stranger to elaborate productions from "Turandot" to "Aida" and "Les Troyens" next season with its Trojan horse and siege of Troy, but the epic-scale "War and Peace," Met managers say, breaks new ground.
"It's sort of like doing 'The Ten Commandments' of opera," said Sarah Billinghurst, artistic assistant manager, who has been through it before. In 1991 while at the San Francisco Opera, she did a version of "War and Peace" with Mr. Gergiev and costumes left over from the 1956 movie starring Henry Fonda and Audrey Hepburn.
The opera might well have been called "Peace and War." In 13 scenes, divided by one intermission, it begins as the simple love story Prokofiev originally envisioned, turning darker as the romance of Prince Andrei Bolkonsky and Natasha Rostova is undone by intrigues and faithlessness and is finally engulfed by the horrors of war.
The message? "Peace should be unattainable and dreamlike," Mr. Konchalovsky said. "But its problems are minuscule compared to war."
This production is a reworking of one that the Kirov staged at the Mariinsky and took to London and Milan in 2000, battling problems with an Italian-built dome that took a day and half to assemble and dismantle. The Met built larger scenery and its own bigger dome, which could be put up and taken down in an hour and a half, said Joseph Clark, the company's technical assistant manager. 
The top revolves over the Met's turntable, and a section rises hydraulically to provide a ridge for Napoleon's overview and tilts down to reveal the Russian redoubt.
Everything had to be larger for the Met, including the French army, Mr. Volpe said. For one thing, he said: "I realized Napoleon lost the war, but he had only four troops in his regiment. Come on, he needed more troops." 
The Met did do things bigger, Mr. Gergiev agreed. "I expect the Met to kill us all," he said, laughing.
The Met expanded other aspects of the production, winding up with nearly 1,000 costumes that necessitated clearing out a longtime underground fire station for use as a costume shop. To get the costumes on and off the singers, extra dressers were recruited from closing Broadway shows, swelling the roster to 78.
Just keeping track of everything was a challenge in itself, said Stephen A. Brown, the company manager. While preparing for "War and Peace," the Met was also rehearsing or performing seven other operas, including "Don Carlos," which also starred two leads of "War and Peace," Mr. Hvorostovsky and Samuel Ramey, who sings the role of the heroic Russian victor, Field Marshal Kutuzov.
Schedules setting out each singer's scenes, cover roles and conflicts with other productions came to resemble computer wiring diagrams, and the daily rehearsal schedules for "War and Peace" were printed on yellow paper to distinguish them from the usual white sheets of other productions under way.
The two languages, Russian and English, presented something of an obstacle, although Mr. Konchalovsky is bilingual after years in Hollywood making films like "Runaway Train" and "Tango and Cash" and "The Odyssey" for television. And the assistant director, Mr. McClintock, learned Russian to work on a 1995 Kirov production of "La Forza del Destino."
Besides, Mr. Clark said, "everybody is into being theatrical animals: they improvise, they use their hands." When all else fails, he said, "the look on someone's face is as good as words anytime."
In a joint interview in Mr. Volpe's office, he and Mr. Gergiev said plans for a co-production of "War and Peace" began around 1997 when Mr. Gergiev was named the Met's first principal guest conductor. They quickly agreed on the director and designer, and Met managers traveled to St. Petersburg to watch the production take shape.
Mr. Gergiev said that while "War and Peace" was heavy with "extended triumphalism" to bolster the country at another time of national emergency, "I got rid of the typical Soviet-pleasing propaganda." 
The Mariinsky learned some cautionary lessons, principally from its ill-fated production in 1993 when part of the stage gave way and Napoleon's horse took a fatal stumble, throwing the baritone Vassily Gerello. It took some persuasion to get Mr. Gerello to take on the role this time, Mr. Volpe said. As for the flooring, he said, the Met already knew it had to provide a strong foundation for a cast of hundreds. 
The first rehearsals began in August. By Jan. 12, many of the 227 supernumeraries, known as supers or extras, along with members of the ballet corps, were organized on the underground stage. A week later, divided into regiments of grenadiers, chasseurs, Ismailovskis and Cossaks, they literally got their marching orders at what Mr. McClintock called "Metropolitan Opera boot camp."
When it came to marching, the Russians had had an advantage, tapping for their 2000 production naval cadets stationed near St. Petersburg. Not to be outdone, Mr. Volpe looked into recruiting West Pointers or other military cadets for the marching scenes, but the logistics proved insurmountable. Out-of-work actors it would be.
With great enthusiasm the Kirov's Mr. Gabitov demonstrated the straight-leg parade march while bellowing some of his limited English, "Right face!" The green troops tried it out with mixed results. "They're doing great," said another trainer, Sasha Syomin, a Russian gymnast, "for guys whose fastest march was to the bathroom."
Then Mr. Gabitov upped the ante. With the men of one regiment facing a different direction from the others, he told them that at the command "Right face!" they were to snap their heads left. 
Upstairs Mr. Brown, the company manager, checked the clock. "You've got to leave," he called down. " 'Figaro' is coming in half an hour."
By the time the supers' rehearsals shifted to the main stage upstairs on Jan. 22, the marching was coming along nicely. But there were other concerns. The three madmen, representing a world demented by brutality, had to weave a contorted path around the edge of the dome without falling into the orchestra pit. Two French soldiers nearly dropped a trussed prisoner into a sunken bunker. The horse did what horses do.
Roaming the stage in a safari jacket, Mr. Konchalovsky showed Vladimir Ognovenko, who plays the Russian peasant Matveyev, how to make a prop tree stump look like a truly heavy club. "Hold it with two hands when you drag it, like this," he said. He rearranged a campfire scene and worked on the bayonet thrusts of the Russian resisters.
"The first problem is to make it fluid," he said, relaxing in the cafeteria during a break. "Opera is basically rigid. You have to make it fluid." For that reason, he said, the set was kept simple. The set, he said, was space. 
Unintimidated by the multitude of roles, Mr. Konchalovsky said: "Epic never comes from the amount of people. Lear can be alone and be epic. 'Cleopatra' can have 4,000 people and not be epic. Epic is a dimension of character."
He said that the war on terrorism might imbue the work with what he called "a special resonance today." 
Sitting in the back of the house during a break, Mr. Hvorostovsky, who was born in the central Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk, said the role of Prince Andrei filled him with special nativist pride. "It's a great patriotic opera," he said.
Downstairs in the makeshift costume shop, James Kabel, the chief supers' dresser, kept things straight with an eye-boggling wall chart of roles and costumes. Clearly, you couldn't tell the lackeys (blue and cream) without a score card. 
But "War and Peace" was not his biggest production, Mr. Kabel said. What was? Well, he said, thinking, that would have to have been "Siegfried and Roy in Japan.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, massed forces on the domed stage at the Metropolitan Opera. Left, the quick-change area, a corridor. (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1); Waiting for their cue: hundreds of Met extras had to learn to march in time, and then to wait . . . and wait. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (91%); ARMIES (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); VISUAL ARTS (62%); DANCERS (61%) OPERA 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN OPERA 

PERSON: PROKOFIEV, SERGEI (1891-1953); BLUMENTHAL, RALPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: WAR AND PEACE (OPERA) 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



368 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Bracing for a flood of efforts to control speech seen as hateful or terrorist.

BYLINE:  By Carl S. Kaplan; Carl S. Kaplan, a journalist and lawyer, wrote the "Cyber Law Journal" column that appeared on The New York Times on the Web from July 1997 until January 2002.

 BODY:
SINCE Sept. 11, nations that have strong laws and traditions against hate speech are apparently growing even more alarmed about inflammatory expression that they fear could lead to racial or religious violence. 
 That worries some civil libertarians in the United States, who point to a French court decision that they believe handed governments and groups a blueprint for how to censor online hate speech that may be illegal within one country's borders but perfectly lawful elsewhere. 
 A little more than a year ago, the judge in the French case, Licra v. Yahoo, shook the mahogany desks of lawyers around the world when he reaffirmed an earlier ruling that Yahoo, based in Santa Clara, Calif., had violated French law by allowing French citizens to view auction sites displaying Nazi memorabilia. 
The case has jumped the Atlantic and is making its way through the courts in the United States, where a federal judge has ruled that French sanctions against Yahoo -- including $13,000 a day in fines -- cannot be enforced in the United States. The two groups that sued the company in France, the International League Against Racism and Anti-Semitism (known as Licra) and the Union of French Jewish Students, are appealing the federal judge's decision in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco. 
Regardless of the appeal's outcome, nations seeking to control potentially harmful speech that arrives from offshore are seen as almost certain to use the French precedent to bolster their efforts. 
"They will not be tempted to do it -- they will do it," said Jack Goldsmith, a professor at the University of Chicago Law School who frequently writes about Internet legal matters and is the author of a coming book, "Reining in the Net," about how countries are putting borders in cyberspace. 
That is what frightens Alan Davidson, a lawyer with the Center for Democracy and Technology, an Internet civil liberties group in Washington. The French Yahoo ruling "really puts free expression and communication in jeopardy on the Net," Mr. Davidson said, warning that online speech could sink to a single country's lowest-common-denominator standard. 
Other legal thinkers, too, are beginning to consider the global implications of the Yahoo case with respect to hate and terrorist speech on the Internet. Several professors and lawyers -- including the author of this article -- will be discussing the topic today in Manhattan at a conference at Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University. 
The case came to public attention in May 2000, when Judge Jean-Jacques Gomez of the County Court of Paris ordered in a preliminary decision that Yahoo take action to "render impossible" the ability of French Internet users to gain access to the Nazi-related auctions found on Yahoo's English-language auction pages. In reaching his decision, the judge asserted that he had jurisdiction over Yahoo, even though it is based in the United States, because the content on Yahoo's computers in the United States was available to French users.
The court also said Yahoo's display of the material in France had violated a section of France's criminal code, which reflects still raw memories of World War II.
In a later ruling, in November 2000, Judge Gomez concluded that available technology would allow Yahoo to take reasonable steps to identify and block the disputed material from French eyes -- thus allowing American users, for example, to continue to view the content. Unconvinced by Yahoo's arguments that such technology was deeply flawed, the judge said the company would be subject to a fine of about $13,000 for each day it did not comply with his earlier order. 
Yahoo announced later that it would more aggressively enforce its ban on hateful and racist material from its auction sites, but it said the move was not in response to the French legal proceedings.
American civil libertarians applauded when Judge Jeremy Fogel of Federal District Court in San Jose, Calif., ruled that the French court's order and fine would not be enforced against Yahoo in the United States. The judge said it would be repugnant to the First Amendment for an American court to carry out the French order. The United States Constitution, he said, protects the display of artifacts or expression of viewpoints associated with extreme political views, including Nazism and anti-Semitism.
But some legal observers question whether Judge Fogel's ruling, if upheld on appeal, is the shield that some large American Internet service providers say it is. After all, they argue, even if an American court will not enforce a foreign judgment that runs afoul of the Constitution's free-speech guarantees, the foreign court has other leverage. If a case involves a multinational company with assets abroad, the foreign court could lay claim to the company's funds, receivables or property within its jurisdiction. In addition, if the company's executives traveled to the foreign locale, the local judge could perhaps have them arrested.
On the other hand, private individuals and companies with no foreign assets would presumably have less to worry about from a foreign court's order. Indeed, Yahoo has said it has no seizable assets in France -- although some legal experts have suggested that money owed Yahoo by its French-language affiliate, Yahoo France, could be at risk.
Given the potential leverage of a Yahoo-style case on multinational Internet companies, experts say that Judge Gomez has created a powerful tool for the suppression of online speech that a recipient nation finds offensive or dangerous. And some Western democracies are showing a heightened sensitivity to hate speech lately. 
Last month, a tribunal in Ottawa declared that a Holocaust-denial Web site based in California and controlled by a one-time Canadian resident ran afoul of the Canadian Human Rights Act. "The tribunal acknowledged the ability to enforce its judgment was severely limited," said Michael Geist, a professor at the University of Ottawa's Faculty of Law who is an expert in Internet law. "But it wanted to make clear that this form of hate speech was illegal in Canada and not to be tolerated." 
More significant, perhaps, the 43-nation Council of Europe plans later this year to propose a side agreement to a pending international cybercrime treaty. The side agreement would make computer distribution of racist and xenophobic propaganda a crime. 
The United States, which has signed though not yet ratified the general cybercrime treaty, blocked attempts to include the category of Internet hate speech in the treaty itself. But the fact that nations are still discussing a ban on online hate speech suggests that other cases against inflammatory terrorist or hate speech on the Internet could land on court dockets soon, warned Barry Steinhardt, associate director of the American Civil Liberties Union. "I think it can and will happen, especially against multinational corporations," he said. 
But not all legal experts in this country agree that a slew of Yahoo-type cases would be bad thing. Some argue that countries can choose for themselves what is lawful within their own cyberborders -- that just because the world is becoming networked, all nations need not adhere to American free-speech traditions. "That," said Mr. Goldsmith at the University of Chicago, "is the essence of territorial sovereignty."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); LAWYERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); WRITERS (86%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); CENSORSHIP (77%); RELIGION (77%); VERDICTS (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); BUSINESS TORTS (68%) NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; FINES (PENALTIES); TERRORISM; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; AUCTIONS 

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (86%)

ORGANIZATION: YAHOO INC 

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (86%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (86%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: KAPLAN, CARL S; GOMEZ, JENA-JACQUES (JUDGE); FOGEL, JEREMY (JUDGE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%) FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



369 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC REVIEW; 
Sly Wit for a Modernist, Clarity for Impressionists

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY TOMMASINI 

 BODY:
There were both institutional and personal crises hovering over the concert by the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra on Friday night at Carnegie Hall, as well as one small story of triumph. Like many arts institutions, this respected orchestra has been struggling financially in the wake of the recession and the war on terrorism. For a while it looked as if it might go under. Since Sept. 11, W. Randolph Adams, the orchestra's determined new president and executive director, has raised some $29 million. By curtailing the season and other belt-tightening measures, and with a major challenge grant now lined up, the orchestra has been forging on. 
 Then, just six days before the Carnegie Hall concert, the conductor Hans Vonk, 59, now in his sixth season as St. Louis's music director, took ill during a performance with a recurrence of Guillain-Barre syndrome, a neurological disease that severely weakens the arms and legs. On short notice, David Robertson agreed to fill in. The program was somewhat altered, and Mr. Robertson had only one three-hour rehearsal. But this gifted and technically assured American conductor achieved brilliant results. At the end of the final work, "La Mer" by Debussy, the concertmaster David Halen engulfed Mr. Robertson in a bearhug, as the players put down their instruments to join in the applause. 
 The program opened with Hindemith's "Symphonic Metamorphosis on Themes of Carl Maria von Weber" (1943). Surely the grandiose title of this is tongue in cheek. Here Hindemith uses some inconsequential tunes of von Weber as thematic materials for a glittery and clever orchestral showpiece. It sounded particularly witty in Mr. Robertson's sly account, which revealed the humor in the music (the overly rigorous contrapuntal writing of the first movement, the faux Asian exotica of the "Turandot" scherzo, with its gallumphing fugue for brass) rather than poking fun at it. 
Had he planned a program with the orchestra from the start, Mr. Robertson, a champion of contemporary music, might have included a recent work. But he and the imaginative soloist, Gary Graffman, gave a performance of Ravel's Piano Concerto in D for the Left Hand that had this rhapsodic, harmonically daring work sounding cutting-edge.
Mr. Robertson preceded "La Mer" with Debussy's "Prelude a l'Apres-Midi d'un Faune." During both works I recalled the historic recording of Debussy playing some excerpts from his opera "Pelleas et Melisande" in piano transcription with Mary Garden singing. The striking rhythmic clarity of Debussy's playing is a chastisement to those who perform his works in an Impressionistic blur. 
Mr. Robertson Debussy's was similarly clear-textured and rhythmically incisive. Perhaps it lacked some degree of sensual color, though with more rehearsal he might have achieved that as well. But it was great to hear these works played with such vigor, direction and character. 
This was only the second appearance of Mr. Robertson with the St. Louis Symphony. He is scheduled to return next season, as long as there is a next season, which for now seems likely.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The conductor David Robertson with Gary Graffman, pianist. (Richard Termine for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); OPERA (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MATCHING GIFTS (70%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (70%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (55%) MUSIC; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: TOMMASINI, ANTHONY; ROBERTSON, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



370 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Buyout of Worth Magazine Is Planned by Chief Executive 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CARR 

 BODY:
When paychecks failed to arrive last Friday at the Midtown Manhattan offices of Worth magazine, employees feared that time had run out for the personal finance magazine.
 Yet, they had reason for some level of optimism: in the past, Worth's flamboyant chief executive, W. Randall Jones, had always managed to pull a rabbit out of a hat and find others willing to finance the up-market personal finance and lifestyle magazine he founded in 1991. 
 And if everything goes as planned today, the rabbit that Mr. Jones will pull out of the hat will be himself. 
Mr. Jones is expected to finish a deal today in which he will buy out the majority stake of GSC Partners, a New York venture capital firm, in Worth Media L.L.C., the company that owns the magazine. Mr. Jones refused to give financial details of the proposed deal, but said that he would buy 92.5 percent of the company, while GSC would retain a small share along with certain members of Worth Media's management. And Mr. Jones said his employees would be paid as soon as the deal was completed.
The venture capital firm's desire to sell the magazine is understandable. According to industry executives, Worth has lost more than $60 million over the last decade. Though Mr. Jones denied that he had tried to find a buyer for the magazine, a competing publisher said that he was contacted and that his company was among a number who declined.
The personal finance category of magazines has been mauled in the last year. Worth booked 30 percent fewer ad pages in 2001 than in 2000, according to the Publishers Information Bureau, and reported a $10 million drop in sales.
Mr. Jones, who came to prominence as an ad wunderkind at Esquire during the 1980's, remains remarkably undaunted. "I have been interested in buying them out and had a provision to do so after three years," he said in a telephone interview on Friday. "As with all venture funds, there is always a time limit, and I am interested in this for the long term. It has been 10 years of my life and I am putting my personal monies where my beliefs are."
Mr. Jones' willingness to invest some of his own money in Worth seems oddly timed.
"We are in what Advertising Age called a butt-ugly ad recession right now, but we are seeing enough light at the end of the tunnel that I feel bullish enough to buy out my investors," he said.
Ad pages for March, Mr. Jones suggested, will be up 30 percent over the year prior. But the short-term up-tick does not obscure the size of the challenge confronting independent magazines like Worth. Corporate-backed magazines like Money (owned by AOL Time Warner) and SmartMoney (a joint venture of Dow Jones and Hearst) can share back-office costs and engage in group sales while Worth will be going it alone, a single title with a single financier.
Worth was initially launched with backing from Fidelity Investments in 1991, an ownership that created the appearance of conflict given Fidelity's primary mission of selling mutual funds and financial services. In April of 1999, Fidelity sold the magazine to what was then Greenwich Street Capital Partners, later to become GSC Partners.
With the new infusion of capital, Mr. Jones led an effort to build a boutique publishing unit that would include Worth, a Web portal for wealth called Worth.com, and three other magazines, American Benefactor, Civilization, and a woman's finance publication called Equity. But Civilization quickly closed in 2000, the Web portal never took hold, and both American Benefactor and Equity were short-lived. That left Mr. Jones back where he started, with Worth.
In spite of the ups and downs of the magazine, Mr. Jones has demonstrated a Hefneresque ability to embody the brand. With his massive duplex on Sutton Place, which houses a life-sized painting of himself, he developed a reputation for parties that included the likes of Joan Collins and Candy and Tori Spelling, daughters of the creator of "Charlie's Angels," Aaron Spelling. 
"He lived like the Sultan of Brunei while he ran that magazine," said a publisher who competed with him at the time. "The whole idea seemed to be that if you read his magazine you could live like him."
"I have never apologized for my lifestyle," Mr. Jones said. "The publishing business has always given people access to their demographic market, so I don't know whether I hang out with them because they are my market, or because I run a magazine that is about them."
Worth is something of a publishing idiosyncracy, a business lifestyle magazine with an emphasis on the lifestyle. But SmartMoney Magazine, which began publication six months after Worth with an emphasis on utility, quickly made it into the black while Worth languished. And Money, the category leader from Time Inc., never relinquished its advantage, with more than $164 million in revenues in 2001 to Worth's $41 million.
"Worth has always tried to distinguish itself in the category and it's always difficult to go your own way," said Money's managing editor, Robert Safian. "It has always been a competitive category, and with the market downturn, it has really put a lot of pressure on the smaller players."
But Mr. Jones is still hanging in, something that does not surprise those who know him.
"I root for him. There is a Pied Piper quality to him -- you want to believe him," said Larkin Warren, who worked with Mr. Jones at Esquire and went on to become the founding editor of American Benefactor.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 13, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Monday about the plans of W. Randall Jones, chief executive of Worth Media, to buy out his partners referred incorrectly to a woman who attended parties at Mr. Jones's duplex on Sutton Place, where he cultivated his flamboyant image. The woman, Candy Spelling, is the wife of the television producer Aaron Spelling, not his daughter.

GRAPHIC: Photo: W. Randall Jones, the chief executive of Worth Media L.L.C. (Worth Media) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (88%); PRINT ADVERTISING (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); JOINT VENTURES (54%) MAGAZINES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: GSC GROUP (83%); AOL INC (60%); PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU (53%); DOW JONES & CO INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORTH (MAGAZINE); GSC PARTNERS 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (83%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (83%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (83%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: CARR, DAVID; JONES, W RANDALL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



371 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2599 words

HEADLINE: X-Ray Vision in Hindsight: Science, Politics and the Mammogram 

BYLINE:  By GINA KOLATA and MICHAEL MOSS 

 BODY:
For decades, it was an article of medical faith: Get a mammogram; it could save your life.
 Now, seemingly overnight, that faith has been shaken. The mammogram -- that yearly ritual for millions of American women -- has become the focus of a bitter and unusually public scientific dispute that is being fought in the pages of medical journals and the columns of daily newspapers. Scientists, policy makers and politicians have scheduled meetings and Congressional hearings. 
 In the end, though, there is not likely to be a quick answer to the central question of whether researchers were right when they said that screening healthy women reduces death from breast cancer or, to put it another way, whether women should still get that annual mammogram. 
"What a mess, what a complete mess," said Cindy Pearson, executive director of the Women's National Health Network, an advocacy group that has been flooded in recent days with phone calls from anxious women. "They want to know what is all this based on, is there some sort of sneaky, behind-the-scenes thing going on?"
How that mess came to be is a story of science and politics and the business of medicine, and a war on cancer that seized upon mammography as a central weapon. It also is a story of the way science struggles toward an ever evolving "truth."
The mammogram has always been a modest weapon, with benefits that women must weigh against possible risks. It is a screening tool that misses some tumors. At most, studies have found, it can cut the breast-cancer death rate by 30 percent.
Even when mammograms do "work," what they find does not always turn out to be cancer. The cancer they find may be growing so slowly that it would never threaten a woman's life. The result can be surgery, radiation and chemotherapy that is not medically necessary. 
Over the years, scientists and statisticians have quietly debated the merits of mammography. Most of the public debate, though, has focused on its effectiveness for women in their 40's. That was already in considerable doubt when the larger issue broke open last fall with the publication of a study by a pair of researchers based in Denmark. They argued that the clinical trials most often cited to support mammogram recommendations were too flawed to be reliable. Last month, an influential but independent panel of experts at the National Cancer Institute agreed and said it could no longer make a recommendation about whether women should be screened. 
"These are huge issues," said Dr. Barnett Kramer, chairman of the panel and associate director of disease prevention at the National Institutes of Health. "They shake my confidence."
For its part, the cancer institute says that after reviewing the matter, it concluded that the new analysis did not refute evidence that mammography works, and that it is standing by its recommendation that women 40 and older be screened. 
Many of those who did the original trials are vigorously defending their work. While there are flaws in the studies, they say, the Danish analysis exaggerated their significance and misinterpreted facts.
A number of experts agree. 
"I think the trials have imperfections," said Dr. Steven Woolf, a member of the United States Preventive Services Task Force, a panel that reviews scientific evidence about disease prevention. "But the issue is whether they invalidate the studies. My own view is that they do not rise to that level."
Since a new trial would require tens of thousands of women and a decade for results, some scientists are talking about digging deeper and more carefully into the old ones. 
Now, mammography supporters, led by the American Cancer Society, worry that the uncertainty will weaken the government's resolve. They say mammography is a leading reason that the breast-cancer death rate has been dropping for the last decade. 
Others, including those skeptical of mammography, ask whether the decline is a result of better treatments, especially the drug tamoxifen. For them, the furor is an opportunity to turn the focus of the war against breast cancer toward better treatment and the search for a cure.
A leading skeptic is Dr. Donald Berry, a medical statistician at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, where techniques were developed in the 1950's that spread mammography throughout the nation. Dr. Berry is a member of the federal advisory panel that is backing away from its support of mammography. 
"Breast people here think I'm doing a disservice to women, and I think they are doing a disservice to women," Dr. Berry says. "Who's right?"

A Eureka Moment
One evening in late 1970, Sam Shapiro took his research team to a Swiss restaurant in Manhattan, where he broke the news that transformed the medical and political approach to breast cancer.
Dr. Philip Strax, a radiologist who had begun impressing surgeons by finding tumors before they could feel a lump, was at the table. To see if the mammograms really worked, Mr. Shapiro, the research director at Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York, had begun a scientific inquiry called a randomized trial. He divided women, ages 40 to 64, into two groups, and gave mammograms to just one.
The study had paid off, Mr. Shapiro told his colleagues that evening. In the first seven years of the study, 81 of 31,000 women who had mammograms died of breast cancer, compared with 124 of 31,000 who were not screened, a difference in the breast cancer death rate of a little more than 30 percent. 
"It was thrilling," recalls Dr. Raymond Fink, who was in charge of recruiting women for the study. It was, he adds, "one of those movie moments," like the scene in "The Story of Louis Pasteur" when Paul Muni says, "I found the germ!"
Mammograms took off.
Before long, the National Cancer Institute, the American Cancer Society and other organizations issued guidelines telling women to have mammograms starting at age 40. The federal government advocated the breast X-ray like no other medical procedure. It pushed states to promote its use, compelled insurance companies to pay the bills and rode herd on the radiologists who did mammograms to ensure that they did a good job. Now, an estimated 30 million women are having annual mammograms, and many are having additional tests, like sonograms, when findings are suspicious. That leads to annual costs of more than $3 billion, said Dr. Martin L. Brown, an economist at the National Cancer Institute.

A Question of Age
From the start, there was concern among scientists that mammograms did not work as well for women in their 40's, whose denser breasts make tumors harder to spot and who are much less likely than older women to have breast cancer in the first place. To help resolve the question, some urged the cancer institute to halt its promotion of mammograms for these younger women until it did another scientific trial. Instead, in what became a string of flip-flops, the agency in 1977 merely stopped recommending mammograms for women in their 40's.
It reversed course in the late 1980's, citing new data that also helped persuade the American Cancer Society and other groups to promote screening for younger women.
Then in 1993, still more findings led the institute to abandon the screening recommendation for women in their 40's. 
Each move was hotly debated, and the issue festered in scientific circles until 1997, when the agency's new director, Dr. Richard Klausner, asked the National Institutes of Health to convene a new panel.
Dr. Leslie R. Laufman, an Ohio cancer specialist, said that before joining the panel, she had never really questioned the evidence about mammograms. At 49, she said, she had been having the screening test herself. "I was walking the walk and talking the talk," she said.
But after spending four months reading more than 100 scientific papers and then hearing 32 presentations in a two-day meeting, she and others concluded that women in their 40's should not be told to get screened, and she made a personal decision not have the test herself.
The reason was twofold, the panel said. First, the evidence that mammograms helped was tenuous. Second, there were risks in getting screened.
Over the years, scientists have learned that not all breast cancer acts alike. Some tumors grow fast, others slowly. Furthermore, nearly one-fifth of the 230,000 or so cases of breast cancer being found every year are a condition called ductal carcinoma in situ, or D.C.I.S.
Mammograms are especially good at finding D.C.I.S. But the problem is that many if not most of these growths -- the science on this question is weak -- might never spread. Too little is known about breast cancer biology to tell which ones will pose a threat. Thus, women must run the risk of getting unnecessary and dangerous treatment: radiation, chemotherapy, surgery.
The panel presented its findings to an audience packed with radiologists and advocates, with boos and hisses punctuating the proceedings. Dr. Klausner created his own stir when he said that he disagreed with the panel.
Then Congress got into the act, instructing the cancer institute to recommend that women in their 40's have mammograms. The institute reversed course and complied. 
"Now, women in their 40's will have clear guidance based on science and action to match it," President Bill Clinton had said.
But if the guidance for women in their 40's was murky, the consensus that screening worked for women in their 50's and 60's would soon be thrown into doubt.

The Doubters of Denmark
Dr. Peter C. Gotzsche said he had never thought much about mammography until the Danish Medical Association asked him to look into it.
As director of the Nordic Cochrane Center in Copenhagen, Dr. Gotzsche belonged to a research collective known as the Cochrane Collaboration, which is striving to improve the quality of scientific studies and reporting. 
When he and his colleague Ole Olsen looked at the seven large clinical trials on mammography, they concluded that they were too flawed to support mammography recommendations, a finding they reported two years ago in the British science journal Lancet.
The report drew little public attention. It was their deeper analysis, published in October, that touched off a firestorm.
Dr. Gotzsche and Mr. Olsen cited a number of things they said weakened the research, including potentially inaccurate records of causes of death, differences in screening schedules and possible discrepancies in the health histories of women in one of the trials. 
In that case, the HIP study in New York, 853 women in the mammography group were excluded because of a previous diagnosis of breast cancer; only 336 were dropped from the unscreened group. If the two groups really were equivalent to start with, and if an extra 500 or so in the unscreened group should have been dropped but were not, that would have been a serious problem, Dr. Gotzsche and Mr. Olsen said.
But while some leading medical experts were convinced, many study researchers maintain that the Danish critique misinterpreted data, failed to account for statistical adjustments that corrected problems, read too much into disparities in the numbers and raised alarming questions without offering evidence that the results were actually skewed.
For example, says Dr. Anthony Miller, who reviewed deaths in the HIP trial, the disparity in excluded women would have been a problem only if anyone with a prior history of breast cancer slipped into the final death tallies, thus distorting the results. Systems were put in place to avoid that, he says.
"They latched onto these small differences, which have ready explanations, and sort of magnified them," Dr. Miller said.
Dr. Gotzsche says he stands by the analysis. "There are no objections that make us doubt what we have done," he said.
The Danish critique also reported that the screened women had more medical and surgical treatments. Treatment is appropriate when it saves lives, but if the death rate from breast cancer was no lower in women who had mammograms, that raises questions, the researchers said, of whether the test does more harm than good.
Last month, the panel at the National Cancer Institute concurred with the Danish report and said it would be as rational for a woman to decide not to have the test as to decide to have it. The panel plans to rewrite the assessment that it posts on the cancer institute's Web site.
But others, including scientists who have looked skeptically at mammography over the years, say they are not convinced that the mammography trials were so flawed that their results should be ignored.
"Over all, I am not persuaded," said Dr. Suzanne Fletcher of Harvard Medical School, who was chairwoman of a 1993 federal panel that reviewed mammography, "although I thought there were some very important and interesting issues that these authors have raised." 
Still, Dr. Fletcher and others say they would like to see an independent committee have access to and review the original data from all the trials, including patient records, so that answers might be obtained to the questions the Danish research raised.

A Tool With Limitations
For women and their doctors, the uncertainty is immensely exasperating, given that nearly four decades have passed since researchers began trying to find out if mammograms work. 
"The bottom line is that if you're still not sure whether it's good or not, it can't be that good," says Dr. Vincent Rajkumar, an oncologist at the Mayo Clinic. "It can't be phenomenally effective."
Moreover, scientists say that the value of mammography cannot be weighed without taking into account the complex biology of breast cancer and the increasing effectiveness of treatment.
Some tumors grow so fast that mammograms cannot spot them before they spread -- and even if they could, the treatment might not be good enough to make any difference. In other cases, the treatment is so effective that it does not matter if the tumor is found with a mammogram or somewhat later, when a lump can be felt, voiding the whole need for early detection.
"An extreme example of that is testicular cancer," says Dr. Peter Greenwald, director of the division of cancer prevention at the National Cancer Institute, "where you can cure all stages, so you don't see a mortality benefit from early detection." 
For now, even as they acknowledge mammography's limitations, many doctors say it is the best tool they have. While mammograms might not catch some deadly tumors fast enough to make any difference, and they cannot predict which tumors will prove to be deadly, many doctors believe that early detection does help them save some lives. 
"I can think of many women where a mammogram was helpful in picking up something before it had spread to the lymph nodes," said Dr. Lynn Hartmann, a breast cancer specialist at the Mayo Clinic. "So I am not at the point of saying we should discard this tool. Until we have a more effective substitute, I continue to recommend mammograms, and I continue to have them."
Still, if all the ambiguity is maddening, that is not to say that the debate is unwelcome. 
When Dr. Gotzsche took the stage at a conference of the National Breast Cancer Coalition last May to present his work, he checked the path to the exit, fearing he might be run out of the hall. Instead, a third or more of the audience rose to applaud.
The group's president, Fran Visco, explained, "Many of our members have long felt that the data is poor, that we oversell screening to the public, that we don't talk about the risks and we don't focus enough attention on preventing breast cancer."
"They were thrilled to have someone question all that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Leslie R. Laufman questions screening in younger women. (Jack Kustron for The New York Times); Dr. Peter C. Gotzsche has criticized early mammogram studies. (Thomas Arnbo for The New York Times); Low-cost mammograms are part of the observance of National Mammography Day, the third Friday in October. (Bob Child/Associated Press); Dr. Philip Strax examining a breast X-ray in 1975. He impressed colleagues by finding tumors before they could be felt as lumps. (United Press International) Chart: "Changing Advice on Mammography"1963 -- Health Insurance Plan of New York, or HIP, begins first mammography trial. 1971 -- HIP reports that mammography reduces breast cancer deaths by 30 percent.1977-83 -- Four randomized trials are begun in Europe; eventually, they find that mammography cuts the breast cancer death rate by up to 30 percent. But two in Canada find no benefit for women in their 40's, and find a breast examination equally effective for women over 50. 1979 -- A National Institutes of Health conference recommends annual screening for women 50 and older. It supports screening for women in their 40's only if they have had cancer or a family history of it. 1980's -- After sharp debate, the National Cancer Institute, part of the N.I.H., recommends routine screening for women in their 40's. 1989 -- Eleven national health care organizations recommend an initial baseline mammogram for women age 35 to 39, and mammograms every one to two years for women over 40. 1992 -- The American Cancer Society drops its recommen-dation for baseline mammo-graphy for women 35 to 39. 1993 -- Citing growing evidence from randomized trials, the National Cancer Institute drops its recommendation for screening in the 40's. 1997 -- A National Institutes of Health conference concludes that there is not enough evidence to recommend routine screening for women in their 40's. But the Senate votes to encourage an institute advisory board to reject that conclusion, and the institute recommends beginning mammography in the 40's and continuing every one to two years.* The American Cancer Society recommends annual mammography for all women over 40, and clinical breast exams close to or, preferably, just before the annual mammogram. 2001 -- A Danish study calls into question the findings of earlier trials and suggests that mammography's value may have been overstated. JANUARY 2002 -- After reviewing the research, an independent panel at the National Cancer Institute decides it can no longer make a recommendation on whether women should be screened. For its part, the cancer institute concludes that the new analysis did not refute evidence that mammography is effective, and stands by its earlier recommendation: women 40 and older should have routine screening. Chart: "MORE WOMEN HAVING MAMMOGRAMS"Percent of women 50 and older who report having had a mammo-gram in the past two years: 1987: 27%1994: 61%1998: 69%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREAST CANCER (91%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (91%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); CANCER (89%); WOMEN (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); RADIOLOGY (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); CANCER DRUGS (74%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (74%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%) CANCER; BREAST; MAMMOGRAPHY; RESEARCH; WOMEN 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (91%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (84%)

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA; MOSS, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



372 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Steady Increase At All Levels of Government In Cost of Criminal Justice 

BYLINE:  By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

 BODY:
The cost of combating crime in the United States, for police, prisons and courts, was $147 billion in 1999, the last year for which figures are available, according to a study released yesterday by the Bureau of Justice Statistics.
 That is more than four times the $36 billion spent on the criminal justice system in 1982. Federal, state and local expenditures for police, prisons and courts increased every year in the 1990's, even as crime fell during the decade. 
 Nearly 2.2 million people work in the criminal justice system, including one million police officers, 717,000 prison and jail guards and 455,000 people in the courts, the report said. The expenditures amount to 7.7 percent of all state and local government spending and are about the same as government spending on hospitals and health care. 
The report did not directly address the question of how effective the spending has been. But it did find that in general, crime rates and spending on criminal justice were related, though not in the sense that many people believe. 
"States with high crime rates tend to have higher than average expenditures and employment" devoted to criminal justice, the report said, while states with the lowest crime rates tend to have the lowest spending and employment.
Some of the highest spending on criminal justice per capita was in the District of Columbia, Alaska and California, where the crime rates are high, the report said. But the five states with the lowest spending per capita on criminal justice were South Dakota, Maine, Vermont, North Dakota and West Virginia, which have long been among the states with the lowest crime rates.
"You can't assume that because you spend more money that you are going to drive down crime," said Michael Jacobson, a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice and a former corrections and probation commissioner and deputy budget director for New York City. "That is a simplistic assumption."
The question now, Professor Jacobson said, is whether the fiscal crisis facing almost all states will force policy makers to confront the costs of using prisons to lock up an ever increasing number of people. 
"In the 1990's, when states were flush with cash, they could do everything," Professor Jacobson said. They could cut taxes and build more prisons, he said, and in fact prisons were the fastest-growing item in state budgets during the past decade. "But now they must make hard choices, and with crime already going down, they must put a price on prisons."
Several states, including Ohio and Michigan, have already closed prisons in the past few months as a result of budget shortfalls, and some other states, including Washington, are considering reversing tough sentencing laws passed in the 1990's, so that inmates will serve shorter terms and the pressure for prison bed space will be reduced.
Jeremy Travis, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute and a former director of the National Institute of Justice, the research arm of the Justice Department, suggested that the report's finding about the huge costs of criminal justice might lead some states to consider a new strategy for dealing with crime. 
"The question is whether spending all that money on investments in the local community, where crime is taking place, would end up costing less money," Mr. Travis said. The money might be more effectively spent on job training, education and family services in poor neighborhoods with high crime rates rather than "exporting those funds to prisons, courts and police officers outside of the community," he said.
In many states, including New York and California, most prisons are in rural areas, shifting jobs and resources far from the cities where the majority of criminals come from. 
The report also highlights the federal government's increased role in the last two decades in criminal justice, which before then had been regarded more as a local or state function, said Alfred Blumstein, a professor of criminal justice at Carnegie Mellon University. 
Federal expenditures on criminal justice jumped to $27.4 billion in 1999, up from $4.5 billion in 1982, the report found. That is a greater increase than those in state and local spending. The biggest proportion of the increase in federal spending was for prisons, as Congress moved to make more crimes federal crimes, particularly drug offenses, and imposed longer sentences. 
About 60 percent of inmates in federal prisons are now there for drug crimes, Professor Blumstein said, a far higher proportion than in state prisons.
The report also found that spending on prisons, largely a state responsibility, grew faster than spending on police, which is primarily local. State spending on prisons, adjusted for inflation, rose 122 percent from 1982 to 1999, to $34.7 billion. But local spending on police increased only 39 percent, to $45.6 billion.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "PRICE TAG: The Cost of Crime"Fighting crime in the United States has become increasingly expensive. Graph tracks expenses for the courts, prisons, and police from 1982-1998. Figures adjusted for inflation and shown in 1999 dollars.(Source: Bureau of Justics Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (94%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PRISONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PROBATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%) CRIME AND CRIMINALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (91%) BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



373 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds More Dire Financial Impact of 9/11 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
The economic impact of Sept. 11 appears to be even more severe than business leaders predicted in November, according to an updated report commissioned by the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce.
 The update will be discussed today by Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the partnership, at a City Council hearing on the need for aid to the city after the World Trade Center disaster. The original report, prepared for the partnership by seven management consulting firms, was released Nov. 15. 
 Job losses tied directly to Sept. 11 are likely to be "significantly greater" than the 57,000 originally estimated, the update says, because more big companies are planning to move some employees out of Manhattan. A new strategy by financial firms -- that of dispersing their workplaces -- will affect Midtown as well as Lower Manhattan. 
Insurance claims are likely to be $52 billion, rather than the $38 billion originally projected, the update says, adding, "This development may signal that the economic impact of the attack is wider and deeper." 
Most of the increase comes from liability claims, which are likely to be litigated for years and may never be paid, as has been the case for claims made after the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. Commercial insurance rates have risen by as much as 65 percent, the report says. 
Some of the first report's predictions have been borne out, like its forecast that retail sales in New York would be 10 percent lower than in the rest of the country, according to the update. 
Travel remains depressed, with fewer tourists from Asia and business travelers coming to the city. 
"Now we're seeing the Enron effect," Ms. Wylde said on Friday, noting that Wall Street deals have ground to a halt because of the scandal, which means fewer trips to New York by corporate executives, lawyers and accountants. 
While the cleanup at the World Trade Center site has gone much faster than expected, business leaders are still eager to see a redevelopment plan before the site is entirely cleared, Ms. Wylde said. It was not so much that they cared what the plan was, she said, but people making business decisions wanted to know that "there wasn't going to be a huge hole in the ground in Lower Manhattan for the foreseeable future." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RELOCATIONS (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (74%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (73%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (73%); TERRORISM (73%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (73%); LAWYERS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); HIJACKING (72%); CITIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (68%); BOMBINGS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (56%); RETAIL SALES (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; RESEARCH; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY PARTNERSHIP AND CHAMBER OF COMMERCE 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



374 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Study Says Single-Rider Ban Hurts Economy 

BYLINE:  By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
A study commissioned by business and labor leaders opposed to the single-occupant driving ban into Manhattan has found that 190,000 fewer people a day have been crossing by car into the borough south of 60th Street since the restrictions were imposed. And the study projects that the ban could cost the city $1.5 billion in lost spending, tolls and taxes if continued for a full year.
 In essence, the findings suggest that the city's goals in imposing the ban last September -- to encourage commuters to double up in cars, to drive at off-peak times or to switch to mass transit -- are not being met. Instead, the study seems to show that many people have decided that if they cannot drive alone into Manhattan when they want, they just won't come at all. 
 "On any given day the impact might not be all that apparent to people or to businesses, but the cumulative effect over a year is going to be very large," said Hugh O'Neil, an economic development consultant and a former executive with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, who conducted the study along with Sam Schwartz, a traffic consultant and former deputy transportation commissioner for the city.
City officials, who were given initial results of the study several weeks ago, say that they are still analyzing them but believe the numbers are fundamentally flawed because the traffic survey was not comprehensive enough and included traffic counts from a Friday, traditionally a lower traffic day. Furthermore, city officials said they disagreed with the conclusions and added that numbers they had collected showed that the ban was causing people to car-pool and to commute earlier or later in the morning.
"So we do believe that the ban has been very good in terms of stretching out the morning rush hours and trying to bring some semblance of order back to traffic flow," said a spokesman for the city's Department of Transportation, Tom Cocola.
The ban, which prohibits lone drivers from entering Manhattan between 6 and 10 a.m. on weekdays via the Brooklyn, Manhattan and Queensboro Bridges, and the Holland, Lincoln and Queens-Midtown Tunnels, was put into place on Sept. 25 after several days of traffic jams miles long caused, in part, by security checkpoints and widespread street closings.
The congestion grew so bad that it even delayed the start of a Yankee game, and city officials said they believed it was wounding the city's already wounded economy, making businesses less efficient and raising delivery costs. (One government-sponsored traffic study, conducted well before the terrorist attack, estimated that congestion in the city's central business district, Manhattan south of 60th Street, cost the city $1 billion a year.)
The city began the ban using the authority given to the mayor's office under emergency orders that are re-issued every five days. Under normal circumstances, such a ban would require environmental and economic studies, months of public hearings and, eventually, a change in state law.
At first, criticism came largely from parking garage owners, who complained that their business was cut by as much as 40 percent. But over the last two months, opposition to the ban has begun to grow, with restaurant and hotel owners, labor leaders and retail store owners complaining that the ban itself is hurting the city's economy, keeping away shoppers, diners and tourists. They add that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's projection of a $4.5 billion budget deficit next year means the city cannot afford to discourage anyone from coming to the city.
"Our desperate need is to revitalize and stimulate our economy," said Brian M. McLaughlin, president of the Central Labor Council, an umbrella organization representing more than one million union members. "And this ban has clearly prevented the opportunity to lift the economy and try to bring the city back to normal."
The study, conducted during four days in November, using pneumatic car-counting cables stretched across several major roads and at bridges, found that 137,000 fewer cars came into Manhattan south of 60th Street compared with the previous October, when the city and other agencies take an annual traffic count.
Using an estimate of the average number of people in cars crossing into the city, the consultants doing the study arrived at a loss of 190,000 people a day from 2000 to 2001. While the loss could be attributed to several factors -- fear of terrorism, loss of jobs, offices moving to the suburbs -- the study asserts that it is caused mainly by the traffic ban because mass transit has not experienced a proportionate drop-off in riders since the attack.
The most troubling trend since the ban took effect, Mr. Schwartz said, is the steep drop-off in traffic not just from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m., when car-pooling is enforced, but also during the other 20 hours of the day, and at crossings with no restrictions, like the George Washington and Triborough Bridges.
This seems to happen because of confusion about the restrictions and fear that driving into the city has become too uncertain, he said, adding that much of the drop-off appeared to be not from business commuters but day-tripping tourists.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A traffic agent monitored cars last September on the Queensboro Bridge as a morning ban on one-rider commuting into Manhattan took effect. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (77%); MAYORS (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PORT AUTHORITIES (66%); TERRORISM (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; RESEARCH; CAR POOLS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%)

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



375 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2283 words

HEADLINE: Trial of Milosevic Will Peel Layers of Balkan Guilt, Too 

BYLINE:  By IAN FISHER 

DATELINE: SANSKI MOST, Bosnia and Herzegovina 

 BODY:
The remains of 372 people killed 10 years ago are laid down on a warehouse floor here. Traces of distinct human beings -- a Mozart T-shirt, a pocket watch -- recede in the sameness of the bones, which two forensics experts arrange like puzzles and label. B for a whole body, BP for something less. 
 What overwhelms is the size of the crime: that the earth in what was once a part of Yugoslavia still disgorges the dead in such large numbers. Digging for these bodies, all Bosnian Muslims, began only this past Sept. 11, the day the world's attention turned toward the crimes of a new decade. 
 But starting on Feb. 12, some of the worst crimes of the last decade will undergo their own autopsy. Slobodan Milosevic, the former president of Yugoslavia, and of Serbia, its largest remaining republic, the man accused of being most responsible for these deaths and thousands of others, will stand trial before an international court in The Hague. 
Mr. Milosevic, the first head of state ever to be tried for war crimes, is essentially accused of leading a genocidal, criminal enterprise. The aim of that enterprise, prosecutors allege, was to "cleanse" land he believed belonged to ethnic Serbs of other ethnic groups, Croats, Muslims, Albanians. It spans three wars, in Croatia, Kosovo and here in Bosnia, where he is accused of genocide, in the most significant war crimes trial since Nuremberg. 
Mr. Milosevic proclaims innocence, saying he acted only to keep Yugoslavia whole. "This is a malicious, utterly hostile process aimed at justifying the crime against my country, using this court as a weapon against my country and my people," he told judges at The Hague in January. 
Even among experts who loathe Mr. Milosevic, there are worries over whether the proceedings may look like victors' justice and whether the prosecutor, Carla Del Ponte, can deliver the evidence that draws a direct line between Mr. Milosevic and bodies like those uncovered here.
That will be for the judges to decide in a trial expected to last at least two years.
But beyond the trial itself is the question of what it means for the people of what was once a much larger Yugoslavia, the wreckage of what was an imperfect but functioning multiethnic state in Europe, a unique bridge between East and West.
Well over 200,000 died in the wars of that Yugoslavia's destruction, most of them Muslims. Ethnic cleansing has left an indelible trace; most of Bosnia is now divided along ethnic lines. Soldiers of outside nations, slow to react as the war escalated, patrol those still volatile lines. Foreign bureaucrats run Bosnia, now an independent nation, and Kosovo, still a province of Serbia -- and will for years to come.
For many victims, there is a need for justice. For the Serbs, who supported Mr. Milosevic for 13 years, the questions raised by the trial are perhaps more complex.
Many among the new, reformist breed of leaders in Belgrade -- who faced criticism at home for extraditing Mr. Milosevic last June -- see an opportunity to come to terms with a violent past that was long repressed.
But any reconciliation with the past, as they see it, is not a collective thing but a matter of blaming the old leaders and allowing Serbia to move squarely into Europe. 
"We have to individualize the guilt," said Ivan Djordjevic, a former dissident lawyer and an official in Serbia's Ministry of Internal Affairs. "Otherwise we have this feeling of collective guilt, that this whole nation had the goal of eliminating other people and killing. Not all of us supported this."
For the victims, this lets Serbia, the largest entity in the former Yugoslavia, off too easily -- and leaves open the possibility of ethnic hatred, then war, returning.
"Milosevic will be found guilty of crimes," said Veton Surroi, the publisher of Koha Ditore, an influential Albanian newspaper in Kosovo, Serbia's southern province. "But his society cannot escape responsibility for those crimes. This is an opportunity for them to open the soul and say: 'Wait a minute, where was I when that happened? Where were the Serb people?' "
"After all," he added, "they will need to deal with it, if not for anyone else's sake, for their own sake."

Serbian Pragmatism
Weary of the Past And Its Burdens
 Maybe he is blunter than most, but Dejan Milojevic is like many Serbs: weary of Mr. Milosevic, tired of hearing about the savagery of Serbs, eager to reap the rewards of rejoining the outside world. After Mr. Milosevic's extradition, and confronting an average income here of $125 a month, many Serbs are more pragmatist than nationalist.
"The main thing we are interested in," said Mr. Milojevic, 29, a town official in Aleksinac, south of Belgrade, "is how to cash in on all the misery we've been through. We are willing to admit guilt in Kosovo if that will bring in money."
Still, Mr. Milojevic has reservations. He wonders if Mr. Milosevic can get a fair trial at The Hague, since the same nations that paid for the NATO bombing against Serbia in 1999 are underwriting the trial. He believes that not only Mr. Milosevic, and not only Serbs, are guilty of war crimes. He is still angry at the West, not least because stray NATO bombs killed 24 people, most of them civilians, in Aleksinac in April 1999. 
Latinka Perovic, a historian who campaigned against Mr. Milosevic, suggests that the mixture of pragmatism, adaptability and indignation in Serbia is also a way to wiggle out of a larger responsibility for supporting Mr. Milosevic.
"It is not good to stay on that level only," Ms. Perovic said. "There is another level which is not being discussed. That is the issue of punishment of crimes as a moral issue, an ethical issue."
She said the new Yugoslav government -- led by President Vojislav Kostunica, a moderate nationalist who defeated Mr. Milosevic at the polls in 2000 -- has done little to explore this function of the trial.
Serbs often say they had no idea what really happened. Mr. Milosevic's propaganda was overwhelming. For years, it portrayed a wronged Serbia under imminent threat, first from reborn Croatian fascists, then from Islamic hordes in Bosnia and finally from the "demographic genocide" committed by Albanians in Kosovo -- a reference to their high birth rate. Most Serbs swallowed all this.
So what will be the effect on this society of Ms. Del Ponte's evidence, which will no doubt present one atrocity after another, from the "ethnic cleansing" of 1992 in Bosnia when tens of thousands died and more than 700,000 Muslims were driven from home, to the 7,000 Muslim men killed in Srebrenica in Bosnia in 1995, to 300 or more Albanians massacred in the village of Meja in Kosovo in 1999? 
Already, there are some cracks. Last year, the conscience of a few Serbs, drivers of trucks and bulldozers with bad dreams, broke.
The new government soon announced a horrifying find: eight mass graves in Serbia proper, including five on a police training ground in Batajnica, just outside Belgrade. So far about 445 bodies -- some of them children -- have been exhumed, all presumed to be ethnic Albanians killed in the war in Kosovo in 1999, then transferred from grave to grave. Perhaps 800 or 900 bodies are still in the ground. It has jolted many Serbs. 
"If it's really true," said Marina Ivanis, 22, a clerk in a Batajnica clothing store, "it's a monstrous thing. It's inhuman."

Bosnia's Hidden Horrors
Skeletons Uncovered; Many Are Missing
 In Bosnia, many more dead lie undiscovered, among the 17,000 Muslims, 2,500 Serbs and 700 Croats still unaccounted for. The skeletons in the warehouse in Sanski Most, in northwest Bosnia, constitute only about half those dumped in mine pits outside the town of Ljubija, investigators say. Bones poking through the dirt revealed the spot. 
In 1992, Bosnia became the third war of Yugoslavia's disintegration, after Slovenia and Croatia. The Serbian destruction of Vukovar, Croatia, had already become a symbol of Mr. Milosevic's brutality.
Throughout wide swathes of Bosnia, in the months after the war began, the Serbian violence, most of it against civilians, was overwhelming: villages of Muslims uprooted, massacres, skeletal figures whose empty gazes behind barbed-wire fences announced the return of concentration camps to Europe.
In an initial rampage, close to 70 percent of Bosnia was cleared of non-Serbs. But Mr. Milosevic always dismissed accounts of these events as the inventions of those plotting Serbia's downfall.
"My son was killed in a concentration camp," said Suhra Pidic, 60, a Muslim woman who moved back to the demolished village of Kozarac. "He was my only child. He is these children's father. His children don't have anything."
The children, 12 and 9, poked around the kitchen of their reconstructed house during a conversation about their father, Irfan, who died at 27 in 1992 after being held in camps at Keraterm and Trnopolje.
Mrs. Pidic has no hope that Serbs, Muslims and Croats can live together. While she is pleased Mr. Milosevic is on trial, no courtroom justice will change that. 
"I can never forgive them," she said. "In 1,000 years, our children's children will never forgive them."
The Pidic family has returned unmolested to the Serb-held part of Bosnia, one family of 150,000 refugees who have gone back to their homes in the last two years alone.
With two million displaced by the war, "every returnee is a defeat for ethnic cleansing," said Wolfgang Petritsch, the top international administrator in Bosnia.
Yet Bosnia remains divided, the Serbs' aims largely achieved.
Mr. Milosevic always waved away Bosnia as a separate country over which he had no control, despite recurrent evidence that Serbian forces in Bosnia were being directed and paid from Belgrade. The chief issue for Ms. Del Ponte in court may well be to demonstrate that Mr. Milosevic, as president of Serbia, did indeed have effective control over the acts of Serbs in Bosnia, whose independence in spring 1992 set off the war. 
Under the accord reached in Dayton, Ohio, in 1995, which ended the war, roughly half the country belongs to Bosnian Serbs, while Muslims and Bosnian Croats share the other half. They exist, and govern, mostly apart. 
That Serbs allow people like the Pidic family to return home only underscores how complete the changes are, argued Mark Wheeler, director of the International Crisis Group in Bosnia. "The reason they can do it is that they are confident the demographic balance is not going to be restored to what it was in 1992," he said. "The ethnic cleansing is permanent."
His progress report on Bosnia was equally bleak: "The economy is a disaster. There is no rule of law. Democracy malfunctions. The international community squabbles." 
Haris Silajdzic, the former Bosnian prime minister, said that while Mr. Milosevic was on trial, "his project is not on trial." The only solution to entrenched ethnic division, he suggested, is to speed admission to the European Union for the countries that emerged from the former Yugoslavia.

The Kosovo Indictment
Accusations of Terror Against the State
 The indictment is specific. On April 27, 1999, "a large number" of Yugoslav and Serbian troops rounded up Albanians near Meja, close to Kosovo's border with Albania. Most were forced to flee. An unknown number of men were culled and killed. At least 300 are still missing -- identity cards of 7 men last seen there were found in the mass graves outside Belgrade. 
"This was state organized," said Engjell Berisha, 40, who lost two brothers that day. "There were soldiers, police, high officials from the municipality. If this was the work of bandits, it wouldn't have been this organized." 
Mr. Milosevic got his break in politics as a nationalist leader in 1987, and again in 1989, when he went to Kosovo, holy ground for Serbs, for what became famous speeches.
Then, in 1999, Kosovo became the beginning of Mr. Milosevic's end. The West lost patience with his repression and unleashed a NATO bombing campaign that resulted in the withdrawal of Mr. Milosevic's security forces. The defeat helped stoke opposition that led eventually to Mr. Milosevic's defeat at the polls and his ouster in October 2000.
Prosecutors say that holding Mr. Milosevic responsible in Kosovo may be the least difficult of the three cases. In contrast to Bosnia, the troops in Kosovo appeared to be under his direct authority. Kosovo remains formally part of Serbia.
Mr. Milosevic says he was fighting to protect the integrity of his country against Albanian "terrorists," the Kosovo Liberation Army. It will be up to Ms. Del Ponte to provide the direct links to deaths of civilians. The new Serbian government says it has testimony that Mr. Milosevic personally ordered the cleanup of "battlefields."
"Something of such proportions would not have been permitted without his knowledge," said Mr. Djordjevic of the Internal Affairs Ministry.
But Serbs in Kosovo perceive the West's justice as one-sided. Thousands of Serbs in Kosovo were driven from home after NATO troops arrived in June 1999. The trial offers one more reason to be angry: no Albanians have been publicly indicted for war crimes. 
As in Bosnia, most Albanians consider the ethnic divisions permanent.
Mr. Berisha, in Meja, said he feared too many had died -- some 4,000 bodies have been recovered, most of them Albanians -- for coexistence ever to be possible again.
"Most of these kids have no father," he said, as he walked by a field full of boys playing soccer. "And they know that Serbs killed them." 
In the village of Izbica, a woman named Ajmoni Behrami, 33, said much the same: "Even if he gets the death penalty, it's nothing." The trial, she said, "is important, but I could tear his skin off myself and my heart would not even speed up."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Eva Elvira Klonowski, a forensic expert, with the recently exhumed remains of 372 people killed 10 years ago in Bosnia. (Alan Chin for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Ajmoni Behrami, with her daughter, at the grave of her son, one of 145 killed by Serbian forces in Izbica, Kosovo, in May 1999. (Alan Chin for The New York Times); Mr. Milosevic at The Hague. (CNN); Bosnian men imprisoned by Serbs, 1992. (Ron Haviv/Saba)(pg. A10) Chart: "Milosevic on Trial: The Accusations"Slobodan Milosevic's trial is scheduled to begin tomorrow at The Hague. The charges stem from the wars in Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo. 1989MAY 8, 1989Mr. Milosevic became president of Serbia. 1991JUNE 1991Slovenia and Croatia seceded from Yugoslavia. Slovenia won independence in 10 days. In Croatia, clashes between Serbian troops and Croatian defense forces erupted into full-scale war. 1992JANUARY 1992Truce brokered in the Croatian-Serbian war. APRIL 1992Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence was recognized by the United States and European countries. Bosnian Serb forces attacked Sarajevo. 1995NOVEMBER 1995Mr. Milosevic and leaders of Croatia and Bosnia reached an agreement near Dayton, Ohio, to end the war. Bosnia was divided into a Muslim-Croat federation and a Bosnian Serb republic. 1997JULY 15, 1997Mr. Milosevic was elected president of Yugoslavia. JANUARY 1998Albanian rebels in Kosovo assassinated a Serbian official; clashes between Serbian police and Albanians grew. 1999MARCH 1999NATO began bombing Yugoslavia to end the repression of Albanians in Kosovo. JUNE 1999Serbian forces withdrew from Kosovo. 2000OCTOBER 2000Serbs drove Mr. Milosevic from power after he tried to steal the Yugoslav presidential election from Vojislav Kostunica. 2001JUNE 28, 2001Mr. Milosevic was sent to the United Nations war crimes tribunal at The Hague. INDICTMENTS1991-1992CROATIA -- 32 countsFor crimes against Croats and other non-Serbs from August 1991 to June 1992. 1995BOSNIA -- 29 countsFor crimes, including genocide, against Bosnian Muslims, Bosnian Croats and other non-Serbs. An estimated 200,000 people died and millions were driven from their homes from March 1992 to December 1995. 1999KOSOVO -- 5 countsFor crimes against Kosovo Albanian citizens. Hundreds were killed and more than 800,000 were driven out from January to June in 1999. (pg. A10) Map of Yugoslavia shows surrounding area. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (91%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); AUTOPSIES (78%); FORENSICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); GENOCIDE (75%); RELIGION (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); ETHNICITY (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%) WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%)

PERSON: FISHER, IAN; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN; DEL PONTE, CARLA 

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (91%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (59%) OHIO, USA (79%) CROATIA (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (97%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (94%); NETHERLANDS (93%); EUROPE (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) SERBIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); CROATIA

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



376 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

For Saudis, Rehabilitation A New Option in Drug War
Drugs have increasingly become a source of entertainment and escape for Saudi Arabia's young population, and addiction has become a serious enough problem that the government is beginning to deal with it in a distinctly non-Saudi way: openly. A3

Palestinians Kill 2 Soldiers
Two Palestinians shot and killed two soldiers near the Israeli Army's Southern Command headquarters, and were then shot dead. Later, Israeli warplanes struck a Palestinian police compound in Gaza City and rockets were fired at targets in the northern Gaza Strip. A8

Wafa Idris, identified as the first female suicide bomber to attack inside Israel, has been hailed in the Arabic-language press as a nationalist and feminist hero. But her attack has stirred religious debate over whether Islam permits women to carry out suicide missions. A8

German Red Ink Irks Partners
Germany, the onetime locomotive for growth, is likely to have a budget deficit of 2.7 percent of gross domestic product this year -- within a hair of the 3 percent limit that Germany itself insisted on for countries that adopt the euro. The possible breach positions it for an embarrassing reprimand from European finance ministers, who are to meet in Brussels tomorrow. A5

Plea to Help Refugees in China
Human rights advocates appealed to President Bush, who is to visit Asia this week, to push Chinese leaders for concrete efforts to help the nearly 200,000 Korean refugees there. A10

NATION CHALLENGED 12-13

Released Afghan Prisoners Say They Were Abused
Afghan prisoners captured by American forces in two night raids last month said that they were beaten and abused by American soldiers, despite their protests that they supported the leader of the interim government, Hamid Karzai. The Pentagon has acknowledged that the raids were conducted in error. A1

Afghanistan's Porous Borders
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld has berated Iran for failing to stop Taliban and Al Qaeda fighters from crossing into the country from Afghanistan, citing Pakistan as an example of cooperation. But loose controls at the Pakistan border suggest that just as many fighters may have escaped to that nation. A13

Iran Cracks Down on Warlord
In Tehran, demands for the expulsion of the exiled hard-line Afghan warlord Gulbuddin Hekmatyar grew louder, with the government both shuttering his organization's offices and indicating that he might be asked to leave. A12

Health Concerns for Senate
More than 70 Senate employees and at least one senator have experienced health problems they suspect are related to the irradiation of Congressional mail that began after anthrax attacks in October. A13

NATIONAL A14-23

More Job Seekers Answering Call to Teach
The sinking economy and a wave of soul-searching after the Sept. 11 terror attacks have swelled the number of people seeking jobs as teachers, school officials say. A1

Rural Drug Problem Grows
From Maine to Oregon and Georgia to Texas, rural communities are experiencing an explosion in drugs and crime. The upsurge is testing local law enforcement agencies and bringing the kind of violence more commonly associated with poor neighborhoods in big cities. A1

Cost of Crime-Fighting Rises
The cost of combating crime in the United States, for police, prisons and courts, was $147 billion in 1999, according to a study by the Bureau of Justice Statistics. That is more than four times the $36 billion spent on the criminal justice system in 1982. A14

Death Penalty Flaws Examined
Death sentences are more likely to be reversed in areas that often use that penalty and have higher black populations, and where judges face political pressure, according to a new study. A16

Parties Pulling In Donations
As the House heads toward a pivotal vote on campaign finance legislation, Republicans and Democrats alike have been raising money so aggressively that they are breaking previous records, despite an informal fund-raising moratorium in the weeks after the Sept. 11 attacks. A1

Clash Over Governor's Records
By placing records from his governorship at his father's presidential library, George W. Bush is putting them in the hands of a federal institution that is not ordinarily bound by the state's tough Public Information Act. That concerns the state archivist, who says the records belong to Texas and ought to be readily available in accordance with that law. A14

Evolution Theory's New Foe
The latest challenge to evolution's primacy in the classrooms -- the theory of intelligent design, not the old foe creationism -- will get a full-scale hearing before Ohio Board of Education members, who are in a heated debate over whether established science censors other views about the origins of life. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Best-Selling Prison Author Is Found Dead in His Cell
Jack Henry Abbott, left, a convicted killer and best-selling author who was paroled in 1981 with the support of the novelist Norman Mailer, only to kill a waiter six weeks later, was found dead in his prison cell in an apparent suicide, officials said. B1

University President Resigns
Arnold J. Levine, president of Rockefeller University,announced that he was resigning for health reasons. His departure follows an inquiry by trustees into an incident between Dr. Levine and a female student in a campus lounge after both had had too much to drink, according to people close to him who spoke on condition of anonymity. B1

Bacterial Pneumonia Death
A Massachusetts woman attending a business convention at a hotel in Cherry Hill, N.J., died of aggressive bacterial pneumonia, and seven other conventiongoers were hospitalized with a flulike respiratory illness, officials said. B1

ARTS E1-9

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Debate Over Mammograms
For decades, the value of an annual mammogram was an article of medical faith. But now, seemingly overnight, that faith has been shaken. A18

SPORTSMONDAY D1-11

Hockey League Draws Fire
The N.H.L. says it is trying to protect the integrity of its season. But it is drawing criticism for a position that threatens to keep some players from joining their national teams, now vying for two open positions in the upcoming preliminary round of Olympic play. D1

OBITUARIES A25

Robert J. Lamphere
An F.B.I. agent who supervised the investigations of some of the biggest espionage cases of the cold war, including that of the Rosenbergs, he was 83. A25

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Lay to Invoke Fifth Amendment
Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's former chairman, exercising his Constitutional right against self-incrimination, has decided not to testify before Congress tomorrow about the company's collapse, a spokeswoman said. A1

The Many Hats of Robert Rubin
Plenty of government officials retire to the private sector to make their fortunes. Plenty of business executives venture into politics seeking power and influence. Robert E. Rubin, former Treasury secretary, is doing both. A1

Executive Deals Questioned
Even as the government looks for evidence of accounting fraud at the troubled communications company Global Crossing, some analysts are shaking their heads over the apparently legal ways the company's executives were able to walk away with personal fortunes. C1

Executives at several corporations have found a legal way to delay telling the public when they sell their own companies' stock. But after events like the collapse of Enron, some experts say the rules should be changed to give investors a clear, prompt picture of stock sales. C1

Movies as Product Lines
Two years after a management shakeup at Warner Brothers, it has become increasingly clear that within the vast AOL Time Warner multimedia empire, the strategy is to run a movie-franchise factory. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: The trial of Slobodan Milosevic; New York's displaced workers; Adam Cohen on Congress's investigation of Enron.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E6
Metro Diary B2
Crossword E6
TV Listings E9
Weather D12

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); TALIBAN (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); REFUGEES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); BUDGETS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); RELIGION (68%); BORDER CONTROL (67%); EMPLOYMENT (62%); ANTHRAX (61%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HAMAD KARZAI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (77%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); GERMANY (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



377 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: MORE APPLICANTS ANSWER THE CALL FOR TEACHING JOBS 

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
The sinking economy and a wave of soul-searching after the Sept. 11 attacks have swelled the number of people seeking jobs as teachers, school officials around the country say.
 The officials say they hope the trend will ease a national teacher shortage that is expected to worsen over the next decade as school enrollments grow and more teachers retire. In particular, it may stem the perennial shortage of qualified math and science teachers, since many recent applicants are from the technology and financial industries and have expertise in those subjects. 
 Altogether, the nation's public schools expect to need about 2.4 million new teachers by 2012, almost as many as the 2.8 million now working.
The most striking increase is in applications to programs that recruit people from other careers, provide minimal training and send the new teachers into short-staffed schools, typically in poor urban neighborhoods. Many of these alternate-route programs pay for the recruits to get master's degrees in education, an especially alluring benefit in a recession. 
One such program, in Washington, D.C., has received 45 percent more applications than it had this time last year. Another, serving Kansas City, Kan., and Kansas City, Mo., has had a 40 percent increase. More than 5,000 people from other careers have applied to teach in New York City starting in September, compared with 1,250 at this time last year.
Many applicants in these cities and others explain their new interest in teaching by pointing to the uncertainty caused by the recession and the terrorist attacks.
"We are noticing a pretty significant number of people who are mentioning in their cover letter how the whole Sept. 11 thing really impacted their decision to apply," said Michelle Rhee, president of the New Teacher Project, a nonprofit consulting group that helps school districts recruit and train teachers.
There are other reasons, of course, for the heightened interest in teaching. As thousands of teachers from the baby boom generation prepare to retire, urban school districts in particular have stepped up recruitment, starting earlier in the year and broadening their search to include populations -- like professionals disenchanted with corporate jobs -- that they used to write off. The New York City school system is running advertisements in subway cars and newspapers that read: "No one goes back 10 years later to thank a middle manager" and "Your spreadsheets won't ever grow up to be doctors and lawyers."
In Chicago, school officials are hoping to lure new teachers with an advertising campaign that depicts teaching as a recession-proof career. They are also playing up job security in presentations to college students. 
"The idea is that the economy may be down," said Carlos Ponce, chief of human resources for the Chicago schools, "but there is still a high demand for teachers." 
The increased interest is also reflected in applications to graduate programs in teacher education and to Teach for America, which places recent college graduates in troubled urban schools after a summer of training. 
At Columbia University Teachers College, the nation's largest graduate school of education, new enrollment for the spring semester was up 23 percent over last year. Christine Persico, executive director for enrollment services, said the applicants included more people than usual with advanced degrees, including Wall Street executives who wanted to be principals or superintendents.
"Some are saying they lost their job or anticipate losing their job," Ms. Persico said. "They might have had a penchant for a service-oriented job like teaching before but had a career opportunity in the business world or elsewhere that they felt they couldn't pass up."
Teach for America has had the sharpest year-to-year increase in applicants in its 12-year history. It received 3,300 applications by its first deadline, Oct. 31, compared with 1,100 the previous year. The organization has received a total of 8,704 requests for applications for September 2002, compared with 4,343 last year. In a poll of 200 people applying to the program in recent months, more than half said they had changed their career plans as a result of Sept. 11.
"This is not typical for us at all," said Melissa Golden, a spokeswoman for Teach for America. But she said that the increase might not be directly related to the recession, because in the past, applications actually decreased when the economy was weak.
In regions that have been hard hit by layoffs, school districts are also seeing more teachers returning after an extended absence. Houston and Raleigh, N.C., for example, have received inquiries from people who had left teaching to raise families or take better-paying jobs and now need steady paychecks because they or their spouses are out of work. This group includes several former employees of the Enron Corporation in Houston, said Beatrice Garza, who is in charge of hiring for the school district.
Meanwhile, fewer experienced teachers are quitting to pursue other careers, since the job market is so much tighter.
"People are staying put," said Stella Shelton, a spokeswoman for the Raleigh school system, where there is markedly less teacher turnover this year. "The reality is that many teachers are married to people who have been laid off or are worried they won't find a new job if they move."
Raleigh, like Seattle and San Jose, Calif., is receiving more applications than usual from people who want to teach math and science after losing jobs in the technical sector. San Jose appears to have reaped the most benefits this year, hiring dozens of people who were laid off from Silicon Valley computer companies. 
As an alternative, many of these people are applying to be substitute teachers. In Raleigh, the number of substitutes has grown to more than 1,000, compared with 550 last year. In Chicago, 7,000 people, including many from the airline industry, have signed up to be substitutes this year, up from 5,000 last year.
Roger Regan, 39, signed up last week as a substitute high school teacher in Raleigh after the start-up company he worked for went bankrupt. Mr. Regan, who is working toward a doctorate in public policy, said he settled on substitute teaching -- for which he will earn $66 a day -- only after failing to find part-time work in Research Triangle Park.
"Unless people get in there and find out they love it," Mr. Regan said, "I think most are doing this just to have a steady income."
Some education officials fear that too many of the new teachers are like Mr. Regan, people who are pursuing teaching only as a temporary measure and will most likely seek better-paying jobs once the economy improves. Some question whether it is worth hiring them -- and in the case of many districts with alternate-route programs, paying more than $10,000 per teacher for their graduate studies -- if they will only jump ship.
"It's very hard to hold onto people who come in mainly out of altruism or the sense that there is nothing else out there for them at the moment," said the union leader Sandra Feldman, president of the American Federation of Teachers.
But Vicki Bernstein, who recruits people from other careers to teach in New York City, pointed out that in other periods of national turmoil, including the Great Depression and the Vietnam War, people were drawn into teaching and stuck with it for the rest of their working lives.
"Teaching can be a big beneficiary of this, just like it was after other major social and economic changes," Ms. Bernstein said. "It's a historic moment and a chance for us to bring in talented people who would not otherwise have chosen this field."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Angela Williams, program director for Kansas City Teaching Fellows, spoke recently with a potential teacher, Dan Dilworth. The program recruits people from different professions for schools with the greatest need. (Roy Inman for The New York Times)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (95%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); EMPLOYMENT COVER LETTERS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); MATHEMATICS (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); AIRLINES (68%); CITIES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (55%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; MATHEMATICS; HIRING AND PROMOTION; SHORTAGES 

PERSON: ;GOODNOUGH, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



378 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: 'You Wuz Robbed!' 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Throughout Whitewater scandals, White House aides with fabulous forgeteries and banking con artists took the Fifth Amendment to duck testifying before Congressional committees.
 When some suggested they be called to exercise in public their right to avoid self-incrimination, liberals rose in fury: such televised exposure of venal pols and banking pals refusing to testify would be McCarthyism. 
 Today, a parade of Enron and Andersen miscreants is being marched before publicity-hungry liberal solons. Most well-heeled witnesses are taking the Fifth for the cameras, with nary a civil libertarian to complain. Congress changes its rules when it comes to railing at capitalist greed. 
The story line being sold by the politicizers of a business scandal is this: predatory capitalists, conspiring with conflicted consultants, lined their pockets at the expense of ignorant investors and trusting employees. The cruel capitalist system is making manipulators rich and sticking it to the always-innocent little guy. 
Hold on. If criminal fraud was committed, put the perps in jail. If new regulations are needed to force public companies to fully disclose self-dealing, issue them. If new laws are called for to control hedge funds and derivative dervishes, pass them. 
But let us not get caught up in a frenzy to turn the responsibility for all information disclosure over to the feds, or to abolish investor risk at the price of investor freedom. Plenty is out of whack that can be better fixed by individual actions than by government intervention. Take the blame beyond the debt-hiders in Enron, Global Crossing and unknown others. 
Something is wrong with accounting, formerly a real profession. When it builds conflict of interest into its fee structure; when it ignores the "public" responsibility enshrined in the designation C.P.A.; when its academic faculties use as their text "The Joy of Cooking" and fail to drill home a code of ethics -- then its private standards need to be reset and rigorously self-enforced. To encourage independence, the Big Five should become the Not-So-Big Twenty. 
Something is wrong with the corporate lawyers, too. After Enron began to fall apart, Houston-based Vinson & Elkins accepted an assignment to put its approval on off-the-books deals it helped set up, and, worse, agreed not to ask questions about egregious, see-no-evil accounting. The lawyers replaced their shingle with a doormat -- but have you heard a disapproving peep from any bar association? 
Something is wrong with investment banks whose analysts tout stocks that their firms underwrite. Customers should demand that analysts have a range of house-backed stocks to judge and be required to recommend an upgrade for every downgrade. 
Something is wrong with commercial banks that become "owned" by the plungers to whom they lend vast sums. Doesn't Citigroup, which supposedly never sleeps, have a responsibility to its stockholders to look closely at the books of a company borrowing $600 million? Must nervousness about that uninformed loan force its top man, Robert Rubin, to call a former associate at Treasury to help shore up his debtor's credit rating? 
Something is wrong with the way financial journalists, print and cable, go along with boom or doomsayers of the Street. And lest we forget that risk and profit go hand in hand, something is wrong with the judgment of small investors who are not locked in and put all their savings in one stock, watch it soar and then besiege Congress when it flops. 
The nature of the market, as of the examined life, is to correct itself. Here is what is happening already: 
Managers are becoming more careful to disclose lest they be vilified or jailed. Consultants in eyeshades at Whitelipt & Trembling are becoming assertive, as audit committees of boards are snapping awake. Financial analysts and writers, having been burned, are more skeptical and demanding. Bankers are rediscovering the fishy eye, and sadder but wiser investors are finding how sweet are the uses of diversity. 
All this is happening now, all around us, in reaction to the predations of the wheeler-dealers and the apathy of the watchdogs and the underlying pop of the bubble economy. Government can strengthen some regulations, but we should beware a response of "if it's legal, it's right." 
Posturing politicians do not make markets. Mysterious "market forces" do not make markets. People by their confidence make markets, and people learn painful lessons. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); ETHICS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); WITNESSES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); LAWYERS (75%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); APPROVALS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%) ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); VINSON & ELKINS LLP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (52%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



379 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1826 words

HEADLINE: As Drug Use Drops in Big Cities, Small Towns Confront Upsurge 

BYLINE:  By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

DATELINE: PRENTISS, Miss. 

 BODY:
The trophy houses, with wrought-iron gates and grand-columned entryways, keep popping up on little country roads here, in clearings in the piney woods and near doublewide trailers. Sometimes there is a Mercedes or two in the driveway.
 In the affluent suburbs of Boston, New York or Dallas, these fake chateaus might belong to successful doctors, lawyers or software company owners. But Prentiss, a small town in south-central Mississippi, has no industry or affluent professional class in the conventional sense. The last sizable factory moved to Mexico three years ago, leaving an unemployment rate of 25 percent. 
 Instead, the police say, many of these houses belong to drug dealers, made rich by a flourishing business in crack, methamphetamine, marijuana and OxyContin, the prescription painkiller. They are the most visible manifestation of an explosion of rural drugs and crime that is overwhelming local law enforcement agencies and bringing the sort of violence normally associated with poor neighborhoods of big cities. 
The upsurge has been felt across the nation, from Maine to Oregon and from Georgia to Texas, even as drug use in most cities has been declining.
In December, for example, Ron Jones, one of five members of the Prentiss Police Department and the son of the police chief, was shot to death as he entered an apartment to serve a search warrant for drugs.
It was the most recent of 14 homicides in the last two years in Jefferson Davis County, which has 14,000 residents, giving the county a homicide rate of 50 per 100,000.
That is higher than the rates of Detroit, Washington or New Orleans, cities that regularly have the highest homicide rates in the nation.
Nationwide, while the rate of arrests in drug crimes has fallen 11.2 percent in cities with more than 250,000 residents over the last five years, it has risen 10.5 percent in rural areas, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Even more striking, from 1990 to 1999, the last year for which figures are available, the percentage of drug-related homicides tripled in rural areas but fell by almost half in big cities.
To measure the problem another way, a continuing survey of drug use among junior high and high school students by the University of Michigan has found that crack is now more widely used among 8th, 10th and 12th graders in rural areas than among those in metropolitan areas. Methamphetamine use is now highest in rural areas among all three grades and heroin use is about equal in urban and rural areas, the survey found.
The spread of drugs in the countryside is uneven, the experts say, with heavy concentrations of certain drugs in some counties.
In Washington County, for instance, at the far northeastern corner of Maine, prosecutions in crimes involving OxyContin are 10 times what they were in 1998, say law enforcement officials, who estimate that at least 1,000 of the county's 35,000 residents are addicts.
"It's gone beyond the epidemic stage," Sheriff Joe Tibbetts said. "I can't think of a family in Washington County that hasn't been scathed by it in some way."
His officers' families are among those who have been affected, Sheriff Tibbetts said.
In Dawson County in western Nebraska, the problem is methamphetamine. "The percentage of meth-related crimes is through the roof," said Paul Schwarz, an investigator with the county sheriff's office. He repeated two local sayings: "You're either stealing or dealing" and "If you're not using, you're a cop."
In the state as a whole, officials discovered 38 methamphetamine laboratories in 1999; last year they discovered 179. 
"If there is a battle going on out there," Mr. Schwarz said, "we're honestly not winning it." 
Similarly, in Douglas County, a vast timber, farming and fishing area in southwestern Oregon, Lt. Mike Nores of the sheriff's department estimates that 12 percent to 14 percent of the 103,000 residents are making, selling or using drugs, particularly methamphetamine and marijuana. Drug use and trafficking now account for 80 percent of all crime in the county, including killings, Lieutenant Nores said.
One reason for the growth in rural drug problems, federal officials say, is that aggressive prosecution in cities has led dealers to seek safety in the farms and forests of rural counties, which have far fewer law enforcement officers.
"We've seen drugs and crime migrate to the rural areas in the past several years to get away from law enforcement," said Tony Soto, director of the Gulf Coast High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area in New Orleans, a task force of federal, state and local law enforcement authorities established by the White House Office of Drug Policy Control. "It's happening all around the United States, as the dealers and gangs go deeper into rural areas."
In Jefferson Davis County in Mississippi, Sheriff Henry McCullum said: "It's gotten so bad, drugs have become our major industry. Almost every person living in this community is profiting from the escalating drugs, directly or indirectly." 
Drug money, Sheriff McCullum explained, is helping contractors, building supply stores and grocery stores stay in business.
By his estimate about half the young men in the county have been to prison by the time they reach the age of 21, with almost all their crimes related to drugs.
Even Sheriff McCullum's brother-in-law, Billy Ray Barnes, is in the sheriff's jail, charged with robbing a bank to get money for crack. In an interview in the sheriff's office, Mr. Barnes, 34, said it would take him only five minutes after walking out of jail to find more crack. 
"It's everywhere," he said. "The county is infested." 
To spend a day with the sheriff is to hear the toll drugs are taking in Jefferson Davis County. A high school teacher calls, warning that drug-dealing students are threatening to shoot each other in a classroom. An elderly woman reports that a drug dealer is coming to her home to shoot her crack-addicted son.
Sheriff McCullum takes these calls seriously. Last year a 13-year-old, Brendan McCullum (no relation to the sheriff), was fatally shot as he stood inside his house when a drug dealer drove by looking for Brendan's older brother, with whom the dealer had had a quarrel.
"Brendan was a good boy, an honor roll student, a kid who went to Sunday school," said his older sister, Ressie Davis. At the time of the shooting, Ms. Davis was in state prison for shoplifting, something she admitted doing to support her crack addiction. She was later released but is now back in the local jail for not reporting to her parole officer.
As bad as the drug problem is here, "It is pretty typical for all of rural Mississippi," said Charlie Brown Jr., the assistant special agent in charge of Mississippi for the Drug Enforcement Administration.
"You've got counties where there are no jobs and the income is below poverty level, so you have groups trafficking in drugs who take advantage of that, and you have local sheriffs and small-town police chiefs who have very limited resources," Mr. Brown said. "Everybody in the community knows who is dealing, but because of their limited manpower, there is very little law enforcement can do."
Experts in rural crime agree that the reasons Mr. Brown cited are some of the basic causes of the growth in rural drug use and crime.
"You have many rural areas that are persistent poverty areas, in essence rural ghettos," said Joseph Donnermeyer, professor of rural sociology at Ohio State University. "They were once isolated and were protected by that, with lower crime, but now better communications have broken down that buffer so they begin to resemble poor neighborhoods of big cities, where people are segregated by poverty."
Asa Hutchinson, the administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration and a former federal prosecutor and congressman from Arkansas, said the movement of drug dealers to rural areas was "absolutely something I am aware of." 
Mr. Hutchinson said the problem was difficult to combat because of a gap in law enforcement. Federal drug prosecutions have tended to focus on the largest dealers, usually in cities, and county sheriffs and small-town police forces lack the manpower or experience to combat them. 
One other theory was offered by Henry Donaldson, Brendan McCullum's stepfather. Mr. Donaldson attributes the spread of drugs in part to the number of young people who have moved to Mississippi from Chicago, many of them sent by parents, originally from the state, to escape the urban drug problems.
The lack of law enforcement resources is glaring in Jefferson Davis County. Sheriff McCullum has five deputies to patrol a county of almost 600 square miles. In practice, this means that he normally has only one deputy on duty at a time. The budget of Sheriff McCullum's office is so meager that when he was elected two years ago, he did not have a fingerprint kit, a camera to photograph suspects or a video camera. Nor do his deputies have bulletproof vests or computer terminals for their patrol cars, which are common in big-city police cruisers to call up information on suspects. 
"How are we going to do an undercover operation?" Sheriff McCullum asked. "We can't. Everybody here knows everybody else. Besides, we don't have the money to make a buy."
Three men awaiting trial for murder in Jefferson Davis County recently escaped from the county jail.
On a drive around the county's back roads, the sheriff pointed to new house after new house, some with mansard roofs, some with Palladian windows, that he said were built with drug profits. Some dealers, Sheriff McCullum said, truck drugs from El Paso on the Mexican border to the county, hiding the drug-loaded trucks in barns before selling the narcotics to other dealers. 
The sheriff pointed to one house, a new gray stone structure with twin brick gates, a high black wrought-iron fence and security cameras. It belongs to Glenn Russell, Sheriff McCullum said, adding that Mr. Russell is awaiting trial on federal drug charges after being arrested in Texas with $150,000 worth of drugs. 
It may be impossible to compare the ravages of the new wave of rural drugs with the crack epidemic in big cities in the late 1980's and early 1990's. But experts say the small populations of rural counties often magnify the impact, making it more personal.
On Dec. 26, in Prentiss, Officer Ron Jones, 29, called his father, Ronald N. Jones, the police chief, for permission to get a search warrant for an apartment where an informer had told him there was crack. An hour later, as Officer Jones led a team into the apartment, he was shot in the abdomen. The suspect in the shooting, Cory Maye, has been charged with capital murder.
"The hardest thing for me is that I'm the one who gave him the approval," Chief Jones said.
His son had been taking classes in drug enforcement and was the town's K-9 officer. 
"He thought he could clean Prentiss up," Chief Jones said. "He honestly gave his life trying to make a difference."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sheriff Henry McCullum of Jefferson Davis County, Miss., on a farm where a woman was killed last year. He said her death was drug related.; Elaborate houses like this one, which Sheriff McCullum said belongs to a man awaiting trial on federal drug charges, have become a common sight in rural areas as local drug dealers' business has flourished. (Photographs by Greg Campbell for The New York Times)(pg. A16) Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Rural Drug-Related Homicides"Percentage of homicides related to drugs (where the circumstances are known) in large cites and in rural areas, 1990 to 1999. Graph tracks drug-related homicides in cities populated by more than 250,000 people and rural areas from 1990-1999.(Source: Analysis of F.B.I. Uniform Crime Report by Prof. James Alan Fox, Northeastern University)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); COCAINE (90%); HOMICIDE (89%); CITIES (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); METHAMPHETAMINE (88%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (88%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (86%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); ARRESTS (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); CANNABIS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); SEARCH WARRANTS (70%); HEROIN (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (69%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (56%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; RURAL AREAS; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE; MARIJUANA; OXYCONTIN (DRUG); METHAMPHETAMINES; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%) DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX; BROWN, CHARLIE JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



380 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2030 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: DUAL ROLE; 
Rubin Relishes Role of Banker As Public Man

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN and ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

 BODY:
Plenty of government officials retire to the private sector to make their fortunes. Plenty of business executives venture into politics seeking power and influence. Robert E. Rubin is doing both. 
 Citigroup gives him a salary, bonus and stock options valued around $40 million a year to advise on strategy, which he does in an imposing Park Avenue office next to that of Sanford I. Weill, the company's chairman and chief executive. 
 But, as a former Treasury secretary, Mr. Rubin has not abandoned his role as a globe-traveling statesman. He advises the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle, on economic policy. He was a sounding board for Gov. Gray Davis of California during last summer's electricity crisis even as Citigroup worked for energy companies that were selling power to the state. He debates bank reform with Prime Minister Zhu Rongji of China while trying to drum up business there for Citigroup. 
He called the Treasury Department last fall to see if there was anything the Bush administration could do to save Enron, a major Citigroup borrower and client. He spoke as a banker, and also as a former Treasury chief concerned about the risks to the markets.
Mr. Rubin's call inadvertently gave comfort to the White House and to some conservative commentators, who said it was evidence that it was a prominent Democrat, not Republicans, who backed a government rescue -- even though Republicans received most campaign contributions. 
Even some of Mr. Rubin's friends say privately that it was a rare misstep for a man known for caution and foresight. Like the class valedictorian who passes out at a mixer, the surprise is not that college students sometimes drink too much, but that he, of all students, would do so. 
Mr. Rubin, 63, likes multitasking. He drafted an op-ed article opposing the Bush administration's tax cuts last year while attending a Ford Motor board meeting. In the stock market-fueled exuberance of the 90's, he was a master of Wall Street who became the economic conscience of the Clinton administration -- and he is not prepared to give up either role.
"One reason I wanted to come to Citibank," he said in an interview, "is that being immersed in what is going on -- the financial issues, the economic issues -- would keep me current in a way that would make me better equipped to be useful in public policy. It puts me more at the center of things."
His call to Peter R. Fisher, under secretary of the Treasury for domestic financial markets, will probably be no more than a footnote in the Enron story. But it draws attention to the extent, and perhaps the limits, in Mr. Rubin's two roles. Was he lobbying his old agency on behalf of a bank? Or exploring policy options as he did at the Treasury Department?
Mr. Rubin said he made clear he was doing both. He thought the energy markets, and probably the public, would not be well served by Enron's collapse. It happened that Citigroup would not be well served, either.
"This is probably a bad idea," Mr. Rubin said he told Mr. Fisher, broaching the suggestion that a Treasury official ask credit-rating agencies to give Enron -- and its lenders -- a break. "But on the other hand, we had a concern that the energy markets could be severely disrupted. In the context of what we knew then, I thought there was some chance that the banks might put up additional funds and you could stave off the bankruptcy."
Asked if he regretted making the call, he replied, "I would do it again."
Mr. Rubin calmly ate a bowl of plain blueberries during a long breakfast interview in his red-and-beige office. Among fly-fishing trophies and official photos, Mr. Rubin hung an engraved chart of all the Treasury secretaries he had reproduced from the original at the Treasury Department. Wearing his customary charcoal suit and white shirt, he is youthfully trim but gives little evidence of overt vanity. 
Mr. Rubin -- who carries the title at Citigroup of chairman of the executive committee -- masks an overpowering intellect behind verbal modesty, hedging his views with a courtier's self-effacement ("Maybe I'm wrong," and "this is just my opinion, for what it is worth," or "this could be a bad idea") in a way that disarms bosses and opponents.
His understated demeanor served him well in his 26 years at the investment bank Goldman, Sachs, where he rose from running the arbitrage desk to chief executive. It also made him stand out amid the clashing egos of Washington.
At the recently concluded World Economic Forum, he passed up a chance to schmooze with tycoons and foreign leaders. "It's just a lot of people hanging around with each other," he said. He did slip into a closed-door meeting with Bill Gates, James D. Wolfensohn of the World Bank and several finance ministers, doing so because his friend, Ernesto Zedillo, Mexico's former president, asked him to offer ideas to combat poverty in the developing world.
Such are the passions he is pursuing after a six-year career in government that seemed hard to surpass. His devotion to rapid deficit reduction, viewed even by some Republicans as the cornerstone of the 90's prosperity, had some commentators calling him the best steward of the economy since Alexander Hamilton.
When Mr. Rubin left government in July 1999, he joined the board of the the Council on Foreign Relations in New York and used a small office there to ponder his next step. He weighed offers from foundations and other investment firms, including Goldman. At a welcome-back-to-New York cocktail party, Mr. Weill learned that Mr. Rubin was considering a return to Wall Street. The Citigroup chief called him every day for the next 30 days. He eventually agreed, with one big condition: "I actually have a provision in my contract that provides for me to have my own role in public policy."
When a reporter described him as "interested" in public policy, Mr. Rubin interjected a crisp correction. "Involved," he said. "I am involved in public policy."
In early 2000, Mr. Rubin delayed a business trip to China when Al Gore delivered a campaign speech on economics in Cleveland, and wanted him at his side.
In a year-plus of the Bush administration, his involvement has only intensified as he perceives a threat to the Clinton legacy of fiscal discipline. Seen by some as the wise man of his party, he runs a nonstop tutorial on economic policy, coaching Senator Daschle and other leaders on ways to debunk Bush military spending and tax cuts.
Bush administration officials, by contrast, view him as a nagging antagonist, preaching the 90's virtues of budget discipline and low interest rates when they are fighting war and recession. "He still sees the long bond as the center of the universe," a senior White House official said, referring to the 30-year Treasury bond.
At least sometimes, Mr. Rubin's two roles overlap -- or collide. When California grappled with an acute shortage of electricity in 2000, Governor Davis, a Democrat, sought his counsel. Here, though, the conflicts were obvious. Mr. Rubin had Citigroup bankers check with clients -- the company had relationships with energy traders like Enron that were profiting from the crisis -- before advising Mr. Davis. His colleagues raised no objections. But after a few phone calls with Mr. Davis, Mr. Rubin pulled back, annoyed that the governor had cited him to lend credibility to the state's aggressive tactics against power generators.
While Mr. Weill has consented to Mr. Rubin's bully pulpit, this sometimes rankles. Mr. Weill, who rarely brooks challenges to his authority, edgily teases Mr. Rubin about his campaign against tax cuts, which has prompted Citigroup brokers to write irate e-mails about affronted clients. He also gripes about Mr. Rubin's addiction to multitasking in meetings. "It's rude," he said.
But those appear to be minor distractions. Mr. Weill, 68, is as earthy and blunt as Mr. Rubin is measured, but both men say they get along famously. Mr. Weill said his partner's analytical ability and experience are "invaluable" to him. 
So is his loyalty. When Mr. Rubin arrived, Mr. Weill was locked in a power struggle with his co-chief executive, John S. Reed. After failing to reconcile the two, Mr. Rubin sided with Mr. Weill in a Sunday board meeting in early 2000 that resulted in Mr. Reed's retirement.
"Bob is 100 percent trustworthy," Mr. Weill said. Mr. Rubin put it a little differently. "I told him I would not be a C.E.O. under any circumstance," he said.
At the Treasury Department, Mr. Rubin often presided over freewheeling debates about intervention to prop up the yen or to bail out Indonesia. At Citigroup, he intently searches for the risks and rewards of investing in distressed Japanese debt or buying the investment banking operations of Schroders, the British firm Citigroup acquired in 2000.
He is involved in everything and nothing. With Mr. Weill, he occupies the office of the chairman. Unlike everyone else at the company, he has no specific bottom line. "He's the gray eminence," said Chuck Prince, the chief operating officer. "He decides what he's interested in and has a way of drawing the company toward that."
He takes a particular interest in strategic deals that extend Citigroup's reach. It was Mr. Rubin who first received a call, from an old colleague at Goldman, that alerted him to the possibility that Banamex, one of Mexico's leading banks, might be searching for a buyer.
Mr. Weill had long been eager to expand in Mexico and within two days the two of them flew to a jungle hideaway in the Yucatan for talks with Roberto Hernandez, the chairman of Banamex's parent company.
Banamex might have been wiped out seven years ago, had it not been for the bailout of the Mexican financial system that Mr. Rubin arranged as Treasury secretary. And now it was Mr. Rubin who soothed Mexican cultural sensitivities and cleared the way for the $12.5 billion bank acquisition. The purchase, the largest foreign investment in Mexico, made Citigroup, by many measures, Mexico's biggest bank.
Mr. Rubin is quick to dispute the perception that he trades on his reputation -- "business does not happen off Rolodexes anymore," he said. But he says he loves dealing with clients, and they apparently love dealing with him. "Bob likes to write tickets," Mr. Weill says, using an old brokerage term for booking trades.
When Kellogg's chief executive, Carlos M. Gutierrez, was debating two years ago whether to buy Keebler Foods for $3.86 billion, it was Mr. Rubin who steered him to Citigroup. Mr. Rubin had wooed Mr. Gutierrez, chatting about world affairs and interest rates over what his guest described as a "fascinating, purely social" lunch. Soon after, Mr. Gutierrez hired Citigroup. 
His ties are even stronger with some foreign leaders, including Prime Minister Zhu of China. The two bonded during intense policy debates in the 90's, when Mr. Zhu was overhauling a state-dominated economy and Mr. Rubin was trying to contain the Asian financial crisis. "Zhu is not very patient if he thinks you are not ready to be substantively engaged," Mr. Rubin says.
The Chinese are fond of meeting corporate leaders, but they are especially fond of Mr. Rubin. Mr. Rubin once visited Beijing to find that the prime minister had traveled to the remote city of Urumqi. Mr. Zhu provided a military plane to fetch him. As hosts of last fall's Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, the Chinese pointedly invited Mr. Rubin to introduce President Bush -- an "old friend" presenting a president still untested in Chinese eyes.
Yet Mr. Rubin mixes discussions about the Chinese banks and state enterprises with a pitch for Citigroup experts. "I think he would be astonished if I were meeting with him and didn't raise whatever our particular concerns were," he said. 
Mr. Rubin's peers say he has the judgment to navigate smoothly between his two worlds. But the call regarding Enron illustrates that even he can steer astray. "Bob is no longer in the public sector and had the right and every reason to call," said his friend Felix G. Rohatyn, the financier. "It's delicate -- the impression is not great when it is on behalf of a company that has created the worst profile in the history of capitalism."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After stepping down as Treasury secretary, Robert E. Rubin, 63, chose to work at Citigroup because, "it puts me more at the center of things." (Lynsey Addario for The New York Times)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); RECESSION (78%); BONUS PAY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGETS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (65%); CLASS RANKING (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%); TAX LAW (62%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CREDIT; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (55%); F (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (70%); SANDY WEILL (57%) KAHN, JOSEPH; STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; RUBIN, ROBERT E; DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



381 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Bush Urged to Press China on Providing Relief for Refugees Secretly Fleeing North Korea 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
As the Chinese police try to block an underground railroad that funnels North Koreans to northern China, human rights advocates appealed today to President Bush to press Chinese leaders for relief when he visits Asia next week.
 Escaping famine and a totalitarian government, about 200,000 North Koreans, about 1 percent of the population, have fled to northern China in recent years. There they live clandestine lives, fearing discovery, deportation and disappearance into North Korea's prison camps. 
 Refugee advocates, gathered here for a conference on human rights in North Korea, say they were heartened when President Bush included North Korea as part of an "axis of evil" with Iran and Iraq. They hope Mr. Bush, who is scheduled to arrive here Sunday at the start of a trip to Japan, South Korea and China, will urge concrete measures to help the refugees. Among the steps the advocates are promoting are these: 
*Orderly transit camps should be set up with international financing in China and Mongolia. 
*Residence status should be offered to North Korean refugees, starting in countries with large ethnic Korean populations, like the United States, China, Russia, Japan and Brazil. 
"Twenty years ago, the world was confronted with a similar problem with the mass exodus of boat people from Vietnam," Marcus Noland, a Korea specialist for the Institute for International Economists, said in a keynote speech at the meeting, the Third International Conference on North Korean Human Rights and Refugees. "The international community underwrote the establishment of temporary resettlement camps in surrounding Asian nations with the promise that these would be way stations to permanent resettlement."
With South Korea a multiparty democracy and China and Russia increasingly open societies, North Korea now sticks out in the region as a Stalinist throwback. At the same time, North Korea has taken steps to open up to the world, increasing air links, seeking foreign investment and establishing diplomatic relations over the last two years with Australia, Brazil, Canada and most of the European Union.
Rights groups now feel they have some leverage with a government that depends heavily on food and oil donations from the United States, Japan and South Korea. Last fall, a bipartisan group of prominent Americans formed the privately financed Committee for Human Rights in North Korea.
While rights promoters disagreedhere over tactics, many agreed that the opening of protected refugee camps in China and Mongolia could destabilize North Korea. "We would try to create a flood, spreading information about the camps through the underground railroad across North Korea," said Norbert Vollertsen, a German doctor who was expelled from North Korea a year ago for trying to show American reporters the underside of the nation.
But China, Russia and South Korea fear that a collapse of the North Korean government would unleash a mass exodus from the North. Last month, military officials from the three countries gathered in Seoul for a week of simulated computer scenarios based on a hypothetical flood of 100,000 refugees into the South.
About 200,000 North Koreans are confined in a prison camp system where conditions are so harsh that an estimated 400,000 have died over the last 30 years, said Jack Rendler, a human rights advocate from Minneapolis, who is vice chairman of the new American committee.
Mr. Rendler said North Korea's government had stratified society into 51 different loyalty classifications, with foreign food and medical aid going to the most loyal. "The people who are dying are considered less loyal to the regime," said Carl Gershman, president of the National Endowment for Democracy, a pro-democracy group financed by the United States government.
On a recent visit to Japan -- a major food donor to North Korea -- Catherine Bertini, the executive director of the United Nations World Food Program, said her agency had improved monitoring of food deliveries. Over the last five years, she said, the World Food Program had won access to about 80 percent of North Korea's 211 counties. 
"Today we feed literally one-third of the population of North Korea," Ms. Bertini, an American, said. "Tens of thousands of children are alive today, and will be alive because of this rice." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); REFUGEES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (89%); FAMINE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEPORTATION (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ILLEGAL ALIENS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) BROOKE, JAMES; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (92%); MONGOLIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); GERMANY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%) NORTH KOREA; CHINA; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



382 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: New York's Displaced Workers 

 BODY:
For all of New York City's budget problems, there is one area where Mayor Michael Bloomberg should be applauded for spending more. During the administration of his predecessor, Rudolph Giuliani, the city ignored the opportunity to use all the federal funds available to help poor and displaced workers develop skills and land jobs in a changing economy. It's long past time for a turnaround. 
 The Giuliani administration was so hostile to the idea of job training that more than $100 million in federal funds from the 1998 Workforce Investment Act went unspent during the initial period in which the law was in force. Most cities have eagerly embraced the new law, setting up consultation and training procedures that have helped displaced workers move out of idleness and into jobs. But the picture has been distressingly different in New York. Mayor Bloomberg has already begun to reverse this pattern. But his administration will need to drastically restructure the city's job training effort if displaced workers are to get full benefit from this excellent federal program. 
 The purpose of the Workforce Investment Act is to encourage displaced workers to acquire skills that job markets need. Local governments are supposed to set up one-stop centers where the jobless can find a full range of services. Some applicants would need nothing more than job listings and access to a telephone. Others might need to learn English or get a G.E.D. Still others would receive vouchers so they could get chef's training or a junior college degree in computer technology.
City officials say the records underestimate how much of the federal money they have actually spent. They also say they will spend the money before penalties are triggered that would send it back to the federal government. But New York's performance has been at best halfhearted. At a City Council hearing in November -- just two months after the World Trade Center disaster -- an official from the federal Labor Department pointed out that New York had established a single one-stop center, while the much smaller city of Los Angeles had put in place 18, plus 40 satellite centers to serve its displaced workers. The department said the failure to set up more centers hurt the city's ability to dispense emergency funds and help workers displaced after Sept. 11. 
The Giuliani administration's failure to embrace the law's requirements stemmed from its general hostility to the idea of job training for welfare recipients. The administration's chief objective was to shrink welfare rolls as quickly as possible, through quick job placement or public works projects. New York is not the only city that has dragged its feet on this legislation, but it is widely regarded in Congress as one of the worst offenders. Federal law allows the state to seize city funds that have not been spent within two years and give them to poor communities elsewhere. Federal dollars that go unspent for three years must be returned to the federal Treasury. City officials say they will spend the dollars in time. The important thing is not to spend them swiftly but to spend them well, on programs that give displaced workers the skills they need to find permanent jobs that lift them out of poverty. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) LABOR; EDITORIALS; WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (90%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002 



383 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: ARTS IN AMERICA; 
In Minneapolis, New Guthrie Theater Invokes the Past

BYLINE:  By Stephen Kinzer 

 BODY:
The Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis is planning a new $125 million home, and the architect wants anyone who visits it to get a visual hint of the area's agricultural and industrial history.
 The Guthrie, one of the most important regional theaters in the United States, has announced plans for a building on the banks of the Mississippi River that will house three stages and a center for theatrical education. The complex was designed by the French architect Jean Nouvel, who is known for his use of layered glass. Drawings released by the Guthrie suggest a combination of materials and geometric shapes, softened by shiny steel cylinders that refer to the shape of grain silos. 
 Inside there will be an 1,100-seat auditorium with a thrust stage, a 700-seat theater envisioned as a showcase for contemporary writers and touring companies, and a 250-seat studio theater where smaller productions will be staged.
There will also be four classrooms that will allow the Guthrie to double the size of its educational program, which now serves 118,000 Minnesota students each year.
"The current facility just won't allow the Guthrie to expand into what I think it was always intended to be, a flagship of American theater," said Joe Dowling, the Guthrie's artistic director. "We are one of the few major theaters in the country without a second stage. We can't engage with new writers the way we'd like to or develop an actors' training program on the scale that we'd like. For a lot of theatrical reasons, the need is undoubtedly there."
"Building a major theatrical complex also has huge implications for tourism, the cultural structure of the state and the place of Minnesota as an important player in national theater," he added. "If we get the funds approved, we're ready to break ground this year, which means 1,500 immediate construction jobs. That's the short-term gain. The long-term gain is our role in American cultural life and our position as a role model for cultural groups all over the upper Midwest."
The new Guthrie is one of several costly projects that could substantially raise the level of cultural life in Minneapolis.
Next month the Children's Theater Company will release final plans for a $30 million expansion project. Construction of a $90 million expansion to the Walker Arts Center is to begin in April. The Minneapolis Public Library has commissioned the architect Cesar Pelli to design a new building, with plans expected to be released in August. There are proposals to build a new performance center at an estimated cost of $34 million and to spend about $100 million to rebuild the Roy Wilkins Auditorium in adjoining St. Paul.
Although Minnesota has traditionally been generous to cultural groups, it is uncertain whether there is enough public and private money to bring all of these projects to fruition. They were conceived in an era of extraordinary prosperity and now face the challenge of finding support in a more difficult economic climate.
The Guthrie is in the midst of a $75 million capital campaign and is asking the State Legislature, which has already contributed $3 million, for $35 million more. Gov. Jesse Ventura is opposed, but there is considerable support in the Legislature. A decision may come by the end of March.
Representative Jim Knoblach, chairman of the House Capital Investment Committee, said: "It's an issue that frankly a lot of people are divided on. A lot of rural members argue that it's not a project with statewide impact, which I would disagree with. On the other side, the argument is that it will attract people to Minnesota, and that since the state has a prominent role in the arts and the Guthrie is one of our pre-eminent arts organizations, it's legitimate that we should give them this help."
The buildings that have made Mr. Nouvel's reputation include several performing arts centers, among them the Lyon Opera House and a concert hall in Lucerne, Switzerland. A show of his work is at the Pompidou Center in Paris.
Mr. Nouvel said his design for the new Guthrie took into account the neighborhood's history as an industrial center where waterfalls once helped power giant flour mills. 
"The architecture of the Guthrie, by its volumes and colors, can be read as a far-off echo of silos," he wrote in a statement accompanying the Guthrie announcement. He said that the lobby "advances like a bridge to contemplate the waterfalls," and that lighted signs above nearby silos will "dialogue with those of the theater."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A rendering of the Guthrie's proposed new theater, which would include three stages.; A long view of the Guthrie Theater's proposed $125 million home, at left, on the Mississippi River in Minneapolis, designed by Jean Nouvel. (Architectural renderings from Jean Nouvel) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CHILDREN (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); WRITERS (73%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (72%) THEATER 

ORGANIZATION: GUTHRIE THEATER (MINNEAPOLIS) 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN; NOUVEL, JEAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (94%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%) MINNESOTA, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (91%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) MINNEAPOLIS (MINN)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



384 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Ban Lifted, Argentines Rush at Chance to Shed Pesos 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER L. RICH 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
The midsummer heat and an afternoon downpour did nothing to stop hundreds of Argentines from waiting for hours on congested downtown streets to exchange their pesos for dollars after the government lifted a weeklong foreign exchange holiday today and let the peso float freely for the first time in more than a decade.
 Though the peso fell to around 2.5 to the dollar in early trading, it gained strength by late in the afternoon, trading only slightly above 2 pesos to the dollar, as it did much of last week. 
 Last month, after doing away with the dollar peg and devaluing the peso, the government said trade transactions would be priced at a fixed rate of 1.4 pesos to the dollar while the rest of the economy would use a floating rate. The complex dual-rate plan brought criticism from the United States government and the International Monetary Fund, which made it clear that there would be no financial assistance without a free-floating peso for all transactions. The Argentine government originally said the peso would float freely in four to six months. 
How the peso reacts the next few days is expected to be an important test of President Eduardo Duhalde's ability to see the country through a grave financial crisis that has brought commerce to a standstill and pushed the unemployment rate up to 22 percent.
Analysts say there is much work still to be done to guarantee the stability of a currency that very few Argentines trust.
"The free float is more of a prerequisite for an I.M.F. program than a serious indication of what is going to happen to the exchange rate going forward," said Siobahn Manning, Latin American debt strategist at Caboto USA, an Italian investment bank. "Much greater risks to the exchange rate would be if a bank went under, or if the government monetizes the fiscal deficit."
With most banks refusing to sell dollars for 90 days to let public anger against them cool, exchange houses downtown were swamped this morning as hundreds of people lined up to buy and sell dollars. An afternoon thunderstorm did nothing to discourage the crowds. People were calm, though, and Argentines who considered the exchange rate too high were pragmatic.
"If it stays at 2.30, I'm not going to buy today," said Marcelo Diaz, 31, who had been standing in line 90 minutes to buy the dollars that would pay to move his family to Spain. "If it doesn't come down to 1.90 or so over the next couple of days, I'm thinking about buying euros instead."
Many Argentines just stopped to watch, staring at monitors that showed exchange rates that had barely budged for most of the morning. White-suited waiters from local cafes sold cans of Coke from tin trays, while some entrepreneurs offered to hold spots in line for those who needed to take a break -- for a fee of 5 pesos.
Still others were waiting around to sell dollars, taking advantage of what had the potential to be a bumpy day on the foreign exchange market.
"There are a lot of people here who are speculating that the peso will fall at the end of the day, after the Central Bank stops putting money into the system," said Juliana Lazzaro, 31, who answered questions nonstop from friends on her cellphone while she stood outside an exchange house in the center of town around noon. "That's when I'm going to sell my dollars."
Economists had expected some pressure on the peso, after the government partly relaxed the restrictions on withdrawals that have kept most cash locked up in the banking system since the beginning of December.
Starting today, Argentines are allowed to withdraw the full amount of their monthly paycheck from special salary accounts. They may also now withdraw $1,200 a month from savings accounts, up from a limit of $1,000. While increasing the amount of cash in circulation, though, the government imposed a number of new restrictions aimed at discouraging people from converting money directly into dollars.
Exchange houses are no longer allowed to exchange dollars for checks or credit card payments. And Argentines are now required to provide the local version of a Social Security card when exchanging cash, a move that is expected to keep away the many Argentines who owe money for taxes.
The government also said that Argentines can leave up to $30,000 of their savings in dollar-denominated bonds. Details on the interest rates and maturity of the bonds, which news reports speculate may be 10 years or longer, have yet to be determined. The remaining deposits have been converted to peso-denominated certificates of deposit that are due starting next year.
The government worked hard over the weekend to convince Argentines that the Central Bank had ample dollar reserves to weather a run on the dollar this week. There are 40 billion pesos in deposits in the banking system, which are worth around $20 billion at the current exchange rate. The government has around $19 billion in reserves, plus dollar inflows from export sales.
Economists say that the future of the peso is riding on aid from the International Monetary Fund and other international lenders. Economy Minister Jorge Remes Lenicov is expected to meet with I.M.F. officials to present his case for a $25 billion loan package.
But analysts say that Mr. Duhalde has yet to gain the confidence of lenders who remain skeptical of the Argentine government's commitment to prudent monetary policy. The government has predicted a 3 billion peso shortfall in the 2002 budget, which will largely be covered by newly minted currency. Economists say that printing presses may have to work overtime, since the government forecasts a 4.9 percent economic contraction in 2002, while many economists say that gross domestic product could fall as much as 10 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Argentines gathered in front of an exchange house in Buenos Aires yesterday, as the government lifted restrictions against citizens' trading pesos at a free-floating rate against the dollar. (Above, Horacio Paone for The New York Times; Associated Press) Graph tracks Argentine pesos to the dollar since January. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); DEVALUATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); TRENDS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: DUHALDE, EDUARDO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) ARGENTINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



385 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Taming Tyranny in Zimbabwe 

BYLINE:  By J. Stephen Morrison; J. Stephen Morrison is director of the Africa program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Last week Secretary of State Colin Powell told the House International Relations Committee that the Bush administration would restrict travel to the United States by President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe and his inner circle. This welcome step does not go far enough. Now, in the run-up to national elections on March 9 and 10, is the time for Washington to take the lead in insisting that Mr. Mugabe relinquish power. He poses enormous danger to his country and the region; yet he is also quite vulnerable, and his recent actions, like imposing a repressive new media law, suggest desperation.
 Nine months ago, during a visit to southern Africa, General Powell boldly rebuked Mr. Mugabe for his disregard of democratic norms and the rule of law. This sudden challenge shocked Mr. Mugabe's regime. It also helped change the way people in the region discussed Zimbabwe's crisis and signaled a refreshing break from the Clinton administration's equivocal approach toward the Mugabe regime. Washington appeared ready to confront a tyrant who threatens the stability of southern Africa. 
 The Bush administration was hesitant, however, to capitalize on General Powell's speech. Even as bipartisan support built within Congress for sanctions to freeze the overseas assets of Mr. Mugabe and his cronies, the administration waited to see if the quiet diplomacy of President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa might show results or whether the Southern African Development Community, the European Union and the Commonwealth of Nations might persuade Mr. Mugabe to cease land invasions, intimidation of the judiciary and independent media, manipulation of electoral procedures, and establishment of armed youth militias. Early this year, he even threatened a military coup if the opposition, the Movement for Democratic Change, were to win the national elections next month.
The Bush administration has relied on Clinton-era arguments to justify inaction: that Washington had limited leverage and should respect the initiatives of Zimbabwe's immediate neighbors, and that Zimbabwe is simply not significant enough as the target of American pressure and became still less significant after Sept. 11.
But it has become ever more obvious that the weak, uncoordinated multilateral attempt to pressure the Zimbabwe regime has failed. Mr. Mugabe exulted in defying external pressures, appropriated antiterrorist language to justify violent repression of his opponents and pushed through parliament three extraordinary measures: a security act, an electoral code and, most recently, a media bill.
Southern African leaders have lacked the will or means to get tough with Mr. Mugabe. This is most notably true of Mr. Mbeki, who simply cannot bring himself and his government to act as a major continental power in response to a renegade neighbor.
In recent weeks, the Bush administration began, belatedly, to edge toward taking action. Lorne Craner, assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights and labor, visited the region and has said that the upcoming elections are not likely to deliver a good outcome, only a worsening of the status quo: more violence, military intervention, economic decline and massive refugee flows into surrounding states. Mr. Craner hinted then that Washington would consider limited economic sanctions against Mr. Mugabe.
The European Union and Southern African Development Community states are also becoming less complacent. Even so, at their meeting in the last week of January, a group of eight foreign ministers of the British Commonwealth could muster only an expression of "deep concern" over events in Zimbabwe. Nigeria and Botswana, with support from South Africa, thwarted Britain's call to suspend Zimbabwe from the commonwealth.
Even at this late hour, just weeks before the elections, serious steps can be taken to isolate and discredit Mr. Mugabe and to provide a signal that the international community will not stand by as passive observers to his abuses. President Bush has the authority to impose a freeze on external assets immediately on Mr. Mugabe and his inner circle. The United States has no economic interests that will be placed at risk, and this narrow measure will not exacerbate the harm already done to the majority of Zimbabweans, who have seen their economy deteriorate under Mr. Mugabe.
The administration possesses substantial knowledge of how Mr. Mugabe has plundered Zimbabwe. Making his government's corruption a focus of international attention is crucial in helping to bring down Mr. Mugabe; exposure of corruption was an important factor in ousting Slobodan Milosevic from Serbia.
Finally, the administration needs to declare that Zimbabwe's election is likely to push the country into even greater violence, and that so long as Mr. Mugabe is a candidate, there will be no orderly democratic elections or real hope for the reformists. Though many recent independent polls show that the Movement for Democratic Change will capture 70 percent of the vote in March, Mr. Mugabe's determination to win by whatever means, including wholesale fraud, will make the will of the public irrelevant.
Washington should press for the election to be postponed and for transitional governing arrangements to be negotiated between reformers of the ruling party and the opposition. Washington must make absolutely clear that should Mr. Mugabe continue along his present course and insist on obtaining a sham electoral victory in March, the United States will view his government as illegitimate. By forcefully laying down these markers, Washington may be able to shift the focus in southern Africa to a post-Mugabe future in which a renewed democratic process is still possible.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Jonathon Rosen) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); COUPS (63%); TERRORISM (61%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%); ARMED FORCES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); SOUTHERN AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY (54%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ZIMBABWE (98%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



386 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Aid in Our Own Defense 

BYLINE:  By Richard Sokolsky and Joseph McMillan; Richard Sokolsky and Joseph McMillan are research fellows at the National Defense University's Institute for National Strategic Studies.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The events of Sept. 11 made it painfully clear that the political, social and economic problems of other countries have a direct impact on American national security. Our country was attacked by a terror organization that had turned a weakened Afghanistan into its training ground and that searches for recruits in nations that offer young men little political voice and limited economic opportunity. To crush this threat, we need a program of tightly focused foreign aid to address the economic, political and social conditions that will otherwise continue breeding new terrorists. 
 For most of the past two decades, the United States has put foreign aid on a starvation diet. President Bush's budget proposal for 2003 increases "international assistance" programs by just under $750 million. This, however, includes almost $500 million for foreign military financing and $52 million for a Center for Antiterrorism and Security Training. While these expenditures are useful for the limited objectives at which they are aimed, we also need to increase spending greatly on the kind of foreign aid that helps strengthen civil society, provides food and development help, and finances programs for education and health. 
 Although there is a great deal we do not understand about the causes of terrorism, one major factor is clear: the historic failure of development in a swath of countries running from North Africa to Pakistan. Our foreign assistance should go up by at least $4 billion to $5 billion annually to finance programs that promote modernization and economic opportunity in the Islamic countries of the Middle East and Central and South Asia.
The United States currently ranks dead last among industrial countries in the amount, relative to the size of the economy, that it allocates to foreign assistance -- barely one-seventh of 1 percent of gross domestic product and less than a penny of every dollar in the president's 2003 budget.
There were many reasons for cutting foreign assistance during the past decade. Congress had little confidence in the State Department's administrative ability. Some high-profile programs were mismanaged. There was widespread skepticism that money was wisely used by recipients, who were generally seen as ineffective if not corrupt. Foreign aid was also the victim of domestic politics, unable to compete with spending that offered more tangible benefits to local Congressional districts.
But perhaps the biggest obstacle to adequate foreign assistance has been the lack of consensus, since the end of the cold war, on the purpose of such spending and its link to American security. As a result, the budget was a patchwork of compromises among bureaucratic baronies with few or no guiding priorities. And while foreign assistance was being gutted, forces that engendered the Sept. 11 attacks were becoming more powerful.
The generation of American leaders in the years after World War II realized that lasting peace and security for the United States depended on constructing vibrant, free and prosperous societies from the ruins of Europe. It was this realization that inspired the Marshall Plan. Although the specific circumstances and challenges are quite different, the security of the United States now depends on achieving throughout the Arab and Islamic world what the Marshall Plan achieved in Europe.
This vision should provide the foundation for a reinvigorated foreign aid program. What is required is not a series of high-priced bribes to regional governments in exchange for support for the war on terrorism. On the contrary, much of this new Marshall Plan should be devoted to initiatives that may make some regimes uncomfortable.
Our efforts should include supporting nascent institutions of civil society; promoting pluralism of information and opinions; promoting economic development to reduce the appeal of radical alternatives; and creating modern educational systems that give young people in Muslim societies the tools they need to flourish in a world where global connections become ever more important. In countries whose regimes are not open to change, we should be prepared to funnel resources to private organizations that do accept it, and to stand up for them if their governments interfere.
Such a transformation will not be easy. Some will say it is impossible. But the same was said about the end of colonialism, lasting peace in Europe and the collapse of the Soviet Union. A robust and focused foreign assistance program is one of the weapons we must have to prevail. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); BUDGETS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); STARVATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH CENTRAL ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



387 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Two Big Questions Await Irish Bank Inquiry 

BYLINE:  By BRIAN LAVERY 

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
By appointing a senior American financial figure to head an investigation into suspicions of huge fraud at its Baltimore-based subsidiary, Allied Irish Banks hopes to answer two big questions.
 How could John Rusnak, a currency trader with a $2.5 million limit on his positions, have done what the bank said he did, racking up losses of $750 million over a year, without being noticed and stopped? 
 And why did Allied Irish's top management not find out about the matter until after Mr. Rusnak's immediate superiors had been suspicious for weeks and called the F.B.I.? 
The bank has hired Eugene A. Ludwig, a top American banking regulator when he served as the comptroller of the currency and later a managing partner at the Promontory Financial Group in Washington, to study the case and report to its board by March 9. Allied Irish's chief executive, Michael Buckley, has promised that Mr. Ludwig's findings will be made public and that his recommendations will be followed.
The move, along with other rapid steps to respond to the crisis, has begun to reassure investors and to calm the traumatized Irish stock exchange. Allied Irish is the largest Irish company traded on the exchange; its stock closed at 11.95 euros ($10.47) a share today, off 1.6 percent for the day but well above the 11.35 euro ($9.95) close of last Wednesday, the day the trading loss was announced. 
The bank's chairman, Lochlann Quinn, rarely in the limelight in the past, has stepped forward as its chief voice and guiding hand. The handling of international treasury operations for subsidiaries has been centralized at the bank's Dublin headquarters, under supervision of its capital markets division. Five executives of the Maryland subsidiary, Allfirst Financial, have been suspended, and 15 Dublin-based executives have been sent to Baltimore to oversee Allfirst. 
Mr. Ludwig's investigation, announced on Sunday, is also forestalling outside scrutiny of Allied Irish for now. Bank executives, who spoke extensively to the news media in the first few days of the crisis last week, are now refusing to comment on it until Mr. Ludwig's report is published. Indeed, the bank is not expected to make any public statement at all until Feb. 20, when it is due to report its results for 2001.
Allied Irish has said that it will take a charge against 2001 earnings for the losses it has accused Mr. Rusnak of causing through bad bets on currency movements and through fictitious recording of offsetting transactions that would have protected the bank. It said the charge would reduce its overall net income for the year by 596 million euros ($523 million) after taxes, to 401 million euros ($351 million).
Before it stopped commenting, the bank was signaling a growing belief that others inside or outside the bank had helped Mr. Rusnak by circumventing ordinary safeguards, like trade verification, that should have detected any fictitious transactions. Mr. Rusnak may also have engaged in genuine option trades on terms very unfavorable to the bank so as to raise cash quickly, one executive told The Wall Street Journal on Friday.
Through his lawyers, Mr. Rusnak has denied stealing or improperly profiting from his trading activities for the bank. No criminal charges have been filed in the matter.
Allied Irish has put off deciding on annual bonuses for its executives while Mr. Ludwig completes his investigation.
But analysts here said more substantial measures -- at a minimum, visible changes in the leadership structure and more hands-on control of subsidiaries -- would be needed to restore confidence.
"For that to happen, heads will have to roll," said Jim Power, chief economist at Friends First Asset Management. "All those found wanting will face the chop."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EURO (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BANKING LAW (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%) CURRENCY; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING 

COMPANY: ALLIED IRISH BANKS PLC (58%); M&T BANK CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%) ALLIED IRISH BANK; ALLFIRST FINANCIAL; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 

TICKER: MTB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: LAVERY, BRIAN; LUDWIG, EUGENE A; RUSNAK, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (90%) IRELAND

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



388 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Objections may scuttle NBC's plan to accept hard liquor commercials.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
TWO months ago, NBC became the first broadcast network to accept commercials for hard liquor like vodka, rum or whiskey. But an outcry from members of Congress and advocacy organizations opposed to expanding ads for distilled spirits may scuttle the effort.
 The complaints could lead to Congressional hearings aimed at producing a bill banning broadcast spots for hard liquor, but it may not stop there. The opponents lined up against NBC may seek to roll back a decision in 1996 by the trade organization for liquor marketers, the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, to lift a voluntary ban against such commercials. 
 The council's about-face enabled makers of hard liquor to join marketers of beer, wine, malt-based coolers and other alcoholic beverages in using television to sell their wares. Since then, liquor spots have run tens of thousands of times on hundreds of local TV stations and cable systems, as well as on national cable networks. But none had appeared on broadcast TV networks until Dec. 15, when a spot promoting designated drivers on behalf of the Smirnoff vodka brand sold by Guinness UDV ran on "Saturday Night Live" on NBC. 
One factor that may determine whether other liquor companies follow Guinness onto broadcast network TV is a timetable set by NBC. Before NBC accepts commercials that sell specific brands, the liquor sponsor must run four months of spots centered on social responsibility issues like drinking moderately. That's why the Guinness UDV spot appearing on NBC since Dec. 15 mentions Smirnoff only in passing and promotes designating a driver before going out to drink.
When the four months are over, and NBC starts running the product spots, the opponents may pounce.
The jump to broadcast television is opposed by people who are upset at what they say is the widening exposure of liquor commercials to children, and they were galvanized into action. They include some members of both parties in the House of Representatives and federal regulators, the incoming chairman of the American Medical Association and the heads of advocacy groups like the Center for Science in the Public Interest.
"We anticipated that something bad was going to happen soon," said George Hacker, director of the Alcohol Policies Project at the science center in Washington. As NBC becomes "the subject of mounting public criticism and pressure, the potential for hearings is good," he said.
Reflecting the extent of the anger, the popular culture began weighing in, too. The comic strip "Doonesbury" showed a child watching an episode of the NBC sitcom "Frasier" sponsored by Wild Turkey bourbon. An editorial cartoonist, Mike Thompson, suggested that NBC was "hittin' the hard stuff" to defray the cost of the new contract for the "Today" host Katie Couric.
On "The Tonight Show with Jay Leno," a show on which NBC has run the Smirnoff commercial, Jay Leno even bit the hands that feed him, asserting that the network's initials would now stand for "Nothing But Cocktails."
The complaints seem to have encouraged the other national broadcasters -- ABC, CBS and Fox -- to keep intact, at least for now, their policies against accepting pitches for hard liquor. At the same time, no other liquor company has followed Guinness UDV onto NBC, though network executives say they are in discussions with other companies.
The complaints appear to have convinced NBC and Guinness UDV -- a division of Diageo that also sells Johnnie Walker Scotch whiskey and Captain Morgan rum -- to restrict the initial commercial's appearance. The spot, created by two agencies, the Glover Park Group and Westhill Partners, has run only after 11:30 p.m. -- though under guidelines for liquor ads NBC adopted last month it could also appear from 9 to 11 p.m.
"We've taken a measured and steady approach to increasing our presence on television," said Ted Hissey, senior vice president for marketing at Guinness UDV in Stamford, Conn. "We want to do this in the right way, a responsible way, with pretty strict guidelines."
The NBC executives responsible for formulating the guidelines -- 19 points meant to limit the exposure to and appeal of liquor commercials to children and teenagers -- are even signaling they may be amenable to tightening the rules in response to the complaints of critics.
"We recognized there would not be universal agreement," said Randy Falco, president at the NBC Television Network division of NBC in New York, part of the General Electric Company. "The goal is to put together a win-win situation."
"We're not pretending we have all the answers," he added. "The standards are a living, breathing document. If something is out of context, we change it."
In another sign that NBC is proceeding cautiously, Alan Wurtzel, president for research at the network, said that it would take the content of even late-night shows into account when considering whether to run liquor commercials.
For instance, Mr. Wurtzel said, if an episode of "Saturday Night Live" is to have a host like the singer Britney Spears "we wouldn't approve the spot in that show" because presumably the viewers would be younger than usual.
Nor will NBC run the Guinness UDV commercial during any coverage of the Winter Olympics, he added, even after 11:30 p.m., because the sports content may appeal to younger viewers. (Because the Olympics so dominates NBC's schedule this month, the commercial is on hiatus for now.)
Whether the limits will be sufficient to assuage the opponents is another matter.
The fight against the commercials "is going to take time, no question about it," said Joseph A. Califano Jr., president of the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University in New York and a former Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare under President Jimmy Carter. "But this is a battle people will not shirk from.
"Self-regulation isn't working," he added. "We need legislation or rules from the Federal Communications Commission."
The F.C.C., however, seems unlikely to intervene as only one commissioner, Michael J. Copps, came out against NBC's decision, castigating it as "a race to the bottom."
The prospects for legislation are clouded by the coincidence that the House committee that oversees commerce, which has jurisdiction in this matter, also oversees energy -- meaning its members are in the thick of the investigations of the Enron Corporation.
The chairman of the committee, Representative Billy Tauzin, a Republican from Louisiana, thinks there is "a constitutional right to run the ads," said his spokesman, Ken Johnson, "but make no mistake, if the industry pushes the envelope, we won't be afraid to put our foot down."
The industry, needless to say, sees no need for federal intervention.
"We have had a very small amount of Congressional interest," said Peter H. Cressy, president and chief executive at the Distilled Spirits Council in Washington. "It is important for us to be on television, to be recognized as part of a healthy, normal lifestyle for those who choose to drink."
"Not to go on seemed appropriate when there was one television set in the house and the family gathered around it," he added. "But the longer we were off the air, the more we 'denormalized' our product, making ourselves look different" from other alcoholic beverages on TV.
There are estimates that if all four national broadcasters accepted liquor commercials, they could become an advertising category with annual spending of $300 million. That is small compared with the networks' total estimated annual revenue of $12 billion to $14 billion, but more than a drop in the bucket during the toughest ad market in decades.
A desire to increase revenue in a soft economy is clearly contributing to the arrival of liquor on broadcast TV, said David Verklin, chief executive at the Carat North America division of Carat in New York, part of the Aegis Group.
But the "creeping toward the center to get liquor on mainstream television" is also "an inexorable part of the trend to loosen what can and can't appear on TV," he added. His agency -- recently named to buy advertising for the American division of Pernod Ricard for brands like Seagram's Gin -- is considering whether the benefits of advertising on broadcast television would outweigh the costs both financially and in possible negative publicity.
"This is not the right thing to do for children," said Dr. J. Edward Hill, the incoming chairman of the American Medical Association in Chicago. "We've blamed everybody for alcohol abuse, everyone but the alcohol industry."

GRAPHIC: Photo: NBC is requiring liquor companies to run socially responsible spots for four months before the network will run ads for specific products. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (96%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (94%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (92%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); BEER & ALE (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); DISTILLERIES (78%); ETHICS (76%); CENSORSHIP (76%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (74%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ADVERTISING; TELEVISION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ETHICS 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: DISTILLED SPIRITS COUNCIL OF THE UNITED STATES (57%) NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO; DISTILLED SPIRITS COUNCIL OF UNITED STATES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: KATIE COURIC (58%); MIKE THOMPSON (57%); JAY LENO (53%) ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



389 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Nortel Officer Forced to Quit On Suspicious 401(k) Trades 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The chief financial officer of Nortel Networks was forced to resign yesterday after the company said it had notified regulators of suspicious trades in his 401(k) retirement account.
 According to the company, Terry G. Hungle, a 20-year Nortel employee who was named chief financial officer in October, moved money out of Nortel stock soon before the company announced a lower revenue forecast last March and moved it back into the stock in December soon before Nortel announced relatively good news on new credit arrangements. 
 The amounts involved were relatively small; Nortel said Mr. Hungle moved about $78,500 out of Nortel stock to a fixed-income fund in March and moved $86,300 back to Nortel stock in December. At the time of the first trade, he was vice president for finance and business development. 
Mr. Hungle, who is 48 and lives in Dallas, declined to discuss the matter after being reached at his home yesterday afternoon. "There's nothing to say; thank you," he said before hanging up.
Nortel said that by moving money in and out of Nortel stock in his 401(k) account soon before the announcement, Mr. Hungle had violated company rules concerning when senior executives could make such moves. It said it had notified regulators at the Ontario Securities Commission in Canada, where Nortel is based, and the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States.
Nortel did not give the dates of Mr. Hungle's trades, so it is hard to assess just how profitable they were. But it appears unlikely that Mr. Hungle saved more than $23,000, at most, from his trade in March, and that he made less than $15,000 with the December trade. The amounts could have been substantially less, depending on the timing.
Nortel, formerly Northern Telecom, went from being a dull telephone equipment maker to an exciting Internet company in the late 1990's, with its share price peaking at $89 in the summer of 2000. But like many other telecommunications suppliers, its share price plunged after the Internet bubble burst. In New York, shares of Nortel closed at $6.84 yesterday, up 55 cents. Mr. Hungle's resignation was disclosed after the close of trading.
Last March 21, Nortel disclosed that its first-quarter revenue was likely to be lower, and its loss larger, than it had previously anticipated. The company's shares, at $16.76 that day, fell to $14 the next day and to $12.88 a few days later.
Mr. Hungle evidently had not expected such bad news a month earlier. According to records filed with the Ontario Securities Commission, he bought 3,000 shares in his own account last Feb. 20, paying $18.97 a share.
On Dec. 21, Nortel provided guidance for the fourth quarter and announced new credit agreements with its banks that Mr. Hungle said were advantageous for Nortel. The stock climbed to $7.13 from $6.36 a share the day the news was announced and rose to $7.46 by the end of the month.
David Chamberlain, a spokesman for Nortel, declined to answer any questions about why Nortel had not acted sooner on the trades.
Nortel said Frank A. Dunn, the president and chief executive, would serve as acting chief financial officer until a replacement was found. Mr. Dunn was chief financial officer before his promotion in October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (93%); US 401K PLANS (93%); EXECUTIVES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (62%); INTERNET & WWW (62%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; FINANCES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%) NORTEL NETWORKS; ONTARIO SECURITIES COMMISSION; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%) SIC3661 TELEPHONE APPARATUS; 

PERSON: HUNGLE, TERRY G; NORRIS, FLOYD; DUNN, FRANK A 

GEOGRAPHIC: ONTARIO, CANADA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CANADA (86%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



390 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Business Versus Biznes 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Memo to critics of the media's liberal bias: the pinkos you really should be going after are those business reporters.
 Even I was startled by the tone of the Jan. 21 issue of Investment News, which describes itself as "the weekly newspaper for financial advisers." The headline was "Paul O'Neill's Sweet Deal"; the blurb was "IRS backs off closing loophole, averting tax liability for execs and Treasury chief." 
 It's not really news that the Bush administration likes tax breaks for businessmen. But two weeks later I learned from The Wall Street Journal that this loophole is more than a tax break for businessmen: it's a gift to biznesmen. And it may be part of a larger pattern. 
Confused? In the former Soviet Union, the term "biznesmen" (pronounced "beeznessmen") refers to the class of sudden new rich who emerged after the fall of Communism -- and who generally got rich by using their connections to strip away the assets of public enterprises. What we've learned from Enron and other players to be named later is that America has its own biznesmen -- and that we need to watch out for policies that make it easier for them to ply their trade.
It turns out that the "sweet deal" Investment News was referring to -- the use of "split-premium" life insurance policies to give executives largely tax-free compensation (you don't want to know the details) -- is an even sweeter deal for executives of companies that go belly up: it shields their wealth from creditors, and even from lawsuits. Sure enough, reports The Wall Street Journal, former Enron C.E.O.'s Kenneth Lay and Jeffrey Skilling both had large split-premium policies.
So what other pro-biznes policies have been promulgated lately?
Last year, both houses of Congress passed bankruptcy reform bills; a reconciliation conference scheduled for Sept. 12 got put off. Now those bills are getting another hard look. They toughened the law for ordinary families. But the bills also included a provision that would have made it much easier for companies to transfer assets to "special purpose entities," putting them out of creditors' reach. 
To be fair, there are sometimes sound business reasons for transferring assets off a company's books. But now that we know about Chewco and JEDI and LJM and all those other "entities" that Enron executives used to siphon off cash, you have to wonder whether the legislation would really facilitate business, or whether it would mainly serve the interests of biznes. That, at any rate, is what 35 law professors argued in a Jan. 23 letter sent to Congressional leaders. "If this goes through," declared Elizabeth Warren of Harvard Law School, "the incentive for corporations will be to move more and more transactions off the books." My wife (who is also an economist) was more succinct: "This turns us into Russia."
The issue of business versus biznes is not one that divides neatly along party lines. Democrats as well as Republicans have taken money from lobbyists, and (like the Democratic National Committee chairman, Terry McAuliffe) profited personally from investments in companies that later collapsed. And the new bankruptcy laws had overwhelming support on both sides of the aisle. 
But right now the Bush administration is busily doing the most important thing a government can do to promote biznes: nothing. So far Harvey Pitt, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, has failed to propose any meaningful reform in the lax rules that made Enron possible. And as Floyd Norris noted last week in this newspaper, the Bush administration has balked at providing a significant increase in the S.E.C.'s budget -- even though "it pays far less than the private sector and, more amazingly, less than other federal regulatory agencies." 
The administration's curious passivity could be a simple matter of faith in the "genius of capitalism," as Paul O'Neill put it. But as many reporters have noticed, several high-ranking administration officials had prior business careers that, in retrospect, look more like biznes careers. As Molly Ivins explained at length in her book "Shrub, the list includes George W. Bush himself. 
It's still possible that the administration will wake up and realize that we seriously need reform. But the impression I get from the business press is a rising tide of dismay, a sense that an administration everyone expected to be pro-business is turning out to be pro-biznes instead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); DEREGULATION (86%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); MEDIA BIAS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); ETHICS (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); LEGISLATION (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (66%); LAW SCHOOLS (65%); INSURANCE POLICIES (65%); LIFE INSURANCE (65%); LAWYERS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; CORPORATIONS 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (71%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



391 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey's Budget Calls for Deep Cuts 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
Gov. James E. McGreevey today unveiled his plan to eliminate the $2.9 billion gap in this year's budget without raising taxes -- by tapping into the state's various reserve funds, refinancing many state debts and imposing deep cuts in spending on health care, housing, school construction and environmental protection.
 Speaking before a special joint session of the New Jersey Legislature, Mr. McGreevey, a Democrat, reminded listeners that he had inherited the shortfall in the current $23 billion budget from the Republican administrations that preceded him, while urging a bipartisan effort to curb the state's profligate spending. 
 Mr. McGreevey said his proposal, which hinges on the Legislature's approval of several measures, would prevent any layoffs beyond the 1,000 he announced last month. But the cutbacks will affect virtually every department of state government, and Mr. McGreevey warned that some would be painful. Among the reductions are $10 million from state parks, $8 million from dam repair, $10 million from farmland preservation and $25 million from funds to protect the state's shoreline.
"Sooner or later the time comes when an accounting has to be done, the truth has to be uncovered and tough decisions have to be made," Mr. McGreevey said. "My friends, that time is now."
The governor also warned that the worst was yet to come, because the state faces a projected shortfall of $6 billion for the fiscal year beginning July 1.
Republicans bristled at Mr. McGreevey's attempts to blame them, and State Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., the state Republican chairman, said the governor's speech was the "the most partisan and political ever presented by a sitting governor in this chamber."
John O. Bennett, co-president of the State Senate, pointed out that the governor had covered nearly half the deficit by draining various surpluses and pools of unspent money in state accounts. That proved that the deficit was not nearly as bad as Mr. McGreevey had claimed, he said.
"In this budget he's been able to close the gap because of the money that was left over from previous administrations," Mr. Bennett said after Mr. McGreevey's address. "He's been overstating the problem for months now, saying: 'Where are we going to get the money? The sky is falling! The sky is falling!' "
In his speech, Mr. McGreevey issued a challenge to legislators who might criticize his plan: "If there is a proposal you cannot support, then come up with something of equal value to replace it. I am open to suggestions." 
The budget proposal released today left plenty of cuts to choose from. In addition to the 5 percent across-the-board spending reductions that Mr. McGreevey announced when he took office on Jan. 15, the governor today proposed cuts of $25 million in neighborhood preservation funds for housing, $3.3 million in relief to the flood-stricken communities of Manville and Bound Brook, and $10 million from a program to discourage smoking by teenagers. 
Mr. McGreevey also proposed cutting $22.5 million in Medicaid reimbursements, $5.6 million from New Jersey Transit, $7.4 million in subsidies to horse breeders and racetracks and $100 million by delaying payment of school construction programs not already under way. 
One program that drew sharp criticism from Republicans was Mr. McGreevey's call to eliminate $25 million from a fund that pays for beach replenishment along New Jersey's 127 miles of shoreline. Seven Republican legislators wrote a letter to members of the state's Congressional delegation, calling it a "dangerous new threat to the Jersey Shore."
The governor was able to ease the severity of the cuts, and avoid the politically unpopular moves like a tax increase or mass layoffs, with an array of accounting measures, including his call for a tax amnesty, which is expected to bring $150 million in revenues. The governor will also draw on the surpluses that accumulated in special purpose funds during the economic boom of the past five years.
Mr. McGreevey's deficit reduction plan calls on the state to use $740 of last year's surplus, $50 million from the Disabilities Fund, $11 million from the Medical Malpractice Recovery fund, and $327 million by skipping payments to accounts that pay health and retirement benefits to state workers.
Other departments had money that was allocated, but not yet spent: $100 million from the school construction program, and $30 million in the Senior Gold program, which helps pay senior citizens' health costs.
But the governor's plan to divert $325 million in payments from the unemployment insurance fund to pay for other health care was criticized by union leaders. Charles Wowkanech, president of the New Jersey State A.F.L.-C.I.O., characterized the proposal as a raid on the fund that would unfairly penalize workers and the unemployed for the state's mismanagement.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John O. Bennett was upset yesterday when Governor McGreevey blamed Republicans for the deficit. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); STATE PARKS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (72%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES 

PERSON: MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV); BENNETT, JOHN O (SEN); KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



392 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2076 words

HEADLINE: Rescuing the Buildings Beyond Ground Zero 

BYLINE:  By JAMES GLANZ and ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
Five months after the World Trade Center attack, the focus of the recovery effort is moving outward from ground zero to another trauma zone: a ring of battered skyscrapers and other buildings that once held 10 million square feet of floor space, slightly more than the twin towers.
 The Sept. 11 avalanche of flaming steel, shattered concrete and other debris from the towers tore through roofs, sliced giant gashes in facades, ignited fires and set loose underground floods. 
 These wounded buildings, which somehow remained standing, are no ordinary structures: two are landmarks, one is a key communication center and another held classrooms that served thousands of college students each day.
Their future is essential to downtown's revival, to the city tax base and to the historic and architectural fabric of Lower Manhattan. But it is by no means certain; owners and city planners are wrestling with choices that could take years to execute and hundreds of millions of dollars to finance. Owners of two of the biggest buildings are committed to returning, but dire uncertainty cloaks the future of at least two of the others. 
The damage to these buildings, nearly lost in the shadow of the World Trade Center, was as hellish as it has been unrecognized.
An office tower at 90 West Street, which dominated the Hudson River skyline when it opened in 1907, burned out of control for more than a day and a half. Whole floors are still riots of twisted ductwork drooping crazily from the ceiling, and nightmarish forests of charred furniture frames and scorched metal desks.
Another building, donated to the City University of New York in 1993 and then renovated at a cost of $65 million, saw much of its southern facade drop to the ground. Still another had a hole punched in its roof by a piece of landing gear from a hijacked jet. And one of the buildings, left with a massive open gash, has been invaded by an aggressive mold.
Including these structures, at least 22 of the 45 buildings seriously damaged on Sept. 11 remain closed. Everyone involved is eager to bring back the thousands of people who once worked in the offices, stayed in the hotel rooms, attended lectures in the classrooms -- and spent their dollars at downtown restaurants and stores.
But deciding the future of the buildings is not simple, for both economic and emotional reasons. Repair work is excruciatingly expensive -- the $300 million repair bill at the Verizon Building on 140 West Street is three-quarters of the Chrysler Building's estimated total value.
But the price of tearing them down to build something new also feels high to some of the owners, who are defiantly reluctant to let the terrorists claim even one more toppled trophy.
This tension between pride and financial reality is most pronounced for the three or four skyscrapers that were the most severely damaged.
"You can't look at this first blush and say conclusively it is a total loss," said David Wiener, managing director of corporate real estate at Deutsche Bank, which owns 130 Liberty Street, a 40-story office tower, whose steel and glass face suffered a 24-story gash caused by the collapsing south tower. "We are not saying it is or isn't at this point."
Whatever decisions are made, everyone is encouraging speed, for, among many things, the damaged state of these buildings also means a great deal for the city coffers.
The estimated market value of 130 Liberty, dropped from $178 million to $70 million after the attack, according to the City Department of Finance. If that number stands through the year, it alone will mean a $4.5 million slip in city property taxes.
"You can't wait for the World Trade Center area to be rebuilt," said Louis Tomson, executive director of the Lower Manhattan Development Corp. "We have to do what we can to get these buildings back."
Like the buildings themselves, the experiences of the people inside them on Sept. 11 have received little attention. In skyscrapers just south of the trade center, at least three people were killed: two were trapped in an elevator as one of the buildings burned, the third was killed by falling debris.
North of the trade center, George Famulare, manager for corporate real estate for Verizon, had just finished overseeing the evacuation of nearly 2,000 employees from the company's 32-story high-rise, and was in his office making a final telephone call before his own planned exit. But before he left, one of the twin towers came down.
Giant spears of steel catapulted into the building, breaking apart sections as if it they were made from a Lego set. The wall and ceiling of his office came down. "I tried to get up and I couldn't," he said. "So I started to crawl."
He had survived, but there was one more task he knew he had to deal with: the electrical switches in the basement had to be turned off to lessen the load on the building's emergency power supply. By the time he got there, the water flooding in was already three feet high. Afraid of electrocution, Mr. Famulare and a co-worker took two-by-fours and whacked at the main electrical switches to turn them off. And then they left.
Two of the half-dozen most severely damaged buildings -- 3 World Financial Center and the Verizon Building -- are certainly going to be repaired or rebuilt. American Express, in 3 World Financial Center, has announced it will start moving employees back in April.

The Verizon Building
 The rebuilding tasks at the Verizon Building, one of the city's electronic lifelines and among its first Art Deco skyscrapers, are the largest and most complex.
When it was built in 1926 to serve as headquarters for the New York Telephone Company, the building dominated the Hudson River waterfront just as thoroughly as the twin towers would years later. The skyscraper, whose facade and entrances are highlighted with intricately decorated stone, cooper, brass and bronze, is more than a keystone for the recovery effort. With nearly four million data and telephone lines radiating from it, the building is also a nerve center for the commercial and residential infrastructure of Lower Manhattan.
It took hits on two sides. First, the steel hurled from the collapsing towers smashed into the building's south face, penetrating an underground vault containing thousands of telephone cables. Later that day, 7 World Trade Center, a 47-story skyscraper just to the east, came tumbling down, its ruins slumping like a slain giant against the Verizon Building's east facade.
The remains of the collapsed trade center buildings have been picked away, but the wounds they created are still visible. Two-foot-wide steel support columns at the east facade of the Verizon Building are bent inward like crumpled car fenders. A hole in this face of the building reaches as high as eight stories from the ground, and is covered by nothing more than white sheeting.
The recovery effort at the Verizon Building began almost immediately after Sept. 11. Hundreds of thick black cables, carrying data and phone lines, were strung through hallways and out of windows, over scaffolding and through a maze of trenches to restore service. Concrete boxes have been built around the bent steel columns.
But much about what has been done is temporary, and another estimated $300 million and two years of construction work will be needed, company officials said.
Overhauling the damaged telecommunications network will be "a whole other animal," said Dominic Veltri, manager for design and construction for Verizon in New York, perhaps adding hundreds of millions more dollars to the rebuilding cost.
And a legion of artisans will be drafted to rebuild decorative bronze work and restore the interior ceiling murals, which trace the history of human communication from Aztec runners to candlestick telephones from around 1925. All these costs could bring the final tab to over $1 billion.
With such an expensive repair bill, Mr. Veltri said, the company does not know whether to celebrate or lament the building's survival. But in spite of the costs, Mr. Veltri said, "We're not going to knock it down."

Fiterman Hall
The emotional, financial and physical equation could yield a different result at Fiterman Hall. The 15-story building owned by the City University of New York was hit by debris from 7 World Trade Center during what was supposed to be a time of celebration.
After seven years, the last phase of the renovations to the former office building was nearly complete. With the start of the fall semester, students were filing into the new classrooms and the final touches were being put on a "virtual library" with 400 computers. A wall for plaques had even been set up in the lobby to honor the donors who helped pay for it all.
The flying debris did not lead to a catastrophic collapse, but it broke off a corner of the building and caused other damage so severe that most of the southern extension of the building had to be cut off.
Engineers hired by the city say the remaining structure is sound, but school officials are not sure: they point to a series of cracks in a stairwell near the building's core and fear the tremendous impacts may have caused deeper damage.
Inside the building a fine layer of soot covers everything, samples of which have turned up high levels of dioxin and other dangerous substances.
Some university administrators are so exhausted and dispirited that they would almost rather see the building demolished so they could start from scratch.
"If you just started with a hole in the ground, it would definitely be faster than patching it all back together," said Ronald Spalter, deputy chief operating officer at City University.

130 Liberty, 90 West
 The most grievous damage to the entire ring of buildings probably occurred to two major high rises, 130 Liberty Street and 90 West Street, which were raked by falling debris just south of the trade center site. But the types of damage and the nature of the repair operations -- if they take place -- could not be more different for the two structures.
The 23-story, 1907 landmark at 90 West Street, with its granite and terra cotta facade showing off what was then a stunning verticality -- the modern skyscraper struggling free of its 19th-century chrysalis -- is topped by what look like startled Gothic eyebrows. A top-floor restaurant was once advertised as the highest in New York City, offering panoramic river and city views.
"This is a beautiful example of its time and style," said Donald Friedman, director of preservation at LZA/Thornton-Tomasetti.
The architect of 90 West Street, Cass Gilbert, would put up the Woolworth Building only a few years later. In no small measure because of the damage to this building, the World Monuments Fund recently added Lower Manhattan to its watch list of the 100 most endangered sites, along with exotic structures like the 12th-century Banteay Chhmar Temple at Thmar Puok, in the Cambodian jungle.
Structural steel from the collapsing south tower ripped hole after hole in that facade and set fires, capriciously, on at least 14 floors. Two people trapped in an elevator were killed. Because of the thick terra cotta fireproofing and magnificently built steel skeleton, the individual fires were contained, and a gutted floor may today sit below one where dusty but intact cubicles remain.
But the heat rose to tremendous intensity everywhere. On one largely intact floor, a globe of the world has exploded like a balloon. Elsewhere a ceiling-mounted plastic Exit sign melted and now hangs down.
Whether the money, estimated at $50 million to $100 million to replicate or replace vintage architectural and structural details, will be forthcoming could depend on the insurance settlement. But just how unpredictable the building's future could become is illustrated by a humbling condition that has developed at 130 Liberty, where one person died on Sept. 11.
Although a major load-bearing column was knocked out when the huge gash was torn in its northern face, 130 Liberty, owned by Deutsche Bank, had been judged structurally sound by engineers. The gash, however, left the building exposed to the elements.
The building has now succumbed to a seemingly uncontrollable infestation of mold, which could force it to be torn down if environmental tests determine that the ventilation systems and working spaces can not be entirely cleansed. A Deutsche Bank official said he would "hate to speculate" on the specific type of mold but described it as "pretty gross."

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by FRED R. CONRAD/The New York Times)(pg. B5) Chart: "Still Waiting for Recovery"About 45 buildings were damaged and eight destroyed when the twin towers collapsed. Many of those 45 suffered modest damage and have already reopened. But at least 20 buildings are still closed for normal business as repairs and cleanup continue, a task that in some cases will last two or more years. Cass Gilbert Building: 90 West St.FLOORS: 23SQ. FT.: 335,000RENOVATION COST ESTIMATE: $50-$100 millionDAMAGE: This landmark skyscraper was pummeled by falling debris from the south tower and set ablaze. The fires burned for more than a day and a half, killing two office workers and gutting large portions of the interior. City University of New York, Fiterman Hall: 30 West BroadwayFLOORS: 15SQ. FT.: 370,000RENOVATION COST ESTIMATE: UnknownDAMAGE: Fiterman Hall was home to just-completed classrooms and computer labs for the Borough of Manhattan Community College. It was hit by debris from 7 World Trade Center, which blasted away an entire corner of the building. (pg. B5) ChartOther Buildings That Remain ClosedSEVERELY DAMAGED (1-7) 130 Liberty Plaza -- Deep gash in center from ground to 24th floor, structural column knocked out.ESTIMATED REOPENING: At least a year (if not demolished) Verizon -- East facade damaged by 7 WTC, south facade by twin towers, basement cable vault pierced and flooded.ESTIMATED REOPENING: 18 to 24 months, some areas already open 3 World Financial Center -- Southeast corner of 17th to 26th floors damaged about 30 feet in each direction, structural column damaged.ESTIMATED REOPENING: Starting in April 130 Cedar Street -- Hole in roof from falling debris.ESTIMATED REOPENING: 18 to 24 months Winter Garden -- Smashed glass and steel structure.ESTIMATED REOPENING: September MODERATELY DAMAGED (8-22) Millenium Hilton -- Windows smashed, lower floors severely damaged by debris that blew in from the street as twin towers fell.ESTIMATED REOPENING: September Federal Building -- Small fires, hole in roof by airplane partsESTIMATED REOPENING: Starting in June 4 to 12 Albany Street -- Moderate damage from collapse of towers.ESTIMATED REOPENING: 6 months to a year Embassy Suites Hotel and movie theater -- Infiltration of soot, asbestos.ESTIMATED REOPENING: April Century 21 -- Falling debris damaged roof, interior filled with debris.ESTIMATED REOPENING: This month Bank of New York -- Debris smashed hundreds of windows.ESTIMATED REOPENING: Summer 109,120 Cedar Street, 106 to 124 Liberty Street -- Damaged but stable, according to Department of Buildings.ESTIMATED REOPENING: Dates vary 10 and 22 Cortlandt Street -- Moderate damage, interior contamination.ESTIMATED REOPENING: Within a month(Sources: LZA/Thornton-Tomasetti; City University of New York; building owners)(pg. B5) Map of Manhattan highlights buildings which were destroyed, severely damaged and moderately damaged due to terrorist attacks. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HIJACKING (89%); TERRORISM (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); TRENDS (68%); RIOTS (66%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (65%); AIRLINES (62%); RESTAURANTS (60%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: GLANZ, JAMES; LIPTON, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



393 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Singapore: Growth Outlook Brightens 

BYLINE:  By Wayne Arnold (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Glimmers of economic recovery in the United States are brightening the outlook for export-dependent Singapore. 
In his Lunar New Year message to the country, Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong said the government now predicts Singapore's economy will grow from 1 to 3 percent this year. Officials had forecast that the economy would post 2 percent growth to 2 percent contraction, but economists said evidence of growth in Singapore's electronics industry foreshadowed the end of a recession that has left thousands jobless. Wayne Arnold (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); RECESSION (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (87%); TRENDS (86%); ELECTRONICS (82%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE; GOH CHOK TONG (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (98%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) SINGAPORE

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



394 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: MARKET PLACE; 
Investors Feel Some Ripples At J. P. Morgan

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
After a string of losses and bad publicity, J. P. Morgan Chase finds itself on the defensive.
 The company has large loans to Enron, Kmart and Global Crossing, all now in bankruptcy, and additional exposure in Argentina. Its large portfolio of venture capital investments continues to fall in value, though some of those losses are hedged, stock analysts said. 
 Noting that the bad loans account for just a small percentage of the company's total loans, J. P. Morgan's executives have been reassuring employees in recent weeks and telling investors that much of the market's anxieties about the company are overblown. 
"Yes, we had problems in 2001, and we are addressing them," William B. Harrison Jr., J. P. Morgan Chase's chief executive, said in a Feb. 4 message to employees. "In the face of the publicity surrounding these issues, though, it's very important to put them in the context of the firm's overall performance."
Several Wall Street analysts have become convinced that the bank's shares, down 12.4 percent this year, are relatively cheap. The stock, which closed at $31.84 yesterday, is trading at just 10 times this year's expected earnings, estimates Ruchi Madan, a stock analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, who rates the company a buy.
Still, even the optimists say it is unlikely to rally until the economic environment improves investment banking, lending and other services for corporations, which combined represent roughly a majority of the bank's revenue.
"Once the economy recovers, things won't look so dire," said Steven Wharton, an analyst for Loomis, Sayles & Company, which owns J. P. Morgan shares. "The question is whether J. P. Morgan can weather the near term, because obviously that will be difficult."
The management, busy smoothing out the September 2000 merger of J. P. Morgan and Chase Manhattan, must assuage cautious investors, some of whom are worried that the bank will cut its dividend. The losses reported by the bank in the last quarter meant it had to dip into its capital to pay dividends. With a yield of more than 4 percent, the stock has been very attractive in a time of falling rates. 
In the short term, the bank can do little to revive the markets for stock offerings or acquisitions, though it has been aggressively cutting expenses in its investment banking business. As the biggest lender to corporations, according to data from the Loan Pricing Corporation, it inevitably faces losses when bankruptcy filings by big companies rise.
Still, even a string of corporate defaults will not put the company at risk. J. P. Morgan typically sells most of the loans it arranges to other lenders, a strategy that typically limits its prospective losses from any single bankruptcy. While the bank wrote off $982 million in loans and trading losses last year, the write-off represented less than 1 percent of all its outstanding loans, Mr. Harrison told employees.
J. P. Morgan's derivatives business, which Ms. Madan estimated accounted for 15 to 20 percent of its earnings last year, also has some investors nervous. The company filed a lawsuit to recover nearly $1 billion related to a commodities swap with Enron. J. P. Morgan considered itself insured against any losses on the deal, but the insurance companies are refusing to pay.
"The implications of this lawsuit could be broader," said one hedge fund manager who invests in financial services stocks. "They are the largest participant in the credit derivatives market. How much of their portfolio involves things like this?" 
A spokesman for J. P. Morgan, Joseph Evangelisti, pointed to statements by executives at the time of its earnings report noting that this type of insurance was not commonly used by the bank to hedge against potential losses.
"There is definitely an Enron cloud over J. P. Morgan right now," said Timothy Ghriskey, who runs Ghriskey Capital Partners, an investment firm in Greenwich, Conn. He sold the shares last October and is not immediately tempted to buy more, even though he regards the stock as cheap. "There still could be more storm clouds on the horizon."
Another source of worry for investors is JPMorgan Partners, a venture capital subsidiary, which has posted losses in five of the last six quarters.
J. P. Morgan Chase had tried to minimize its losses last quarter by betting on a decline in the Nasdaq 100, but the index rallied at the end of the year. Ms. Madan said that after write-downs last year and with yet a new hedging strategy, the bank's losses on the portfolio should be smaller this quarter. J. P. Morgan had a total net loss of $332 million, or 18 cents a share, in the fourth quarter.
Even smaller losses could put pressure on the stock dividend, some investors said. "Regulators don't like it when banks draw down on their capital to pay higher dividends than their earnings," said James Ellman, who runs the Merrill Lynch Global Financial Services Fund, which owns J. P. Morgan shares. 
Ms. Madan said she doubted that the dividend would be cut, noting that the fourth quarter was unusual because of $841 million in charges to cover expected loan losses and costs related to the merger. "That was largely why earnings didn't cover the dividend," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William B. Harrison Jr., chief executive of J. P. Morgan Chase, acknowledges that the bank had problems in 2001 but says it is addressing them. But some analysts say its stock won't rally until investment banking activity picks up. (Bloomberg News) Graph: "Confronting an Anxious Market"Shares of J.P. Morgan Chase, which has been expanding its investment banking business, have underperformed both commercial banks and brokerage firms, as well as the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Graph tracks J.P. Morgan Chase, S.& P. 500, Index Of Brokerage Stocks* and Index Of Bank Stocks+ since Aug. 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) *Amex Securities Broker/Dealer index+Philadelphia Stock Exchange/KBW Bank index 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); DIVIDENDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TRENDS (77%); MERGERS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ETHICS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); STOCK OFFERINGS (67%) COMPANY REPORTS; CREDIT; BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); REUTERS LOAN PRICING CORP (61%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN, J P, CHASE & CO; ENRON CORP; KMART CORP; GLOBAL CROSSING 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (61%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (61%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: ATLAS, RIVA D; HARRISON, WILLIAM B 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (59%) ARGENTINA (92%); UNITED STATES (59%) ARGENTINA

TITLE: ;MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



395 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: Reward for Volunteers 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
President Bush has asked Americans to volunteer on a continuing basis to pick up the slack in social services. But to make us lifelong volunteers, we must be convinced that there will be a real payoff for each of us, not just a vague "high social benefit" (Economic Scene column, Feb. 7). 
 Sometimes it takes a long time to know what that real payoff will be. I am a longtime hospice volunteer; every case has its small rewards, such as knowing that you have affected, for the better, the end of someone's life. But the real payoff came for me when my son, who had just finished a pastoral care course at a hospital in Boston, said that working with the sick was the most meaningful experience of his life. It said to me that all those years, while I was telling my story, he was listening. 
 Americans are not a people who will wait a long time for the payoff. Mr. Bush must follow up in his bully pulpit by telling the story not just once as an applause line, but many times over the next several years.

MARTIN LAVANHAR
Tuxedo, N.Y., Feb. 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (73%); HOSPICE (73%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; VOLUNTEERS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) LAVANHAR, MARTIN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



396 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
Our Children Are Losers? Ask Albany

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
MAYOR MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG doesn't release his first budget until tomorrow, but already we can predict the winners and losers. The big winners, as usual, will be politicians in Albany. Other winners will be unionized health care workers and the elderly. The losers will include schoolchildren, young teachers, park users, city politicians and, of course, city taxpayers.
 Politics everywhere is essentially the art of buying votes with other people's money, typically by collecting taxes from a large group of faceless people and turning the money over to a small group of people whose faces are well known at election time. But New York State's leaders have raised this art to new levels. They have saved themselves the trouble of handling the money. 
 They're a bit like drug dealers who stay on the streets by making sure that their subordinates handle the actual delivery of drugs. Gov. George E. Pataki and the state legislators keep their jobs by arranging for local politicians to do the dirty work of collecting taxes and paying off special interests.
It's a complicated racket, but you can see how it works by comparing New York's public spending with the rest of the country's, as Larry Littlefield started doing more than a decade ago, when he was a regional economist with the Department of City Planning. His latest calculations (available at a New York University Web site, http://urban.nyu.edu/research
/littlefield/index.html) are his most precise answer yet to the great mystery of New York City: how can we spend so much and get so little back?
In the rest of America, state taxes have risen in recent decades while local taxes have sharply declined, as Mr. Littlefield shows by computing their share of personal income. But in Albany, politicians have cut state taxes, so that state residents now pay a slightly smaller percentage of their income than do typical Americans. Meanwhile, local taxes in New York City have remained nearly twice the national average, and local taxes are relatively high in the rest of the state, too.
Outside New York City, much of this local tax revenue goes for teacher salaries and other public school expenditures that are well above the national average. But New York City is below the national average in the percentage of its residents' income spent on elementary and secondary schools. Salaries for new teachers are especially skimpy. New York City also spends well below the national average on parks and recreation.
So where do the city taxes go? Some of it goes to pay for the city's above-average costs for debt, public safety and housing. But much of it goes to pay for bills run up elsewhere: pension perks for public employees and payments to the social services industry that are mandated by Albany.
"Politicians in Albany get the credit for high levels of spending on Medicaid and pensions," Mr. Littlefield said, "while New York City officials get the blame for above-average taxes and low spending on things like schools and parks. There's no incentive for state officials to show restraint when they're spending money in the city's budget." 
State officials force localities to pay an unusually high share of the cost of Medicaid and other programs, and they also require expensive services. Spending on each Medicaid patient in New York State is 90 percent higher than the national average, according to Mr. Littlefield, and spending on hospitals and nursing homes is 86 percent above the national average. 
CITY residents end up paying 1.4 percent of their income -- more than triple the national average -- for tax-financed health, welfare and social services. In the last 20 years, the health and social services industry in the city has grown by nearly two-thirds, to 500,000 workers. It would seem the logical place to look for cuts in a budget crisis, but not to a politician in Albany eager to please the health care workers' union.
Despite the city's financial crisis, despite all the talk about shared sacrifice after Sept. 11, Governor Pataki recently came up with a plan to divert still more money to health care workers. The result would be less money for city schools, but Mr. Pataki is being hailed for political shrewdness.
What recourse do voters have, vote for a Democrat? Who expects a Democrat to be any less generous to a powerful union? City voters have had even less recourse against legislators who shortchange city schools because legislators rarely face any serious opposition to re-election. The winners keep winning no matter how tough times get. Shared sacrifice is for schoolchildren and other losers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%) TIERNEY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



397 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Bush Featured In G.O.P. Ads Criticizing 5 Senators 

BYLINE:  By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

 BODY:
After months of largely avoiding head-on partisan attacks on individual Democrats, President Bush has taken a starring role in a new, decidedly critical advertisement that is running in the states of five Democratic senators who voted against his economic stimulus package.
 The advertisement is directed at Max Baucus of Montana, Jean Carnahan of Missouri, Tom Harkin of Iowa, Tim Johnson of South Dakota and Paul Wellstone of Minnesota. It accuses them of putting partisan interests ahead of those of the nation. 
 The advertisment is another indication that Mr. Bush, who campaigned on a promise of moderating the partisan tone in Washington and who has tried to cultivate bipartisan support after Sept. 11, is embracing the rough-and-tumble of politics. 
In recent weeks, Mr. Bush has begun attending political fund-raisers and has committed himself to dozens of political events for Republicans running in the 2002 elections.
The five senators, each of them involved in a close re-election contest, say it is Mr. Bush and the Republican Party who are being partisan. Several pointed out that the president personally recruited their Republican challengers in an effort to assure that the one-seat Democratic hold on the Senate would be overturned in November.
In the advertisement, sponsored by the National Republican Senatorial Committee and running on both television and radio in slightly differing versions, an announcer asserts that "partisan Democrats put their interests ahead of national interests" in scuttling the stimulus measure, even though "moderate Democrats" had worked with the White House to draw up a compromise bill.
Then, dropping in the name of the Democratic senator from the particular state in which the advertisement is running, the announcer says that "sadly" that senator was among the those who refused to compromise.
At that point, President Bush speaks, his image suddenly visible in the television version:
"There's something more important than politics and that's to do our jobs," he declares.
The advertisement closes with the announcer urging viewers (listeners in the radio version) to call the "partisan" senator and "tell him to support the nation's interests, not partisan interests."
Democrats contend that the advertisement is an egregious example of a president going back on his word.
"Up until now, the president has mostly avoided this kind of thing," said James M. Jordan, the executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. "But these ads, coming in the middle of a war and aimed at people who have given the president total support in that war, people who really have tried to work things out with him on Capitol Hill -- well, such ads just give the lie to his promise to change the partisan tone in Washington. They are as extraordinary as they are despicable."
Senator Carnahan issued a statement in which she said she was disappointed that Republicans had resorted to what she called attack ads and called for "a fair and honest discussion of the issues."
Senator Baucus said it was "undeniable" that he had tried to work with the president.
The Johnson campaign said it appeared that Republicans had concluded that the only way to win back the Senate was "to run a negative, distorted campaign."
A spokesman for the Republican Senatorial Committee, Dan Allen, denied that the new advertisement was an unfair partisan attack. "The president has been calling on Democratic senators for cooperation ever since last October," Mr. Allen said. "He was able to work with moderate Democrats. But other Democrats said, 'Nothing doing.' Those are the people the ad is addressed to in the interest of the national good."
As for the president's appearance in the advertisements, Mr. Allen said that no special filming or recording was done.
"The president has addressed this issue many times," he said. "We had plenty of stock footage to fall back on."
Mr. Allen would not disclose how much money his committee intended to spend on the advertising campaign.
"We're not addressing that," he said. "What we can say is that it is a substantial buy and we're getting some help from state parties and that the campaign will last at least a week, maybe more." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TERRORISM (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: ;SENATE (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TOM HARKIN (88%); TIM JOHNSON (73%); MAX BAUCUS (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BAUCUS, MAX (SEN); CARNAHAN, JEAN (SEN); HARKIN, TOM (SEN); WELLSTONE, PAUL (SEN); JOHNSON, TIM (SEN); AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; IOWA; MISSOURI; MINNESOTA; SOUTH DAKOTA; MONTANA

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



398 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Museum Directors Urge Move Downtown 

 BODY:
Members of the Museum of the City of New York's board met with city officials last night and urged them not to cancel a plan to move the museum to the newly renovated Tweed Courthouse in Lower Manhattan.
 "We were able to present our case, and we're hopeful they will see how important the museum could be for the revitalization of the downtown area," said Philippe Dauman, the chairman of the museum committee that negotiated an agreement with the city in December. 
 Last week, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said he was reconsidering the move because of the city's budget shortfall. Under the December agreement, the city would be responsible for up to $21.5 million of the approximately $47 million required for the move, said Edward Skyler, a spokesman for the mayor. The city does not expect to reach a decision this week, Mr. Skyler said. If it cancels the contract, the city will have to reimburse the museum for about $3 million it has already spent on the move, he added. 
The museum faces a financing challenge, too. It has raised $10 million since it started fund-raising for the move a year ago, and must raise its share of the total by the end of this year or the city will have the right to back out of the contract, Mr. Dauman said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TWEED COURTHOUSE (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%); PHILIPPE P DAUMAN (55%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



399 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Senators Vow to Push Effort For Aid to Help Close Deficit 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
New York's two United States senators visited City Hall yesterday and testified before the City Council that they would renew their efforts to get the federal government to provide aid directly to the city government to help it close its looming $4.5 billion budget deficit.
 The senators, Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, both said that they would push legislation to provide the direct aid, which is known as revenue sharing. Any such direct aid would be in addition to the $20 billion in disaster relief that President Bush pledged to the city after the Sept. 11 attack. 
 The $20 billion in promised federal aid -- of which around $11 billion has been appropriated so far -- is earmarked for helping the city rebuild, covering the costs of emergency services after the attacks and giving grants to struggling small businesses. But it does not help the city close its budget deficit. 
The senators pledged to push for the aid at a hearing of the Council Finance Committee. They had been asked by the Council speaker, Gifford Miller, to try to secure federal money to help the city close the budget deficit it faces in the fiscal year beginning July 1. 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has declined to release any details of the budget proposal he will make tomorrow, but aides have put out the word that many agencies will face significant cuts.
Senator Schumer cautioned that it would be an uphill battle to win direct aid for the city, noting that it had been a "hard sell" when the idea was discussed soon after the attacks. But he said he thought a case could be made that New Yorkers should not have to see their services drastically reduced because of a weakened economy and a budget deficit that were largely caused by a terrorist attack.
"It would be awful if the rest of the world saw New York languishing," he said. "It would be a victory for the terrorists."
Until 1986, the federal government spent $4 billion a year on revenue sharing, giving money to local governments to spend on whatever were their most pressing needs. The elimination of the program that year cost New York City roughly $270 million annually in aid.
Now federal aid usually flows through the states to local governments, and most of it is earmarked for specific purposes, limiting the flexibility of local governments in how they spend the money.
Senator Clinton said that she had introduced legislation that would funnel federal money for domestic security directly to local governments to pay for police officers, firefighters and other emergency personnel. "It would get us more money in hand here in New York City," she said.
Both senators said they would press for other ways to get more federal money for the city, for example, by trying to persuade the federal government to pay a greater share of Medicaid costs around the nation.
Mayor Bloomberg said that he thought the prospect of getting direct aid for the city from the federal government was a long shot. 
"The federal government, it seems to me, is relatively unlikely to give money to close budget gaps for New York City when 49 states look like they might actually have deficits this year," he said. "Lots of cities will have deficits because of the economic downturn."
Mr. Bloomberg made the comment at a news conference at which he announced the appointment of Martha E. Stark as the city's finance commissioner. Ms. Stark, who worked in the Finance Department in the early 1990's, has taught at Baruch College and Hunter College and has most recently been a portfolio manager at the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Charles B. Rangel testifying before City Council yesterday in hearings on the Sept. 11 attacks. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TERRORISM (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); HIJACKING (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); MEDICAID (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

ORGANIZATION: ;FINANCE DEPARTMENT (NYC) 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); CHARLES SCHUMER (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHARLES B RANGEL (76%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%) SCHUMER, CHARLES E (SEN); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN); COOPER, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R; STARK, MARTHA E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 



400 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: KARACHI; 
Karachi's Dark Past Lingers Over Efforts For a Brighter Future

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: KARACHI, Pakistan 

 BODY:
For most of the last two decades, this giant port city has been notorious for its ethnic and religious combat, fought with drive-by shootings, the burning of homes and vehicles, street bombings and assassinations. Criminal gangs made fortunes kidnapping the rich, while carjackings became too common to track.
 More recently, in the years of headlong Islamic jihad before the Sept. 11 attacks, fervent Muslims inspired by the Taliban and Osama bin Laden plotted their various holy wars in the recesses of Karachi's endless warrens of concrete block. 
 So when an American journalist, Daniel Pearl of The Wall Street Journal, was abducted last month, apparently by Islamic militants enraged by American policy, nobody was startled to learn that it happened here. 
For Pakistan's military government, the kidnapping is an embarrassing hint of frailty as the president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, prepares to visit Washington. But for officials and civic leaders in Karachi, the event has been a doubly anguishing setback because they feel that the city has finally begun to reclaim its streets from murderous gangs and fanatics. 
"Things are very quiet here these days," said Suhail Zaheer Lari, a retired executive who leads the Heritage Foundation, a group working to preserve Karachi's landmark buildings and restore civic life. "The kidnapping of the American is a very sad exception."
Mr. Lari spoke under a bright morning sun in the forecourt of a modern office building, as he watched a school safety program that, in its carefree use of public space, would have been unthinkable a few years back.
A high school band marched in the street and hundreds of children from nearby schools were handed traffic safety awards. Then they strolled gaily back to class.
The dozen guards brandishing assault rifles and shotguns seemed a reminder of the city's latent dangers, but Mr. Lari, as he described the program on the plaza of the Pakistan State Oil House, was anxious to dispel any misimpressions.
"Those guards -- we didn't ask for them," he said.
"The managing director of the oil company was gunned down next to this building last summer," he added apologetically. "Naturally, the company is still jittery."
Karachi, a metropolitan area of 14 million people, is a city of ethnic and social divisions and visual extremes, a place where camels haul enormous carts of cloth past designer boutiques. The oil executive was a Shiite Muslim and his shooting, still unsolved, is assumed to have been one of the endless tit-for-tat assassinations by rival Sunni and Shiite Muslim groups.
Still, leaders and citizens here say they have made headway against the killers who made Karachi a hell for so long. Their optimism is buttressed by falling crime rates and ever-more-bustling streetscapes and night life.
Through a combination of harsh law enforcement and societal change -- the reasons are hotly debated -- the number of ethnic, religious and political killings has plummeted, as has the snatching of corporate titans for ransom, crime experts say. 
But today, perhaps the most uncertain factor in Karachi's stability is the Islamic jihad movement, which some say is vanquished and others believe still holds the quiet allegiance of large numbers. 
The mufti at the Binori Town Mosque, a venerable institution in the heart of the city, was a leading defender of the Taliban. Islamic groups openly recruited warriors here to fight in Afghanistan or Kashmir. But by and large -- and the kidnapping of Mr. Pearl may be a glaring exception -- such militants were not involved in violence within Karachi, said Idrees Bakhtiar, chief reporter of The Herald, a monthly magazine here that has tracked the city's woes.
Feelings certainly run deep around the large madrasa, or seminary, attached to the Binori Town Mosque, where angry students are quick to berate a Western visitor about the global oppression of Islam.
On a public corner outside, a tall, sturdy flagpole has been defiantly erected with the black-and-white-striped flag of a pro-Taliban group -- a flag that has come to symbolize the spirit of jihad.
But the main violence that gave Karachi its lawless reputation has been more rooted in the city's ethnic, religious and economic geography. A magnet for poor migrants, the city is a microcosm of Pakistan's many rifts, intensified in the pressure cooker of urban poverty.
Since the mid-1980's, much of the violence arose from the struggle between Mohajirs -- people who moved from India at the time of the 1947 partition -- and the Punjabis, Sindhis and other ethnic groups, all clamoring for a share of the pie. In the 90's, the Mohajir militants split and began killing each other. 
Sectarian fighting between Sunni and Shiite groups has been more rampant in the last decade.
In 1995, The Herald famously labeled Karachi the "city of death." Cleaning up burned or bullet-riddled bodies from the previous night's clashes, the magazine said, had become a daily routine. But in late 2000, the same magazine relabeled Karachi the "city of life," documenting a sharp decline in political gunplay and a new flowering in civic life.
"The city is actually much safer than it was," said Jameel Yusuf, an industrialist who, concerned about a rash of kidnappings for ransom, started a citizen anticrime group in the early 1990's.
Mr. Yusuf credits the improving professionalism of the police and the brisk justice meted out in the late 1990's by a military governor, Moinuddin Haider. 
According to figures from Mr. Yusuf's group, the Citizens-Police Liaison Committee, kidnappings for ransom fell to 13 in the first 11 months of 2001 from 79 in 1990. Killings defined by his group as terrorist fell to 107 in 2001 from 1,742 in 1995, though some estimates run higher.
After he seized power in 1999, General Musharraf appointed Mr. Haider, a retired general, as interior minister.
But the bluntest of all messages that domestic peace is not yet secured came in December. Mr. Haider's older brother, who ran a medical charity in Karachi, was killed when his car was sprayed with bullets. The crime has not been solved.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The flag of a pro-Taliban group, displayed on a public corner outside a Karachi mosque, is a symbol of jihad. (Joao Silva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); CARJACKING (78%); GANGS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); FIREARMS (78%); TALIBAN (77%); CRIME RATES (77%); RIOTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); AL-QAEDA (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); CITIES (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISLAM; KIDNAPPING; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (57%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (57%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%) WALL STREET JOURNAL 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (77%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (71%) PEARL, DANIEL; MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (95%) PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) PAKISTAN; KARACHI (PAKISTAN)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002 

 
