

1 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; New Money, New Ideas; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: This Time, OPEC Nations Temper Their Extravagance

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and EDUARDO PORTER

DATELINE: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates 

 BODY:
In a city of superlatives, Burj Dubai is supposed to top them all. 
 The ''burj,'' or tower in Arabic, is set to become the world's tallest skyscraper in 2008, looming more than 2,600 feet above a new neighborhood of offices and residential buildings. But more important, the rival to Burj Dubai's 167 floors will not be the current title-holder, Taiwan's Taipei 101, at 1,667 feet, or even New York's proposed Freedom Tower, which is to rise to a symbolic height of 1,776 feet.
Drive past the Mall of the Emirates with the only indoor ski slope in the Middle East; pass by three man-made islands shaped like palm trees and then a set of islands arrayed like the map of a world; continue past Burj Al Arab, the world's only seven-star hotel, which looks like a giant sail and offers rooms for as much as $13,900 a night. 
 There, farther down Dubai's coastal highway, another developer is planning to erect a tower that will stand about 2,300 feet tall. Simply known as Al Burj, or The Tower, it is to be the hub of a residential village for half a million people. 
 Once again, oil producers, particularly in the Arabian peninsula, are experiencing a boom. And just as they did in the 1970's and early 1980's, their coffers are spilling over with cash. Last time around, there was an abundance of outrageous projects, and judging from the extravagance on display in Dubai, lavish projects are finding financing once again. 
 But this time around, the region's main oil producers, like Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, have gotten wiser. Since the boom started three years ago, they have paid down their debt, saved more money than ever before and created more jobs in the private sector. And they are trying to diversify their economies away from oil and its increasingly volatile cycles.
 ''People are asking where are all the petrodollars and why we have not seen anything like the spending of the 70's and 80's,'' said Bader al-Saad, who runs the Kuwait Investment Authority. 
 ''What has changed is the economic and political reforms in the region, the fall of the barriers for investors, and the improvement of the banking and financial system,'' he said. ''If we hadn't learned from our previous mistake, this would have been a big stupidity.''
 After the 1973 oil shock, governments in the Middle East spent 80 percent of their increase in revenue. Between 2003 and 2005, by contrast, they spent less than 40 percent of their new revenue, according to International Monetary Fund estimates. Governments have also whittled down their debt to an average 20 percent of gross domestic product last year, from about 40 percent in 2004.
 Mohsin S. Khan, the director for the Middle East and Central Asia at the International Monetary Fund, said governments were still drawing up their budgets based on oil at $30 a barrel. In fact, since the beginning of 2004, oil prices have doubled and are now near $70 a barrel in New York. 
 Oil producers in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries will sell more than $1 trillion in oil exports between 2004 and 2006, according to the United States Energy Information Administration. This year alone, their revenue is projected to grow by 10 percent, to more than $500 billion, according to the Energy Department. The bulk of that wealth will find its way to the Persian Gulf, home to most of the world's top producers.
 ''The question many have in the region is how not to squander the wealth like they did in the 1970's,'' said Rachel Bronson, a specialist on Saudi Arabia at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. ''Unlike in the United States, where it feels like high prices are going to last forever, in the Middle East, the feeling is that it will not last. So, how do you avoid the problems of the 1980's that followed the boom of the 1970's?''
 Saudi Arabia, for example, tried to use its oil windfall of the 1970's and early 1980's to become an agricultural powerhouse. It spent billions of dollars to irrigate and grow crops on the kingdom's arid lands. In less than a decade, Saudi Arabia became the world's sixth-largest wheat producer. 
 But then oil prices collapsed, and the Saudi government ran out of money. The costly effort to make the desert bloom then joined a list of financial follies, like the customized Boeing 747's and the palatial resorts in the south of France. 
 So it is not surprising that the region's finance ministries are still not convinced that oil prices will remain high for very long, even as they shape their oil policies to keep prices from falling.
 In Abu Dhabi, the capital of the United Arab Emirates, the government has an investment arm that some analysts say manages more than $250 billion. Kuwait's investment arm, meantime, gets 10 percent of that country's oil sales and controls a fund estimated at well over $100 billion. Both these investment arms have been in talks to buy a part of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China.
 A portion that is not invested at home is finding its way judiciously around the globe. Last year, Dubai bought $1 billion of DaimlerChrysler shares; it purchased the Tussauds Group, Europe's largest tourist-attractions operator; and it made a $5.8 billion bid for Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation, a British shipping company.
 Much of the Arab world's new wealth that is invested abroad also ends up in the United States, in Treasury bonds as well as corporate and other government debt instruments. Thus, the Arab world is helping to finance America's enormous trade deficit. 
 About $300 billion flowed from Britain into America's bond markets in the first 11 months of last year, almost three times the amount of 2004. Investment analysts say that much of that money comes from the Middle East.
 Yet even as Middle Eastern governments open the spigots to more local spending, analysts like Mr. Khan are confident that the region's oil wealth will not be squandered this time. One major difference is the growing importance of local private investors, who have helped create a tripling in stock valuations in the region in the last three years.
 And finally, there are signs that Middle Eastern governments are becoming more confident about the sustainability of its boom-time revenue stream. Last August, the Saudi government gave a 15 percent raise to government employees, the first across-the-board pay increase in more than 20 years; in April, the federal government of the United Arab Emirates raised government wages by 25 percent for nationals and 15 percent for foreigners; in January last year, Kuwaiti authorities provided its citizens with grants worth around $700 apiece.
 ''Last summer the oil price increase was still somewhat of a surprise to producers,'' Mr. Khan said. ''Now spending has picked up; projects are coming on stream.''
 Saudi Arabia has not lost its appetite for extra-large projects. For example, the government is seeking to revive a decades-old project to build a railway that stretches 950 kilometers, or 590 miles, linking its capital city, Riyadh, with both eastern and western coasts. And the government is planning to spend billions of dollars to expand its petrochemicals industry.
 Last month, it also introduced a $26.6 billion plan to build a new resort city, from scratch, on the Red Sea that will eventually be able to accommodate 500,000 visitors a year. According to color advertisements taken out in local newspapers, the new city, dubbed King Abdullah Economic City, will have a hotel and resort district, a ''financial island'' for office skyscrapers, a commercial seaport and a residential area with a canal.
 Who got the construction contract? A developer called Emaar, owned by the Dubai government, that just happens to be building Burj Dubai.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Saudi Arabia still has an appetite for big projects. Above is a model of the planned King Abdullah Economic City, to be built from scratch on the Red Sea. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C1)
 Ski Dubai, the only indoor slope in the region, opened in December in the Mall of the Emirates in Dubai. (Photo by Stefan Zaklin/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); TRENDS (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); SKIING (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (66%); EXPORT TRADE (61%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gross Domestic Product; Credit; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; International Monetary Fund

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

PERSON: Mohsin S Khan; Jad Mouawad; Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (97%); RED SEA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); KUWAIT (93%); QATAR (92%); TAIWAN (92%); GULF STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Middle East; Saudi Arabia; Kuwait; Qatar; United Arab Emirates; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



2 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Atomic Agency Sees Possible Link Of Military to Iran Nuclear Work

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO and WILLIAM J. BROAD; Elaine Sciolino reported from Vienna for this article, and William J. Broad from New York. David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Washington, and Michael Slackman and Nazila Fathi from Tehran.

DATELINE: VIENNA, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
The International Atomic Energy Agency says it has evidence that suggests links between Iran's ostensibly peaceful nuclear program and its military work on high explosives and missiles, according to a report from the agency that was released to member countries on Tuesday.
 The four-page report, which officials say was based at least in part on intelligence provided by the United States, refers to a secretive Iranian entity called the Green Salt Project, which worked on uranium processing, high explosives and a missile warhead design.
The combination suggests a ''military-nuclear dimension,'' the report said, that if true would undercut Iran's claims that its nuclear program is solely aimed at producing electrical power.
 The report will be debated by the 35 countries that make up the international agency's board when it meets in emergency session on Thursday to decide whether Iran should be reported to the United Nations Security Council for its nuclear activities. 
 The agency says it has repeatedly confronted Iran with the allegations, which Tehran dismissed as ''baseless,'' adding that ''it would provide further clarifications later,'' the report said. 
 Iran also reiterated that all of its nuclear projects were conducted under the authority of its national atomic energy agency and not the military.
 More broadly, the report states that the country has not been fully cooperative on all of the outstanding nuclear issues that the agency has questioned for years. That shortcoming formed the basis of a resolution by the agency's board last fall that Iran was not complying with its international obligations under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.
 The Green Salt Project derives its name from uranium tetrafluoride, also known as green salt, which is an intermediate product in the conversion of uranium ore into uranium hexafluoride -- a toxic gas that can undergo enrichment or purification into fuel for nuclear reactors or bombs.
 The report suggests that the fuel project, the high explosives tests and the design of a missile re-entry vehicle ''appear to have administrative interconnections.'' 
 It would seem to be the first time the agency has publicly suggested that the fuel production -- which Iran has said is purely for civilian purposes -- was linked to its military programs.
 The tests of high explosives are of particular concern: one of the key challenges in making a nuclear weapon is designing the ring of conventional explosives that can be used to compress the nuclear material, setting off a nuclear chain reaction.
 It is highly unusual, Western experts said, for a group of uranium conversion experts ostensibly making fuel for nuclear reactors to also have administrative ties to people doing studies on explosives and re-entry vehicles, the technical name for missile warheads.
 ''The obvious technical connection is that these are all central elements of a program to develop nuclear weapons and delivery capability,'' said Per F. Peterson, a professor of nuclear engineering at the University of California, Berkeley.
 The alleged bureaucratic linkage of the various efforts would make them highly suspicious, Dr. Peterson said, because each could be separately viewed as potentially unrelated to nuclear weapons.
 While the Bush administration has long argued that Iran was using its civilian program to hide ambitions to build a nuclear weapon, the agency has always steered clear of that accusation. With the report, it has for the first time provided evidence directly suggesting that at least some of Iran's activities point to a military project.
 The Mujahedeen Khalq, an Iranian resistance group that both the United States and the European Union describe as a terrorist organization, has often drawn links among the Iranian military, the Revolutionary Guard Corps and Tehran's nuclear program, claiming that the separate groups were working together to gain the ability to build and deliver an atom bomb.
 But Western experts said they knew of no instances in which the I.A.E.A. had pressed that accusation home. ''We haven't heard this from the I.A.E.A. before,'' said Matthew Bunn, a nuclear expert at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. ''It's interesting that the I.A.E.A. is putting that level of credence into it. I don't believe there has previously been any I.A.E.A. reference to such interconnections.''
 Even though the report was designated as confidential, copies began to surface in Vienna almost as soon as it was posted on a Web site available only to member countries of the agency.
 The Vienna-based international nuclear agency also said in its report that a 15-page document Iran had allowed it to read described procedures that would be useful only in making parts for nuclear weapons. 
 The agency for the first time stated its own conclusions on the matter and did so quite bluntly, saying the document that Iran obtained from the black market ''related to the fabrication of nuclear weapon components.''
 The I.A.E.A., in a report issued in November, made reference to suspicious documents that the nuclear black market had offered to Tehran. While making no reference to weaponry, the report indicated that the black market had offered to help Iran shape uranium metal into ''hemispherical forms,'' which Western experts said at the time had suggested the making of nuclear bomb cores.
 In the past, Iran told the agency that the document was provided -- without its asking -- by an international smuggling network that has been identified as run by the rogue Pakistani nuclear scientist, Abdul Qadeer Khan, and that it has not used the information for a weapons project.
 The report is a short, informal update by Olli Heinonen, the agency's director of safeguards, following a request by the United States, France, Britain and Germany for an assessment of Iran's nuclear activities before the board meeting on Thursday. It does not give the precise sources of its information, but American officials say the allegations are based in part on material from a laptop computer seized in Iran. 
 What prompted the meeting was a decision by Iran to reopen its uranium enrichment plant in Natanz in violation of a voluntary agreement it made with France, Germany and Britain in November 2004 that froze Iran's enrichment-related activities while it negotiated a package of economic and political incentives.
 That led to a statement on Monday in which Russia and China joined the United States, France, Britain and Germany in agreeing that the Security Council should be informed of Iran's nuclear activities.
 In response, Iran lashed out on Tuesday, saying that there was no legal justification for such a move and that it would bring ''an end to diplomacy.''
 ''Informing the Security Council or referring the Iranian case to it will bring an end to diplomacy and that is not at all positive,'' said Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, who is close to Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
 Mr. Larijani also said Iran would most likely strike back. ''If these countries use all their instruments to exert pressure on Iran, Iran will use its capability in the region,'' he said in a meeting with Armenian officials in Iran, according to the Iranian Student News Agency.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A caption with the continuation of a front-page article yesterday about Iran's nuclear program misspelled the surname of Iran's top nuclear negotiator, who said his country would most likely retaliate if its case was sent to the Security Council. He is Ali Larijani, not Jarijani.
A caption with the continuation of a front-page article yesterday about Iran's nuclear program misspelled the surname of Iran's top nuclear negotiator, who said his country would most likely retaliate if its case was sent to the Security Council. He is Ali Larijani, not Jarijani.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ali Jarijani, Iran's nuclear negotiator, said yesterday that Iran would most likely retaliate if its nuclear efforts are sent to the Security Council. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EXPLOSIVES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); SPACECRAFT (85%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) International Atomic Energy Agency; United Nations; Security Council (Un)

PERSON: Elaine Sciolino; William J Broad

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (79%) Iran; Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



3 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Didn't See It Coming, Again

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
The White House should hire an anthropologist.
 Corporations have begun hiring anthropologists to help them improve product designs and interpret markets. And clearly, the Bush foreign policy team doesn't understand any of the markets where it is barging around ineptly trying to sell America and democracy.
 The brand value of America has been in steady decline. The state of the union is sour but the state of the world is chilling, thanks to a hideously ham-handed Bush foreign policy crew that was once billed as a seasoned ''dream team.'' 
 The more the White House tries to force-feed democracy to tempestuous parts of the world, the more it discovers that you may be able to spin and scare voters in the U.S., but the Middle East is not so easy to manipulate. W. believes in self-determination only if he's doing the determining. Fundamentalists in America like to vote for Mr. Bush, but elsewhere they're violently opposing him.
 It's stunning that nearly four decades after Vietnam, our government could be even more culturally illiterate and pigheaded. The Bushies are more obsessed with snooping on Americans than fathoming how other cultures think and react. 
 One smart anthropologist reinforcing the idea that ''mirroring'' -- assuming other cultures think like us -- doesn't work would be a lot more helpful than all of the discredited intelligence agencies that are costing $30 billion a year to miss everything from the breakup of the Soviet Union to 9/11 to no W.M.D. to Osama's hiding place to the Hamas victory.
 Bush officials keep claiming they couldn't have anticipated disasters -- from the terrorist attacks to Katrina -- even when they got specific warnings beforehand. Busy building up the fake nuclear threat in Iraq, they misplayed the real ones in Iran and North Korea. In London Sunday, Condi Rice admitted that all of our diplomats and spies were caught off guard by the Hamas win. ''I've asked why nobody saw it coming,'' she said. ''It does say something about us not having a good enough pulse.'' 
 Instead of paying the Lincoln Group millions to plant fake newspaper stories in Iraq, the Bush team might try reading real newspaper stories here. Instead of simply believing any fact that makes him feel self-important, the president might try reading history. 
 Like many other presidential candidates I've interviewed, W. said he liked Winston Churchill. But if he really had read Churchill, he would at least have understood that the Middle East never turns out the way you expect. Churchill, who called Iraq ''an ungrateful volcano,'' would not have been surprised by the new WorldPublicOpinion.org poll showing that close to half of Iraqis approve of attacks on American forces.
 The State of the Union is a non-event. But Bob Woodruff and his cameraman, Doug Vogt, being blown up by a roadside bomb has forced the media to focus on what the Bushies try to hide -- all the injured and maimed coming home from Iraq. 
 Mark Landler's Times piece noted that the ABC journalists came to the hospital in Landstuhl, Germany, ''on a military transport plane carrying 31 wounded soldiers -- about a normal daily influx for this hospital.''
 As Denise Grady wrote in The Times, the survival rate in Iraq is higher than in other wars, but the wounds are multiple and awful: ''combinations of damaged brains and spinal cords, vision and hearing loss, disfigured faces, burns, amputations, mangled limbs, and psychological ills like depression and post-traumatic stress.''
 The Oilman in Chief lecturing us last night, after five oblivious years, about being drunk on oil, now that Halliburton and Exxon are swimming in profits -- Exxon's revenues were bigger than the gross domestic product of either Saudi Arabia or Indonesia -- was rich.
 A more honest TV moment was Christiane Amanpour labeling Iraq ''a black hole.'' The ''spiraling security disaster,'' she told Larry King, had robbed Iraqis of hope, ''and by any indication whether you take the number of journalists killed or wounded, whether you take the number of American soldiers killed or wounded, whether you take the number of Iraqi soldiers killed and wounded, contractors, people working there, it just gets worse and worse.''
 But, hey, how could the Bushies have known that occupying a Middle East country -- and flipping the balance of power from one sect to another -- without enough troops to secure it could go wrong? Who on earth could predict the inevitable?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (91%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); ESPIONAGE (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); HAMAS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); BRANDING (57%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Public Opinion; Bombs and Explosives; News and News Media; Television; News and News Media; Television; Television

PERSON: CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR (59%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%) Maureen Dowd; George W (Pres) Bush; Bob Woodruff; Doug Vogt; Christiane Amanpour

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



4 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Addicted To Oil

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
So far the democracy wave the Bush team has helped to unleash in the Arab-Muslim world since 9/11 has brought to power hard-line Islamic fundamentalists in Iraq, Palestine and Iran, and paved the way for a record showing by the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt. If we keep this up, in a few years Muslim clerics will be in power from Morocco to the border of India. God bless America.
 But is this all America's doing? Not really. It's actually the product of 50 years of petrolism -- or petroleum-based politics -- in the Arab-Muslim world. The Bush team's fault was believing that it could change that -- that it could break the Middle East's addiction to authoritarianism without also breaking America's addiction to oil. That's the illusion here. In the Arab world, oil and authoritarianism are inextricably linked. 
How so? Let's start with Iron Rule No. 1 of Arab-Muslim political life today: You cannot go from Saddam to Jefferson without going through Khomeini -- without going through a phase of mosque-led politics.
 Why? Because once you sweep away the dictator or king at the top of any Middle East state, you go into free fall until you hit the mosque -- as the U.S. discovered in Iraq. There is nothing between the ruling palace and the mosque. The secular autocratic regimes, like those in Egypt, Libya, Syria and Iraq, never allowed anything to grow under their feet. They never allowed the emergence of any truly independent judiciary, media, progressive secular parties or civil society groups -- from women's organizations to trade associations. 
 The mosque became an alternative power center because it was the only place the government's iron fist could not fully penetrate. As such, it became a place where people were able to associate freely, incubate local leaders and generate a shared opposition ideology.
 That is why the minute any of these Arab countries hold free and fair elections, the Islamists burst ahead. In Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood won 20 percent of the seats; Hamas went from nowhere to a governing majority. In both societies the ruling secular parties -- the N.D.P. in the case of Egypt and Fatah in the case of Palestine -- were spurned as corrupt appendages of the authoritarian state, which they were. 
 Why are there not more independent, secular, progressive opposition parties running in these places? Because the Arab leaders won't allow them to sprout. They prefer that the only choice their people have is between the state parties and religious extremists, so as to always make the authoritarian state look indispensable. When Ayman Nour, a liberal independent in Egypt, ran against President Hosni Mubarak, he was thrown in prison as soon as the election was over. Thanks for playing ''Democracy'' -- now go to jail.
 It is not this way everywhere. In East Asia, when the military regimes in countries like Taiwan and South Korea broke up, these countries quickly moved toward civilian democracies. Why? Because they had vibrant free markets, with independent economic centers of power, and no oil. Whoever ruled had to nurture a society that would empower its men and women to get educated and start companies to compete globally, because that was the only way they could thrive.
 In the Arab-Muslim world, however, the mullah dictators in Iran and the secular dictators elsewhere have been able to sustain themselves in power much longer, without ever empowering their people, without ever allowing progressive parties to emerge, because they had oil or its equivalent -- massive foreign aid.
 Hence Iron Rule No. 2: Removing authoritarian leaders in the Arab-Muslim world, either by revolution, invasion or election, is necessary for the emergence of stable democracies there -- but it is not sufficient. The only way the new leaders will allow for real political parties, institutions, free press, competitive free markets and proper education -- a civil society -- is if we also bring down the price of oil and make internal reform the only way for these societies to sustain themselves. People change when they have to, not when we tell them to.
 If you just remove the dictators, and don't also bring down the price of oil, you end up with Iran -- with mullah dictators replacing military dictators and using the same oil wealth to keep their people quiet and themselves in power. Only when oil is back down to $20 a barrel will the transition from Saddam to Jefferson not get stuck in ''Khomeini Land.'' 
 In the Middle East, oil and democracy do not mix. It's not an accident that the Arab world's first and only true democracy -- Lebanon -- never had a drop of oil.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (96%); RELIGION (93%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); HAMAS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); AL FATAH (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%) Freedom and Human Rights; Islam; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (56%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (53%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); EGYPT (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MOROCCO (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%) Middle East; Lebanon; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



5 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM BRITAIN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Under a Big Umbrella, but What Else Do They Share?

BYLINE: By Alan Cowell

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
Every so often, the British like to ask themselves what it is that makes them British. And just as often, they seem to conclude that if you need to ask, you cannot really know.
 Is Britishness just a plum-colored passport, or is it something else? Is it about cricket and warm beer, Buckingham Palace, tolerance and modesty and quaint Morris dancers? Or should the national image be modified to include binge-drinkers, teenage gangs and soccer hooligans -- the standard-bearers of a darker post-industrial Britain?
Is Britishness these days more about inner city grit, and people from what was once an empire unsure of their welcome in a land still groping for tolerance? And who, indeed, could evoke modern Britain without mentioning a retail mania that keeps the entire economy afloat? If Napoleon Bonaparte once belittled the English as a nation of shopkeepers, what scorn might he now heap on this nation of shoppers? 
 Most recently, Gordon Brown, the (Scottish-born) chancellor of the exchequer and heir apparent to Prime Minister Tony Blair, raised the question anew by musing in public that the British might do well to emulate the Americans -- setting aside a day to celebrate their Britishness, for instance, and taking a bit more pride in their flag. (He cited the Fourth of July as an example -- although, like many post-colonial anniversaries across the globe, that is a more a day for bidding farewell to Britishness than embracing it.)
 More somberly, the lethal London bombings last July, carried out by British-born Muslims, confronted the nation with a stark question of identity: if this multicultural society is to embrace all its disparate strands after decades of immigration from the Caribbean, Africa, Asia and most recently Eastern Europe, what common values should bind a new Britishness transcending faith, race or origin?
 Part of the response came in new rules last November requiring would-be citizens to undergo a formal examination based on a 146-page primer called ''Life in the United Kingdom.'' The volume, published by the Home Office, sets out Britain's history from around the Roman conquest onward, touching on some behavioral characteristics depicted as betraying an essential Britishness.
 ''If you spill a stranger's drink by accident, it is good manners (and prudent) to offer to buy another,'' a section entitled Pubs advises. 
 Long before the July bombings, though, the question of Britishness had filtered through the prism of what is called devolution -- the creation of separate parliaments and other political structures in Wales, Scotland and, with greater difficulties, Northern Ireland.
 As that exercise underlined, Britishness comes second to Scottishness and Welshness in Scotland and Wales, while in England itself, Britishness tends to get confused with Englishness -- a narrower and equally elusive definition that sometimes seems to have been hijacked by right-wing, anti-immigrant extremists. 
 Common to all these considerations are the changes that have re-contoured Britain's profile. Once, questing for an idyllic expression of Britishness, John Major, a former Conservative prime minister, dwelt on cricket-driven images of ''long shadows on county grounds, warm beer and invincible green suburbs.''
 That is the Britain whose disappearance was already being mourned in the verse of the former poet laureate John Betjeman, who died in 1986: nostalgia for the essence of Britishness, it seems, is a movable feast, looking back fondly to an era of bad food, indifferent storekeepers and haughty aristocrats that, nevertheless, seemed somehow better.
 Twenty years after Betjeman's death, it is not only the landscape and the cityscapes that have changed. Between 1991 and 2001, when Britain's population increased by 2.2 million, to 58 million, more than half the increase was made up of people born in other countries, according to a recent survey in The Guardian. 
 Britishness, redolent of the monarchy, the church, cream teas and standing politely in line, must now share space with Britishness expressed through the literature of Monica Ali and Zadie Smith. If Britishness once meant reserve, it now means the end of deference (even the time-honored queue is under threat in the urban jungle). And if Britishness once implied a certain diffidence about public displays of wealth, the new Britishness -- at least since the Margaret Thatcher era -- trumpets its success through the multiple tailpipes of late-model (German-owned) Bentley and (American-owned) Aston Martin automobiles. 
 But there is a more subtle tie between Englishness and Britishness. The two are not synonymous, though some values may be claimed by both. Consider for instance, Rupert Brooke's World War I sonnet, ''The Soldier,'' which muses: ''If I should die, think only this of me/ That there's some corner of a foreign field that is forever England.''
 Understated valor is probably common to the British and English self-perception. Yet, perhaps by default, the red and white flag of St. George, as much as the red, white and blue of the Union Jack, has come to stand for a cruder jingoism verging on the racism of the hard right and the violence of soccer hooligans. And if Britishness may be defined by its antonyms, then it is certainly not Frenchness or German-ness. (''Whatever you do, don't mention the war,'' says Basil Fawlty, played by John Cleese in the comedy show ''Fawlty Towers.'' But, in their hearts, many Britons prefer the Churchillian definition of World War II as their ''finest hour.'')
 Britishness, of course, is never so demonstrative as when its icons are threatened. Last week the BBC (British Broadcasting Corporation, not English or Scottish or Welsh!) announced plans to abandon a medley of British songs called the ''U.K.Theme'' that is played at 5:30 a.m. -- hardly the time for raw patriotism, in peacetime at least. 
 In response, a chorus of voices, including that of Chancellor Brown, rose to the song's defense. Personally, Mr. Brown said, ''I've always seen the 'U.K. Theme' as one of the symbols of Britishness and a celebration of British culture.''
 He had, perhaps, forgotten that one strand of Britishness -- as perceived by outsiders at least -- lies in the art of the supercilious put-down, usually performed by upper-crust types and exemplified by David Cameron, the old-Etonian leader of the opposition Conservatives.
 In response to Mr. Brown's call for a more demonstrative, American-style patriotism, Mr. Cameron chose last week to praise British restraint.
 ''This coyness, this reserve, is, I always think, an intrinsic part of being British,'' he said. ''We are understated. We don't do flags on the front lawn.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The question keeps returning, who are the British? Does tradition, represented by the changing of the guard at Buckingham Palace, define them? Or is it soccer mania, warm beer, cricket, or the acclaimed novelist Zadie Smith? (Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (71%); RETAILERS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); BOMBINGS (64%); REFUGEES (64%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); RELIGION (64%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (63%) Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (58%); TONY BLAIR (58%) Alan Cowell

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) SCOTLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); WALES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



6 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: The State of the Union: A Citizen's Rebuttal

BYLINE: By SARAH VOWELL. 
Sarah Vowell, a contributor to public radio's ''This American Life,'' is the author, most recently, of ''Assassination Vacation.'' She will be a guest columnist during February.

 BODY:
The state of our union is stunned. We democracy spreaders remain shocked, shocked, at the Hamas sweep in the recent Palestinian parliamentary election, never, ever, ever before having experienced a deficit of wisdom on the part of American voters. And that is not only a sarcastic shout-out to the loss of electoral innocence brought on by that time ''Dances With Wolves'' beat out ''Goodfellas'' for best picture at the Oscars. No, it is merely a weary barb borne of the ongoing grind that is the current presidency. 
 For there are American citizens who used to think that there could be no greater blow for representative democracy than a president worming his way into the White House thanks to one Supreme Court vote. That is, until the day said president was actually elected to a second term by an electorate that overlooked the previous four years of galling, irrevocable policies with upbeat, intelligence-insulting slogans -- ''Clear Skies,'' anyone? -- to say nothing of entering into an ugly war based on lies that has made the world a more dangerous place when it wasn't exactly all Davenport, Iowa, to begin with. 
Thus the election unleashed four more years in which even a goody-goody nice girl, who was raised to believe that ''shut up'' is a curse, cusses at her morning newspaper with the foul mouth of a gangsta rapper who has stubbed his toe. 
 Except for that one creepy, silent breakfast when it hit her that her psychologist friend Kate, who counsels torture victims at the Bellevue/N.Y.U. Program for Survivors of Torture, might someday have patients damaged by operatives of the United States. 
 In fact, it has been said that God is currently angry with America. But according to God's publicist, the Supreme Being would like to clarify that He's not angry, but that ''He would like His name taken off the credits.''
 The state of our union? Screaming for reform. Lately there have been justifiable calls to reform the influence of Congressional lobbyists, the structure of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the publishing industry regarding the veracity of memoirs. 
 But let us also call for the reform of the takeout industry. Let's say, hypothetically, that a citizen of New York is awoken after midnight by a noise in her apartment at the precise moment she is dreaming that her stalker is threatening her at knife point, ''Don't move.'' So, half-asleep and unable to discern reality from dream, she lies still, quietly hyperventilating until, after a half-hour has passed, she bolts for the phone and has the comforting 911 operator stay on the line as she searches for intruders in every room and closet and, this is embarrassing, the microwave (that's how spooked she is), until finally she looks down at the floor in the foyer to see that the scraping noise she heard was the nine thousandth Chinese delivery menu of the year being slipped under her door. So, Mr. Speaker, how's about a moratorium on menu break-ins after 10 p.m.?
 But let us conclude by looking on the bright side. Some Americans used to waste their free time writing to the White House or phoning their Congressmen to inform government officials of their opinions. Now a concerned citizen may get her point across to Washington about the Iran situation by simply complaining via cellphone to her friend Brent, who called to brag that he met Ambassador Joe Wilson at a party at Sundance. 
 A pessimist might complain that thanks to N.S.A. wiretapping, American civil liberties are woefully at risk; an optimist might point out that sure, things are bad, but they are so bad that even the crabby conservative strategist Grover Norquist has been driven to sweetly rooting for his political enemies, telling The San Francisco Chronicle last week, ''For 40 years we always assumed the left would take care of our civil liberties.'' He added, ''If there were problems, the Democrats were the ones who would push back. But now with a Republican Congress and a Republican in the White House, the A.C.L.U. can't get their calls returned.'' 
 The state of our union? United -- at least on one small thing. Despite our differences about the war, the economy, the environment, health care, education and Gulf Coast relief, let us come together to celebrate the sole issue we, as a nation, agree on: Anderson Cooper sure has swell hair.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HAMAS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); PUBLISHING (64%); TORTURE (64%); HIP HOP CULTURE (64%); RAP MUSIC (50%) United States Politics and Government; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (84%)

PERSON: Sarah Vowell; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



7 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Loan for Foreign Mining in Ghana Approved

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
The board of the International Finance Corporation, the World Bank's investment agency, yesterday approved a $75 million loan to a subsidiary of Newmont Mining, the world's largest gold producer, for a project in Ghana that the investment agency's managers say they hope will be a model for the developing world.
 An alliance of advocacy and environmental groups urged the I.F.C. to postpone approval until it won additional safeguards to protect the thousands of people who are losing land and livelihoods to the gold mine's development, and to prevent contamination of drinking water from mine waste. 
But a senior official at the agency said the loan had been approved on the condition that the company meet stringent social and environmental standards. The more than 9,000 people, many of them subsistence farmers, whose homes or land are being displaced by the project, are being resettled in new villages or compensated for their losses.
 ''The company is really committed, and the fact that they have deep pockets will help address many of these issues as they come up,'' said Rashad Kaldany, who heads the oil, gas, mining and chemicals department for the World Bank and its investment agency.
 The $470 million project, already three-quarters built, will create 620 permanent jobs, I.F.C. officials said, and, depending on the price of gold, generate $300 million to $700 million for Ghana over the next 20 years. 
 Newmont could have finished the project without the loan, Mr. Kaldany said, but wanted the agency's stamp of approval for meeting social and environmental standards. A spokeswoman for Newmont did not return several phone calls yesterday.
 In a report to the I.F.C., the mining company's Ghana subsidiary said it aspired to be ''a model corporate citizen.'' The company's huge operation in Peru has generated fierce protests among peasants there. And in Indonesia, the government brought criminal charges of polluting against the Denver-based mining giant, charges the company has denied.
 In its summary of the Ghana project, I.F.C. managers describe it as one ''expected to become a demonstration for how to handle environmental, social and community development issues in Ghana.''
 Another project that was supposed to be a model for developing a poor African country's natural resources, the construction of a $4.2 billion oil pipeline through Chad and Cameroon, suffered a major setback less than a month ago. The World Bank suspended all loans to Chad after determining that its government had broken an agreement to dedicate most of the oil revenue to alleviating poverty.
 Years ago, nonprofit groups advocated that the bank delay its loan to Chad until the country strengthened the institutions that could ensure that oil revenues were spent honestly and well. The groups counseled delay in the Ghana case and considered the I.F.C.'s decision to go forward with the loan a disappointment.
 ''The project poses a serious threat to the livelihoods and long-term well-being of the people in the area,'' said Keith Slack, a senior policy adviser for the international aid group Oxfam. ''The I.F.C. has taken a very significant risk by approving this project.''
 A World Bank evaluation in 2003 of its own earlier investments in Ghana's mining industry raised questions about the benefits of large-scale mining by foreign companies. It noted that creation of jobs had been modest, local communities had seen little benefit and corporate tax payments had been low.
 But Mr. Kaldany said the gold project approved yesterday would improve conditions for local residents and generate substantial revenue, enabling the government of Ghana to spend more on health, education, roads and other public works that would reduce poverty.
 ''Our goal and the company's goal is that people be better off after this,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Newmont Mining construction crew was at work last May diverting river water through a pipeline by the side of a road that had been carved out of the Ghanaian bush near the towns of Kenyase and Sunyani. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); GOLD MINING (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (66%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (65%) Gold; Mines and Mining; Gold

COMPANY: NEWMONT MINING CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) Newmont Mining Corp; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Finance Corp

TICKER: NEM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (58%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (58%)

PERSON: Celia W Dugger

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) GHANA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); CAMEROON (79%); INDONESIA (79%); CHAD (79%) Ghana

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



8 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Handing Over the Power at the Federal Reserve
Stepping down after 18 years as steward of the nation's economy, Alan Greenspan left his successor, Ben S. Bernanke, a wide berth to set his own policy, along with a final increase in short-term interest rates and some major uncertainties. In a new column, David Leonhardt says that Mr. Bernanke has the potential to outshine his predecessor. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Wounded Anchor in U.S. 

Bob Woodruff, the ABC News anchor, and the cameraman Doug Vogt arrived in Maryland to continue treatment for wounds suffered in a roadside bombing in Iraq. PAGE A8

Diane Sawyer and Charles Gibson are expected to fill in for Mr. Woodruff while he recovers. PAGE C1

Enron Opening Arguments
On the opening day of the trial of Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling, lawyers for the government and the defense told a tale of two Enrons, portraying starkly different versions of why the energy company collapsed in 2001. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

XL Is the Right Number
There has never been a Super Bowl with such a marketable number attached to it. Super Bowl XL is the payoff for the N.F.L.'s stubbornness in sticking with Roman numerals no matter how unwieldy they become. SPORTSWEDNESDAY, PAGE D1

Oscar Nods for Small Films
Serious intent trumped size for voters of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Small films with political or social themes, including ''Brokeback Mountain,'' ''Good Night, and Good Luck,'' ''Crash,'' ''Munich'' and ''Capote,'' led the Oscar nominations. THE ARTS, PAGE E1

Google Falls Despite Profit
Google said its fourth-quarter profit rose 82 percent, to $372 million, but that was not enough to satisfy investors, who had grown accustomed to explosive growth, and its stock fell 12 percent. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Risk for Women's Hearts
Women are more likely than men to have a hidden coronary disease in which their heart muscle is starved for oxygen even though their coronary arteries look clear. PAGE A20

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (75%); WOMEN (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); FILM (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (65%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (63%); HEART DISEASE (61%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); WOUND CARE (55%); COMPANY PROFITS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); GOOGLE INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (88%); ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); DIANE SAWYER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



9 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Budget Calls for Spinach And Few Sweets

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
Resisting political temptation, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proposed a $55.5 billion budget yesterday that would spend most of a $3.3 billion surplus this year not on politically popular programs, but on paying down debt and other long-term costs that threaten the city's future financial stability.
 Flush with surging tax revenues from a strong New York economy and fortified by a resounding re-election victory, he chose to expend that financial and political capital in ways that would have been unheard-of under prior administrations, and even during his own first term.
In a presentation in the City Hall Blue Room, he said his approach to spending the surplus was aimed at addressing a sobering problem: the growing burden of fixed costs, those that are largely beyond the mayor's control, including pensions and benefits for city workers, along with Medicaid and debt service. 
 Those costs, taken together, are expected to grow 15 percent next year, leaving the city with far less room to maneuver in spending on discretionary areas like education, public works and social welfare programs.
 Mr. Bloomberg would use $2 billion over the next two years to create a trust fund to pay retirees' health care costs, $500 million as an immediate payment on long-term debt and $1 billion to pay for capital projects outright and avoid financing costs. He also said he would press the State Legislature and union leaders to curtail soaring pension costs because such expenditures, along with other benefits, are expected to total $12 billion next year, up from $5 billion in 2001.
 ''Those are things that not only is New York City wrestling with, every municipality across the country is wrestling with and every company in the private sector is wrestling with,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''You see companies walking away from their pension plans. You see companies changing from defined benefit to defined contribution plans. You see co-pay in medical plans.''
 But not every part of Mr. Bloomberg's four-year financial blueprint hewed to the eat-your-spinach theme. He proposed extending the popular $400 property tax rebate. In one of the few areas of increased spending, he urged that $17 million more go to the Administration for Children's Services, which has been embroiled in controversy over the deaths of children it was monitoring.
 In addition, the proposed budget, which is for the 2007 fiscal year, beginning on July 1, includes spending increases of $70 million for more charter and special education schools; $7 million for the Correction Department, in part to cover the cost of protective vests for officers; and $8 million for the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene to spend on a diabetes registry and on prison health care programs.
 City Council leaders faulted the mayor for not devoting more money to the city's schools, and the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, said the Council would play a more meaningful role in shaping the budget this year. Mr. Bloomberg's proposal begins negotiations on the budget, which must be passed by June 30.
 For all the extra revenue that has resulted in a near-record surplus, the budget plan was as notable for its heavy emphasis on wresting control of runaway expenditures. The new theme was a departure from the mayor's last four budgets, which began with the immediate need to eliminate deficits and later became more political documents as his re-election campaign neared.
 Now that he is safely in power for another four years, and has the benefit of a large surplus, Mr. Bloomberg signaled yesterday that he is prepared to take on the escalating fixed costs of municipal government that he has long complained about.
 ''He's an unusual politician, and he's certainly proving it here today by putting the city's long-term interests ahead of short-term political gain,'' said Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a business-backed policy group. ''I can't think of any criticisms right now because I am so struck by what an unusual and prudent thing that it is to do.''
 Other budget watchers sensed unease within the administration over how to handle the continuing surge of revenue from taxes on real estate transactions, personal income and business profits, which are now expected to be about $600 million higher this year than what the mayor's office was predicting just three months ago. In his remarks, Mr. Bloomberg repeatedly stressed that he did not expect the boom to last much longer, and his plan anticipates a budget deficit of $3.4 billion in the 2008 fiscal year.
 ''They seem to be trying to feel their way through this rain of cash that the city has right now,'' said Doug Turetsky, a spokesman for the city's Independent Budget Office. ''I think they are faced with a problem of determining how much of it is permanent and how much is temporary.''
 To help balance next year's budget, Mr. Bloomberg is also hoping for an additional $350 million in state and federal assistance, as well as continued spending cuts by city agencies, which have trimmed a total of about $300 million from their budgets for this year and next. Although the mayor's office said his budget proposal totaled $52.2 billion, the actual amount to be spent, after adding in this year's surplus, which will be rolled forward and used next year, is about $55.5 billion. The current budget is about $54 billion. 
 Driving the mayor's proposal to create a trust fund for retiree health care costs is a recent accounting change that requires state and local governments to begin reporting the full value of health benefits earned by their employees in a given year, even if those benefits have not yet been paid. Budget officials said that number, when it is finally tallied, could reach as high as $50 billion, which will have to be reported as a liability on the city's balance sheets, much in the same way pension obligations are already reported.
 One practical benefit to setting aside money now is that in lean fiscal times, the city, which currently spends about $1 billion a year on retirees' health care, could dip into the trust fund rather than use its operating budget.
 The mayor's list of proposed capital projects includes $47 million to survey and repair retaining walls around the city; $23 million for improvements to Governors Island; $265 million for infrastructure and parks at the new stadiums for the Yankees and the Mets; and $2 billion for a previously announced plan to build housing for low- and moderate-income families.
 Yesterday, some council members complained that the mayor had left out any reference to billions of dollars the city is seeking from the state, money that a judge said must be spent to improve city schools. The mayor said he did not include that money because he did not expect the issue, which is tied up in court, to be resolved for at least a year.
 The Council's new speaker, Ms. Quinn, signaled that she was not content to follow the ritual of previous years, in which the Council's role was limited to deciding how to spend about $300 million for programs favored by members and their constituencies. Knowing that that is what is ultimately most important to individual council members, the administration usually withholds the money as a bargaining chip in budget talks, agreeing to include it in the mayor's final proposal only as the June 30 deadline approaches.
 ''We are committing today to change that process, to stop the music, to stop the dance,'' Ms. Quinn said. ''We're going to step forward and assert what we believe is the full power the charter gives us.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at City Hall yesterday before delivering his budget proposal for 2007. (Photo by Kathy Willens/Associated Press)(pg. B5)Chart: ''Surplus Now, Deficits Later''Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced yesterday that the city budget for the fiscal year 2006, which ends on June 30, is in balance as is the proposed preliminary budget plan for the 2007 fiscal year. But budget shortfalls are forecast beginning in the 2008 fiscal year.Fiscal years, in millions of dollars2006TOTAL REVENUES: $53,808TOTAL SPENDING: $53,808GAP TO CLOSE (Forecasts): 02007TOTAL REVENUES: 52,205TOTAL SPENDING: 55,459*GAP TO CLOSE (Forecasts): 02008TOTAL REVENUES: 53,004TOTAL SPENDING: 56,451GAP TO CLOSE (Forecasts): 3,4472009TOTAL REVENUES: 54,340TOTAL SPENDING: 57,840GAP TO CLOSE (Forecasts): 3,5002010TOTAL REVENUES: 56,174TOTAL SPENDING: 58,885GAP TO CLOSE (Forecasts): 2,711*Includes a $3.3 billion surplus transferred from the 2006 budget.Fixed agency spending, which is largely beyond the mayor's control, like pensions, benefits, debt service and Medicaid, contributes more to the projected deficits than nonfixed spending, like uniformed forces, social services and education.Graph tracks forecasts for fixed and nonfixed agency spending from 2006-2010.(Source by Office of the Mayor)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE (87%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); MEDICAID (73%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (73%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); CHILD WELFARE (60%); DIABETES (50%) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Mike Mcintire; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



10 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Report Links Iran Military To Disputed Nuclear Work
The International Atomic Energy Agency says it has evidence that suggests links between Iran's ostensibly peaceful nuclear program and its military work on missiles, according to a confidential agency report released to member countries. A1

Persian Gulf states, after years of hesitation, are joining the call for tougher action on Iran's nuclear development efforts, increasingly worried that a nuclear Iran could set off an arms race in the region. 
 A10

Hamas Troubles Moderates
Since Hamas swept parliamentary elections in the West Bank and Gaza, secularists, Christian Arabs and Muslims who want a more secular state wonder to what extent Hamas will impose its religious beliefs. A12

Dane Straddles Muslim Issue
As Islamic protests spread about cartoons of the prophet Muhammad in a Danish newspaper, the Danish prime minister defended press freedom in his country but distanced himself from the drawings. A10

11 Bodies Found in Iraq
The bodies of 11 young men, some of them shot repeatedly and bearing marks of torture, were found in a minibus in western Baghdad, Interior Ministry officials said. A8

Loan for Ghana Mines Approved
The board of the International Finance Corporation approved a $75 million loan to a subsidiary of Newmont Mining for a project in Ghana despite calls from environmental groups urging safeguards to protect those losing land to the project. A6

5-Year Plan Set for Afghan Aid
An aid conference of more than 60 nations, including the United States, agreed on a five-year blueprint to restore Afghanistan's security, build a functioning economy and counter the country's narcotics trade. A3

NATIONAL A13-21

Bush Cites Strong Union; Vows to Fight Terrorism
President Bush warned against ''the false comfort of isolationism'' and called for aggressive American leadership around the world in a State of the Union address that sought to reassert his control over the nation's agenda heading into a pivotal midterm election campaign. A1

As President Bush promised to reduce American dependence on oil from the Middle East, he echoed many presidents before him. A16

Hidden Heart Risk for Women
Women are more likely than men to have a hidden type of coronary disease in which their heart muscle is starved for oxygen even though their coronary arteries look clear and free of blockages on X-rays, doctors are reporting. A1

Ex-Postal Employee Kills 5
A woman who had left her Postal Service job because of psychological problems shot and killed five former colleagues and critically wounded another at a sorting plant in Goleta, Calif., before fatally shooting herself, the authorities said. A13

Plea Deal in Nightclub Fire
The band manager who set off the fireworks that ignited a Rhode Island nightclub fire in February 2003 agreed to plead guilty to 100 counts of involuntary manslaughter. A13

Alito Sworn In as 110th Justice
Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. was quietly sworn as the 110th justice of the Supreme Court, taking the oath of office after a sharply divided Senate voted roughly along party lines to confirm him. A21

Storm Inquiry Cites Many Flaws
Government complacency, poor planning and dereliction of duty during Hurricane Katrina contributed to the deaths of dozens of the frail and sick in New Orleans, Senate investigators said. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Long-Range Budget Goals For Bloomberg's 2nd Term
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proposed a $55.5 billion budget that would spend most of a $3.3 billion surplus this year not on politically popular programs, but on paying down debt and meeting other long-term costs that threaten the city's future financial stability. In doing so, he is expending financial and political capital in ways that would have been unheard of in prior administrations. A1

Child Agency Had Warnings
Despite receiving six complaints about the family of Quachaun Browne since 2004, the city's child welfare agency failed to detect a dangerous new presence in the family's apartment and failed to act before a weekend-long torrent of abuse and neglect that ended with the 4-year-old's death, the authorities said. B1

A Field Gets Smaller
The Republican billionaire Tom Golisano announced that he would not run for governor of New York. B1

Neediest Cases B6

EDUCATION B7

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-6

ARTS E1-12

DINING OUT F1-8

OBITUARIES A22-23

Coretta Scott King
The wife of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who after his assassination continued to proselytize his vision of racial peace and nonviolent social change, she was 78. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Google Stocks Drop
After astounding investors with its incredible growth in its first year and a half as a public company, Google learned the perils of high expectations. An earnings increase that fell short of Wall Street's targets sent its shares plummeting. C1

Greenspan's Last Day
Alan Greenspan, who stepped down after 18 years as chairman of the Federal Reserve, spent his last day at the Fed pushing through one more small increase in short-term interest rates, giving his successor, Ben S. Bernanke, considerable freedom to make his own mark on the economy. C1

Enron Trial Begins
On the opening day of the trial of Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling, prosecutors accused Enron executives of accounting ''hocus pocus'' while the duo's defense lawyers countered that market panic is what caused the collapse of the energy company in 2001. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: The state of energy; Verlyn Klinkenborg on Vasily Grossman.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd, Sarah Vowell.

Crosswords E6
TV Listings E11
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); RELIGION (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HAMAS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); SHOOTINGS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (84%); FIRES (83%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); TERRORISM (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WOMEN (71%); CHURCH & STATE (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (65%); MANSLAUGHTER (63%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (63%); GUILTY PLEAS (61%); INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER (60%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); HEART DISEASE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEWMONT MINING CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%); INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP (55%)

TICKER: NEM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (55%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (92%); GHANA (92%); DENMARK (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



11 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: The State of Energy 

 BODY:
President Bush devoted two minutes and 15 seconds of his State of the Union speech to energy independence. It was hardly the bold signal we've been waiting for through years of global warming and deadly struggles in the Middle East, where everything takes place in the context of what Mr. Bush rightly called our ''addiction'' to imported oil. 
 Last night's remarks were woefully insufficient. The country's future economic and national security will depend on whether Americans can control their enormous appetite for fossil fuels. This is not a matter to be lumped in a laundry list of other initiatives during a once-a-year speech to Congress. It is the key to everything else.
If Mr. Bush wants his final years in office to mean more than a struggle to re-spin failed policies and cement bad initiatives into permanent law, this is the place where he needs to take his stand. And he must do it with far more force and passion than he did last night. 
 American overdependence on oil has been a disaster for our foreign policy. It weakens the nation's international leverage and empowers exactly the wrong countries. Last night Mr. Bush told the people that ''the nations of the world must not permit the Iranian regime to gain nuclear weapons,'' but he did not explain how that will happen when those same nations are so dependent on Tehran's oil. Iran ranks second in oil reserves only to Saudi Arabia, where members of the elite help finance Osama bin Laden and his ilk, and where the United States finds it has little power to stop them.
 Oil is a seller's market, in part because of America's voracious consumption. India and China, with their growing energy needs, have both signed deals with Iran. Rogue states like Sudan are given political cover by their oil customers. The United Nations may wish to do something about genocide in Darfur or nuclear proliferation, but its most powerful members are hamstrung by their oil alliances with some of the worst leaders on the planet.
 Even if the war on terror had never begun, Mr. Bush would have an obligation to be serious about the energy issue, given the enormous danger to the nation's economy if we fail to act. His own Energy Department predicts that with the rapid development of India and China, annual global consumption will rise from about 80 million barrels of oil a day to 119 million barrels by 2025. Absent efforts to reduce American consumption, these new demands will lead to soaring oil prices, inflation and a loss of America's trade advantage. It should be a humbling shock to American leaders that Brazil has managed to become energy self-sufficient during a period when the United States was focused on building bigger S.U.V.'s.
 Part of the answer, as Mr. Bush indicated last night, is the continued development of alternative fuels, especially for cars. The Energy Department has addressed this modestly, and last night the president said his budget would add more money for research. That's fine, but hardly the kind of full-bore national initiative that will pump large amounts of money into the commercial production of alternatives to gasoline. 
 When it comes to cars, much of the research has already been done -- Brazil got to energy independence by figuring out how to get its citizens home from work in cars run without much gasoline. The answer is producing the new fuels that have already been developed and getting cars that use them on the lots. There are several ways to make that happen. The president could call for higher fuel economy standards for car manufacturers. He could bring up the subject of a gas tax -- the most effective way of getting Americans to buy fuel-efficient cars, and a market-based tax on consumption that conservative lawmakers ought to embrace if they are honest with themselves and their constituents. But Mr. Bush took the safe, easy and relatively meaningless route instead. 
 There is still an enormous amount to be done to find new sources of clean, cheap power to heat homes and create electricity. But regrettably, the president made it clear last night that he would rather spend the country's resources on tax cuts for the wealthy. The oil companies are currently flush with profits from the same high prices that have plagued consumers, and the president might have asked the assembled legislators whether their current tax breaks might be redirected into a real energy initiative. 
 Simply calling for more innovation is painless. The hard part is calling for anything that smacks of sacrifice -- on the part of consumers or special interests, and politicians who depend on their support. After 9/11, the president had the perfect moment to put the nation on the road toward energy independence, when people were prepared to give up their own comforts in the name of a greater good. He passed it by, and he missed another opportunity last night.
 Of all the defects in Mr. Bush's energy presentation, the greatest was his unwillingness to address global warming -- an energy-related emergency every bit as critical as our reliance on foreign oil. Except for a few academics on retainer at the more backward energy companies, virtually no educated scientist disputes that the earth has grown warmer over the last few decades -- largely as a result of increasing atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide produced by the burning of fossil fuels. 
 The carbon lodged in the atmosphere by the Industrial Revolution over the last 150 years has already taken a toll: disappearing glaciers, a thinning Arctic icecap, dead or dying coral reefs, increasingly violent hurricanes. Even so, given robust political leadership and technological ingenuity, the worst consequences -- widespread drought and devastating rises in sea levels --can be averted if society moves quickly to slow and ultimately reverse its output of greenhouse gases. This will require a fair, cost-effective program of carbon controls at home and a good deal of persuasion and technological assistance in countries like China, which is building old-fashioned, carbon-producing coal-fired power plants at a frightening clip. 
 Mr. Bush said he would look for cleaner ways to power our homes and offices, and provide more money for the Energy Department's search for a ''zero emission'' coal-fired plant whose carbon dioxide emissions can be injected harmlessly into the ground without adding to the greenhouse gases already in the atmosphere. But once again he chose to substitute long-range research -- and a single, government-sponsored research program at that -- for the immediate investments that have to be made across the entire industrial sector. 
 That Mr. Bush has taken a pass on this issue is a negligence from which the globe may never recover. While he seems finally to have signed on to the idea that the earth is warming, and that humans are heavily responsible, he has rejected serious proposals to do anything about it and allowed his advisers on the issue to engage in a calculated program of disinformation. At the recent global summit on warming, his chief spokesmen insisted that the president's program of voluntary reductions by individual companies had resulted in a reduction in emissions, when in fact the reverse was true. 
 The State of the Union speech is usually a feel-good event, and no one could fault Mr. Bush's call for research, or fail to applaud his call for replacing more than 75 percent of the nation's oil imports from the Middle East within the next two decades. But while the goal was grand, the means were minuscule. The president has never been serious about energy independence. Like so many of our leaders, he is content to acknowledge the problem and then offer up answers that do little to disturb the status quo. If the war on terror must include a war on oil dependence, Mr. Bush is in retreat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); CONSUMPTION (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); TERRORISM (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); GENOCIDE (61%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Editorials; International Trade and World Market; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) George W (Pres) Bush; Osama Bin Laden

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (54%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SUDAN (92%); IRAN (54%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



12 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: 60 Nations Set 5-Year Goals to Aid Afghanistan

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL; Steven R. Weisman reported from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
The Bush administration pledged Tuesday to seek Congressional approval for a further $1.1 billion in aid to help rebuild Afghanistan next year, roughly the same amount sought for 2006. 
 ''The transformation of Afghanistan is remarkable but incomplete, and it is essential that we all increase our support for the Afghan people,'' Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said at an aid conference of more than 60 nations here.
 The gathering agreed on what it called the Afghanistan Compact, a five-year blueprint to restore the country's security, build a functioning economy and counter the rapidly expanding narcotics trade.
 The compact is intended as a successor to an agreement reached in 2001 after the overthrow of the radical Islamic Taliban government.
 Since then, the United States has appropriated some $6 billion over the last three years. A sum of $1.1 billion, committed for the current fiscal year, ending Sept. 30, has not yet been disbursed.
 According to official administration figures, other donors have pledged more than $9.5 billion for Afghanistan between 2001 and 2006, but only half of it has actually been handed over.
 Along with its goals of cementing democracy and spurring economic growth, the Afghanistan Compact aims to eliminate illegal armed groups by 2007 and build a national army of 70,000 troops by 2010.
 Jack Straw, the British foreign secretary, said the goals were ''ambitious but they are achievable.''
 Prime Minister Tony Blair has promised to send 3,300 troops to Helmand Province, in southern Afghanistan, later this year. Their mission will be to provide security, not to hunt down insurgents, according to the British government.
 At the same time, President Bush has said the number of American troops in Afghanistan will be cut by 2,500, to 16,500, as a NATO deployment gathers strength.
 The conference here follows months of mounting bloodshed in Afghanistan and concern about a narcotics trade that provides almost 90 percent of global opium and heroin. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HEROIN (89%); APPROVALS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TALIBAN (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); OPIUM (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); RELIGION (54%) United States International Relations; Foreign Aid; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Opium; Heroin

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); JACK STRAW (56%); TONY BLAIR (53%) Alan Cowell; George W (Pres) Bush; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (75%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



13 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Exit Greenspan, Amid Questions on Economy

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
Stepping down on Tuesday after 18 years as steward of the nation's economy, Alan Greenspan left his successor a wide berth to set his own policy but some major uncertainties about the future.
 Acting with almost choreographic precision, Mr. Greenspan wrapped up his last big initiative as chairman of the Federal Reserve less than an hour before the Senate confirmed Ben S. Bernanke as his successor.
On his last day at the Fed, Mr. Greenspan pushed through one more small increase in short-term interest rates, to 4.50 percent, and signaled that the current series of rate rises was nearing an end.
 That gave Mr. Bernanke, a highly respected monetary economist who is to be sworn in on Wednesday, considerable freedom to make his own mark on an economy that performed much better during most of the Greenspan era than many experts thought possible when he took over at the Fed in 1987. 
 But the handoff also meant that Mr. Bernanke would face murkier choices at a time of substantial risks that increase the chances for serious missteps.
 Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor and now a top forecaster at Macroeconomic Advisers, remarked: ''The challenge is in making day-to-day policy at a time when mistakes are most likely to be made. We are close in many ways to a soft landing. But that's really a razor's edge.''
 He and other specialists saw a variety of such challenges.
 The nation's housing market, which was propelled by low interest rates to something of a frenzy in recent years, is poised for a slowdown that many economists fear could chill the broader economy.
 The United States current-account deficit -- the gap between what Americans spend and what they produce in goods and services -- soared well past $700 billion in 2005 and requires about $2 billion a day in new foreign financing. The federal budget deficit has also been on an upward path.
 Energy prices, which declined during most of Mr. Greenspan's tenure, have climbed back to new records and seem likely to remain high. And the nation's dependence on imported oil is greater than ever, a problem that President Bush addressed Tuesday night in the State of the Union address.
 Wages of low- and middle-income workers are barely keeping pace with inflation, and in some places are falling behind. Wage inequality appears to be widening between the top and bottom ranks of the work force, partly because of a relentless contraction in blue-collar factory jobs.
 The cross-currents in the economy, and the lack of a well-defined policy road map from this point on, will make Mr. Bernanke's new job especially difficult. He has previously served as a Fed governor and as the White House's chief economist, but is little known to most Americans and is sure to face second-guessing by some in the financial markets and some political figures.
 Mr. Greenspan, in his last act as Fed chairman on Tuesday, came close to wrapping up his final major policy challenge: gradually reversing the drastic rate reductions that he had used to fight the recession of 2001 as well as the fallout from terrorist attacks and corporate scandals.
 With the rate increase on Tuesday, the 14th since June 2004, the federal funds rate for overnight loans between banks is roughly in line with longtime patterns.
 In a statement accompanying its decision, the Fed's policy-making committee made clear that its march to higher interest rates was almost over, but warned that it would keep its options open.
 ''The committee judges that some further policy firming may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance,'' the panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, said.
 But in a notable change that Fed officials have been debating for months, the policy makers, for the first time in nearly three years, dropped their reference to raising rates at a ''measured'' pace.
 This change amounted to closing the last chapter of the Greenspan era at the Fed, which began shortly before the stock market meltdown in 1987, propelled the economic boom of the 1990's and endured through the shocks of terrorist attacks, corporate accounting scandals and the still-unfinished war in Iraq.
 Mr. Greenspan spent much of his time after 2001 reacting to the collapse of the stock market bubble and to a battered economy by cutting interest rates to levels not seen since the 1950's.
 Then he spent the last two years gradually trying to reverse the policy of cheap money that contributed to the housing boom, raised the risk of reviving inflation and threatened to add important elements of economic uncertainty. It would be his last big task, he told lawmakers early in 2004, and it would not be a ''gimme'' -- golfers' jargon for a short, all-but-certain putt.
 At the moment, Mr. Greenspan seems to have lined up his shot accurately. The Fed's short-term interest benchmark is much closer to the presumed ''neutral'' rate, one that neither slows the economy nor leads to higher inflation.
 Reported unemployment, at 5 percent, is back down to levels that economists once equated with ''full employment.'' Inflation, despite high energy prices, has remained tame. 
 In an attempt to give Mr. Bernanke as much flexibility as possible, Fed policy makers issued a statement soaked in so much ambiguity that Wall Street analysts variously described it as the end of rate increases, a warning of new ones, or something in between.
 Some analysts paid attention to the statement's lack of the word ''measured'' and its wording that further rate increases ''may'' be needed rather than, as the Fed said in December, were ''likely'' to be needed. Those were hints, this argument went, that the rate increases were just about over.
 Others noted that the Fed continued to warn about inflation pressures, and that it would base decisions on new data. Some took that as a warning that it was not finished.
 But the Fed's most important message may have been that it wanted to stop telegraphing its policy decisions in advance, a practice it has followed for the last three years.
 ''The committee will no longer give us a forward-looking statement,'' noted Sung Won Sohn, a leading economist who is chief executive of Hanmi Bank in Los Angeles. ''This also gives a lot of flexibility to Chairman Bernanke, who will give more weight to economic data as they are released.''
 Mr. Bernanke, a former economics professor at Princeton University, has been a champion for years of greater openness at the Fed. 
 But the ambiguity of the economic outlook and the fact that the Fed is at the tail end of a basic shift in policy may mean that he takes over at a moment when the Fed becomes less open and more cagey about its plans.
 As for Mr. Greenspan, he spent much of his last day at work saying farewell to the staff and receiving a cornucopia of farewell gifts.
 Among his going-away gifts was an old chair from the Fed's boardroom; an old baseball glove signed by each president of the Federal Reserve's 12 district banks; a frame with 12 dollar bills, each from a separate Fed district; and the Federal Reserve's flag, which flew during the policy meeting on Tuesday.
 Mr. Greenspan, 79, plans to start a consulting firm in Washington but has promised that he will not comment on monetary policy.
 ''I know this institution will go on doing extraordinary things,'' he said at lunch with other Fed board members. ''I will look on from the sidelines and cheer.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Greenspan: the valedictory grin. (Photo by Larry Downing/Reuters)(pg. C1)
 Asher Koenig, trading director of KV Execution Services, looking at a painting of Alan Greenspan on a TV screen at the New York Stock Exchange. (Photo by Richard Drew/Associated Press)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); RESIGNATIONS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (71%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%) United States Economy; Biographical Information; Credit; Interest Rates; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Appointments and Executive Changes; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); BEN BERNANKE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Edmund L Andrews; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Ben S Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



14 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 844 words

 BODY:

Google's Shares Plummet After Earnings Report Disappoints a Market Looking for More Growth
After astounding investors with its incredible growth in its first year and a half as a public company, Google learned the perils yesterday of high expectations. An earnings increase that fell shy of Wall Street's targets sent its shares plummeting in after-hours trading. [Page C1.] 


Lawyers Deliver Opening Statements in Enron Trial
In opening arguments in the trial of the former Enron executives Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling, the prosecution accused the two executives of lying while the defense acknowledged the failure of the company but said failure was not a crime. [C1.]

A New Fed Steward Faces Numerous Uncertainties
Stepping down after 18 years as steward of the nation's economy, Alan Greenspan left his successor at the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, both a wide berth and some big uncertainties about the future. [C1.]

ABC Looking at Veterans to Fill In for Injured Anchor
The two co-anchors of ''Good Morning America,'' Diane Sawyer and Charles Gibson, are expected to fill in on ''World News Tonight'' while the program's new co-anchor, Bob Woodruff, continues to recover from wounds suffered in a bomb attack in Iraq. [C1.]

United Airlines Expected to End 38-Month Bankruptcy
United Airlines is expected to end its 38-month stay in bankruptcy proceedings, but the carrier may not be profitable this year because of a surge in fuel prices. But many of United's 57,000 workers, meanwhile, though relieved to be ending their stay in bankruptcy, are wary of what the airline, led by Glenn F. Tilton, above, might plan to continue to streamline the carrier. [C2.]

Congressional Hearing on Security of Phone Records
A Congressional hearing schedule for today will look at the emergence of a cottage industry of con artists seeking to trick cellphone companies into giving away the phone numbers and calling records of subscribers. [C3.]

Job-Related Measure of Consumer Confidence Surged
Americans grew more optimistic about the job market in January, sending a measure of consumer confidence to its highest level in three-and-a-half years, according to a report by the Conference Board. But the report also showed that consumers were still uneasy about the future. [C4.]

Microsoft Issues Guidelines for Government Censorship
Microsoft disclosed new company guidelines yesterday intended to spell out how it will deal with government censorship demands -- in China and anywhere it does business -- and to limit the effect of its compliance. [C3.]

Mellon Financial Selects Wachovia Executive as Its Chief
Mellon Financial appointed Robert P. Kelly, Wachovia's chief financial officer, as its chief executive, ending months of criticism from activist investors who called for a change in leadership and strategy. [C3.]

Maker of Medical Needles to Be Acquired for $785 Million
Angiotech Pharmaceuticals agreed to acquire American Medical Instruments Holdings, a maker of custom needles, for $785 million. [C16.]

Former Wal-Mart Executive Pleads Guilty in Theft Case
A former Wal-Mart executive pleaded guilty to fraud and tax charges, admitting he stole money, gift cards and merchandise. [C5.]

Merck's Profit Flat, Partly on Costs Related to Vioxx
Merck & Company said its profit edged up 2 percent in the fourth quarter as drug sales leveled off and it set aside an additional $295 million for legal defense costs related to its withdrawn painkiller Vioxx. Merck said it earned $1.12 billion, or 51 cents a share, compared with $1.1 billion, or 50 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue was flat at $5.77 billion. [C4.]

Stocks Fall on Concern About Interest Rates
Stocks fell on concern about the Federal Reserve's comments that more interest rate increases might be needed to keep inflation under control. The Dow Jones industrial average was down 35.06 points, at 10,864.86. The S.& P. 500 was down 5.12 points, at 1,280.08. The Nasdaq was down 0.96 point, at 2,305.82. [C10.]

OPEC Formally Keeps Oil Output Level Unchanged
OPEC ministers said they would keep their oil production levels unchanged for the time being, stressing that supplies were secure despite tension over Iran's nuclear program. The decision had been widely anticipated but it still helped ease some of the concern on oil markets. [C2.]

Oil producers, particularly in the Arabian peninsula, are going through an oil boom. And as in the 1970's and 1980's, there is an abundance of outrageous projects. But this time around, the petrodollars are staying closer to home -- and under closer scrutiny -- than they were in past boom times. [C1.]

Cablevision Might Restore a Canceled Dividend
Cablevision Systems, the cable operator, said that it would consider restoring a special $3 billion dividend that it canceled last December. [C4.]

Knight Ridder's Fourth-Quarter Profit Falls 22%
Newspaper publisher Knight Ridder, which is seeking a buyer under pressure from its largest shareholders, reported a 22 percent decline in fourth-quarter earnings from a year ago, when it owned other newspapers. [C10.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Merck share prices since December, 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); AIRLINES (86%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); CENSORSHIP (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (93%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (93%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); BK (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: ROBERT P KELLY (79%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); DIANE SAWYER (52%); GLENN TILTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



15 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: How Bernanke Could Outshine Greenspan

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
EVERYONE has felt the tangle of nerves and excitement that comes with a new job. So imagine what it must be like to be Ben Bernanke this morning.
 Four years ago, he was an economics professor who had never held a government job outside his local school board. Today he will walk into an office that has been Alan Greenspan's for almost two decades, cross a red-and-navy Oriental rug and take his place behind Mr. Greenspan's desk. From there, Mr. Bernanke is supposed to keep the American economy running smoothly.
 I suspect that many people don't know exactly what he will be doing as the chairman of the Federal Reserve, but they do know that he has a hard act to follow. Mr. Greenspan was a crossover star, a towering figure to Wall Street and the public at large. He is more popular than any politician, according to polls, and nearly as admired as Pope John Paul II, Queen Elizabeth or Oprah Winfrey. 
 So it is understandable that most of the talk leading to today's transition has focused on all the ways that Mr. Bernanke will struggle to live up to the Greenspan standard. Almost no one has talked about the things Mr. Bernanke may do better than Mr. Greenspan. But there are some, believe it or not, and he has already shown some real promise in one particular area.
 MR. GREENSPAN'S main accomplishment, as the tributes of the last few months have pointed out, was the taming of inflation. He built on the success of his predecessor, Paul A. Volcker, and used the Fed's biggest policy tool -- the interest rate on overnight loans between banks -- to keep the economy growing without letting prices get out of control. 
 Today, a box of cereal is just 60 percent more expensive than it was when Mr. Greenspan joined the Fed 18 years ago. In the decade before, the price had more than doubled. This is a big deal. Families can afford more, and businesses can do a better job planning for the future. Recessions come less often, and do not linger as long.
 But interest rate policy is not the reason Mr. Greenspan's image is what it is. He rose above his job because he became a symbol of a remade American economy. He promoted a new flexibility, led by entrepreneurs and technological change, that is the envy of Japan and Europe. 
 To put it another way, he was a singular force in telling us that the unsettling changes of the last couple of decades -- especially globalization -- really were making us better off. In his office hung an 1819 treatise by David Ricardo, the British economist who came up with the classic argument in favor of trade: When England specializes in cloth and Portugal in wine, they end up better off than if each tries to make everything.
 Mr. Greenspan made a similar case, again and again, and his prestige helped create a bipartisan consensus for opening American borders. The North American Free Trade Agreement passed in 1993 with support from both parties and was signed by a Democrat, Bill Clinton. Your shoes, your sofa, your cellphone and your car are all less expensive because of global trade.
 But as Mr. Greenspan exits, these benefits are not the main thing on people's minds. The costs of the changes are. When we start buying lower-priced goods from abroad, it often means American jobs are lost. When we embrace new technology, these productivity gains also often come at the expense of someone's job. 
 If Mr. Greenspan had one blind spot, it was that he never really figured out how to talk about those costs. Instead, like most economists, he called for a better-educated work force and repeated the idea that the long-term gains from trade easily outweigh the short-term costs. While that is undoubtedly true, it is not exactly a persuasive argument to unemployed workers for whom the ''short term'' encompasses the rest of their lives.
 In recent years, even the elite consensus in favor of freer trade has begun to break down. Around the world, trade talks are largely stalled. Few Democrats in Congress are willing to vote for trade deals these days. After N. Gregory Mankiw, an adviser to President Bush, suggested in 2004 that outsourcing of jobs was good for the economy, some Republicans called for his head.
 Many of us are torn. By a wide margin, Americans still say trade is good for the economy, but a solid and growing majority also wants restrictions to protect domestic industries. 
 This is where Mr. Bernanke comes in. What the country is missing right now is a public figure who can bridge this gap, somebody who can point out that no nation has lifted living standards by shutting its borders but who can also talk eloquently about the downsides of open trade. And who might even help come up with some solutions. 
 Almost two years ago, as a member of the Fed's board, Mr. Bernanke traveled to North Carolina, home to many people whose jobs had moved overseas. There, he gave a speech that began with the standard argument for trade, complete with a mention of Ricardo. He finished, though, with words that are hard to imagine coming from Mr. Greenspan. Laid-off workers need help, Mr. Bernanke said. 
 ''Reducing the burdens borne by displaced workers is the right and fair thing to do,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''If workers are less fearful of change, less pressure will be exerted on politicians to erect trade barriers or to take other actions that would reduce the flexibility and dynamism of the U.S. economy.''
 He did not take a position on specific ideas, but he mentioned a few possibilities. Laws could be changed so that pensions and health care did not disappear when a job did. Wage insurance could make up some of the difference between a lost job and a new one. The insurance benefits would be low enough that people still had incentive to find new work, but high enough to soften the blow.
 In the weeks leading to today's handover, some experts -- including, quietly, some inside the Fed -- have urged Mr. Bernanke to have smaller ambitions than Mr. Greenspan did. Don't talk about big ideas, they say; stay focused on interest rates. 
 So I put the question to Mr. Mankiw, the last high-profile economist to get himself in trouble by talking about trade. I began the conversation by pointing out the obvious, that selling people on trade is hard. Mr. Mankiw laughed.
 ''I learned that the hard way,'' he said.
 So should Mr. Bernanke stick to platitudes?
 Absolutely not, Mr. Mankiw said. ''Having a smart economist like Greenspan or Bernanke in a position where people will listen to him is too valuable,'' he said. ''Bernanke comes from a background of being a teacher and a textbook writer. He may prove to be very good at boiling things down to their essence. He may prove to be a fantastic communicator.''
 So speak up, Mr. Chairman.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ben S. Bernanke (pg. C1)
 Ben S. Bernanke left the Capitol yesterday after the Senate confirmed his appointment as the next chairman of the Federal Reserve. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PROTECTIONISM (75%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (67%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); INTEREST RATES (63%); GLOBALIZATION (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%) International Trade and World Market; Biographical Information; United States Economy; Customs (Tariff); Protectionism (Trade); Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (94%); ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); OPRAH WINFREY (51%) David Leonhardt; Ben S Bernanke; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PORTUGAL (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



16 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; STATE OF THE UNION: THE CONTEXT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Bold Visions Have Given Way to New Reality

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
It was an evening for President Bush to confront America's anxieties -- and his own.
 Only a year after Mr. Bush stood in the House, describing in bold terms how he planned to spend the political capital he had amassed in the 2004 election, the president who addressed the nation on Tuesday evening was far less ambitious, his tone noticeably different.
 The Texan who swept onto the national political scene six years ago talking about drilling for new energy supplies and preserving the American way of life vowed on Tuesday night to wean the nation from its reliance on oil. Instead of urging Congress to drill in the Arctic, the president who had waved off the critics who portrayed him and Vice President Dick Cheney as captives of the oil industry asked Congress to finance federal research into alternative fuels and lithium batteries. 
 A president who has rarely dwelled on the impact of globalization for American workers was suddenly looking over his shoulder at China and India, and committing the federal government to a quest for 70,000 teachers and 30,000 scientists to prepare American students for a new era of competition. 
 It was, in short, a speech rooted in some harsh global and political realities, and one unlikely to rank among Mr. Bush's most memorable. Instead of evoking the grand ambitions that have suffused his presidency since the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Bush emphasized the familiar and the modest. At a moment of partisan fervor, he offered an olive branch, reviving a pledge to lower the temperature. ''Our differences cannot be allowed to harden into anger,'' he said. 
 Yet by any measure, Mr. Bush's options are far more limited than they were a year ago. Much of the momentum he boasted about in the days after his re-election is gone, some of it lost on a bold Social Security initiative that never took off, some washed away by the deeply disorganized federal response to Hurricane Katrina. 
 The budget deficit, rising again despite Mr. Bush's promise to cut it in half by the time he leaves office in 2009, effectively handcuffs him when it comes to new initiatives. The few new ideas he unveiled were largely thematic, not backed by broad programmatic initiatives. 
 Three years into the war in Iraq, Mr. Bush tried anew to strike a tone of optimism, saying that ''we are in this fight, and we are winning.'' But he also bowed to the country's anxiety about finding a path out of a mission that seems to become harder each day, and he warned anew of the dangers of premature retreat. ''In a time of testing, we cannot find security by abandoning our commitments and retreating within our borders,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bush's approval ratings, which soared over 90 percent in the days after the terrorist attacks, bounced around in the 30's last fall and now hover anemically in the low 40's. His party, beset by a lobbying scandal and a breakdown in discipline on Capitol Hill, is nervous about the coming midterm elections.
 With three years left in his presidency, Mr. Bush is certainly far from that lame-duck moment he used to joke about on his campaign plane -- that point in his second term when he said he would ''quack like a duck.'' On Tuesday alone, he won two major victories, the confirmations of Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. for the Supreme Court and Ben S. Bernanke as chairman of the Federal Reserve. 
 Both appointments promise to leave Mr. Bush's stamp on Washington long after he has retired to his ranch and begun building his presidential library. 
 But in acknowledging on Tuesday that Americans face ''a complex and challenging time,'' Mr. Bush was doing more than issuing a call for global engagement. He was also acknowledging that five years into his presidency, the citizens of the world's most powerful nation do not feel that their status has brought them security.
 ''He needs to reassure us on the economy, and reassure people there is a future they can be positive about,'' said Michael K. Deaver, the image maker who helped make Ronald Reagan -- on whom Mr. Bush has tried to model much of his presidency -- a master of optimism. ''People have been saying no to that question everyone asks -- 'Am I going to be better off a year from now than I am today?' -- and that has been going on for the past two or three years.'' 
 Mr. Bush's prescriptions Tuesday night were largely familiar: making tax cuts permanent, keeping markets open, keeping health care costs down. What was new was his Advanced Energy Initiative, though the increases he proposed in clean-energy research, better batteries for hybrid cars and new ways of making ethanol largely piggyback on programs already under way at General Motors and Ford, Toyota and Honda, rather than charting a new course.
 And his proposals to ''encourage children to take more math and science'' had echoes of President Bill Clinton, whose incessant talk of remaking the work force to meet the challenges of a global economy were often referred to derisively during Mr. Bush's first term as feel-good economics.
 ''Second-term presidents often gravitate toward foreign policy,'' said Doug Sosnik, who drafted many of those policies for Mr. Clinton. ''What's happened to this president is that there is more pressure to attend to the domestic needs of the country. And it's hard, because he has less room to operate and less money to spend.''
 Mr. Bush has more leeway in the area of foreign policy, but even here, limits loom larger than they did a year ago.
 Facing public hearings in February on his once-secret program to conduct eavesdropping, without the benefit of warrants, on telephone calls between the United States and abroad, Mr. Bush defended his order anew as ''a terrorist surveillance program.'' He also argued, in an expansive reading of existing case law, that he had acted ''based on authority given to me by the Constitution and by statute,'' an authority that he said the federal courts had approved.
 In the face of Iran's defiance of full international inspection of its nuclear program, Mr. Bush declared that ''the nations of the world must not permit the Iranian regime to gain nuclear weapons.'' But in contrast to the confrontational tone that suffused his State of the Union speech of January 2003, which made the case for confronting Saddam Hussein's Iraq, Mr. Bush made no threats about what would happen if Iran continued down its current path. 
 Instead, he struck a decidedly moderate tone, careful not to outstep the European allies with whom he is trying to repair relations. And he seemed to recognize, said Lee Feinstein of the Council on Foreign Relations, that ''clearly Iran has more ways of making our lives difficult in Iraq.''
 It is worth remembering that Mr. Bush has more time left in his presidency than John F. Kennedy served in his. Three years is a lot of time, and as Mr. Bush proved after Sept. 11, it only takes one day to redirect a presidency. But the path he described Tuesday night aimed more toward the middle lanes he talked about so often in the early days after he arrived in the White House, rather than the shifting of tectonic plates that he tried to engineer in the past four years.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush's State of the Union address last night was far less ambitious and different in tone than the one he gave a year ago. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A17)Chart:Number of times words were used in President Bush's State of the Union addresses2001Tax(es): 27Social Security: 15Iraq/Iraqi(s): 02002Tax(es): 7Social Security: 2Iraq/Iraqi(s): 22003Tax(es): 11Social Security: 2Iraq/Iraqi(s):222004Tax(es): 19Social Security: 2Iraq/Iraqi(s): 242005Tax(es): 10Social Security: 18Iraq/Iraqi(s): 272006Tax(es): 9Social Security: 3Iraq/Iraqi(s): 16(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); TERRORISM (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) United States Politics and Government; State of the Union Message (US); Public Opinion; United States International Relations; United States Politics and Government

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ARCTIC (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



17 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; STATE OF THE UNION: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1673 words

HEADLINE: BUSH, RESETTING AGENDA, SAYS U.S. MUST CUT RELIANCE ON OIL 

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
President Bush offered the nation a modest menu of energy, health and education proposals and warned against the ''false comfort of isolationism'' on Tuesday in a State of the Union address that sought to reassert his control over the nation's agenda heading into a pivotal midterm election campaign.
 In one of his most striking declarations, Mr. Bush said ''America is addicted to oil'' and set a goal of replacing 75 percent of the nation's Mideast oil imports by 2025 with ethanol and other energy sources.
But even that goal was less ambitious than it might have appeared -- the United States gets less than 20 percent of its oil from the Persian Gulf -- and the speech was notable largely for a lack of big new proposals from a president who for five years has not shied from provocative and politically risky initiatives. 
 The president devoted nearly half of the 52-minute address to a restatement of his foreign policy. He called for freedom around the world, warned against the threat of ''radical Islam'' and again invoked the memory of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. To his familiar call about ending ''tyranny in our world,'' Mr. Bush added a new framework that sought to address the anxieties created by a rapidly changing economy and an aging society. The answer, Mr. Bush said, was not to turn inward.
 ''In a complex and challenging time, the road of isolationism and protectionism may seem broad and inviting, yet it ends in danger and decline,'' he said. ''The only way to protect our people, the only way to secure the peace, the only way to control our destiny is by our leadership, so the United States of America will continue to lead.'' [Transcript, Pages A18 and A19.]
 The only alternative to American leadership, he said, ''is a dramatically more dangerous and anxious world.''
 But Mr. Bush was more tempered and less partisan than a year ago, evidence of his diminished political standing. On Tuesday night, in an echo of President Dwight D. Eisenhower's response after the United States was stunned by the launching of Sputnik in 1957, Mr. Bush called for initiatives to deal with a new threat: intensifying competition from countries like China and India. He proposed a substantial increase in financing for basic science research, called for training 70,000 new high school Advanced Placement teachers and recruiting 30,000 math and science professionals into the nation's classrooms.
 He warned that the two parties must find a way to work together to deal with the rapidly rising costs of supporting an aging society and called for a bipartisan commission to come up with proposals for Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. He pushed his proposals to give individuals more control over and responsibility for their own health care costs through savings accounts and tax incentives. And at a time when high global energy prices are slowing the economy and pinching consumers, he pushed for greater energy independence.
 ''Americans should not fear our economic future, because we intend to shape it,'' the president said.
 The speech was notable for what Mr. Bush did not mention. He offered no new ideas for rebuilding New Orleans in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, made no mention of his troubled Medicare prescription drug program and offered no proposal to clamp down on lobbying abuses in Congress that have led to the investigation of Jack Abramoff, a formerly powerful lobbyist and a major fund-raiser for Mr. Bush. Mr. Abramoff pleaded guilty on Jan. 3 to conspiracy, fraud and tax evasion, and prosecutors have said he used campaign contributions, lavish trips and meals to influence lawmakers and their aides.
 Mr. Bush delivered his address after one of the most difficult years of his presidency but on a day of political triumph, just hours after his nominee, Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr., was confirmed by the Senate as the 110th justice in the history of the Supreme Court. Justice Alito, dressed in the sweeping black robes of his new court, sat with other justices in the front rows of the chamber of the House of Representatives.
 The president strode into the packed chamber shortly after 9 p.m. for the traditional back-slapping, hand-grabbing, cheek-kissing walk down the aisle. The promenade under the bright television lights effectively kicked off Mr. Bush's last campaign as a sitting president to gain support in Congress for his party's agenda. He did so before an audience of dogged Democrats seated across the aisle from nervous Republicans, who find themselves mired in a contentious leadership battle and the influence-peddling investigation in their top ranks on Capitol Hill. 
 In a vivid display of increasing assertiveness against the president, the Democratic side of the House rose to its feet in applause when Mr. Bush made what he intended to be a conciliatory reference to the defeat of his Social Security proposal last year. Mr. Bush appeared taken aback before finally wagging his finger at them and saying, ''The rising cost of entitlements is a problem that is not going away.''
 In foreign policy, Mr. Bush broke no new ground, and used language drawn from previous speeches. He held out the possibility of reducing the 140,000 American troops in Iraq over the next year, but made no promises. He grimly warned Iran not to pursue its nuclear weapons ambitions, calling it ''a nation now held hostage by a small clerical elite that is isolating and repressing its people.'' And he called on the militant Islamic group Hamas, the overwhelming victor in last week's elections by Palestinians, to ''recognize Israel, disarm, reject terrorism and work for lasting peace.''
 Mr. Bush continued his vigorous defense of his administration's secret program of eavesdropping without warrants and suggested that it could have caught some of the Sept. 11 hijackers, although he provided few details. ''We now know that two of the hijackers in the United States placed telephone calls to Al Qaeda operatives overseas,'' Mr. Bush said. ''But we did not know about their plans until it was too late.''
 The president built on the theme of his second inaugural address, and even in the face of the Hamas victory issued a strong call for democracy and elections in the Middle East. ''In 1945, there were about two dozen lonely democracies on earth,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Today there are 122.''
 Mr. Bush also repeated that his administration's war on terrorism was not creating more terrorists, as critics of his policies contend.
 ''In a time of testing, we cannot find security by abandoning our commitments and retreating within our borders,'' Mr. Bush said. ''If we were to leave these vicious attackers alone, they would not leave us alone. They would simply move the battlefield to our own shores.''
 On domestic policy, Mr. Bush offered a panoply of proposals in health care, energy and education that reflected the restrictions imposed on him by the growing budget deficit and a Congress that will be reluctant to take on divisive new legislation in an election year.
 Mr. Bush cast his education proposals as essential to maintaining American competitiveness in a world economy in which jobs are migrating to developing nations like India and China.
 ''We must continue to lead the world in human talent and creativity,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Our greatest advantage in the world has always been our educated, hard-working, ambitious people and we are going to keep that edge.''
 In health care, Mr. Bush proposed changes in legislation to make it easier for employers to offer, and for individuals to buy, health savings accounts, which offer tax incentives to people to put aside money for medical expenses.
 ''Our government has a responsibility to help provide health care for the poor and the elderly, and we are meeting that responsibility,'' Mr. Bush said. ''For all Americans, we must confront the rising cost of care, strengthen the doctor-patient relationship and help people afford the insurance coverage they need.''
 In energy policy, a major part of his address, Mr. Bush promoted the construction of nuclear power plants and renewed a call for the development of alternative fuel for automobiles, including ethanol, which is made from corn, as well as the development of fuel made from the waste of plant crops. 
 Energy analysts also said Mr. Bush's goal to replace 75 percent of America's Mideast oil imports by 2025 was not as meaningful as it appeared because the bigger suppliers to the United States are Mexico, Canada and Venezuela. 
 But for Mr. Bush, the emphasis on reducing foreign dependence on oil, particularly in the often volatile Persian Gulf, reflected a critical political dynamic this year: Republicans have been increasingly alarmed that escalating gas and home heating prices could prove a major issue in Congressional elections this year, particularly as oil companies are reporting record profits.
 The president returned to the issue of Social Security again on Tuesday, the proposal that collapsed under the weight of Democratic opposition and tepid support from his own party and the public last year. In contrast to last year, when he rejected similar proposals, Mr. Bush called for a bipartisan commission to examine ways to deal with Social Security, along with Medicare and Medicaid. Numerous commissions in the past two decades have looked at the problem, but none has been able to rally bipartisan support for either benefit cuts or tax increases to deal with the financial problems looming over the social welfare programs.
 Those three programs, Mr. Bush warned, would soon swamp the federal budget if Congress failed to act as millions of Baby Boomers turn 60 and prepare for retirement.
 ''This year, the first of about 78 million baby boomers turn 60, including two of my dad's favorite people: me, and President Bill Clinton,'' Mr. Bush said. ''This milestone is more than a personal crisis -- it is a national challenge. The retirement of the baby boom generation will put unprecedented strains on the federal government.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A subheading with the continuation of a front-page article yesterday about President Bush's State of the Union address included an erroneous observation about topics not included in the speech. Hurricane Katrina was indeed mentioned by Mr. Bush.
A subheading with the continuation of a front-page article yesterday about President Bush's State of the Union address included an erroneous observation about topics not included in the speech. Hurricane Katrina was indeed mentioned by Mr. Bush.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In his State of the Union address last night, President Bush told lawmakers, ''America is addicted to oil.'' (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 President Bush delivered his State of the Union address yesterday from the House Chamber before an audience that included members of the Supreme Court, members of Congress and members of Mr. Bush's cabinet. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AGING TRENDS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (85%); MEDICARE (83%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); ETHANOL (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); MATHEMATICS (75%); PROTECTIONISM (75%); ALCOHOLS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); WEATHER (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); ETHICS (72%); HIJACKING (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); RELIGION (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); HURRICANES (69%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); AGING (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); SCIENCE NEWS (63%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (63%); SCIENCE FUNDING (63%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (60%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (60%); MEDICAID (58%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%) United States Politics and Government; State of the Union Message (US); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Ethanol; United States International Relations; Terrorism; United States Politics and Government; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC); Science and Technology; Mathematics; Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals) ; Medicare; Ethics; United States Politics and Government; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: Congress (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Elisabeth Bumiller; Adam Nagourney; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDIA (79%) Islam; New York City; Washington (DC); China; India; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



18 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Putin Juggles 64 Questions in Defense of the Homeland

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
President Vladimir V. Putin on Tuesday defended Russia's handling of natural gas disputes with Ukraine and Georgia, boasted of a new strategic weapon and defended the country's contribution to the Group of 8 in response to suggestions from some critics at home and abroad that his policies have disqualified it from the club of elite democratic nations.
 ''Everybody wants Russia to join the club and take an active part in its work because nobody wants the G-8 to turn into a gathering of fat cats,'' Mr. Putin said. He argued that Russia, comparatively poor though making economic gains, understood ''the problem facing developing countries better than anyone else in the G-8.'' 
 Mr. Putin spoke at a news conference in the Kremlin that has become a near-annual affair and, as before, a telling window on the issues dominating debate here. He answered 64 questions over three and a half hours with frequently salty language, a striking command of detail -- from the size of a German company's ownership in the energy monopoly Gazprom (10 percent), to the number of foreign automakers negotiating investments (14) -- and only a hint of the temper that has flashed in previous public appearances.
 This last was directed in one case at Georgia's leader, Mikheil Saakashvili, who accused Russia of orchestrating a cutoff of natural gas after a pipeline explosion on Jan. 22. ''Our specialists worked day and night in the mountains, with temperatures 30 degrees below zero, in order to resume energy supplies to Georgia,'' Mr. Putin said. ''What did we hear or see from the Georgian leadership? Only spit in our direction.''
 Mr. Putin's new year began with a dispute over gas supplies to Ukraine that included a brief shutoff of gas that, because of Ukraine's pipelines, was soon felt across Europe, provoking some of the harshest foreign criticism the Russian government has faced. On Tuesday, Mr. Putin tried to counter that by saying Russia had no intention of using gas or oil as an energy weapon.
 He also sought to reassure those worried about the state's growing role in the economy through its state-owned companies. ''We have quite a number of large, purely privately owned oil and gas companies: Lukoil and TNK-BP, and Surgutneftegas,'' he said. ''Nobody is going to nationalize them.''
 Mr. Putin appeared poised and confident, speaking about a new warhead that he said could evade missile defense systems like the one being built by the United States, but at the same time diplomatic. He criticized the United States as the obstacle to Russia's membership in the World Trade Organization, but said Mr. Bush personally supported it. He expressed regret over the accusation that four British diplomats were spies, but promised it would not disrupt relations.
 At the same time, he defended close relations with Uzbekistan and Belarus, two countries that have faced international opprobrium. He dismissed criticism of Russia's embrace of the president of Uzbekistan, Islam A. Karimov, in the wake of the killings of hundreds of people during an uprising in Andijon last May, saying, ''We know what happened in Andijon better than you.''
 ''We do not need any revolutions there,'' he added.
 On Belarus, he said his meetings with President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko reflected the two countries' fraternal bonds, not support for Mr. Lukashenko's election to a third term in a vote on March 19. ''It is absolutely incorrect to say that we support this or that political leader,'' he said.
 As the prospective host of the annual meeting of G-8 leaders in St. Petersburg this spring, he outlined a broad agenda focused on energy security, infectious diseases and education. He said Russia was prepared to establish an international center for enriching uranium for nuclear power plants, part of its efforts to resolve the confrontation over Iran's nuclear program.
 He dismissed those who would criticize Russia's G-8 presidency as people stuck ''in the past century.'' ''The dog barks,'' he said of those critics, but ''the caravan passes.''
 In previous conferences, journalists pressed him over whether he would seek to change the Constitution to serve a third term, which he has ruled out. On Tuesday, there were questions about his future, and what he intended to do once he left office, which now seems to be taken for granted. Would he move back to St. Petersburg, his native city? ''I consider myself a Muscovite,'' he replied.
 Would he take the helm of the newly expanded Gazprom, now one of the world's richest companies? ''Thank you for the job offer,'' he said. ''However, I am not likely to head a business. I am not a businessman, either by character or by previous life experience.''
 He also offered praise, when asked, for Boris N. Yeltsin, the man who appointed him acting president six years ago and whose erratic steps toward freedom and democracy he is often accused of reversing. He cited the famous aphorism, usually attributed to Zhou Enlai, though he attributed it to Deng Xiaoping, about how the French Revolution turned out: too soon to say. Then Mr. Putin, who once called the collapse of the Soviet Union the greatest catastrophe of the 20th century, added:
 ''It was at that time when Boris N. Yeltsin was the president of Russia that the people of our country, the citizens of Russia, received the most precious thing for which all these changes had been initiated: they got freedom.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Vladimir V. Putin's marathon news conference yesterday featured often salty language, a command of detail and only a hint of temper. (Photo by Alexander Natruskin/Reuters)
(Photo by Alexander Zemlianichenko/Associated Press)
(Photo by Sergei Chirikov/European Pressphoto Agency)
 (Photo by Sergei Chirikov/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); NATIONALIZATION (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (67%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (62%); TRENDS (60%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (60%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); AUTOMAKERS (51%) Freedom and Human Rights; Group of Eight; Economic Conditions and Trends; News and News Media

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (68%); OAO LUKOIL (51%); TNK-BP LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (93%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (68%); GAZP (RTS) (68%); LKOH (RTS) (51%); LKOD (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (68%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (68%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (68%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (68%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (68%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (59%) Steven Lee Myers; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UKRAINE (94%); GEORGIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (70%) Russia; St Petersburg (Russia); Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



19 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Job Market Feeds Optimism Of Consumers

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Americans grew more optimistic about the job market in January, sending a measure of consumer confidence to its highest level in three-and-a-half years, according to a report released yesterday by the Conference Board. But the report also showed that consumers were still uneasy about the future. 
 A separate report from the Labor Department on employee compensation said wages and benefits paid to civilian workers rose 3.1 percent last year, the smallest amount in nine years. The department said the slowdown reflected a big drop in benefit costs -- items like health insurance and pensions -- which rose by 4.5 percent last year after jumping 6.9 percent in 2004.
In addition, the National Association of Purchasing Management in Chicago said that its measure of business activity in the region, based on a survey of purchasing managers, was at 58.5, down from 60.8 in December. Numbers above 50 are a sign of growth.
 The Conference Board, a private research group, said its consumer confidence index rose to 106.3, the highest level since June 2002, when the reading was also 106.3. The latest measure was up from a revised 103.8 in December, and continued a rebound that began in November after the Gulf Coast hurricanes. Analysts had expected a reading of 105.0 in January.
 In a statement, Lynn Franco, director of the Consumer Research Center at the Conference Board, a private research organization in New York, said the increase in consumer confidence ''was driven solely by consumers' assessment of current economic conditions, especially their more positive view of the job market.'' But she added that while consumers rated current conditions more favorably, the improvement had not translated into greater optimism about the outlook for the economy six months from now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (74%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (55%) Labor; United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Wages and Salaries; Fringe Benefits; Labor

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%) Conference Board; Labor Department (US); National Assn of Purchasing Management

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



20 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: Text of the Fed's Statement on Interest Rates 

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to raise its benchmark interest rates a quarter-point:
 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 41/2 percent.
Although recent economic data have been uneven, the expansion in economic activity appears solid. Core inflation has stayed relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain contained. Nevertheless, possible increases in resource utilization as well as elevated energy prices have the potential to add to inflation pressures. 
 The committee judges that some further policy firming may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance. In any event, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to foster these objectives. 
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson Jr.; Jack Guynn; Donald L. Kohn; Jeffrey M. Lacker; Mark W. Olson; Sandra Pianalto; and Janet L. Yellen. 
 In a related action, the board of governors unanimously approved a 25-basis-point increase in the discount rate to 51/2 percent. In taking this action, the board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); APPROVALS (71%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (70%) Credit; United States Economy; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); GEORGIA, USA (50%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



21 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Glitter and Grit, Detroit Style

BYLINE: By DAVE ANDERSON

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
YOU can't go anywhere in downtown Detroit without red-white-and-blue Super Bowl XL banners fluttering overheard, or Super Bowl XL logos shouting from doors and windows. The joke is that this isn't Super Bowl 40, it's Super Bowl Extra Large, with dozens of extra-large celebrity Super Bowl parties, from tomorrow's Detroit Economic Club ($60 for nonmembers) to Friday's N.F.L. alumni bocce ball tournament ($6,000 for a team of four).
 All those banners and logos are mostly at the airport and downtown or over at Ford Field, where the Steelers and the Seahawks will play Sunday in the N.F.L.'s latest thank-you to the corporate automakers who buy all those television commercials you see during games. 
But go almost anywhere else and look around. There are no banners and no logos in the real Detroit, where real people live and work, the real Detroit that will reappear when all those banners and logos disappear and when all the celebrities and visitors disappear, too; the real Detroit that shivered when the Ford Motor Company and General Motors announced recently that each would cut about 30,000 jobs over the next few years. 
 Go west to dreary Miller Road in Dearborn and the Ford Rouge plant, where trucks roll off the assembly line, where there are no Super Bowl XL banners or logos. No celebrities, either. Just real people wondering if their jobs are in jeopardy.
 ''We kind of coexist with one another,'' Jerry Sullivan, the president of Local 600, United Auto Workers, said yesterday while behind his desk in the nearby union hall. He was alluding to the auto manufacturers that dominate Detroit's economy. ''The companies are facing monumental issues.''
 But this week, Motown is SuperBowltown.
 ''The people here need an uplift like the Super Bowl,'' Sullivan said, ''but the Super Bowl and our members are in different worlds.''
 Sullivan won't be going to any of the celebrity parties in the downtown area near General Motors' glassy corporate tower.
 ''That's for the rich folk,'' he said, smiling, ''but we're going to have our own little Super Bowl party here the night of the game for our families, a couple hundred people. Nothing fancy. Finger food, a little beer and soda. No liquor.''
 Go another 40 miles west to Saline, Mich., where Kris von Broda, an auto parts worker, was having a lunchtime beer with pizza in a booth in J D's Sports Bar and Pizzeria.
 ''You wonder,'' she said, ''if they are overplaying the Super Bowl here in order to downplay what's happening in the industry.''
 She works the 11:30 p.m. to 8 a.m. shift making instrument panels and consoles in the long, low gray plant once known as Visteon but, according to its roadside sign, is now Automotive Components Holdings, L.L.C.
 ''But our paychecks,'' von Broda said, ''say 'Ford Motor Company.' ''
 Her husband, David, helps manufacture forklifts in the plant. Her father and her husband's father also worked there, and she said her sons, Ian and Kristopher, each applied for jobs there.
 ''But they weren't hiring,'' she said.
 Like everyone in the Detroit area, von Broda was aware of how the city had been promoting the return of the Super Bowl for the first time since the 1982 game at the suburban Pontiac Superdome, where Joe Montana led the San Francisco 49ers to a 26-21 victory over the Cincinnati Bengals. 
 ''You just wonder,'' von Broda said, ''how much Michigan taxpayers' money is going into the Super Bowl instead of saving people's jobs.''
 She mentioned that temporary layoffs at the plant had occurred every other week in recent months, and she feared more layoffs before the union contract expires next year.
 ''More layoffs,'' she said, ''will cripple this area.''
 She mentioned Henry Ford's promise, almost a century ago, to pay his workers enough so they could buy the car they were making then, a Model T.
 ''But if they cut wages and cut benefits,'' von Broda said, ''we won't have enough to afford to buy the cars we produce.''
 And if you go over to Detroit's Eastside, near a Daimler-Chrysler plant beyond the United Auto Workers headquarters on Jefferson Avenue, you won't see any Super Bowl XL banners or logos. You'll just see real people like Roosevelt Hendrix, a body-shop worker.
 ''That's i-x, like Jimi,'' he said.
 He was holding a bagful of takeout from a hot-dog emporium and talking about how the Super Bowl provided out-of-towners an opportunity to discover Detroit all over again, even with the automakers' planned cutbacks.
 ''It's a virgin city,'' he said. ''It has so many things people don't know. It's one of the cheapest cities to live in, to get an apartment, the price of living.''
 Hendrix doesn't need the downtown Super Bowl parties. He's putting on his own party near the corner of Jefferson and Mount Elliott, a barbecue cookout every night, including Sunday, from 6 p.m. to midnight.
 ''Come and have a slab of ribs,'' he said. ''I'm the ribologist. And bring some of them Super Bowl XL banners.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 4, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A Sports of The Times column on Wednesday about the return of the Super Bowl to the Detroit area during tough times for the auto industry misstated the name of the stadium in suburban Pontiac, Mich., where the game was played in 1982. It is the Silverdome, not the Superdome.
A Sports of The Times column on Wednesday about the return of the Super Bowl to the Detroit area during tough times for the auto industry misstated the name of the stadium in suburban Pontiac, Mich., where the game was played in 1982. It is the Silverdome, not the Superdome.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kris von Broda, an auto parts worker, said if wages and benefits were cut, ''we won't have enough to afford to buy the cars we produce.'' (Photo by Andrew Sacks for The New York Times)(pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (95%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (74%); TOURNAMENTS (70%); BEER & ALE (63%); RESTAURANTS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) Football; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Economic Conditions and Trends; Super Bowl

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (83%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (83%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%) Seattle Seahawks; Pittsburgh Steelers

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%)

PERSON: Dave Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



22 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Down for the Count, and This Isn't All One Big Act

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
Johnny Barnes was a boxer and an actor, and an actor who played a boxer. The actor playing the boxer is his claim to fame.
 Mr. Barnes appeared as Sugar Ray Robinson, the legendary fighter of the 1940's and 50's, in the film ''Raging Bull.'' It was based on the life of another big ring name of that era, Jake LaMotta, who won only one of the six bouts he had against Robinson.
The actor who starred as LaMotta in the acclaimed 1980 movie, Robert De Niro, is a household name. Mr. Barnes, whose role in the film was important though not a starring one, is not.
 These days, Mr. Barnes, who will be 64 on Monday, is still fighting, but now his opponents are poverty, depression and chronic pain in his forehead. His corner men are social workers, mental therapists and doctors. 
 Instead of jumping into his corner between rounds with a bucket, a sponge and blood-stanching medication on Q-Tips, those helping him in recent years have drawn on their access to financial aid programs, their psychiatric insights and their procedures like CT scans. For his part, Mr. Barnes, who has never married, says he is determined not to sink so deeply into despair that his problems drive him to suicide.
 ''I don't stay home,'' he said recently in the small room in northern Manhattan, where he has lived since 1979 -- and where his mattress is surrounded by clothes heaped in disarray on the floor and a mound of papers, files and movie memorabilia that has grown on the floor for a quarter of a century.
 He said he worked out at a gym daily, took a martial arts class three times a week, visited a local Democratic political club weekly and went to poetry slams to read his works. 
 Writing poetry helps him to express his feelings, and going to the club keeps him in touch with people, he said, while the other activities help keep him in good physical condition. The trim, 6-foot Mr. Barnes said he was now 165 pounds, five more than the maximum in the middleweight division, in which he often fought before his boxing career -- outside the movies -- ended in 1974.
 That career did not go far, because while he was punching hard inside the ring, he was using hard drugs on the outside. After 45 victories and 8 losses as an amateur, he said, he had only 11 professional fights (9 victories and 2 losses), and all were small-time -- mostly four rounds -- for small purses, he said. 
 ''I was also selling heroin, and was in state prison twice for that,'' he said, recalling his 11 months in jail in the late 1960's and six months in the early 70's. 
 Mr. Barnes said he had been off hard drugs since 1971, when he decided to try to make it as an actor. 
 ''I've been in over 100 pictures,'' he said, though in a vast majority he was a nonspeaking extra. He had bit parts with a few lines in several and larger appearances in two: ''Raging Bull'' and a 1977 television film, ''Contract on Cherry Street,'' starring Frank Sinatra, in which Mr. Barnes was a crime boss's enforcer. 
 His resemblance to Robinson helped him get the ''Raging Bull'' role, in which, he said, he earned the union scale, $16,000 for the 16 weeks he worked. Over all, acting did not pay his way, and he was a security guard and did other work until 1993, when he lost his last job.
 He said one reason for being unemployed since was that the depression to which he had long been prone grew worse. In the mid-90's, he said, a psychiatrist diagnosed a manic-depressive condition, permitting him to receive Social Security disability pay. 
 Mr. Barnes said he believed that his depression stemmed from the chronic forehead pain -- ''sometimes it's pounding'' -- that began plaguing him while he was a boxer. He said he believed that the pain was caused by the punches he had taken in the ring, combined with injuries that left him in a coma for three days when he was hit by a car as a child. 
 But he acknowledged that after a CT scan and other tests, doctors had been unable to find a neurological cause and had attributed the pain to sinusitis or psychological reasons. In any case, whether his psychological problems were a cause or result of his pain, they were there, and in 1996 Mr. Barnes sought help in dealing with them at the Manhattan North Community Counseling Center of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services. 
 The board is a beneficiary agency of UJA-Federation of New York, one of seven organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Mr. Barnes said his sessions with psychiatrists and his group therapy at the center had helped him. Recently, the center also provided financial help to Mr. Barnes, who said he lived on $767 a month in disability payments -- $450 of which paid for his room -- and $150 a month in food stamps. 
 His case manager at the center, Jose Clemente, used $200 from the fund to pay for clothing for Mr. Barnes and a television to replace one that broke. Another $250 from the fund will be used to buy items like sheets and storage bins to make his room more livable.
 Mr. Barnes said the assistance was important to him because his disability income after he paid his rent left him unable to afford such purchases. As it is, he said, ''I'm always broke near the end of the month.'' 
 As for his own view of the future, Mr. Barnes said, ''My mind is still on acting.''

Previously recorded: $6,566,951.98
Recorded Thursday: $26,712.85
Total: $6,593,664.83
Last year to date: $7,055,381.43

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE
SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT
WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Johnny Barnes, an actor in the 1980 movie ''Raging Bull,'' in his Manhattan apartment. He has battled poverty, depression and chronic pain. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); FILM (89%); MARTIAL ARTS (78%); BOXING (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); DEPRESSION (73%); SUICIDE (68%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); POETRY (67%); HEROIN (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund; Philanthropy

ORGANIZATION: Uja-Federation of New York

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (58%) Joseph P Fried; Johnny Barnes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



23 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Anatomy of a City Terror: Falling on Tracks

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
It is a fleeting fear surely shared by many a New Yorker who has leaned over a station platform searching for the dim headlights of an approaching subway car. One slip of the foot or one well-timed push is all it would take to land in front of a moving train.
 Now, a group of doctors has examined the fate of those who ended up on the tracks and made it to the hospital. 
The findings of the study, which looked at more than 200 injuries suffered by people brought to Bellevue Hospital Center during a 13-year period, are at times grisly and sometimes macabre, and often tragic, but undeniably fascinating for those who travel beneath the city.
 The study, to be published in the March issue of The American Journal of Public Health, is hardly conclusive: According to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, there were 702 cases of people on the tracks between 1990 and 2003, the same period as the study. Roughly half of them resulted in death. But this is the first time a single hospital has tried to determine what can be gleaned from its cases.
 Many of those taken to Bellevue were only slightly injured, with more than half of them leaving the hospital without requiring follow-up care. Only one of every 10 victims who made it to the hospital died, a credit to both the medical care they received and the response time of emergency workers. 
 ''What has impressed me the most is that for such a busy system and such a busy ridership, it is such a small percentage of people that actually get injured,'' said Dr. Amber A. Guth, one of the authors of the study and a member of the surgical faculty at New York University School of Medicine and Bellevue Hospital Center.
 Dr. Guth noted that those who were hurt often suffered devastating injuries. It was her work with some of those patients, she said, that compelled her to do the study to try to determine if any patterns emerged that could help prevent future cases.
 ''We found that the number of subway injuries does correlate with the unemployment rate and the homeless rate in the city,'' Dr. Guth said. 
 For the study, Dr. Guth reviewed the patient records of 208 people treated at Bellevue. Since the sample group was small, Dr. Guth said, she could not draw sweeping conclusions. Still, she was struck by the fact that the highest number of cases occurred in 1992, when unemployment in the city peaked at around 11 percent. 
 As a result of the findings, the report suggested that there be increased vigilance for ''behavior patterns associated with suicide attempts'' on subway platforms during economic downturns.
 However, it found that between 2000 and 2003 only 25 percent of the victims who had been hit by trains and taken to Bellevue had tried suicide. According to a number of studies cited by Dr. Guth, cases in the New York subways seem different from those in other countries. For instance, in the London Underground suicide rates were higher at stations near psychiatric centers.
 A great many injuries in the Berlin subways resulted from young people riding on subway cars for sport.
 In Hong Kong, some older people used the subways to commit some kind of ritual suicide. ''They would get dressed up in their traditional clothing and step in front of a train,'' Dr. Guth said. As a result, Hong Kong authorities educated transit workers to watch for elderly people who are dressed up and acting strangely, she said.
 In New York, 8 of every 10 victims treated at Bellevue were men.
 Roughly 20 percent of patients had amputations. Of the 208 patients treated at Bellevue, 28 lost at least one major extremity, 9 lost two and 1 lost four.
 With one of New York's largest trauma centers and a staff of doctors trained in microsurgery and the reattachment of severed limbs, Bellevue treats more subway injuries than any other New York hospital. 
 Perhaps one reason the number of subway accidents is relatively low is because of increased vigilance following the case of Renee Katz. Ms. Katz, an honor student at the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan who sang soprano and played flute, was 17 in 1979 when she was pushed onto the tracks at the West 50th Street station.
 She was able to dodge death by rolling to her left, but her right hand was severed. It took 16 hours of surgery to reattach the hand.
 Today, she is raising a family, working as an occupational therapist and still singing. She has even recorded an album of cabaret songs, called ''Never Been Gone.''
 Ms. Katz thought the topic of Dr. Guth's study was intriguing, if a bit strange. ''If it raises awareness about safety, that is good,'' she said. ''That was one of the few good things to come out my experience.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A subway train at Union Square. A study examined 208 people hurt on tracks. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Doctors in 1979 examined an x-ray of Renee Katz's right hand, which was severed when she fell under a train. The hand was later reattached. (Photo by Lawrence K. Altman/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); SUICIDE (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); MEDICAL RECORDS (71%); WRITERS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%) 

ORGANIZATION: Bellevue Hospital Center (NYC); Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: Dan Barry; Amber A (Dr) Guth

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City 00332700

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



24 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Fed Comments About Rates Send Major Indexes Lower 

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday, with investors concerned about the Federal Reserve's comments that more interest rate increases might be needed to keep inflation under control. 
 Jitters about the outlook for interest rates caused both the Nasdaq and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to snap three-day winning streaks, while the Dow registered its second straight day of losses.
 Shares of the Altria Group fell 2.1 percent and were the biggest drag on the Dow. Altria, a tobacco and food conglomerate, forecast a decline in 2006 earnings, partly as a result of restructuring charges at its Kraft Foods business. 
 As expected, the Federal Open Market Committee, meeting on the final day of Alan Greenspan's 18 1/2-year tenure as chairman, raised the federal funds rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent, from 4.25 percent. That was the Fed's 14th consecutive rate increase since its cycle of tightening credit began on June 30, 2004. 
 But the committee also said that more interest rate increases might be required to fend off inflation. 
 ''There are a couple of things that were a little alarming from the Fed statement, one of those being that elevated energy prices may add to inflation risk and that some further policy firming may be needed,'' said Lawrence G. Peruzzi, senior equity trader at the Boston Company Asset Management, a Mellon subsidiary. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average was down 35.06 points, or 0.32 percent, at 10,864.86. The S.& P. 500 was down 5.12 points, or 0.40 percent, at 1,280.08. The Nasdaq composite index was down 0.96 point, or 0.04 percent, at 2,305.82. 
 Besides the preoccupation with the Fed, investors also kept a close watch on earnings, including those of the Web search company Google. 
 After the bell, Google posted a quarterly profit that missed Wall Street's estimates, sending its shares tumbling 12.4 percent to $379.01 in after-hours trading. 
 During the regular session, Google's stock rose 1.4 percent, or $5.84, to $432.66 on Nasdaq. 
 For January, all three major American stock indexes rose, with the Dow up 1.4 percent, the S.& P. 500 up 2.5 percent and the Nasdaq up 4.6 percent. 
 Optimism that the Fed was close to ending its campaign of rate increases drove equities higher in a strong start to 2006 and gave investors a reason to buy stocks, even with some earnings disappointments. 
 ''This, in my mind, increases the chances of another rate hike in March,'' said Brian Gendreau, investment strategist at ING Investment Management. ''They have not declared the war on inflation to be over. Inflation is the key indicator to watch right now.'' 
 A drop in crude oil prices pulled down shares of Chevron and Exxon Mobil. Chevron's stock fell $1.37, or 2.3 percent, to $59.38, while Exxon Mobil shares declined 36 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $62.75. 
 Crude for March delivery fell 43 cents, to settle at $67.92 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Bonds were higher, with the 10-year Treasury note rising 3/32, to 99 28/32. The rate, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.52 percent, from 4.53 percent on Monday.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills: 



 (000 omitted in dollar figures)	 	Price	99.666	High Rate	4.290	Coupon Yield	4.364	Low Rate	4.240	Median Rate	4.270	Total applied for	$47,984,534	Accepted	$20,888,057	Noncompetitive	$196,239	




GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve'' plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source by Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); SEARCH ENGINES (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (65%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (84%); GOOGLE INC (83%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); BOSTON CO ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (54%); ING GROEP NV (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (57%); INGA (BIT) (50%); INGA (AMS) (50%); ING (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (50%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



25 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: United Plans To End Stay In Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
United Airlines is expected to end its 38-month stay in bankruptcy proceedings on Wednesday, but the carrier may not be profitable this year because of a recent surge in fuel prices.
 Many of United's 57,000 workers, meanwhile, though relieved to be ending their stay in bankruptcy, are wary of management's plans to continue to streamline the carrier. Still somewhat untested, union representatives say, are work rule changes negotiated as part of the bankruptcy and just how much more employees can be asked to do.
The UAL Corporation, the parent company of United, exits bankruptcy having acknowledged that, for 2006 at least, fuel will probably cost it a lot more than it earlier projected. The company now expects to spend about $4.3 billion on fuel this year, instead of the $3.4 billion earlier estimated, according to a statement released last week. 
 That could wipe out most if not all of the profit, before one-time gains, UAL had been expecting for the year. The company said it expected to offset ''some, but not all'' of the increased fuel expense through higher revenue.
 The fuel issue -- oil trading above $60 a barrel instead of the $50 United had hoped for -- is likely to be just the first of many challenges the carrier will face post-bankruptcy. United has cut employment by roughly a quarter. It expects by 2010 to have its annual costs $7 billion below pre-bankruptcy levels. And it was able to wipe out $13 billion of debt and pension obligations. But its prospects are no more assured than those of other carriers.
 Low-cost airlines continue to gain market share. Consumers and businesses, using the Internet, are becoming increasingly adept at shopping for the best fares. And any economic downturn could cause another round of huge losses for the industry.
 ''They're not making any money,'' Roger King, an analyst at CreditSights, said of United. ''Normally you'd think, when you leave bankruptcy, you'd be making money.'' Mr. King said United's costs remain very close to those at American Airlines and Continental Airlines, two carriers that have chosen to try to streamline outside of bankruptcy court. ''They didn't distance themselves from American and Continental,'' Mr. King said.
 Glenn F. Tilton, chief executive officer of UAL, said in an interview late last year that United had become far more competitive and flexible. He noted that most corporate officers from the pre-bankruptcy days ''are gone'' and that he hoped to hire still more outsiders.
 Mr. Tilton, a former oil company executive, also said that ''opportunities abound'' for United to become more efficient by either outsourcing some operations or continuing to do those activities for itself as well as for other carriers. It makes no sense, he said, for instance, for a dozen airlines at a single airport to have separate baggage handling and fueling operations.
 ''We anticipate continuous improvement,'' said Jean Medina, a United spokeswoman. ''We got the work rule changes we needed as part of the bankruptcy.''
 That sort of talk, of course, worries some United workers. United pilots plan a news conference on Wednesday to present their views on how the airline ought to be run. ''We capitalized that airline'' with wage and benefit cuts, said David Kelly, a spokesman for the United chapter of the Air Line Pilots Association. He said the union wanted to ''make sure our money is invested wisely.''
 One reason to appreciate the end of bankruptcy proceedings, said Greg Davidowitch, president of the United chapter of the Association of Flight Attendants, is ''management can't rely on the bankruptcy court to hold over the heads of employees additional concessions.''

Northwest Can Freeze Pension
By The Associated Press
 A New York bankruptcy judge yesterday allowed the Northwest Airlines Corporation to freeze its the pension plan of its pilots.
 The carrier, which filed for bankruptcy protection in September, and its pilots union, the Air Line Pilots Association, agreed to freeze the defined benefit plan. The creditors committee also came out in support of the freeze, effective on Feb. 1, in court.
 The pilots will now get a defined contribution plan, the details of which are still being hashed out between the union and Northwest. The airline is seeking $1.4 billion in annual savings from its labor unions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); MARKET SHARE (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); INTERNET & WWW (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Bankruptcies; Labor; Pilots; Organized Labor; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining)

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (85%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%) United Airlines; Air Line Pilots Assn; Ual Corp

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%)

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (59%) Jeff Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



26 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: A Retailing Czar, Looking Out for Mom and Pop 

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

 BODY:
National stores have gotten a lot of attention by moving into New York City neighborhoods that were once thought of in the retailing world as about as hospitable as the moon: Old Navy in Harlem, Ikea in Red Hook, Target in Flatbush. 
 But despite the headline-grabbing chain-store openings, the fact remains that New York City is dominated by locally owned mom-and-pop shops. This is particularly true in the outer boroughs, where small businesses play an important role in job creation, neighborhood identity and, for many immigrants, realization of the American dream. 
To keep the small-business sector strong and healthy in the face of competition from national and regional chains, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has created and filled a new position at the start of his second term: executive director of retail development. The person who holds the position has a primary goal of working with local community development corporations and business improvement districts to upgrade retailing in their neighborhoods. The office will be part of the Department of Small Business Services.
 ''We've been dividing up the community development corporation money, doling it out a little here and a little there, and it just wasn't helping anyone,'' said Robert W. Walsh, commissioner of the department. ''What's been produced with that money is a lot of calendars, bad directories and tchotchkes. So we hired a specialist to oversee this.''
 The new retailing czar, Michelle Mooney, will assist neighborhood organizations in their efforts to attract and retain a diversity of businesses that serve local residents. Focusing attention on the boroughs outside Manhattan, Ms. Mooney will also oversee two programs already in existence: improving storefronts and helping neighborhoods create retail identities to attract shoppers. 
 New York City has 53 business improvement districts, which represent many of the city's 200,000 small businesses -- companies with 100 employees or fewer. These companies account for 98 percent of all businesses in New York City and approximately half of the private sector work force. They contribute about $4.5 billion in tax revenues, according to information provided by the city. 
 Overseeing retailing in the city is much more complicated than directing a shopping center in the suburbs, experts say. ''A mall has a global view, managing the mix of retail and making sure everything looks good,'' said Mark Newhouse, the deputy commissioner of small-business services, who hired Ms. Mooney. ''But urban retail ownership is divided. It's much more difficult to manage that in a neighborhood, but it can be done a lot better than it has to this point.''
 One of the city's major efforts to help the new retailing development official is the development and introduction of a Web site that will have profiles of New York City's neighborhoods.
 In addition to demographic information, each profile will list what types of businesses are located there and how many, which storefronts are for lease and how property owners can be reached. The profiles also offer information about an area's business improvement district (if there is one) and links to information about city programs that help small-business owners apply for loans and get other services. The Web site, to be called NYC Site Solutions, is expected to start this spring. 
 Before taking the job with New York City, which pays $73,000 a year, Ms. Mooney, who says she is in her mid-30's, worked as the leasing officer for the Port of Long Beach in California, which bills itself as the second-largest seaport in the United States. Earlier, she was deputy director of community development for Cuyahoga County, Ohio, which includes Cleveland. She has a master's degree in urban planning.
 Though she has been on the job only since the second week of January and does not yet have any pictures on her desk, Ms. Mooney is already steeped in New York City neighborhood retailing. 
 On a recent tour of Flatbush Junction, an area in Brooklyn that has a Starbucks and will soon have a Target, Ms. Mooney said she would help local retailers complete their application to form a business improvement district, the city's 54th, and then get to work with the organization to fill empty storefronts and clean up graffiti and street trash. 
 ''People talk about curb appeal with residential real estate,'' Ms. Mooney said. ''Well, the retail district is a neighborhood's curb appeal.''
 Flatbush Junction needs to make a better connection between small retailers, local residents and Brooklyn College, which is expanding its arts program, Ms. Mooney said. She said this was an example of the type of neighborhoods where she would be focusing her attention: places with transit hubs that were also experiencing shifts in demographics.
 ''Usually the disconnect between residents and retail happens when neighborhoods are in transition,'' Ms. Mooney said. ''Sometimes properties are making money from other things and not from the retail, such as billboards. Second and third floors are often empty, and even stairways have been removed. If the upstairs were converted to residential, there would be even greater demand for a better mix of retail in the area.'' 
 One neighborhood group that made the transition to a successful business improvement district is the Myrtle Avenue Brooklyn Partnership. Having worked with the small-business services department in the past, the organization's executive director, Michael Blaise Backer, was encouraged to learn that there would be a new high-level specialist for retailing development.
 ''For groups like ours that are small with limited services, to have someone with genuine retail expertise who could advise us, that would be very helpful,'' Mr. Backer said. ''We've been getting by without, but when we come up with a strategy, it would be great to have someone we can go to who isn't a broker to get a second opinion.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michelle Mooney, executive director of retail development, visiting a neighborhood in Brooklyn. Keeping small businesses strong is her job. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SUBURBS (73%); LABOR FORCE (66%); INTERNET & WWW (61%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Computers and the Internet; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information; Retail Stores and Trade

ORGANIZATION: Small Business Services Department (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) Michelle Mooney; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



27 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; STATE OF THE UNION: ENERGY POLICY; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Call to Cut Foreign Oil Is a Refrain 35 Years Old

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD and EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Simon Romero contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
When President Bush vowed on Tuesday to reduce drastically American dependence on oil from the Middle East, he had plenty of company.
 President Richard M. Nixon promised in 1971 to make the United States self-sufficient in energy by 1980. President Jimmy Carter promised in 1979 that the nation would ''never again use more foreign oil than we did in 1977.''
And Mr. Bush has called in each of his past four State of the Union addresses for a reduction in the dependence on foreign oil. 
 Despite those promises in the past 35 years, United States dependence on oil imports is at a record level. 
 For most of his presidency, Mr. Bush has placed top priority on increasing domestic oil and gas production. He has supported tax incentives for oil and gas drilling, aggressive production in the Gulf of Mexico, and opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.
 But in his speech Tuesday night, he said the United States should ''move beyond a petroleum-based economy.'' The strategies he listed are under way already; in fact, he noted that since he took office the federal government had spent ''nearly $10 billion to develop cleaner, cheaper, more reliable alternative energy sources.''
 Among the efforts Mr. Bush listed were better batteries for hybrid and electric cars, hydrogen cars, ethanol from wood and agricultural waste, solar and wind technologies and ''clean, safe nuclear energy.''
 The overarching goal, Mr. Bush said, would be to reduce American imports of Middle Eastern oil by 75 percent by 2025.
 It was not clear exactly how Mr. Bush was defining his goal. There is a big difference between reducing such imports 75 percent below today's levels and reducing such imports 75 percent below what they would otherwise be if American supply and demand continued on their present course. 
 For the first 11 months of 2005, according to the most recent data available, the United States used about 20.6 million barrels of oil a day and imported about 60 percent of that. About 17 percent of petroleum imports came from the Persian Gulf.
 By contrast, the United States imported 44.5 percent of its oil in 1995, and about the same share came from the Middle East as it does today.
 But some energy analysts said on Tuesday that Mr. Bush's focus on Middle Eastern oil glossed over a more basic problem: the United States' dependence on oil in general.
 ''It doesn't matter if we don't buy oil from the Middle East,'' said Gal Luft, a co-director of the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, a research organization in Washington. If the United States does not buy oil from the Middle East, he said, ''someone else will, supporting the same regimes.''
 Mr. Bush proposed a 22 percent increase in financing for clean energy research.
 He said his budget for the fiscal year that begins in October would call for $218 million more for coal, money that he originally intended to spend in later years; $289 million for hydrogen fuel technology, up from $53 million this year; $54 million for coal plants that would capture the carbon dioxide they produce; $148 million for solar power, up from $65 million this year; $44 million for wind, up $5 million from this year; and $150 million for ethanol from cellulose, up $59 million from this year.
 These increases are incremental adjustments to money for a variety of industries in last summer's energy bill, including $2 billion in tax breaks for oil and gas drillers over five years. The bill also provided help for nuclear power and ethanol and other technologies that the president listed in his address. 
 At the moment, renewable energy is a very small part of consumption, a little more than 6 percent. Of that amount, more than one-third is hydroelectric; solar and wind account for about two-tenths of a percent. Mr. Bush did not say that renewable energy would replace oil from the Middle East; he also listed coal plants that capture their carbon dioxide, and nuclear energy, which some backers argue is renewable but many other people do not.
 Two obvious energy steps were missing from the speech. Although Mr. Bush praised ethanol as a substitute for gasoline, he did not mention the idea of lowering import barriers so countries like Brazil could supply it to this country. Instead he stressed ''homegrown'' ethanol. And he did not talk about requiring higher fuel economy standards for consumer vehicles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); WIND ENERGY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); POLITICS (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (73%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); BIOFUELS (70%); ALCOHOLS (70%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (70%); WILDLIFE (69%); TAX LAW (69%); ETHANOL (66%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (65%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); TAX INCENTIVES (54%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (53%) United States Politics and Government; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; State of the Union Message (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%) Matthew L Wald; Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); ARCTIC (56%) Middle East

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



28 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Surplus in a Tight Fist

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
Faced with a surprise budget surplus in 1992 after years of fiscal pain, Mayor David N. Dinkins, gearing up for a re-election campaign, proposed using some of the extra money to keep libraries open longer and to build several new health clinics.
 Graced with larger surpluses a few years later, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, his eye on re-election and then the United States Senate, proposed using some of the money for tax cuts, classroom computers and expanded school arts programs. 
What did Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg do when he was presented with an unexpected surplus of more than $3 billion this week? He proposed a budget yesterday that included no new spending initiatives and no plans for new tax cuts.
 Instead the mayor, who says he has no interest in elected office after his term ends, proposed stashing away those unexpected billions for long-term fiscal challenges -- like rising pension and health care costs -- and the stormy fiscal weather Mr. Bloomberg said was as certain to come as April rain.
 Laying out his budget, which includes a plan to place $2 billion in a trust fund for retirees to cover their future health care costs, Mr. Bloomberg said he was ''putting away money in the good times for the bad times.'' And he lectured reporters, ''You can't, when you all of the sudden have better-than-expected revenues, rush out and spend it.''
 Mr. Bloomberg may have been bolstering the old killjoy image he built in his earliest days as mayor, but he was also living up to his campaign promise to set the city on a firmer and more weather-resistant footing in a way that will last beyond his mayoralty.
 Indeed, aides say, that is one large part of the legacy Mr. Bloomberg would like to leave behind. And his latest budget, fiscal experts said, shows that he is willing to use his position as a billionaire-businessman-turned-citizen-politician to make the budgetary choices that fiscal prudence demands, even if they do not make scintillating headlines or do much for him politically.
 ''It's unusual to see a mayor with this kind of surplus not announcing some significant new spending programs or tax cuts,'' said Doug Turetsky, the chief of staff at the Independent Budget Office.
 Though it seemed to dissipate as the day wore on, there was some initial incredulity around City Hall when Mr. Bloomberg announced the surplus but no accompanying spending initiatives or tax cuts.
 City Councilman David I. Weprin of Queens, chairman of the Council's Finance Committee, said he would have been happier if the mayor had proposed using some of the money to extend library hours and restore some of the cuts from the early days of his administration, when the city faced a financial crisis.
 ''In a good year he should be looking to expand services,'' Mr. Weprin said, ''Not just maintain the status quo.''
 During his budget briefing, Mr. Bloomberg faced more than one question about why he was not introducing any sort of new tax cut or ''giving back'' to taxpayers who received a huge jump in property taxes during his first term.
 ''We have the safest big city in the nation,'' Mr. Bloomberg responded. ''If that isn't giving back to the taxpayers, I don't what is.''
 In general, Mr. Bloomberg treated suggestions that he spend down a significant portion of the surplus as just old-fashioned blather that is out of touch with the crushing reality that the city still faces huge deficits -- $10 billion worth -- in later years and the cost of entitlement programs will be growing fast as aging baby boomers leave the work force.
 But Mr. Bloomberg did not get much pressure from local elected officials or interest groups to spend more of the surplus now. In a written response to the budget, Randi Weingarten, the leader of the teachers' union and the head of the Municipal Labor Committee, called the mayor's proposed trust fund ''prudent,'' though she called for more education spending and a reordering of the city property tax code.
 And Council Speaker Christine Quinn's complaints were more about the budget negotiation process, not so much the content of the mayor's plan.
 Perhaps that was because Ms. Quinn and Ms. Weingarten have been around long enough to remember what happened after Mr. Dinkins and Mr. Giuliani used some of their surpluses for spending increases or tax breaks: downturns ultimately left the city scrambling to plug inevitable budget gaps later.
 Then again, one only need to think back to the start of Mr. Bloomberg's mayoralty in 2002, when the city faced its worst fiscal crisis in a generation, to remember how quickly the city's fortunes can change. ''When people say, 'You always predict bad times way down the road and they never come,' they couldn't be more wrong,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''They arrived when we came into office.''
 Yet Mr. Bloomberg devised his budget with more than possible future crises in mind; he said he would like to set the city up to withstand periodic economic downturns by addressing far-off concerns -- like the rising costs of entitlements -- now. But he should be warned: any changes he makes during his term can be easily changed back by more politically minded successors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); CITIES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (57%) Taxation

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) Jim Rutenberg; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



29 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Trenton: Corzine Announces Senior Appointments 

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Gov. Jon S. Corzine tapped a former colleague from Goldman Sachs yesterday to be chairman of the new Office of Economic Growth. The new chairman, Gary D. Rose, 60, a retired partner from the firm's investment banking division, has experience in mergers, acquisitions and finance, and will be asked to come up with a strategic plan to create jobs and expand business opportunities. He joins Bradley I. Abelow, Mr. Corzine's nominee for state treasurer, as former Goldman executives who have been recruited by Mr. Corzine, a former co-chairman. Mr. Corzine also announced two other cabinet positions yesterday: Steven M. Goldman as commissioner of banking and insurance, and Kris Kolluri as commissioner of transportation. DAVID W. CHEN (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); COMPANY STRATEGY (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); INSURANCE (85%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (85%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); TRENDS (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (55%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs & Co; Transportation Department (NJ); Banking and Insurance Department (NJ)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%) David W Chen; Jon S (Sen) Corzine; Gary D Rose; Bradley I Abelow; Steven M Goldman; Kris Kolluri

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



30 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STATE OF THE UNION; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 5232 words

HEADLINE: 'We Strive to Be a Compassionate, Decent, Hopeful Society'

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Bush's State of the Union address, as recorded by The New York Times:
 Today our nation lost a beloved, graceful, courageous woman who called America to its founding ideals and carried on a noble dream. Tonight we are comforted by the hope of a glad reunion with the husband who was taken so long ago, and we are grateful for the good life of Coretta Scott King.
Every time I'm invited to this rostrum, I am humbled by the privilege and mindful of the history we've seen together. We have gathered under this Capitol dome in moments of national mourning and national achievement. We have served America through one of the most consequential periods of our history, and it has been my honor to serve with you. 
 In a system of two parties, two chambers and two elected branches, there will always be differences and debate. But even tough debates can be conducted in a civil tone, and our differences cannot be allowed to harden into anger. To confront the great issues before us, we must act in a spirit of good will and respect for one another, and I will do my part. Tonight the state of our union is strong, and together we will make it stronger. 
 In this decisive year, you and I will make choices that determine both the future and the character of our country. We will choose to act confidently in pursuing the enemies of freedom, or retreat from our duties in the hope of an easier life. We will choose to build our prosperity by leading the world economy, or shut ourselves off from trade and opportunity. In a complex and challenging time, the road of isolationism and protectionism may seem broad and inviting, yet it ends in danger and decline. The only way to protect our people, the only way to secure the peace, the only way to control our destiny is by our leadership. So the United States of America will continue to lead. 
 Abroad, our nation is committed to a historic long-term goal. We seek the end of tyranny in our world. Some dismiss that goal as misguided idealism. In reality, the future security of America depends on it. On Sept. 11, 2001, we found that problems originating in a failed and oppressive state 7,000 miles away could bring murder and destruction to our country. Dictatorships shelter terrorists and feed resentment and radicalism and seek weapons of mass destruction. Democracies replace resentment with hope, respect the rights of their citizens and their neighbors and join the fight against terror. Every step toward freedom in the world makes our country safer, so we will act boldly in freedom's cause. 
 Far from being a hopeless dream, the advance of freedom is the great story of our time. In 1945, there were about two dozen lonely democracies in the world. Today, there are 122. And we're writing a new chapter in the story of self-government, with women lining up to vote in Afghanistan and millions of Iraqis marking their liberty with purple ink and men and women from Lebanon to Egypt debating the rights of individuals and the necessity of freedom. At the start of 2006, more than half the people of our world live in democratic nations. And we do not forget the other half, in places like Syria and Burma, Zimbabwe, North Korea and Iran, because the demands of justice, and the peace of this world require their freedom as well. 

Terrorism
 No one can deny the success of freedom, but some men rage and fight against it. And one of the main sources of reaction and opposition is radical Islam, the perversion by a few of a noble faith into an ideology of terror and death. Terrorists like bin Laden are serious about mass murder, and all of us must take their declared intentions seriously. They seek to impose a heartless system of totalitarian control throughout the Middle East and arm themselves with weapons of mass murder. 
 Their aim is to seize power in Iraq and use it as a safe haven to launch attacks against America and the world. Lacking the military strength to challenge us directly, the terrorists have chosen the weapon of fear. When they murder children at a school in Beslan or blow up commuters in London or behead a bound captive, the terrorists hope these horrors will break our will, allowing the violent to inherit the earth. But they have miscalculated. We love our freedom, and we will fight to keep it. 
 In a time of testing, we cannot find security by abandoning our commitments and retreating within our borders. If we were to leave these vicious attackers alone, they would not leave us alone. They would simply move the battlefield to our own shores. There is no peace in retreat. And there is no honor in retreat. By allowing radical Islam to work its will, by leaving an assaulted world to fend for itself, we would signal to all that we no longer believe in our own ideals or even in our own courage. But our enemies and our friends can be certain the United States will not retreat from the world, and we will never surrender to evil.
 America rejects the false comfort of isolationism. We are the nation that saved liberty in Europe and liberated death camps and helped raise up democracies and faced down an evil empire. Once again, we accept the call of history to deliver the oppressed and move this world toward peace.
 We remain on the offensive against terror networks. We have killed or captured many of their leaders. And for the others, their day will come. We remain on the offensive in Afghanistan, where a fine president and a National Assembly are fighting terror while building the institutions of a new democracy. 
 We're on the offensive in Iraq, with a clear plan for victory. First, we're helping Iraqis build an inclusive government, so that old resentments will be eased and the insurgency will be marginalized. Second, we're continuing reconstruction efforts and helping the Iraqi government to fight corruption and build a modern economy, so all Iraqis can experience the benefits of freedom. And third, we're striking terrorist targets while we train Iraqi forces that are increasingly capable of defeating the enemy. Iraqis are showing their courage every day, and we are proud to be their allies in the cause of freedom.
 Our work in Iraq is difficult, because our enemy is brutal. But that brutality has not stopped the dramatic progress of a new democracy. In less than three years, the nation has gone from dictatorship to liberation to sovereignty to a constitution to national elections. At the same time, our coalition has been relentless in shutting off terrorist infiltration, clearing out insurgent strongholds and turning over territory to Iraqi security forces. I am confident in our plan for victory. I am confident in the will of the Iraqi people. I am confident in the skill and spirit of our military. Fellow citizens, we are in this fight to win, and we are winning. 
 The road of victory is the road that will take our troops home. As we make progress on the ground and Iraqi forces increasingly take the lead, we should be able to further decrease our troop levels. But those decisions will be made by our military commanders, not by politicians in Washington, D.C. 
 Our coalition has learned from experience in Iraq. We've adjusted our military tactics and changed our approach to reconstruction. Along the way, we have benefited from responsible criticism and counsel offered by members of Congress of both parties. In the coming year, I will continue to reach out and seek your good advice. 
 Yet there is a difference between responsible criticism that aims for success, and defeatism that refuses to acknowledge anything but failure. Hindsight alone is not wisdom. And second guessing is not a strategy. 
 With so much in the balance, those of us in public office have a duty to speak with candor. A sudden withdrawal of our forces from Iraq would abandon our Iraqi allies to death and prison, would put men like bin Laden and Zarqawi in charge of a strategic country and show that a pledge from America means little. Members of Congress, however we feel about the decisions and debates of the past, our nation has only one option. We must keep our word, defeat our enemies and stand behind the American military in this vital mission.

Military Sacrifices
 Our men and women in uniform are making sacrifices and showing a sense of duty stronger than all fear. They know what it's like to fight house to house in a maze of streets, to wear heavy gear in the desert heat, to see a comrade killed by a roadside bomb. And those who know the costs also know the stakes. 
 Marine Staff Sgt. Dan Clay was killed last month fighting in Falluja. He left behind a letter to his family, but his words could just as well be addressed to every American. Here's what Dan wrote: ''I know what honor is. It has been an honor to protect and serve all of you. I faced death with the secure knowledge that you would not have to. Never falter. Don't hesitate to honor and support those of us who had the honor of protecting that which is worth protecting.''
 Staff Sgt. Dan Clay's wife, Lisa, and his mom and dad, Sara Jo and Bud, are with us this evening. Welcome. Our nation is grateful to the fallen, who live in the memory of our country. We're grateful to all who volunteer to wear our nation's uniform, and as we honor our brave troops, let us never forget the sacrifices of America's military families.
 Our offensive against terror involves more than military action. Ultimately, the only way to defeat the terrorists is to defeat their dark vision of hatred and fear by offering the hopeful alternative of political freedom and peaceful change. So the United States of America supports democratic reform across the broader Middle East. 
 Elections are vital, but they are only the beginning. Raising up a democracy requires the rule of law, protection of minorities and strong, accountable institutions that last longer than a single vote. The great people of Egypt have voted in a multiparty presidential election, and now their government should open paths of peaceful opposition that will reduce the appeal of radicalism. 
 The Palestinian people have voted in elections, and now the leaders of Hamas must recognize Israel, disarm, reject terrorism and work for lasting peace. Saudi Arabia has taken the first steps of reform. Now it can offer its people a better future by pressing forward with those efforts. Democracies in the Middle East will not look like our own, because they will reflect the traditions of their own citizens. Yet liberty is the future of every nation in the Middle East, because liberty is the right and hope of all humanity. 
 The same is true of Iran, a nation now held hostage by a small clerical elite that is isolating and repressing its people. The regime in that country sponsors terrorists in the Palestinian territories and in Lebanon, and that must come to an end. The Iranian government is defying the world with its nuclear ambitions, and the nations of the world must not permit the Iranian regime to gain nuclear weapons. America will continue to rally the world to confront these threats. 
 Tonight, let me speak directly to the citizens of Iran. America respects you, and we respect your country. We respect your right to choose your own future and win your own freedom. And our nation hopes one day to be the closest of friends with a free and democratic Iran. 
 To overcome dangers in our world, we must also take the offensive by encouraging economic progress and fighting disease and spreading hope in hopeless lands. Isolationism would not only tie our hands in fighting enemies, it would keep us from helping our friends in desperate need. We show compassion abroad, because Americans believe in the God-given dignity and worth of a villager with H.I.V./AIDS or an infant with malaria or a refugee fleeing genocide or a young girl sold into slavery. We also show compassion abroad because regions overwhelmed by poverty, corruption and despair are sources of terrorism and organized crime and human trafficking and the drug trade. 
 In recent years, you and I have taken unprecedented action to fight AIDS and malaria, expand the education of girls and reward developing nations that are moving forward with economic and political reform. For people everywhere, the United States is a partner for a better life. Shortchanging these efforts would increase the suffering and chaos of our world, undercut our long-term security and dull the conscience of our country. I urge members of Congress to serve the interests of America by showing the compassion of America. 
 Our country must also remain on the offensive against terrorism here at home. The enemy has not lost the desire or capability to attack us. Fortunately, this nation has superb professionals in law enforcement, intelligence, the military and homeland security. These men and women are dedicating their lives to protecting us all, and they deserve our support and our thanks. They also deserve the same tools they already use to fight drug trafficking and organized crime. So I ask you to reauthorize the Patriot Act. 
 It is said that prior to the attacks of Sept. 11 our government failed to connect the dots of the conspiracy. We now know that two of the hijackers in the United States placed telephone calls to Al Qaeda operatives overseas. But we did not know about their plans until it was too late. So to prevent another attack, based on authority given to me by the Constitution and by statute, I have authorized a terrorist-surveillance program to aggressively pursue the international communications of suspected Al Qaeda operatives and affiliates to and from America.
 Previous presidents have used the same constitutional authority I have, and federal courts have approved the use of that authority. Appropriate members of Congress have been kept informed. This terrorist-surveillance program has helped prevent terrorist attacks. It remains essential to the security of America. If there are people inside our country who are talking with Al Qaeda, we want to know about it, because we will not sit back and wait to be hit again. 
 In all these areas, from the disruption of terror networks to victory in Iraq to the spread of freedom and hope in troubled regions, we need the support of our friends and allies. To draw that support, we must always be clear in our principles and willing to act. The only alternative to American leadership is a dramatically more dangerous and anxious world. 
 Yet we also choose to lead, because it is a privilege to serve the values that gave us birth. American leaders from Roosevelt to Truman to Kennedy to Reagan rejected isolation and retreat, because they knew that America is always more secure when freedom is on the march. Our own generation is in a long war against a determined enemy, a war that will be fought by presidents of both parties, who will need steady bipartisan support from the Congress. And tonight I ask for yours. Together, let us protect our country, support the men and women who defend us and lead this world toward freedom. 
 Here at home, America also has a great opportunity. We will build the prosperity of our country by strengthening our economic leadership in the world. 
 Our economy is healthy and vigorous, and growing faster than other major industrialized nations. In the last two and a half years, America has created 4.6 million new jobs, more than Japan and the European Union combined. Even in the face of higher energy prices and natural disasters, the American people have turned in an economic performance that is the envy of the world. 
 The American economy is pre-eminent, but we cannot afford to be complacent. In a dynamic world economy, we are seeing new competitors like China and India. And this creates uncertainty, which makes it easier to feed people's fears. So we're seeing some old temptations return. Protectionists want to escape competition, pretending that we can keep our high standard of living while walling off our economy. Others say that the government needs to take a larger role in directing the economy, centralizing more power in Washington and increasing taxes. We hear claims that immigrants are somehow bad for the economy, even though this economy could not function without them. All these are forms of economic retreat, and they lead in the same direction, toward a stagnant and second-rate economy. 
 Tonight I will set out a better path, an agenda for a nation that competes with confidence, an agenda that will raise standards of living and generate new jobs. Americans should not fear our economic future, because we intend to shape it.
 Keeping America competitive begins with keeping our economy growing. And our economy grows when Americans have more of their own money to spend, save and invest. In the last five years, the tax relief you passed has left $880 billion in the hands of American workers, investors, small businesses and families. And they have used it to help produce more than four years of uninterrupted economic growth. Yet the tax relief is set to expire in the next few years. If we do nothing, American families will face a massive tax increase they do not expect and will not welcome.
 Because America needs more than a temporary expansion, we need more than temporary tax relief. I urge the Congress to act responsibly, and make the tax cuts permanent. 

Economic Agenda
 Keeping America competitive requires us to be good stewards of tax dollars. Every year of my presidency, we've reduced the growth of nonsecurity discretionary spending, and last year you passed bills that cut this spending. This year, my budget will cut it again and reduce or eliminate more than 140 programs that are performing poorly or not fulfilling essential priorities. By passing these reforms, we will save the American taxpayer another $14 billion next year and stay on track to cut the deficit in half by 2009. I am pleased that members of Congress are working on earmark reform, because the federal budget has too many special interest projects. And we can tackle this problem together if you pass the line-item veto. 
 We must also confront the larger challenge of mandatory spending, or entitlements. This year, the first of about 78 million baby boomers turn 60, including two of my dad's favorite people, me, and President Clinton. This milestone is more than a personal crisis. It is a national challenge. The retirement of the baby boom generation will put unprecedented strains on the federal government. By 2030, spending for Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid alone will be almost 60 percent of the entire federal budget. And that will present future Congresses with impossible choices -- staggering tax increases, immense deficits or deep cuts in every category of spending. 
 Congress did not act last year on my proposal to save Social Security. Yet the rising cost of entitlements is a problem that is not going away. And every year we fail to act, the situation gets worse. So tonight, I ask you to join me in creating a commission to examine the full impact of baby boom retirements on Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. This commission should include members of Congress of both parties and offer bipartisan answers. We need to put aside partisan politics and work together and get this problem solved.
 Keeping America competitive requires us to open more markets for all that Americans make and grow. One out of every five factory jobs in America is related to global trade, and we want people everywhere to buy American. With open markets and a level playing field, no one can outproduce or outcompete the American worker. 
 Keeping America competitive requires an immigration system that upholds our laws, reflects our values and serves the interests of our economy. Our nation needs orderly and secure borders. To meet this goal, we must have stronger immigration enforcement and border protection. And we must have a rational, humane guest-worker program that rejects amnesty, allows temporary jobs for people who seek them legally and reduces smuggling and crime at the border. 
 Keeping America competitive requires affordable health care. Our government has a responsibility to help provide health care for the poor and the elderly, and we are meeting that responsibility. For all Americans, we must confront the rising cost of care, strengthen the doctor-patient relationship and help people afford the insurance coverage they need. We will make wider use of electronic records and other health information technology to help control costs and reduce dangerous medical errors.
 We will strengthen health savings accounts by making sure individuals and small business employees can buy insurance with the same advantages that people working for big businesses now get. We will do more to make this coverage portable, so workers can switch jobs without having to worry about losing their health insurance. And because lawsuits are driving many good doctors out of practice, leaving women in nearly 1,500 American counties without a single ob-gyn, I ask the Congress to pass medical liability reform this year. 
 Keeping America competitive requires affordable energy. And here we have a serious problem. America is addicted to oil, which is often imported from unstable parts of the world. 
 The best way to break this addiction is through technology. Since 2001, we have spent nearly $10 billion to develop cleaner, cheaper and more reliable alternative energy sources. And we are on the threshold of incredible advances. So tonight, I announce the Advanced Energy Initiative, a 22 percent increase in clean-energy research at the Department of Energy to push for breakthroughs in two vital areas. To change how we power our homes and offices, we will invest more in zero-emission coal-fired plants, revolutionary solar and wind technologies and clean, safe nuclear energy.
 We must also change how we power our automobiles. We will increase our research in better batteries for hybrid and electric cars and in pollution-free cars that run on hydrogen. We will also fund additional research in cutting-edge methods of producing ethanol, not just from corn but from wood chips and stalks or switch grass. Our goal is to make this new kind of ethanol practical and competitive within six years. 
 Breakthroughs on this and other new technologies will help us reach another great goal, to replace more than 75 percent of our oil imports from the Middle East by 2025. By applying the talent and technology of America, this country can dramatically improve our environment, move beyond a petroleum-based economy and make our dependence on Middle Eastern oil a thing of the past.
 And to keep America competitive, one commitment is necessary above all. We must continue to lead the world in human talent and creativity. Our greatest advantage in the world has always been our educated, hard-working, ambitious people, and we are going to keep that edge. Tonight I announce the American Competitiveness Initiative, to encourage innovation throughout our economy and to give our nation's children a firm grounding in math and science. 
 First, I propose to double the federal commitment to the most critical basic research programs in the physical sciences over the next 10 years. This funding will support the work of America's most creative minds as they explore promising areas such as nanotechnology and supercomputing and alternative energy sources. Second, I propose to make permanent the research and development tax credit to encourage bolder private-sector initiative in technology. With more research in both the public and private sectors, we will improve our quality of life and ensure that America will lead the world in opportunity and innovation for decades to come. 
 Third, we need to encourage children to take more math and science and to make sure those courses are rigorous enough to compete with other nations. We've made a good start in the early grades with the No Child Left Behind Act, which is raising standards and lifting test scores across our country. Tonight I propose to train 70,000 high school teachers to lead Advanced Placement courses in math and science, bring 30,000 math and science professionals to teach in classrooms and give early help to students who struggle with math, so they have a better chance at good high-wage jobs. If we ensure that America's children succeed in life, they will ensure that America succeeds in the world. 
 Preparing our nation to compete in the world is a goal that all of us can share. I urge you to support the American Competitiveness Initiative, and together we will show the world what the American people can achieve.

'A Hopeful Society'
 America is a great force for freedom and prosperity. Yet our greatness is not measured in power or luxuries, but by who we are and how we treat one another. So we strive to be a compassionate, decent, hopeful society. 
 In recent years, America has become a more hopeful nation. Violent crime rates have fallen to their lowest levels since the 1970's. Welfare cases have dropped by more than half over the past decade. Drug use among youth is down 19 percent since 2001. There are fewer abortions in America than at any point in the last three decades, and the number of children born to teenage mothers has been falling for a dozen years in a row. 
 These gains are evidence of a quiet transformation, a revolution of conscience in which a rising generation is finding that a life of personal responsibility is a life of fulfillment. Government has played a role. Wise policies such as welfare reform, drug education and support for abstinence and adoption have made a difference in the character of our country. And everyone here tonight, Democrat and Republican, has a right to be proud of this record. 
 Yet many Americans, especially parents, still have deep concerns about the direction of our culture and the health of our most basic institutions. They are concerned about unethical conduct by public officials and discouraged by activist courts that try to redefine marriage. They worry about children in our society, who need direction and love; and about fellow citizens still displaced by natural disaster; and about suffering caused by treatable disease.
 As we look at these challenges, we must never give in to the belief that America is in decline or that our culture is doomed to unravel. The American people know better than that. We have proven the pessimists wrong before, and we will do it again.
 A hopeful society depends on courts that deliver equal justice under the law. The Supreme Court now has two superb new members on its bench, Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Sam Alito. I thank the Senate for confirming both of them. I will continue to nominate men and women who understand that judges must be servants of the law, and not legislate from the bench. 
 Today marks the official retirement of a very special American. For 24 years of faithful service to our nation, the United States is grateful to Justice Sandra Day O'Connor. 
 A hopeful society has institutions of science and medicine that do not cut ethical corners and that recognize the matchless value of every life. Tonight I ask you to pass legislation to prohibit the most egregious abuses of medical research, human cloning in all its forms, creating or implanting embryos for experiments, creating human-animal hybrids, and buying, selling or patenting human embryos. Human life is a gift from our creator, and that gift should never be discarded, devalued or put up for sale.
 A hopeful society expects elected officials to uphold the public trust. Honorable people in both parties are working on reforms to strengthen the ethical standards of Washington, and I support your efforts. Each of us has made a pledge to be worthy of public responsibility, and that is a pledge we must never forget, never dismiss and never betray. 
 As we renew the promise of our institutions, let us also show the character of America in our compassion and care for one another. 
 A hopeful society gives special attention to children who lack direction and love. Through the Helping America's Youth Initiative, we are encouraging caring adults to get involved in the life of a child, and this good work is being led by our first lady, Laura Bush. This year, we will add resources to encourage young people to stay in school so more of America's youth can raise their sights and achieve their dreams.
 A hopeful society comes to the aid of fellow citizens in times of suffering and emergency and stays at it until they are back on their feet. So far the federal government has committed $85 billion to the people of the Gulf Coast and New Orleans. We are removing debris and repairing highways and rebuilding stronger levees. We're providing business loans and housing assistance. Yet as we meet these immediate needs, we must also address deeper challenges that existed before the storm arrived. In New Orleans and in other places, many of our fellow citizens have felt excluded from the promise of our country. 
 The answer is not only temporary relief, but schools that teach every child and job skills that bring upward mobility and more opportunities to own a home and start a business. As we recover from a disaster, let us also work for the day when all Americans are protected by justice, equal in hope and rich in opportunity. 
 A hopeful society acts boldly to fight diseases like H.I.V./AIDS which can be prevented and treated and defeated. More than a million Americans live with H.I.V., and half of all AIDS cases occur among African-Americans. I ask Congress to reform and reauthorize the Ryan White Act and provide new funding to states, so we end the waiting lists for AIDS medicine in America. We will also lead a nationwide effort, working closely with African-American churches and faith-based groups, to deliver rapid H.I.V. tests to millions, end the stigma of AIDS and come closer to the day when there are no new infections in America. 
 Fellow citizens, we've been called to leadership in a period of consequence. We've entered a great ideological conflict we did nothing to invite. We see great changes in science and commerce that will influence all our lives. Sometimes it can seem that history is turning in a wide arc, toward an unknown shore. 
 Yet the destination of history is determined by human action, and every great movement of history comes to a point of choosing. Lincoln could have accepted peace at the cost of disunity and continued slavery. Martin Luther King could have stopped at Birmingham or at Selma and achieved only half a victory over segregation. The United States could have accepted the permanent division of Europe and been complicit in the oppression of others. Today, having come far in our own historical journey, we must decide will we turn back or finish well?
 Before history is written down in books, it is written in courage. Like Americans before us, we will show that courage and we will finish well. We will lead freedom's advance. We will compete and excel in the global economy. We will renew the defining moral commitments of this land. And so we move forward -- optimistic about our country, faithful to its cause and confident of victories to come.
 May God bless America.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Feb. 1 about President Bush's State of the Union address referred incorrectly in some copies to his proposal to help illegal immigrants get temporary jobs. He endorsed a ''humane guest-worker program that rejects amnesty'' -- not a plan based on amnesty.
A front-page article on Feb. 1 about President Bush's State of the Union address referred incorrectly in some copies to his proposal to help illegal immigrants get temporary jobs. He endorsed a ''humane guest-worker program that rejects amnesty'' -- not a plan based on amnesty.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In back of Laura Bush, Lisa Clay, wife of Staff Sgt. Dan Clay, a marine killed in Iraq, and his parents, Sara Jo and Bud. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
(Illustration by Matthew Ericson/The New York Times)(pg. A18)
 Senate pages greeted President Bush after he delivered his address at the Capitol. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A19)Chart: ''The Words That Were Used''Number of times President Bush used the following words or phrases in State of the Union addresses.DOMESTIC AFFAIRS2001FEB. 27*Compassion(ate): 3Energy: 12Health care: 9Medicare: 12Oil: --Research: 2Retirement(s): 5Social Security: 152002JAN. 29Compassion(ate): 3Energy: 3Health care: 1Medicare: 1Oil: 1Research: 1Retirement(s): 3Social Security: 22003JAN. 28Compassion(ate): 4Energy: 8Health care: 6Medicare: 5Oil: --Research: 2Retirement(s): 1Social Security: 22004JAN. 20Compassion(ate): 4Energy: 2Health care: 9Medicare: 8Oil: --Research: --Retirement(s): 1Social Security: 22005FEB. 2Compassion(ate): 1Energy: 4Health care: 3Medicare: --Oil: --Research: 3Retirement(s): 12Social Security: 182006JAN. 31Compassion(ate): 5Energy: 8Health care: 2Medicare: 2Oil: 3Research: 7Retirement(s): 3Social Security: 3TAXES AND THE ECONOMY2001FEB. 27*Balanced budget: 1Deficit(s): 1Economy: 3Jobs: 2Surplus(es): 7Tax(es): 272002JAN. 29Balanced budget: --Deficit(s): 1Economy: 4Jobs: 11Surplus(es): --Tax(es): 72003JAN. 28Balanced budget: 1Deficit(s): 1Economy: 10Jobs: 2Surplus(es): --Tax(es): 112004JAN. 20Balanced budget: --Deficit(s): 1Economy: 14Jobs: 6Surplus(es): --Tax(es): 192005FEB. 2Balanced budget: --Deficit(s): 1Economy: 11Jobs: 4Surplus(es): --Tax(es): 102006JAN. 31Balanced budget: --Deficit(s): 2Economy: 16Jobs: 6Surplus(es): --Tax(es): 9TERRORISM AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS2001FEB. 27*Afghanistan: --Al Qaeda: --Osama bin Laden: --Democracy(ies): --Freedom: 8Saddam (Hussein): --Iraq/Iraqi(s): --Sept. 11: --Terror/terrorist(s): 1Weapons of mass destruction: 12002JAN. 29Afghanistan: 13Al Qaeda: 1Osama bin Laden: --Democracy(ies): --Freedom: 14Saddam (Hussein): --Iraq/Iraqi(s): 2Sept. 11: 5Terror/terrorist(s): 33Weapons of mass destruction: 42003JAN. 28Afghanistan: 3Al Qaeda: 8Osama bin Laden: --Democracy(ies): 1Freedom: 5Saddam (Hussein): 19Iraq/Iraqi(s): 22Sept. 11: 3Terror/terrorist(s): 19Weapons of mass destruction: 42004JAN. 20Afghanistan: 5Al Qaeda: 3Osama bin Laden: --Democracy(ies): 4Freedom: 8Saddam (Hussein): 5Iraq/Iraqi(s): 24Sept. 11: 3Terror/terrorist(s): 19Weapons of mass destruction: 32005FEB. 2Afghanistan: 3Al Qaeda: 2Osama bin Laden: --Democracy(ies): 9Freedom: 20Saddam (Hussein): 2Iraq/Iraqi(s): 27Sept. 11: 1Terror/terrorist(s): 26Weapons of mass destruction: 12006JAN. 31Afghanistan: 2Al Qaeda: 3Osama bin Laden: 2Democracy(ies): 7Freedom: 17Saddam (Hussein): --Iraq/Iraqi(s): 16Sept. 11: 2Terror/terrorist(s): 17Weapons of mass destruction: 1* As a newly elected president, Mr. Bush did not deliver a formal State of the Union address in 2001. His Feb. 27 speech to a joint session of Congress was analogous to the State of the Union, but without the title.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); POLITICS (73%); PROTECTIONISM (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); TERRORISM (64%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (60%) United States Politics and Government; State of the Union Message (US)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



31 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; STATE OF THE UNION: OPPOSITION RESPONSE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Point to 'Poor Choices' in Policy

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
Democrats responded with skepticism Tuesday to President Bush's policy agenda, saying he and his fellow Republicans had compiled a record of favoring corporate interests and the affluent when it came to the economy, health care and energy.
 In the party's formal response to the president's State of the Union address, Timothy M. Kaine, the newly elected governor of Virginia, accused the administration of ''poor choices and bad management'' that have had dire consequences for ordinary Americans.
''Families in the Gulf Coast see that as they wait to rebuild their lives,'' said Mr. Kaine, who was featured as evidence that Democrats could win elections in conservative states. ''Americans who lose their jobs see that as they look to rebuild their careers. And our soldiers in Iraq see that as they try to rebuild a nation.'' 
 In their own comments before the address, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the top Democrats in Congress, said the White House and Congressional Republicans had granted special interests too great a role in shaping legislation, including the new Medicare prescription drug plan.
 ''Because the pharmaceutical industry was at the table when this bill was written,'' Ms. Pelosi said, ''seniors are paying the price at the corner pharmacy.'' 
 She and Mr. Reid also said they had seen no sign in Mr. Bush's five years in office that he and Republican Congressional leaders were serious about easing the nation's reliance on foreign energy sources. They said energy legislation adopted by Congress last year was heavily influenced by the oil industry, which is earning record profits.
 ''This is Bush doublespeak,'' Mr. Reid said as he exited the House chamber. ''Whatever he said, think just the opposite.''
 Mr. Reid said the administration had given only lip service to alternative energy and other proposals. Democrats said that they had proposed a significant mandatory reduction in imports during the energy policy debate only to see the plan rejected by Republicans. 
 Representative Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, a senior Democrat on the energy panel, said, ''The president needs to embrace real reforms, not recycle rhetoric on the importance of reducing our dependency on foreign oil.''
 Other Democrats said that the address was a recitation of past proposals and that Mr. Bush missed an important chance to answer Americans' concerns about health care, domestic security, the economy and the war in Iraq. 
 Senator Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, said, ''By not adequately addressing the issues people are facing across America, the president missed an opportunity to provide needed leadership at one of the most critical times in our history.''
 Given Mr. Bush's political struggles and a corruption scandal in Congress, Democrats see an opportunity this year to make gains in the House and the Senate, and perhaps to recapture control of one chamber in the November elections.
 A television advertisement created specifically for the State of the Union address by the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee sought to tie Mr. Bush's past State of the Union proposals on Social Security, health care and energy to industry influence. It asked, ''What special interest will the Republican Congress rubber-stamp this time?''
 The House campaign organization also put together a Web site tied to the theme of the advertisement, which was shown on the Fox News Channel before the speech.
 Democrats are pushing for lobbying changes in Congress in the aftermath of the Jack Abramoff scandal and have criticized the Republicans as being too timid in pushing their new rules limiting lobbyists.
 But the Democratic Party has not come forward with its promised initiatives on health care, education and energy, allowing Republicans to admonish Democrats for failing to offer their own alternatives. Ms. Pelosi said Tuesday that the party's platform would be forthcoming.
 Mr. Kaine's televised remarks represented a coming-out party for a new Democratic star. He mentioned his own work as a missionary in Latin America and the life of Coretta Scott King, who died Tuesday, as examples of the Democratic ideal of trying to make a difference in the lives of others. He said his party offered ''a better way'' of governing.
 He also took Mr. Bush to task for his economic policies, saying the president remained dedicated to costly tax cuts even with rising deficits. ''No parent makes their child pay the mortgage,'' Mr. Kaine said. ''Why should we allow this administration to pass down the bill for its reckless spending to our children and grandchildren?'' 
 The Congressional leaders steered clear of the Iraq war in their remarks before the speech. But Mr. Kaine questioned Mr. Bush's rationale for the war and his handling of the conflict while emphasizing Democratic support for a fight against terrorism. He pointed to the flawed prewar intelligence, the lack of armor for troops and the Democratic support for greater veterans' benefits.
 ''While the images of the World Trade Center are seared in the minds of all Americans,'' he said, ''so, too, are the memories of those who died on sacred ground in Virginia in the attack on the Pentagon. Our commitment to winning the war on terrorism compels us to ask this question: Are the president's policies the best way to win this war?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (87%); ELECTIONS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); MEDICARE (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); IRAQ WAR (70%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (66%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (66%); PHARMACIES (66%); IMPORT TRADE (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (63%); SCANDALS (50%) United States Politics and Government; State of the Union Message (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); HARRY REID (79%); TIM KAINE (79%); RUSS FEINGOLD (59%); EDWARD J MARKEY (59%); NANCY PELOSI (58%) Carl Hulse; Timothy M (Gov) Kaine

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



32 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STATE OF THE UNION: THE DOMESTIC AGENDA; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: On Education and Health, Costly Plans Face Hurdles

BYLINE: This article is by Robin Toner, Diana Jean Schemo and Robert Pear.; Gardiner Harris and Rachel L. Swarns contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
Like most State of the Union addresses, President Bush's speech on Tuesday night offered several domestic policy proposals. And if the past is any guide, some will become reality, while others will not.
 Mr. Bush's address last year was dominated by his proposal to overhaul Social Security with the creation of private investment accounts. The plan was debated for months, but it never had much support on Capitol Hill and died quietly last fall.
 Mr. Bush all but acknowledged that defeat on Tuesday night, and proposed what many Democrats had insisted was the only way to deal with the long-term financial problems of Social Security and Medicare: a bipartisan commission. 
 Other proposals outlined by Mr. Bush in previous State of the Union addresses have met a better fate, including his sweeping tax cuts and the Medicare prescription drug benefit. But some measures become perennial proposals, like tax credits to help people buy health insurance, which have yet to make it through Congress. 
 With federal spending now tightly constrained, some of the plans Mr. Bush presented on Tuesday could prove difficult to enact despite broad support. 
 One set of new measures, to improve the teaching of math and science, train workers, aid universities and increase federal support for research and development, would cost $5.9 billion next year and $136 billion over 10 years, the White House said. Of that, $86 billion would go to making permanent the tax break for industries when they invest in research and development; Congress has used this tax break periodically, particularly to help the economy during recessions.
 Mr. Bush's proposals were based on a report issued in October by the National Academy of Sciences and embraced by industry groups and others. The report warned that without such measures, the United States would lose its competitive edge in technology to China and India, countries with educated workforces and lower wage structures. 
 The report recommended doubling federal spending on basic research grants in the physical sciences over seven years; the president proposed doubling spending on such grants over 10 years, at a cost of $50 billion. Mr. Bush also adopted the report's call for increasing the number of high school teachers who offer especially rigorous courses in math and science by 70,000 over five years.
 With high school populations continuing to grow and with a higher percentage of students taking these courses, more and more qualified teachers will be needed for them and for the similar International Baccalaureate courses. 
 The president also called for 30,000 math and science professionals to take jobs as teachers, apparently as an alternative to what could have been a costly recommendation in the National Academies report. It had encouraged the government to provide four-year scholarships of up to $20,000 annually for 10,000 students each year who would major in math or science and who would agree to teach in public schools for five years after graduating.
 With health care at the top of the public's agenda in many polls, Mr. Bush promised to ''confront the rising cost of care'' and ''help people afford the insurance they need.'' He said nothing about the recent problems in putting the Medicare prescription drug benefit into effect.
 Mr. Bush proposed incentives to encourage the use of health savings accounts as an alternative to traditional insurance. The White House says such accounts make consumers more attentive to the cost of the services they use.
 Under current law, people can make tax-deductible contributions to such accounts for routine medical expenses, provided they also buy high-deductible insurance policies to cover catastrophic costs. The Republican majority in the House will almost certainly support efforts to expand the use of health savings accounts, and Senate Republicans may also go along. 
 ''The more people adopt H.S.A.'s for their health care coverage, the more market forces will work to reduce costs,'' said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the chief deputy Republican whip. 
 But Representative Pete Stark of California, the senior Democrat on the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, said: ''The president's proposals for health savings accounts are tilted toward the rich. They give disproportionate benefits to wealthy people and do almost nothing for low-income people.''
 Mr. Bush is asking Congress to increase the annual limits on contributions to health savings accounts, and the White House said he wanted to eliminate ''all taxes on out-of-pocket spending'' through such accounts.
 In addition, Mr. Bush said employers should be allowed to contribute extra money to the health savings accounts of employees who have chronic illnesses. Under current law, the White House said, employers must contribute the same amount to each employee's account. 
 The president proposed additional help for low-income families, saying they should receive refundable tax credits to help them set up health savings accounts.
 Mr. Bush is also reviving a proposal to help small businesses band together to buy health insurance through ''association health plans.'' He says these plans would enable the businesses to negotiate lower premiums. The House has repeatedly passed bills to allow such plans, but the measures have died in the Senate. 
 The National Governors Association, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans and many consumer groups have fought this proposal because the new health plans would be largely exempt from state regulation.
 Mr. Bush also promised to ''make wider use of electronic records and other health information technology, to help control costs and reduce dangerous medical errors.'' While supporting this goal in the past, Congress has provided less money than the White House has sought for it in the past.
 Mr. Bush said his 2007 budget, to be submitted to Congress next week, would ''reduce or eliminate more than 140 programs that are performing poorly or not fulfilling essential priorities.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush greeted Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. last night before delivering his address. Justice Alito, who was sworn in yesterday, sat with his colleagues, including Clarence Thomas, left, and Stephen G. Breyer. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (87%); MATHEMATICS (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (74%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (74%); POLITICS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%) United States Politics and Government; State of the Union Message (US); Medicine and Health; Education and Schools; Health Insurance and Managed Care

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); SAMUEL ALITO (73%); STEPHEN BREYER (59%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%) Robin Toner; Diana Jean Schemo; Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006



33 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Hopeful Signs Appear in Solving a Post-Soviet Impasse 

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Feb. 1 

 BODY:
Negotiations for a peace settlement in Nagorno-Karabakh, the contested region in Azerbaijan that slipped into war as the Soviet Union collapsed, have gained ground recently after years of stalemate, raising the possibility of an agreement this year, diplomats familiar with the talks say.
 Fighting between Armenians and Azerbaijanis in Nagorno-Karabakh killed at least 18,000 people and displaced more than one million others in the early 1990's. The region, an ethnic-Armenian enclave within the borders of Azerbaijan and a fortified area around it, has been under military occupation by Armenian-backed forces since a cease-fire in 1994, creating a formidable military front in the western mountains of Azerbaijan. 
The territory has remained a source of violence and lingering social costs, with expelled civilians living in grim conditions away from the front. Commercial and social contacts between the populations are almost nonexistent, and the conflict has dragged down the region's economic development and threatened its stability.
 The International Crisis Group, an independent organization that assesses conflict areas, said in a report last year that the occupied region, nearly 12,000 square miles, holds ''one of the world's most militarized societies'' and risks sliding back to war.
 But diplomats involved in recent negotiations say there is now a possibility of a settlement. They have been preparing for a meeting in France of President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan and President Robert Kocharian of Armenia on Feb. 10 and 11, with hopes they will agree to a comprehensive plan.
 The United States, France and Russia lead the so-called Minsk Group, a body of mediators working under the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, under whose auspices the cease-fire was reached. Representatives of the three countries were scheduled to visit Baku, the Azerbaijani capital, on Wednesday, for more meetings with Mr. Aliyev. Similar meetings are planned with Mr. Kocharian in Yerevan, Armenia's capital, on Thursday.
 No one as yet is predicting success, and Azerbaijan signaled reservations before the mediators' arrival. But several diplomats said there remained the potential for agreement.
 ''There has been a mass of very thoughtful negotiations that have brought us to this stage,'' said a senior State Department official who is familiar with negotiations. ''We are now at the point where the presidents need to turn the corner from negotiations to decisions, and close the remaining gaps.''
 The official, like several others, spoke on condition of anonymity because both sides have sought to keep much of the contents of negotiations out of the public discourse.
 Several people familiar with the talks, however, said a document summarizing the core issues had become the basis for proposing a two-stage process: first an agreement in principle, then a working out of the details.
 One possible plan would involve a withdrawal of Armenian-backed military forces from much of the territory around Nagorno-Karabakh, accompanied by international security guarantees and an international peacekeeping force. At a later date, the diplomats say, a referendum could be held to determine Nagorno-Karabakh's political status.
 The first step toward settlement, the diplomats said, would be for Mr. Aliyev and Mr. Kocharian to endorse a broadly defined plan based roughly on these proposals. If the presidents were to agree, delegations from both countries would work with mediators on details, including the timing and chronology for troop withdrawals. All involved said any referendum would be years away.
 Keith Jinks, a spokesman for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, said the proposal also covered other issues, including the creation of a secure corridor in and out of the area, return of displaced civilians, reconstruction of infrastructure and clearance of land mines.
 While talks have become more constructive in recent months, the diplomats said, the presidents still disagree on critical issues.
 For Azerbaijan, a central issue is territorial integrity, and restoration of control over a region within its internationally recognized borders.
 ''We stand for the reintegration of the Nagorno-Karabakh region, while Armenia wants to disintegrate Nagorno-Karabakh from Azerbaijan,'' Araz Azimov, Azerbaijan's deputy foreign minister, said in a telephone interview. ''Azerbaijan understands that all territory should be returned.''
 Armenia, which maintains that Nagorno-Karabakh is historically Armenian, contends that the region's fate and political affiliation should be determined by its inhabitants.
 ''That is the core issue -- because of that the conflict erupted,'' Vartan Oskanian, Armenia's foreign minister, said by telephone from Yerevan.
 Because so much complexity remains, diplomats familiar with the proposals also cautioned that even were Mr. Aliyev and Mr. Kocharian to reach an agreement, working through details would require at least several months, and might lead to a fresh impasse.
 ''Once we begin to work on a compromise document, I think new problems will continue to emerge,'' Mr. Oskanian said.
 Still, diplomats say 2006 offers a window for negotiations.
 There are no national elections in Armenia or Azerbaijan this year, allowing negotiators to work without the pressures of a campaign.
 Azerbaijan is also expecting surging revenues from oil and gas pipelines scheduled to come on line late this year, and Mr. Aliyev is using new income to strengthen the military. This has raised concerns that Azerbaijan could be preparing for war -- and raised hopes for a settlement before more militarization could occur.
 The senior State Department official also said the mediators had tried to impress upon both sides that new fighting would be a catastrophe. ''An attempt to bring about a military solution would not succeed, and it would have disastrous humanitarian and economic effects,'' the official said.
 Mr. Azimov said renewed fighting was not in Azerbaijan's plans. ''We are not interested in a war solution,'' he said. He added, ''But war does not recognize any normal logic, and it happens when no one expects it and regardless of what people want.''
 Sabine Freizer, the author of the International Crisis Group's report, said the Azerbaijani position has hardened as the country has gained wealth and frustration has grown. ''There is a level of belligerence that is just incredible, because they think that ultimately they can win,'' Ms. Freizer said.


GRAPHIC: Map of Azerbaijan highlighting Nagorno-Karabakh: The people of Nagorno-Karabakh are largely ethnic Armenians.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (59%); INTERNATIONAL CRISIS GROUP (55%) Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe

PERSON: C J Chivers; Robert (Pres) Kocharian; Ilham (Pres) Aliyev

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) ARMENIA (97%); AZERBAIJAN (96%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELARUS (79%) Azerbaijan; Nagorno-Karabakh; Armenia; France; Russia; Azerbaijan

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



34 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: The Nation of the Future 

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Everywhere I go people tell me China and India are going to blow by us in the coming decades. They've got the hunger. They've got the people. They've got the future. We're a tired old power, destined to fade back to the second tier of nations, like Britain did in the 20th century.
 This sentiment is everywhere -- except in the evidence. The facts and figures tell a different story. 
 Has the United States lost its vitality? No. Americans remain the hardest working people on the face of the earth and the most productive. As William W. Lewis, the founding director of the McKinsey Global Institute, wrote, ''The United States is the productivity leader in virtually every industry.'' And productivity rates are surging faster now than they did even in the 1990's.
 Has the United States stopped investing in the future? No. The U.S. accounts for roughly 40 percent of the world's R. & D. spending. More money was invested in research and development in this country than in the other G-7 nations combined.
 Is the United States becoming a less important player in the world economy? Not yet. In 1971, the U.S. economy accounted for 30.52 percent of the world's G.D.P. Since then, we've seen the rise of Japan, China, India and the Asian tigers. The U.S. now accounts for 30.74 percent of world G.D.P., a slightly higher figure. 
 What about the shortage of scientists and engineers? Vastly overblown. According to Duke School of Engineering researchers, the U.S. produces more engineers per capita than China or India. According to The Wall Street Journal, firms with engineering openings find themselves flooded with resumes. Unemployment rates for scientists and engineers are no lower than for other professions, and in some specialties, such as electrical engineering, they are notably higher.
 Michael Teitelbaum of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation told The Wall Street Journal last November, ''No one I know who has looked at the data with an open mind has been able to find any sign of a current shortage.'' The G.A.O., the RAND Corporation and many other researchers have picked apart the quickie studies that warn of a science and engineering gap. ''We did not find evidence that such shortages have existed at least since 1990, nor that they are on the horizon,'' the RAND report concluded.
 What about America's lamentable education system? Well, it's true we do a mediocre job of educating people from age 0 to 18, even though we spend by far more per pupil than any other nation on earth. But we do an outstanding job of training people from ages 18 to 65. 
 At least 22 out of the top 30 universities in the world are American. More foreign students come to American universities now than before 9/11.
 More important, the American workplace is so competitive, companies are compelled to promote lifelong learning. A U.N. report this year ranked the U.S. third in the world in ease of doing business, after New Zealand and Singapore. The U.S. has the second most competitive economy on earth, after Finland, according the latest Global Competitiveness Report. As Michael Porter of Harvard told The National Journal, ''The U.S. is second to none in terms of innovation and an innovative environment.''
 What about partisan gridlock and our dysfunctional political system? Well, entitlement debt remains the biggest threat to the country's well-being, but in one area vital to the country's future posterity, we have reached a beneficent consensus. American liberals have given up on industrial policy, and American conservatives now embrace an aggressive federal role for basic research.
 Ford and G.M. totter and almost nobody suggests using public money to prop them up. On the other hand, President Bush, reputed to be hostile to science, has increased the federal scientific research budget by 50 percent since taking office, to $137 billion annually. Senators Lamar Alexander and Jeff Bingaman have proposed excellent legislation that would double the R. & D. tax credit and create a Darpa-style lab in the Department of Energy, devoting $9 billion for scientific research and education. That bill has 60 co-sponsors, 30 Democrats and 30 Republicans. 
 Recent polling suggests that people in Afghanistan and Iraq are more optimistic about their nations' futures than people in the United States. That's just crazy, even given our problems with health care, growing inequality and such. America's problem over the next 50 years will not be wrestling with decline. It will be helping the frustrated individuals and nations left so far behind. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (88%); PRODUCTIVITY (88%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); LABOR SHORTAGES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (69%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (64%) United States Economy; Productivity; Education and Schools; Colleges and Universities; Labor; United States Economy

COMPANY: NATIONAL TECHNICAL SYSTEMS INC (92%); RAND CORP (63%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

TICKER: NTSC (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (92%); NAICS541380 TESTING LABORATORIES (92%); SIC8734 TESTING LABORATORIES (92%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%)

PERSON: David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



35 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Much Talk, Mostly Low Key, About Energy Independence

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Heather Timmons contributed reporting from London for this article and Edmund L. Andrews from Washington.

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 1 

 BODY:
Industry experts say that if President Bush wants to make a push to reduce the country's oil consumption, there are some solutions at hand. But with names like carbon composites and new metal alloys, they may seem banal and do not create much buzz.
 Perhaps the most significant step the nation could take in reducing oil dependence is to change the way cars are produced, according to the Rocky Mountain Institute, an energy research organization that has consulted for the Department of Defense. Automobiles, for instance, use about 9 million barrels of the 20 million barrels or so of oil that the United States consumes each day. Trucks, heavy machinery and some power plants consume the rest. 
Improving the efficiency of hybrid engines, like those used in the Toyota Prius, and using advanced metal alloys and carbon composites instead of heavier steel to make cars could double or triple the miles per gallon in these automobiles. 
 ''We could reduce our consumption by four to five million barrels a day by going down this pathway,'' said Odd-Even Bustnes, a principal at the Rocky Mountain Institute. ''What the president said yesterday is a step in the right direction, but I'm not sure it's a step of the right magnitude.'' 
 Conservation of oil has not been a priority for the administration, which has avoided pressuring Detroit to produce fewer sport utility vehicles and more energy-efficient cars. 
 In fact, overall federal funding for research and development in energy efficiency has declined 14 percent since 2002, adjusted for inflation. Among the federally sponsored projects are the president's Freedom Car hydrogen vehicle program, according to the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy. 
 Some measures that President Bush left out of his state-of-union address could also bring big payoffs: measures that might actually curb oil consumption like greater fuel-efficiency rules for cars, a gasoline tax or increasing ethanol imports from Brazil. 
 While President Bush did propose more use of alternative fuels, what he left unsaid was that producing such ''renewable'' fuels, like hydrogen or ethanol from corn, requires large amounts of petroleum. As if to remind Americans of oil's paramount importance in the economy, Barry Russell, president of the Independent Petroleum Association of America, said, ''many alternative fuel options depend on petroleum or natural gas for their effective development.'' 
 Still, some of the president's proposals advance the discussion of what the United States needs to do to become less dependent on oil. Ethanol, for instance, could be made from materials in addition to corn, like switch grass, a kind of grass that grows abundantly on the prairies of the Plains.
 ''Ethanol is mandating additional diversity to the pool of motor fuels,'' said Daniel Yergin, chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates. ''The definition of oil is being widened.''
 The administration has also declined to consider tax increases on gasoline, perhaps fearful of angering American motorists. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated in 2004 that a new gasoline tax of 46 cents a gallon, up from today's federal gasoline tax of 18 cents a gallon, would reduce gasoline consumption by 10 percent over the next 14 years. 
 That leaves as a centerpiece of the administration's new energy strategy an emphasis on ethanol, which is rising in favor among alternative fuel sources. Ethanol production from corn in the United States still relies on subsidies, but ethanol made from sugarcane in Brazil competes handily with gasoline. In fact, it was only after Brazil's government exposed ethanol to market forces in recent years that its success became clear. 
 Brazil's sugarcane industry produces about 160,000 barrels of oil-equivalent a day, assisting the country in achieving self-sufficiency in oil sometime this year, according to David G. Victor, director of the program on energy and sustainable development at Stanford University. Still, unlike Japan and China, which have plans to import Brazilian ethanol, the Bush administration has retained a 54 cent tariff on every gallon of imported ethanol. 
 ''It's remarkable that we're not taxing fuel from Saudi Arabia while we're taxing fuel from Brazil,'' said Gal Luft, a co-director of the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, a research organization in Washington that specializes in energy issues. 
 The Bush administration instead opted to support the development of a domestic industry for cellulosic ethanol, which would use plant fiber now discarded as waste to produce a transportation fuel. The technology is promising but not thought to be commercially viable until the next decade. In the meantime, the government continues to support traditional ethanol made from corn, a process that consumes large quantities of expensive natural gas. 
 Most eye-catching among the new measures was the call to replace 75 percent of imported oil from the Middle East by 2025. Such an objective is nonthreatening to the oil industries controlled by the regimes of that region, given the rising economies of China and India. Oil is a fungible commodity that is bought and sold on a global market, so other countries could easily take the place of the United States as buyers of Saudi oil. 
 In fact, the administration may have avoided measures to aggressively curb oil consumption because it understands such moves might end up weakening American and European oil companies. Since each barrel of oil enters into a global pool that is traded daily, higher-cost producers -- in places like the tar sands of Alberta, the North Sea off Britain or Norway, or the Gulf of Mexico in the United States -- would be the first to halt production if the United States were to lower its oil purchases and thus ease market prices.
 High oil prices enable companies in these costly areas to compete with a nation like Saudi Arabia, where it costs less than $5 a barrel to produce oil. That also helps explain why divorcing an economy from a reliance on imported oil can be painful, as Brazil's early experiments with ethanol showed when the government was forced to absorb losses from the program. 
 The reliance of the American economy on oil from unstable countries is an issue that presidents might still be grappling with in 2025, just as three decades ago the first ambitious, and subsequently abandoned, efforts began to wean the nation off imported oil in the aftermath of the 1970's oil shocks.
 ''The idea of independence from oil imported from the Middle East,'' said Mr. Bustnes of the Rocky Mountain Institute, ''will be achieved the day we are oil-free.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A station in Chicago advertises E85, an ethanol-gasoline fuel blend. (Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images)(pg. C1)
 At this station in Chicago last month, E85 was clearly the fuel of choice for consumers trying to save money or reduce oil imports. (Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY RESEARCH (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); BIOFUELS (85%); ETHANOL (85%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); HYBRID VEHICLES (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; State of the Union Message (US); Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency; Taxation; Ethanol; International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: IHS INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Rocky Mountain Institute

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) George W (Pres) Bush; Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



36 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; STATE OF THE UNION: ENERGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Goals on Energy Quickly Find Obstacles

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER; Reporting for this article was contributed by Edmund L. Andrews, David D. Kirkpatrick, David E. Sanger and Matthew L. Wald in Washington, and Danny Hakim in Albany.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1 

 BODY:
The energy proposals set out on Tuesday by President Bush quickly ran into obstacles on Wednesday, showing how difficult it will be to take even the limited steps he supports to reduce the nation's reliance on foreign oil.
 On the day after he declared in his State of the Union address that the United States was ''addicted to oil'' and had to wean itself from a century-old habit, Mr. Bush drew some support for putting the issue more prominently on the agenda but also skepticism about how achievable his goals really were.
''Every administration since the early 1970's has struggled with the issue of rising oil imports and the right mix of policies to deal with them,'' said Daniel Yergin, the author of ''The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money and Power'' and the founder of a consulting firm, Cambridge Energy Research Associates. ''Some people would just say, 'It's world trade, we sell Boeings and we buy oil.' But since oil is intertwined with geopolitics, people worry about vulnerability and whether oil is a drag on our foreign policy.'' 
 Diplomatically, Mr. Bush's ambitious call for the replacement of 75 percent of the United States' Mideast oil imports with ethanol and other energy sources by 2025 upset Saudi Arabia, the main American oil supplier in the Persian Gulf. In an interview on Wednesday, the Saudi ambassador to Washington, Prince Turki al-Faisal, said he would have to ask Mr. Bush's office ''what he exactly meant by that.'' 
 Politically, both parties on Capitol Hill displayed a lack of enthusiasm. Democrats said Mr. Bush had opposed foreign oil reduction targets in last year's energy bill, and Republicans questioned the practicality of relying on ethanol and other alternatives.
 Scientifically, researchers said ethanol and other alternative fuels were still years away from widespread commercial use.
 Economically, energy analysts said Mr. Bush's goal of reducing Mideast oil imports would have little practical benefit because oil was traded in world markets and its price was determined by global supply and demand, rather than bought from one country by another.
 ''If the United States was zero-dependent on Middle Eastern oil, but the rest of our allies among consuming nations were just as dependent, then a disruption anywhere is a price increase everywhere,'' said Lawrence Goldstein, the president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, a policy analysis group in New York.
 Mr. Bush, like other modern presidents, has talked since the earliest days of his administration about weaning the United States off oil, but mostly by supporting an increase in domestic production. On Wednesday afternoon, Vice President Dick Cheney said on Rush Limbaugh's radio program that the administration would continue to push to open part of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling.
 The difference on Tuesday was Mr. Bush's emphasis on alternative energy sources that he had not made a top focus in the past: better batteries for hybrid and electric cars, hydrogen cars, ethanol from wood and agricultural waste, solar and wind technologies and what he called ''clean, safe nuclear energy.''
 The president's tone was so changed, in fact, that some analysts said he sounded like a Democrat. Dan W. Reicher, who served in the Energy Department during the Clinton administration, said Mr. Bush's ideas showed ''an uncanny resemblance'' to some Clinton efforts.
 Mr. Bush's main departure from many Democrats and another source of resistance to his energy plan is his opposition to higher fuel-efficiency standards for cars. Mr. Bush has also opposed any effort to impose a higher gasoline tax.
 Many economists contend that a significant increase in the gasoline tax could lead to sharp changes in American behavior, because it would give consumers strong reasons to drive more efficient vehicles and give manufacturers incentives for innovative cars, including hybrids that run on gasoline and electricity.
 In 2004, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that a gasoline tax of 46 cents a gallon, up from today's federal tax of 18 cents, would reduce gasoline consumption by 10 percent over the next 14 years.
 But when asked why Mr. Bush had not called on the public to sacrifice to reduce oil consumption, Samuel W. Bodman, the energy secretary, said in a conference call with reporters on Wednesday that ''many Americans believe they're already sacrificing by paying the prices they're paying for gasoline and heating oil and natural gas.''
 Other analysts praised Mr. Bush's support for ethanol, but said that alternative fuels would not answer the administration's biggest fear about oil at the moment, the prospect that a confrontation with Iran over its nuclear program could disrupt the flow of oil from the Middle East.
 ''The State of the Union address was good politics and good policy, but it doesn't address the most pressing problem,'' said J. Robinson West, an official in the Reagan administration and the chairman of PFC Energy, a consulting firm in Washington. ''The thing that they're really losing sleep about at the White House is the crude supply from Iran.''
 Specifically, the White House is worried that pressing Iran to give up its nuclear weapons ambitions could cause the Iranian government to retaliate by cutting off its oil supply to the world, as one economics minister in Iran threatened last week.
 The administration's more immediate international brushfire after the president's address was Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil supplie. Analysts said they were startled that Mr. Bush had singled out the Middle East with implicit criticism, and on the very day that the Saudis provided important support for American interests at a meeting in Vienna of ministers from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
 At the meeting, Saudi Arabia blocked an effort by Venezuela and Iran to reduce the group's oil production.
 In Washington, Prince Turki, the Saudi ambassador, said he was puzzled by Mr. Bush's words in the speech. He said he wanted to know if reducing American dependence on foreign oil also applied to other suppliers to the United States. ''Is that a declaration that the U.S. is going to work to be independent of Canadian oil, Mexican oil and Venezuelan oil?'' he asked, adding, ''I see no threat from America from receiving its oil from the Middle East.'' 
 On Capitol Hill, Republicans praised the president's overall goals, but sounded notes of caution, with representatives of oil-producing states leading the way. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said he was enthusiastic about nuclear power but questioned whether the government should be subsidizing alternative fuels like ethanol.
 ''It loses some of its shine when it becomes another government support program for an alternative fuel, which seems to be the pattern here in Washington,'' Mr. Cornyn said.
 Representative Joe L. Barton of Texas, the chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, even seemed to contradict the president's alarms about high energy prices. ''America runs on energy that is both abundant and available at prices we can afford to pay,'' Mr. Barton said in a statement.
 Energy analysts said the push on energy policy at the White House came in large part from Mr. Bodman, a former professor of chemical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as well as the former president of Fidelity Investments. Republicans said Mr. Bodman's push dovetailed with the view of Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's top political adviser, that high gas and home heating prices would be a potent political issue. Congress and the administration have at times sent conflicting signals about their priorities, further complicating Mr. Bush's prospects of pushing through his proposals. 
 The Energy Department will begin laying off researchers at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in the next week or two because of cuts to its budget.
 A veteran researcher said the staff had been told that the cuts would be concentrated among researchers in wind and biomass, which includes ethanol. Those are two of the technologies that Mr. Bush cited on Tuesday night as holding the promise to replace part of the nation's oil imports. 
 The budget for the laboratory, which is just west of Denver, was cut by nearly 15 percent, to $174 million from $202 million, requiring the layoff of about 40 staff members out of a total of 930, said a spokesman, George Douglas. The cut is for the fiscal year that began on Oct. 1.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman responding to questions yesterday about policies President Bush laid out in his State of the Union address. (Photo by Shawn Thew/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); ALCOHOLS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); ETHANOL (86%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (85%); WILDERNESS (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%); TAXES & TAXATION (59%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Energy and Power; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Wilderness Areas; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Wildlife Sanctuaries; Taxation; Consumer Behavior; Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: IHS INC (69%)

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (78%); SAMUEL W BODMAN (78%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush; Samuel W (Sec) Bodman; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); ARCTIC (90%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Middle East; Saudi Arabia; Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; Arctic Regions; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



37 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Criminal and Civil Charges Expected to Be Filed Against Executives of Two Insurance Concerns
The Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission are expected to announce criminal and civil fraud charges today against three former top executives at the Berkshire Hathaway subsidiary, the General Reinsurance Corporation, as well as a former senior executive of the American International Group, according to two people with direct knowledge of the charges. [Page C1.] 


Executive Testifies That Enron Lied About Results
Enron's former head of investor relations testified that the company fudged its quarterly earnings and repeatedly lied to Wall Street about the condition of its troubled broadband services division to keep its stock price up. [C1.]

Solutions to Oil Crisis, Though Banal, Are at Hand
Industry experts say that if President Bush wants to make a push to reduce the country's oil consumption, there are some solutions at hand. But with names like carbon composites and new metal alloys, they may seem banal and don't create much buzz. [C1.]

President Bush's proposal to reverse the decline in spending on research in the physical sciences came after a series of discussions between White House officials and technology industry executives late last year. [C4.]

Time Warner Moving to Thwart Icahn Takeover
Executives of Time Warner raised the ante in their efforts to reassure shareholders that they are the best lot to continue leading the company even as the billionaire financier, Carl C. Icahn, attempts to gather steam for a boardroom putsch. The one-upmanship came in two forms: improved results in the fourth quarter that exceeded some analyst's expectations, and an accelerated plan to buy back some long-stagnant shares, announced by the chairman, Richard D. Parsons, above. [C3.]

Domestic Car Makers Helped by Commercial Fleet Buyers
Bolstered by higher sales to rental car and commercial vehicle fleets, General Motors, Ford and DaimlerChrysler posted modest sales increases in January. On dealers' lots, however, a familiar pattern played out as Toyota, Honda and Hyundai chipped away at the domestic automakers' share of the American car market. [C3.]

Paramount Pictures Plans Layoffs After Merger
Paramount Pictures, a unit of Viacom Inc., said it is laying off about 120 workers after closing its $1.6 billion acquisition of DreamWorks SKG. [C6.]

New Report Shows Continued Manufacturing Expansion
The Institute for Supply Management said its manufacturing index for January fell to 54.8 from 55.6 in December, but the data showed continued expansion in the sector, setting off concern that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates again. [C3.]

Burger King Plans Its First-Ever Share Offering
The parent company of Burger King said that it planned to sell shares to the public for the first time in the restaurant's 52-year history. [C8.]

University Objects to Merrill's Use of Princeton Name
Princeton University demanded that Merrill Lynch & Company reconsider a plan to put the Princeton name on its mutual funds to gain wider acceptance among investors. [B1.]

The Struggles of the Video Game Publishers
After Electronic Arts, the video game publisher, announces what it has forecast will be disappointing results for the recent holiday quarter, expect a lot of hand-wringing about the future of the video game business. Two of the other big domestic video game publishers are expected to follow with their results over the next few days with same sad dirge. One problem is that domestic publishers are not participating in any meaningful way in two of the hottest parts of the global video game industry: subscription-based online gaming and trade-ins of used games. [C8.]

Stocks Rally on Boeing Strength, Declining Oil
Stocks rallied, with a strong profit from Boeing and a drop in crude oil prices overshadowing Google's first earnings shortfall as a public company. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 89.09 points, at 10,953.95. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock Index was up 2.38 points, at 1,282.46. The Nasdaq composite index was up 4.74 points, at 2,310.56. [C13.]

West Virginia Governor Asks States' Mines to Shut Down
Just weeks after the death of 14 West Virginia miners, two more mine workers were killed in separate accidents on Wednesday, prompting Gov. Joe Manchin III to urge all coal companies in the state to cease operations until safety could be reviewed. [A15.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Electronic Arts shares since December.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (86%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (86%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (79%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (79%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); MERGERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (74%); REINSURANCE (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); CONSUMPTION (68%); AUTOMAKERS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); RESTAURANTS (60%); BROADBAND (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); VIACOM INC (81%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); GENERAL REINSURANCE CORP (72%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (63%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (81%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); DWA (NASDAQ) (63%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (72%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (63%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); RICHARD D PARSONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



38 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: High-Rises That Have Low Impact On Nature

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
With its curtain wall and faceted crystal design, the Bank of America building rising at 1 Bryant Park in Manhattan probably seems unremarkable to New Yorkers accustomed to looming glass skyscrapers. But it's not architecture with a capital A that makes the tower unusual.
 It is the double-wall technology that dissipates the sun's heat; ventilation that runs under the floor rather than through overhead ducts; carbon-dioxide monitors that assure adequate fresh air; and a system that collects and reuses rainwater and wastewater, saving 10.3 million gallons of water each year.
Planners expect the $1 billion building, designed by Cook + Fox Architects with the Durst Organization as developer, to be the first skyscraper to earn a top environmental rating from a coalition of building industry leaders when it opens in 2008. 
 The tower is among 15 projects highlighted in an exhibition on environmentally sensitive, or green, architecture that opened recently at the Skyscraper Museum. Titled ''Green Towers for New York: From Visionary to Vernacular,'' it includes buildings under construction or under contract, including Lord Norman Foster's Hearst Tower, David Childs's Freedom Tower at ground zero, the Helena and Mosaic apartment buildings on the West Side of Manhattan and towers in Battery Park City. 
 The projects are emblematic of a new consciousness among architects, developers and construction companies that most big urban buildings consume and pollute natural resources and fail to harvest energy that is naturally available. 
 Investing in sustainable structures will yield long-term benefits in efficiency and productivity, the thinking now goes, and will prove a boon in marketing terms as people become educated about such buildings. 
 ''We really have reached a point of critical mass in these big high-rise green projects,'' said Carol Willis, the founder and director of the Skyscraper Museum, adding, ''From developers to construction managers to vendors, all the components of green building are in place, poised to be adopted in a broad market.'' 
 Not so long ago, green construction was largely dismissed as prohibitively expensive and as just so much political correctness. But the arrival of the Conde Nast tower in Times Square in 1999, designed by Fox & Fowle and billed as the first green skyscraper in New York, sent the message that corporate America saw something to gain from the green model. 
 ''What we did was take it from a Birkenstock cultural environment into a pinstripe environment,'' said Bruce Fowle, of what is now FXFowle. ''It was really seat-of-the-pants. We didn't even know if we should call it green.''
 The Conde Nast building is difficult to classify because it predated the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) system, established in 2000 by the U.S. Green Building Council, a coalition of construction-industry leaders with environmental concerns. Its scoring system rates buildings on their environmental performance -- energy and water consumption, indoor air quality, use of renewable materials and durability, for example. 
 The ratings, assigned only after the completion of a building, range from certified (26 points) to platinum (52 points). The paperwork is cumbersome and the process can be costly -- total certification fees run from $1,250 for official LEED members with small projects to $15,000 for nonmembers with large projects. But the ratings have become a much-coveted badge of approval. About 3,400 projects nationwide have registered their intention to seek LEED certification since 2000, and 400 have been certified. 
 ''Most people I'm building for are setting silver as the goal,'' said Daniel R. Tishman, chairman and chief executive of the Tishman Construction Corporation, whose projects include 7 World Trade Center, part of the exhibition. ''A lot of the technologies LEED is trying to achieve are now accepted as part of New York City building code.''
 In New York State, 10 projects have been certified and 191 projects in progress have applied for LEED certification, 98 of which are in the New York metropolitan area. 
 The Skyscraper Museum show includes architectural models, drawings, computer renderings and samples of building materials. Among the projects featured are Goldman Sachs's headquarters in Battery Park City, which has a green roof, low-flow plumbing fixtures and carpeting with reduced chemical levels; a research laboratory for Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center on East 68th Street in Manhattan, which uses fritted glass and materials without ozone-depleting components; and a new Midtown headquarters for The New York Times Company on Eighth Avenue at 40th Street in Manhattan, which features an interior garden open to the sky and ceramic tubes that calibrate sunlight entering the building. 
 Some of the projects in progress are going for the gold. The Hearst Tower's ''diagrid'' frame incorporates about 20 percent less steel than the average structure -- saving about 2,000 tons of steel. The building's glass has a special coating that lets in natural light while keeping out the solar radiation that causes heat. Interior walls will be coated with low-vapor paints, and office furniture will be formaldehyde-free. 
 Motion sensors will allow for lights and computers to be turned off when a room is empty, and the roof will collect rainwater, thus reducing runoff by 25 percent. Collected in two 14,000-gallon reclamation tanks in the basement, the rainwater will replace water lost to evaporation in the building's air-conditioning system and will irrigate plantings and trees inside and outside the building. 
 The rainwater will also become decor -- the raw material for ''Ice Falls,'' a three-story water sculpture in the grand atrium that also humidifies and cools the lobby.
 The Hearst is vying with 7 World Trade Center for the distinction of becoming the first LEED-rated office tower to open in the city. The only New York building to be certified so far is the Solaire in Battery Park City, which received a gold rating; 10 others in the state have been certified. 
 Chris Garvin, co-chairman of the environment committee of the American Institute of Architects' New York chapter, said that while several cities worldwide were ahead of New York in commissioning sustainable architecture, among them London and Portland, Ore., ''I think we're making strides.'' 
 New York City's awareness about building green has developed slowly. In 1997 the city established an office of sustainable design. Two years later, the city set a range of ''best practices''' for energy-efficient buildings.
 In 2000 state legislators approved a state tax credit for new or rehabilitated buildings that meet green standards. But for the city, the watershed moment came in October, when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg signed into law the Green City Buildings Act, which required that nonresidential projects costing $2 million or more meet LEED standards. The legislation also applied to private projects that receive $10 million or more in public financing or are at least half financed by public money. The bill takes effect next January and is estimated to affect $12 billion in new construction.
 Architects were perhaps the first to embrace environmental design, people in the industry say, and green building principles are now standard at most architecture firms and architecture schools. ''Any architecture firm of any size has seen this as a necessary knowledge -- a necessary skill to compete for getting good work,'' said Rafael Pelli of Pelli Clarke Pelli Architects. 
 Some developers have been slow to come around. ''This is very young in New York City, and we're at the beginning of it,'' Mr. Pelli said. ''To some extent, it's the education of an industry.''
 A crucial component of that education is clarifying costs. Building green used to add as much as 20 percent to a project's cost, by some estimates. That figure has recently declined to between 2 and 5 percent, largely because of the availability of new technologies and building materials. 
 There is a strong economic argument for building green, experts say. Sustainable structures limit operation and maintenance costs and increase productivity. 
 Because people want to live and work in buildings that are good for their health, there are marketing benefits, too. Green office buildings also command rents as much as 10 percent above the norm, said Douglas Durst, president of the Durst Organization. ''You don't fall asleep at 3 in the afternoon, even if you had a big lunch,'' he added. 
 For David J. Burney, the commissioner of New York City's design and construction department, green principles are not so much idealistic as a simple matter of common sense.
 ''It's almost become as American as apple pie now,'' he said.

''Green Towers for New York'' runs through May at the Skyscraper Museum, 39 Battery Place, Battery Park City, (212) 968-1961.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A rendering of 1 Bryant Park, designed using green technologies. (Photos by Cook + Fox Architects)(pg. E1)
 The Hearst Tower recycles rainwater and automatically turns off lights. (Photo by Michael Ficeto/Hearst Corporation)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); GREEN BUILDING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (88%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (69%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Energy Efficiency; Environment; Architecture

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America; Cook + Fox Architects; Durst Organization; Skyscraper Museum (NYC) 

PERSON: Robin Pogrebin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



39 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; China's Bold 'Swan,' Ready for Export; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: An Acrobatic Version of a Beloved Ballet Prepares for a World Tour

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
In November, a performance of a sensationally popular acrobatic version of ''Swan Lake'' in Shanghai was abruptly canceled. Refunds were issued to more than 3,000 ticketholders. And the show's two lead performers were summoned here to the nation's capital. 
 ''We flew to Beijing and arrived on Saturday,'' said Wu Zhengdan, the female lead. ''We knew we were going to perform for someone special. We just didn't know who it was.''
 That Sunday evening, Ms. Wu and her partner, Wei Baohua, performed at a banquet in the Great Hall of the People, one of China's landmark government buildings, for dignitaries who included President Bush and China's president, Hu Jintao. 
 Demonstrating the unconventional blend of classical ballet and traditional Chinese acrobatics they perfected for the new ''Swan Lake,'' the delicate Ms. Wu, 24, did a pirouette, aloft on the shoulder and outstretched arm of the muscular Mr. Wei, 34, who is also her husband. She also rose up, stunningly, on pointe on Mr. Wei's head. There followed a gymnastic pas de deux. 
 Such bravura moves have delighted crowds in China over the past year, helping turn this radical reworking of ''Swan Lake'' by the Guangdong Military Acrobatic Troupe into a box office hit and transforming the couple into stars. 
 Now, the acrobatic ''Swan Lake'' featuring Ms. Wu and Mr. Wei is preparing for a world tour that will include Russia, Japan, Germany and the United States, where the couple already won high praise last October when they took part in the ''Festival of China'' at the Kennedy Center in Washington. 
 What audiences will see is not your usual ''Swan Lake.'' Although this 19th-century Russian ballet has been a fixture on the Chinese stage for decades, the current version contains several decidedly Chinese twists. It opens with Prince Siegfried dreaming of a beautiful girl who has been transformed into a swan by an evil eagle, a vision that propels him into a quest that takes him from Europe through Africa, the Middle East and South Asia before landing him in Beijing -- a journey that provides the acrobatic troupe with ample opportunity for displays of local color. There, in the Forbidden City, he meets the young Chinese swan-woman he will make his bride. This West-meets-East take on ''Swan Lake'' is emblematic of the broad shift under way in China as state-sponsored cultural institutions move toward more market-oriented offerings. Film producers, dancers, musicians -- even military performing groups -- that long depended on the government for financial support are now aggressively pursuing commercial opportunities. They are seeking private sponsors and hoping to profit by luring bigger audiences at home or exporting cultural extravaganzas to the rest of the world. 
 Filmmakers, often backed by state-owned production houses, are now trying to make Hollywood blockbusters. Even the monks of Shaolin Temple, famed for their martial arts skills, have gone commercial, forming their own for-profit company to produce kung fu movies and promote the Shaolin brand. The choreographer behind the new ''Swan Lake,'' Zhao Ming, says China's state-run performing arts system is packed with hidden talent waiting to be discovered. ''There are a lot of people with great technique here, but because they're in the military troupe, they have less chance to let people know,'' said Mr. Zhao, who also choreographs the Beijing Military Troupe.
 Both Ms. Wu and Mr. Wei are products of a similarly rigid system, the socialist-era sports school programs that are still geared toward producing Olympic champions. They grew up in Liaoning Province, in northeast China, and first met at the Shenyang Sports School, one of the region's premier sports schools, when he was 16 and she 6. The school typically recruits children as young as 5 to spend the rest of their youth in the boarding school, training for national and international competition. But Ms. Wu and Mr. Wei say they went by choice. Mr. Wei was introduced to the sport through his father, an accountant at the local acrobatics school. Ms. Wu responded to an advertisement for a gymnastics program. 
 She was among 3,000 youths who tried out for 20 slots, but she didn't make the cut.
 ''The teacher said I was not very tall, and a little fat -- not good,'' she said in a backstage interview before a performance here in Beijing. 
 But a teacher from the local sports school saw her routine and asked her to join a eurythmics program. And so she became a nearly full-time child athlete, usually training 10 hours a day. The teachers were strict, Ms. Wu recalled, forcing children to run endless laps around the track or to do splits by placing their legs on two separate chairs and holding a perfect position for 30 minutes at a time.
 At 12, she joined the provincial sports school and began teaming up with Mr. Wei to compete in sports acrobatics, which involved human pyramids and synchronized athletic movements. Three years later, in 1995, the pair won the national championship. In that same year, in Germany, they were crowned world junior champions. But a year later, Ms. Wu fell during an event, injuring her neck. For a year, they didn't compete. In 1997, they placed a disappointing third in the World Championships in Britain.
 Ms. Wu was discouraged and weary of the training regimen. She considered quitting and entering a university. Mr. Wei was ready to leave the school and the sports acrobatic team himself, but he was also determined to win the world title. Eventually, the two joined the Guangdong Military Acrobatic Troupe, in the far southern city of Guangzhou. 
 Their careers picked up. They won another national championship.
 In 2001 they were asked to perform for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Shanghai before Mr. Bush and Jiang Zemin, China's president at the time. Troupe officials say Mr. Bush left before the couple's performance, but Mr. Jiang was so impressed he later presented Mr. Bush with two DVD's of the show, one for the president and another for his father. 
 That year, the couple had begun to add some ballet and dance elements to their acrobatic routine with the help of Mr. Zhao, the choreographer, who was recruited by the Guangdong troupe to help develop routines in preparation for the world title event at the XXVI International Circus Festival of Monte Carlo in 2002.
 They took first prize.
 ''They both have very good technique,'' Mr. Zhao said, explaining the difference he made in their first collaboration. ''The most difficult thing was to get them to have the feeling of a dance. I told them to be beautiful, to have rhythm and listen to the music.''
 By then, the couple's gradual evolution into dancers was apparent. They were mixing ballet moves with acrobatics, training with Mr. Zhao and the National Ballet of China. And officials at the Guangdong Military Acrobatic Troupe were looking for a market opportunity after they struck a deal with Shanghai City Dance Company to create a new show. They came up with the acrobatic ''Swan Lake,'' a show featuring dozens of acrobats swinging from ropes, juggling balls and tumbling and hopping across the stage as Siegfried seeks his beautiful white swan.
 Whether they are acrobats or ballet stars, no one is sure. But Ms. Wu and Mr. Wei, who were married in 2003, say they're willing to see where this strange act leads.
 ''I'm not sure what it is,'' Ms. Wu said of their performance, gazing at Mr. Wei in their dressing room. ''I can't leave the acrobatics world, but I'm not 100 percent in ballet. I guess we'll just see where it goes. If people like the performance, I'll continue to do it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Wu Zhengdan on pointe on the head of her husband, Wei Baohua, in the Guangdong Military Acrobatic Troupe's ''Swan Lake.'' (Photo by Shanghai City Dance Company)(pg. E1)
 Wei Baohua and Wu Zhengdan, above, and members of the Guangdong Military Acrobatic Troupe, below, in a version of ''Swan Lake'' that includes tumbling, juggling and acrobats swinging on ropes. (Photographs courtesy of Shanghai City Dance Company)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); DANCERS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); MUSIC (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); MOVIE REVENUES (70%); SPONSORSHIP (68%); TICKET SALES (65%) Dancing; Acrobats and Acrobatics

ORGANIZATION: Guangdong Military Acrobatic Troupe

PERSON: HU JINTAO (68%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%) David Barboza; Wu Zhengdan; Wei Baohua

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) EAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (94%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (54%); SOUTHERN ASIA (52%) China

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



40 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: 30-Year Bonds on Sale Again Next Week

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Treasury Department will sell $14 billion in 30-year bonds next week, the return after more than four years of a security that had been regarded by many as the world's safest long-term investment. 
 The sale, scheduled next Thursday, is part of a $48 billion offering of Treasury debt this quarter that includes the auction of $21 billion in three-year notes on Tuesday and $13 billion in 10-year debt on Wednesday. The department said it expected the auctions to raise some $30.7 billion.
In the last year, big Wall Street bond firms traded an average of $553 billion in federal government debt each day. 
 European countries, including Britain and France, now offer 50- year bonds, and pension funds and insurance companies have been looking for low-risk, long-term bonds as populations age. 
 This trend may affect the corporate debt market. George Goncalves, a fixed-income strategist at Banc of America Securities in New York, said: ''Corporations are debating whether they are going to roll to the new 30 as their benchmark. There's always demand for long-dated assets.''
 Holding down demand, he said, were the currently higher yields, uncertainty over a growing supply of debt and the change this week in leadership at the Federal Reserve, which fixes benchmark short-term interest rates.
 The Treasury said that after this year, it would consider selling 30-year bonds four times a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); DEBT NOTES (76%); TRENDS (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); INSURANCE (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (74%); FRANCE (69%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



41 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Wait Till Next Year, but Lock In the Ticket Price Now

BYLINE: By Alan B. Krueger. 
Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University. His Web site is www.krueger.princeton.edu.

 BODY:
JOE KOCOTT and Ian McKinley are both die-hard Pittsburgh Steelers fans. In the past week, Mr. McKinley urgently searched eBay, Craigslist, StubHub and other sources for a ticket to Super Bowl XL, eventually buying one for $2,500, while Mr. Kocott secured tickets for himself, his wife and seven children, and nine others in early January by paying an average of $350 for 18 futures contracts that promised him tickets if the Steelers made it to the championship game. 
 Futures markets have existed for decades for commodities like pork bellies and oil, whose prices fluctuate over time. The advantage of a futures market is that it allows the buyer and seller to lock in a price, and in that way reduce uncertainty. 
There is great uncertainty surrounding sporting events like the Super Bowl, including whether a fan's team will make it to the game and the price of tickets on the secondary market. Stephen K. Happel and Marianne M. Jennings of Arizona State University proposed a futures market for tickets to major events to reduce risk in 2002. Their idea is finally coming to fruition. 
 Three Internet companies -- Yoonew.com, TheTicketReserve.com andSuperbowlOption.com -- sold futures-like contracts for this year's Super Bowl. Mr. Kocott said he investigated various options after seeing Yoonew advertise at a Monday Night Football game he attended. He purchased 10 contracts from Yoonew after the Steelers' wild-card playoff game for $185 each and 8 more for $547 apiece a week later. 
 The contracts worked as follows: If the Steelers made it to the Super Bowl, he would receive a ticket to the game, and if they did not he would lose his payments. Mr. Kocott said his biggest concern was whether he could trust a Web site to hold up its end of the bargain. 
 Yoonew, a company based in Baltimore, was founded by two students from the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Gerry Wilson and Hagos Mehreteab, in 2004. Although Yoonew does not possess tickets to games initially, it purchases them with the proceeds from futures contracts and reserve funds, if necessary. 
 The company nearly failed after the Final Four college basketball tournament last year amid soaring ticket prices caused by increased demand from universities that qualified for the Final Four that were near the site of the games, and decreased supply because some coaches were caught scalping tickets. 
 Realizing that his company's future depended on its ability to deliver the promised tickets, Mr. Wilson liquidated his 401(k) to spend $35,000 on tickets. An investor has since poured $2 million into the start-up, shoring up its finances for now. 
 Mr. Wilson said that Yoonew's futures contracts do not run afoul of antiscalping laws because they are contracts for tickets, not tickets themselves, and because the contract price is typically below the face value of the ticket ($400 or $600 for this year's Super Bowl). 
 The relatively low price of futures contracts gives moderate-income fans a chance to attend marquee sporting events, which is a welcome counterbalance to the many corporations and lobbyists that often snap up tickets. 
 Last season, Yoonew posted a futures price for each team daily. Mr. Wilson said the price depended on the probability of a team's reaching the Super Bowl, the market value of tickets, stadium capacity and other factors. 
 Yoonew plans soon to provide an online trading platform, like Ameritrade, where people can buy and sell futures tickets at market-determined prices. 
 Analyzing data from last season, I found that the weekly gambling odds from SportingbetUSA explained 96 percent of the variability in Yoonew's futures prices, implying that futures can mainly hedge the uncertainty of a purchaser's team making it to the Super Bowl. 
 If fans are risk-averse, then ticket futures add economic value. To see this, suppose that there is a 10 percent chance of a fan's team reaching the Super Bowl and that a futures contract costs $250 while a ticket could be purchased the week of the game for $2,500. At these terms, a risk-loving fan intent on going to the Super Bowl if his team plays would wait to buy a ticket for $2,500, and a risk-averse fan would buy a futures contract for $250. 
 Indeed, a risk-averse fan would be willing to pay more than $250 for a futures contract in this situation. Like an insurance policy, ticket futures sell at a premium over their expected value because they help risk-averse buyers hedge against uncertainty. 
 To gauge the size of the premium, note that a fan could guarantee a ticket to the Super Bowl by buying a futures contract for every team in a conference; one is bound to make it. Call this expenditure the sure-thing price of a ticket. If fans were risk-neutral, the sure-thing price would equal the price that tickets are expected to cost at game time -- say $2,500 this year. The excess of the sure-thing price over $2,500 gives a rough indication of the market valuation of insuring against risk. 
 The futures appear to have been priced reasonably. The premium for a sure-thing ticket from Yoonew ranged from about 35 percent to 60 percent during the season, not far from the markup in some lines of insurance. Interestingly, the premium fell sharply as the playoffs advanced, perhaps because fans overestimated their teams' chances during the season. 
 The emerging market for futures tickets remains thin, however, as indicated by the large gap between buy and sell prices for the Final Four and next year's Super Bowl posted on TheTicketReserve.com. 
 To survive, the futures market will require an influx of customers. 
 Mr. Kocott, who is giving some of his 18 Super Bowl XL tickets to the Make-A-Wish Foundation, will do his part to spread the word. He called Yoonew's ticket futures ''long overdue'' and ''one of the most ingenious ideas I have ever seen.'' He expects to buy futures for the Final Four and next year's Super Bowl. 
 When asked if he would consider buying a futures contract next year, Mr. McKinley, who scrambled to buy a Super Bowl ticket this week, said, ''Perhaps, after verifying that the company can actually get the seats that would be part of the futures contract.'' 
 Establishing a reputation for dependability is a prerequisite for a futures market in tickets to succeed. The sports leagues could help by distributing some tickets to fans through the futures market. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (94%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TICKET AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (76%); LIQUIDATIONS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); BASKETBALL (70%); PORK (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); US 401K PLANS (64%) Athletics and Sports; Ticket Scalping ; Super Bowl; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; Football; Athletics and Sports

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (93%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%) Yoonew.com; TheTicketReserve.com; SuperbowlOption.com

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Alan B Kreuger

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



42 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; House & Home/Style Desk; TURF; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Living Ever Larger: Estates in the Sky

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
FOR more than a decade, McMansions have been a fixture on the American landscape. Now apartments are being supersized, too.
 Make way for the McCondo.
On Fisher Island, near Miami, a condo developer is offering penthouses of 20,000 square feet, more than eight times the size of the average single-family house. In a Las Vegas suburb, a custom-home builder is developing high-rise condos topped by 16,000-square-foot apartments. And in New York, some luxury pads now on the market measure over 10,000 square feet, gargantuan by Manhattan standards. 
 With hedge fund managers raking in record profits and Wall Street bonuses surging, the wealthiest buyers are purchasing these palatial apartments for a simple reason: because they can. 
 ''The question is not 'What do you need?' it is 'What do you want?' '' said Deborah Grubman, a broker with the Corcoran Group in Manhattan, who is helping to market three 8,360-square-foot co-ops in the converted Stanhope Hotel on Fifth Avenue. ''It is a question of ability to buy.'' 
 This week Ms. Grubman and Sharon Baum, another Corcoran broker, gave a guided tour of a floor plan for one of the jumbo apartments. In addition to a master suite that could comfortably house a family of four, the apartment will feature seven other bedrooms with en suite bathrooms, a drawing room, a dining room, a family room, a media room, a library and two wet bars, one attached to the master suite. ''So if, God forbid, you should get thirsty at night, you don't have to go all the way back to the kitchen,'' Ms. Grubman said. At nearly $4,200 a square foot, that yields an asking price of $35 million, not to mention the $26,000-a-month maintenance fees. 
 This entire apartment could almost fit on the terrace of a duplex condo being offered at Luxuria in Boca Raton, Fla. The 12,500-square-foot unit comes with 8,000 square feet of outdoor space, including a private pool and a ''summer kitchen.'' (Translation: a stone deck with a barbecue.) It will also include a private gym, a library and three fireplaces, despite the Florida weather. 
 Michael Goldstein, president of the Trump Group (no relation to Donald), which is developing the project, said that some prospective buyers would normally buy a house but ''don't want the hassle of the upkeep.'' 
 What's more, he said, owners of large art collections (and their insurance companies) require security, and they can save on labor costs if they have the condo staff stand guard. Still, such staffing, in addition to shared concierges, parking valets and a screening room off the lobby, does not come cheap. Mr. Goldstein said the monthly maintenance costs on his jumbo condos would be $10,000 a month, not including property taxes of $300,000 a year. 
 With every real estate agent, developer, homeowner and mortgage banker in the country trying to figure out what direction the market will move next, supersize condos may represent a warning shot. ''One word that came to mind is elephantiasis,'' said Robert Fishman, a professor at the Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning at the University of Michigan. ''It's the disease or syndrome of an individual or species that just before the crash there's this huge expansion in size.''
 In a way this is just the latest version of keeping up with the Joneses. ''It's like raising your voice at a crowded cocktail party,'' said Robert H. Frank, who is a professor of economics at Cornell University and contributes to the Economic Scene column in The New York Times. ''If everyone is speaking loudly, you have to raise your voice a little louder to be heard. They just want something that feels spacious to them, but when the houses and apartments all around have gotten bigger, for a place to confer a feeling of spaciousness, it's got to be bigger than before.''
 In Manhattan, the emergence of these jumbo apartments uncannily evokes the grand co-op buildings of the late 1920's and early 1930's, built just in time for the start of the Great Depression. They include 625 Park Avenue, which houses a 10,000-square-foot triplex with a ballroom, and 740 Park Avenue, which has an 8,000-square-foot apartment once occupied by John D. Rockefeller Jr.
 In fact, when the developers of 15 Central Park West, a luxurious condominium being built in the spirit of some of New York's grand old co-ops, first started planning the units, designed by the architect Robert A. M. Stern, they underestimated the desire for truly large apartments.
 In the original offering plan, the largest apartment was a 6,600-square-foot penthouse, said Arthur and William Zeckendorf, the lead developers on the project. But one buyer wanted something larger, and paid $45 million to combine two units to create a 10,500-square-foot condo on the 31st floor. At 12 feet by 16 feet, one of the walk-in closets connected to the master suite exceeds the size of some Manhattan living rooms. With a yoga room, a massage room and a 26-foot-by-16-foot private screening room, the family may never need to leave the apartment.
 According to developers and brokers, most of the buyers of these kinds of condos own other homes. An apartment is easier than a house to ''lock and leave,'' said Frank Pankratz, president of Executive Home Builders, which is developing the condos measuring 16,000 square feet near Las Vegas. ''A lot of these buyers have homes elsewhere, at the beach and the mountains, and it gives them a lot of comfort knowing that their home is in an environment that has the kind of security that we have.''
 But if the ultimate expression of status and power is a sprawling mega-mansion on 100 acres of open land, single-family dwellings can be pretty lonely, said Setha M. Low, a professor of environmental psychology at the City University of New York Graduate Center. She says that buyers of jumbo condos are like the wealthy people who choose to live in gated communities rather than on private estates. ''At some level they still want to be around other people, and they want to be around other people like themselves,'' Ms. Low said.
 But size, of course, still matters. ''Home is an expression of self,'' Ms. Low said. ''And the more of it, the bigger you are.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: HUGE PLANS -- The layout for an eight-bedroom co-op in the converted Stanhope Hotel on Fifth Avenue. (pg. F1)
 ROOM TO PLAY -- A rendering of an entertainment room in a 12,500-square-foot apartment at Luxuria, in Boca Raton, Fla. The room will have 22-foot ceilings and measure 30 feet by 30 feet. (pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (91%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); HOTEL STAFF (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); INSURANCE (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%) Housing; Cooperatives; Condominiums

PERSON: Motoko Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



43 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Budget Measure Increases College Loans and Rates 

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
With the narrow passage of the spending bill by Congress yesterday, students and their parents will be able to borrow more money to pay for higher education but will face higher interest rates on these federal loans beginning in July.
 Some critics have argued that the higher interest rates are, in effect, a cut in student aid. But the legislation also potentially generates nearly $14 billion in revenue over five years by capturing what has at times been a windfall to lenders: the difference between the interest rates paid by students and rates paid by lenders. 
Before, lenders could keep profits generated when rates they had to pay were lower than those paid by borrowers; now, that spread will have to be paid to the government. (The government will still pay lenders when the rates they pay are higher than borrower rates.)
 The bill increases the rate on loans taken out by parents, known as PLUS loans. It had been scheduled to rise to 7.9 percent from the current 6.1 percent on July 1; it will now increase to 8.5 percent as of that date. 
 Under current law, the interest rate on federal Stafford loans, taken out by students, will rise to 6.8 percent from 5.3 percent. 
 ''With this bill we were able to reduce spending through changes in the way lenders operate, but at the same time we shielded the direct impact to students and actually increased student opportunities,'' Senator Michael B. Enzi, a Wyoming Republican who is chairman of the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, said in a statement on Dec. 19, after the bill passed the Senate. 
 Representative George Miller, Democrat of California, condemned the bill as too harsh on families. Republicans, Mr. Miller said in a statement yesterday, ''obviously don't understand the kinds of sacrifices that families have to make so their children can go to college.'' Both Democrats and Republicans have sought to characterize the bill as cutting expenses, although it is actually raising revenue, said Michael Dannenberg, director of education policy at the New America Foundation, a public policy institute in Washington. 
 ''Republicans want to say that they're cutting the program because they want to say that they're cutting down the size of government,'' Mr. Dannenberg said. Democrats want to say that Republicans are cutting the program ''because it plays into the image that Republicans are anti-education,'' he added.
 The increased rates and the windfall provision produce almost one-third of the overall savings in the budget bill. But the changes have led some advocacy groups, which had hoped to have the windfall money somehow returned to students, to describe the new system as a hidden tax on student borrowers.
 ''This bill turns to students and families as the predominant source of revenue, rather than trying to identify inefficiencies in the loan programs,'' said Luke Swarthout, higher education associate for the State Public Interest Research Groups, a nonprofit consumer organization that opposed the law. ''This bill asks students and parents to pay for tax cuts.''
 Nearly 10 million students take out Stafford loans annually and about 800,000 parents take out PLUS loans, according to the Department of Education. The law raises the maximum amount that students can borrow through the Stafford program, putting more costly educational opportunities within reach, but also deepening the potential hole students may find themselves in after graduation. It also makes some existing types of loans available to graduate and professional students.
 The fixed higher interest rates could prove to be good news for students and their families if market interest rates rise, provided that Congress does not raise the rate again in the future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STUDENT LOANS (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FAMILY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%) 

PERSON: MIKE ENZI (58%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (57%) Jonathan D Glater

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



44 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Activity Moderated in January

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Manufacturing activity expanded at a slower pace in January than in the previous month, according to a report yesterday by a private research group. 
 Still, the economy remains strong and the moderation in growth will probably lead the Federal Reserve to increase interest rates less this year than it did in 2005, analysts said. 
The research group, the Institute for Supply Management, said its manufacturing index was 54.8 in January versus 55.6 in December. The latest reading was short of the 55.5 expected by analysts. A reading above 50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is expanding; below 50 percent indicates contraction. 
 ''Growth is still at a healthy level,'' said Gary Thayer, chief economist at A. G. Edwards & Sons. ''There is no major slowdown.'' 
 Mr. Thayer believes the index illustrates the economy has hit a sweet spot where manufacturing activity is moving along steadily but not briskly enough to warrant concerns about inflation. He says that should push the Federal Reserve to temper its campaign of rate increases. 
 The Commerce Department reported separately yesterday that construction spending rose by 1 percent in December as private construction and government spending on building set records. For the year, spending to construct homes, offices, highways and other building projects totaled a record $1.120 trillion, up 8.9 percent from the previous record of $1.028 trillion in 2004. 
 An economist, Mark Vitner, was concerned about what he perceived to be weak spots in the supply management index. He said construction and consumer spending, which have been fueling economic growth, may tumble on higher interest rates, and business spending will not be able to pick up the slack. 
 Mr. Vitner says that companies will shift money to shoring up their pension plans as the baby boom generation draws closer to retiring. That will take money away from purchasing items like computers and machines. 
 But others remained upbeat. Norbert J. Ore, chairman of the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing business survey committee, said the manufacturing sector had recovered from the disruptions and dislocations caused by the hurricanes on the Gulf Coast last year. 
 ''I feel good about where we are headed for the year,'' Mr. Ore said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Construction Spending''Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.Dec.: +1.0%Nov.: +0.5Oct.: +0.7Graph tracks total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual pace since 2004.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); WEATHER (66%); BABY BOOMERS (66%) United States Economy; Building (Construction); Records and Achievements

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Institute for Supply Management; Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



45 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STATE OF THE UNION: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: A More Impassioned Bush, on the Road, Delivers a State of the Union Encore

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Feb. 1 

 BODY:
President Bush took his upbeat message on the road Wednesday and promised ''an active foreign policy, one that aids the suffering and helps the poor'' and spreads freedom around the world.
 From the stage of the Grand Ole Opry House here, Mr. Bush delivered a reprise of his State of the Union address. But he was more folksy, more personal and more impassioned in setting forth his vision of the United States' place in the world, epitomized on posters plastered around the hall: ''Americans win when America leads.''
Mr. Bush was fired up, full of determination in talking about Iraq and foreign policy. By contrast, when he turned to domestic policy, he rambled at times, then rushed through a list of proposals on health care, immigration, science education and energy conservation. 
 ''I want to talk about health care right quick,'' he said as he marched through the items on his domestic agenda.
 On Tuesday night, in his address to a joint session of Congress, Mr. Bush said nothing of the prescription drug benefit that was recently added to Medicare. On Wednesday he promised, ''We are going to correct problems'' that have plagued the program since it began on Jan. 1. 
 In the first weeks of the program, tens of thousands of beneficiaries have been overcharged, and some have been unable to get the medications they were promised by Medicare.
 Mr. Bush's visit to Nashville was the first of many trips he plans to take this month to champion proposals in his State of the Union address and his 2007 budget, to be issued next week.
 The president appeared to draw strength from the enthusiastic crowd, which included thousands of people invited to the event by local civic, business and political groups. He was scheduled to speak for 35 minutes but talked for more than an hour, and was frequently interrupted by thunderous applause.
 The president received a standing ovation when he mentioned Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., whom the Senate confirmed Tuesday for a seat on the Supreme Court. 
 He received another standing ovation when he attacked Democratic senators who have blocked legislation to limit the damages available to patients in medical malpractice lawsuits. 
 ''It's time for those senators who are blocking that bill, those senators who are representing the trial lawyers of America, to understand the damage they are doing to the health care industry of this country,'' Mr. Bush said.
 In describing his concept of foreign policy, he said the United States had a mission to fight poverty and disease abroad.
 ''Helping defeat H.I.V./AIDS on the continent of Africa not only reflects the great compassion of America but will improve lives for generations of Americans to come,'' Mr. Bush declared. ''I believe that defeating hopelessness and despair and helping others defeat poverty is in our national interest.''
 At the White House, Mr. Bush's advisers set forth a more detailed case for his proposal to expand health savings accounts as a way for people to squirrel away money for their medical needs. People can get tax breaks on such accounts if they also enroll in high-deductible health insurance plans, under which they pay at least the first $1,050 of annual health costs.
 Allan B. Hubbard, assistant to the president for economic policy, said health savings accounts could help low-income people because high-deductible insurance costs less than conventional insurance.
 ''Some people say, 'Well, H.S.A.'s are just for the rich and the well,' '' Mr. Hubbard said. ''As it turns out, of the three million people who have taken up H.S.A.'s, 37 percent were previously uninsured, and 40 percent earn less than $50,000 a year.''
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, the Democrats' senior strategist on health care issues, said health savings accounts were ''a windfall for the wealthy'' but ''will make life harder for ordinary Americans,'' in part by giving employers a ground to cut back on coverage they now provide.
 Tax tables prepared by the Treasury show that a married couple with two children and income of $40,000 last year could have saved $630 on their federal income taxes if they made a $5,000 contribution to a health savings account. But the same family making the same contribution would have saved $1,500 if they had income of $120,000, the tables show.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush yesterday at the Grand Ole Opry House in Nashville. (Photo by Pablo Martinez Monsivais/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); AIDS & HIV (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (72%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (67%); LITIGATION (65%); LAWYERS (63%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (60%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (54%); BUDGETS (50%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (95%) TENNESSEE, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%) Nashvil00042200)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



46 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Pirro Discounts Old Gaffes and Issues To Focus on Attorney General Race 

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY

 BODY:
A disastrous campaign for the United States Senate? Oh, that. Old news.
 Hillary who? Oh, her. Old news.
A tax felon for a husband? Oh, him. Old news.
 Friends turned foes? Oh, them. Old news.
 After a season of political setbacks that would doom many candidates, Jeanine F. Pirro is back in action, striking a what-me-worry pose when asked about potential issues as she starts her new campaign for state attorney general.
 Six weeks ago Ms. Pirro ended her race against Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton after weak fund-raising and some gaffes, notably her 32 seconds of fumbling on live television looking for a page from her speech. Now that she is seeking a job that suits her better, Ms. Pirro says, she is her old self again: Speaking with emotion about prosecuting sexual predators and defending victims' rights, as she did for 12 years as Westchester County district attorney, and identifying new targets like methamphetamine labs.
 But reclaiming her old status as a Republican star candidate is a new challenge. During a 90-minute interview last week, her first lengthy one since switching races on Dec. 21, Ms. Pirro had to be pressed to speak in depth about the Senate race, her husband's problems, and criticism of her judgment. 
 Ten times during the interview, for instance, Ms. Pirro blamed a lack of ''political and financial support'' from other people for her failed Senate campaign, without explaining why. She also took no responsibility for failing to inspire such support.
 ''I think you're going to have to speak to the people who would give political and financial support,'' Ms. Pirro said, adding later that some donors who did not support her for Senate were now contributing to her candidacy for attorney general.
 Asked what went wrong in the Senate race, Ms. Pirro said, ''You know I'm looking forward right now.'' Pressed on whether she did anything wrong in her former race, she added: ''The support was not there. I made the decision to run for attorney general. It's my strong suit. It's my passion. Being the people's lawyer is an opportunity to be able to level the playing field for all of the victims that I've dealt with -- victims of physical injury, economic injury, the environment.''
 Over and over in the conversation at her White Plains campaign office, which is adorned with photos, news articles, plaques and other tributes, Ms. Pirro steered the conversation to her respected record as a prosecutor in Westchester. Told that some political analysts say her success will depend partly on putting old demons to rest, she said she wants her tactics to be full steam ahead.
 To be sure, Ms. Pirro is brimming with gusto about the race to succeed Eliot Spitzer. She recalled fighting for a state hate-crimes law, aid for battered women and protections for abused children, and said the kind of passion she showed in those efforts was needed in Albany. She pledged to police Medicaid fraud, crack down on methamphetamine labs, and push for new felony penalties for various kinds of human trafficking.
 Ms. Pirro showed a lighthearted side, too, making hummus for the interview and autographing a photo of her and a reporter. But it was her self-control, after the unsteady performance in the Senate race, that particularly stood out when she was asked about that campaign and two other issues that might pose obstacles in the 2006 race: Opposition from past allies like former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato who say her political image is sullied, and the challenge of seeking the top law enforcement job when her husband, Albert, is a convicted tax felon whose business dealings have struck some Westchester voters as shady.
 Mr. D'Amato's criticism seemed easier for her to dispatch.
 ''Is he still around?'' she said of Mr. D'Amato, with a slightly mischievous grin.
 Her marriage may matter more to voters in the attorney general's race than the Senate contest, because her husband's problems were with the law. She said his role in the campaign would be limited to supporting her at home.
 ''I am a strong, independent, self-made woman,'' she said. ''I worked my way through college and law school. I started in a dairy at the age of 14, O.K.? Everything I have achieved, I have achieved based on hard work and results.'' 
 Mr. Pirro's conviction was based on fraudulent tax forms that she also signed, and her vow that she was kept in the dark became a credibility issue in her re-election bid in 2001, which she won narrowly. Ms. Pirro said she had faith that voters would accept that she did nothing wrong.
 Referring to the period when she signed the tax forms, she said, ''I was focused on my job -- I can tell you any case in my office -- and my kids.''
 She avoiding saying whether she had discussed any of her Westchester cases with her husband, a lawyer and lobbyist, as some reputed mob associates have alleged. (She added that the allegations were ''Hogwash! Hogwash!'') Asked if she would discuss cases before the attorney general's office with her husband if she is elected, Ms. Pirro said only that she would discuss cases with lawyers on her staff.
 Asked for her judgment about an attorney general discussing cases with a convicted felon, she said: ''This is 2005, not 1955. That means I stand on my two feet. I didn't get here because of someone else.'' (Later she corrected herself on the date.) 
 Whether New Yorkers beyond Westchester will favor Ms. Pirro, baggage and all, is impossible to predict. At one point in the interview, she was asked how she would deal with voters who were leery of her husband's much-publicized issues, from his tax conviction to the tabloid reports about a past business deal with an alleged mob associate and his out-of-wedlock child with a former mistress. She paused, and then replied in a hushed, tightened voice.
 ''Are you responsible for what your family does? Do you have a sister, a brother, a mother, a father? I don't judge you based on that,'' she said.
 Political analysts, drawing on recent public opinion polls, said Ms. Pirro is the favorite for the Republican nomination right now, yet her unfavorability ratings have been rising and she trails some Democratic candidates in general election matchups. Yet polls also show that despite negative publicity, many voters have no opinion of her.
 ''She's hoping that time heals all wounds, but some of her issues are going to be a tough sell to voters,'' said Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion. ''She needs to deal with problems now and not be fielding questions before the September primary or the November election.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeanine F. Pirro, former Westchester district attorney, in her White Plains campaign office. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHICS (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); SEX OFFENSES (68%); METHAMPHETAMINE (53%) Ethics; District Attorneys; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%) Patrick D Healy; Jeanine F Pirro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State; Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



47 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Behind Bush's New Stress on Science, Lobbying by Republican Executives 

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF; Warren E. Leary contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 1 

 BODY:
President Bush's proposal to accelerate spending on basic scientific research came after technology industry executives made the case for such a move in a series of meetings with White House officials, executives involved said Wednesday. 
 In his State of the Union message Tuesday evening, Mr. Bush called for a doubling within 10 years of the federal commitment to ''the most critical basic research programs in the physical sciences.''
The president's science adviser, John H. Marburger III, said Mr. Bush would request $910 million for the first year of the research initiative, with a commitment to spending $50 billion over 10 years. 
 Computer scientists have expressed alarm that federal support for basic research is being eroded by shifts toward applied research and shorter-term financing. But in his speech, Mr. Bush pointed to work in supercomputing, nanotechnology and alternative energy sources -- subjects that were favorites in the Clinton administration but had not been priorities for the current White House. 
 What was different this year, according to a number of Capitol Hill lobbyists and Silicon Valley executives, was support on the issue by Republican corporate executives like Craig R. Barrett, the chairman of Intel, and John Chambers, the chief executive of Cisco Systems. 
 Industry officials eager to see a greater government commitment to research held a series of discussions with administration officials late last year that culminated in two meetings in the Old Executive Office Building on Dec. 13. 
 There, a group led by Mr. Barrett and Norman R. Augustine, a former Lockheed Martin chief executive, met with Vice President Dick Cheney. A second group headed by Charles M. Vest, the former president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, met with Joshua B. Bolten, director of the Office of Management and Budget. 
 The industry and science leaders told the officials that the administration needed to respond to concerns laid out in a report by a National Academy of Sciences panel headed by Mr. Augustine. It warned of a rapid erosion in science, technology and education that threatened American economic competitiveness.
 The report, ''Rising Above the Gathering Storm: Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Economic Future,'' has been circulating in draft form since October. It was put together by a group of top technology and science leaders, who say the country faces a crisis that the Bush administration is ignoring. 
 ''The gravitas of that group,'' Dr. Vest said, ''has a lot to do with how we got as far as we did.'' 
 Still, even after the meetings, the executives and educators were not certain that the administration would respond. So President Bush's proposal on Tuesday night came as something of a surprise. 
 Albert H. Teich, director of science policy for the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the nation's largest professional organization for scientists, called Mr. Bush's proposal ''a breath of fresh air.''
 ''We haven't seen this interest in basic research from this president before,'' Mr. Teich said. ''We in the science community have talked about the state of basic research for quite a while, with its flat or declining budgets, and we are hopeful about this initiative.''
 Mr. Barrett of Intel, according to people who worked with him, had grown particularly frustrated with the lack of progress on the matter. 
 In a speech to the National Academy of Engineering in October, in which he described the findings of the Gathering Storm report, Mr. Barrett said: ''If you look at the achievement of the average 12th-grade student in math and science, which is of interest to us here, that 12th-grader in the U.S. ranks in the bottom 10 percent among their international peers. I think it is incumbent upon all of us to look at that report and help raise our voices collectively to our local officials, state officials and national officials.''
 The executives said that the administration had also been induced to respond by a growing bipartisan movement in Congress supporting basic research and education.
 Two bills tackling this matter have recently been introduced. One is the Protect America's Competitive Edge Act, by Senators Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico; Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico; Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee; and Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland. A similar bill was introduced by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut. Several of the senators met with President Bush in December to encourage him to support the competitiveness legislation.
 ''We're excited the president has jump-started this and that it is very bipartisan,'' Dr. Vest said.
 Now the technologists and the educators are waiting to see the specifics of the financing when the president's budget is introduced next week. The report had called for an annual 10 percent increase over the next 10 years, and several executives said they now expected a rise of 7 percent annually, putting annual spending around twice the current level in 10 years.
 Peter A. Freeman, the National Science Foundation's assistant director for computer and information science and engineering, said the president's initiative would make a big difference. 
 ''We're obviously not at liberty to say what will be in the president's budget next week,'' Mr. Freeman said, ''but we're very hopeful based on the State of the Union address. This is a strong sign that this administration will continue to be very supportive of fundamental science and engineering.'' 
 Despite there being little detail yet with precise figures, even those who had been publicly critical of the administration were enthusiastic.
 ''This is really a huge deal and I'm very encouraged,'' said David A. Patterson, a computer scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, who is president of the Association for Computing Machinery, a professional group.
 At the same time, though, Mr. Patterson was concerned that the president's proposal to double funds for basic research drew little applause from the Congressional audience on Tuesday night. ''It just shows the challenge we have,'' he said. ''It wasn't obvious to the legislators.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SCIENCE POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (68%) Science and Technology; Computers and the Internet; State of the Union Message (US); Nanotechnology; Research; Education and Schools; Science and Technology; United States Economy; Supercomputers; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (59%) Cisco Systems; Intel Corp; National Academy of Sciences

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); LMT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN T CHAMBERS (90%); MURRAY D MARTIN (59%); DICK CHENEY (59%) George W (Pres) Bush; John Chambers; Craig R Barrett; John Markoff

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



48 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Shares Up on Boeing Profit And Big Drop in Oil Prices

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks rallied yesterday, with a stronger-than-expected profit from Boeing and a sharp drop in crude oil prices overshadowing Google's first earnings shortfall as a public company.
 Shares of Boeing climbed 4.9 percent, to $71.62, on the New York Stock Exchange, in the biggest one-day percentage gain in seven months.
''The Boeing stock was out of favor for a long time,'' said Michael Driscoll, a trader at Bear Stearns. ''I think people are still kind of searching for stocks that may have been undiscovered and overlooked, and Boeing is one of them.'' 
 The Dow Jones industrial average was up 89.09 points, or 0.82 percent, at 10,953.95. Boeing fueled most of the Dow's advance. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 2.38 points, or 0.19 percent, at 1,282.46. The Nasdaq composite index was up 4.74 points, or 0.21 percent, at 2,310.56.
 News that the United States Patent and Trademark Office had sided with Research in Motion, maker of the BlackBerry portable e-mail device, in a finding involving a patent battle with NTP Inc., helped the Nasdaq turn positive and offset the drag caused by Google.
 The United States-traded shares of Research in Motion, which is based in Canada, jumped 9 percent, or $6.08, to $73.61, on the Nasdaq. The company's stock was the second-biggest gainer in the Nasdaq 100.
 Shares of Google, the Web search company, which had not had an earnings miss since it went public in August 2004, slid 7.1 percent, or $30.88, to close at $401.78 on the Nasdaq.
 For most of the trading session, Google's weight had kept a lid on any Nasdaq advance, a day after the company reported a profit shortfall.
 Still, analysts' views on Google were mixed in the wake of its earnings miss. UBS cut its rating on Google to neutral from buy, while Credit Suisse raised its price target on the stock to $500.
 Shares of the drug maker Amgen -- which rose 4.5 percent, or $3.30, to $76.19 -- gave both the Nasdaq and the S.& P. 500 their biggest lifts. During the session, Amgen soared as high as $80.03.
 The catalyst for Amgen's advance was an announcement by Roche Holding indicating that it would not try to release a product to rival Amgen's big-selling anti-anemia drug for cancer patients as soon as investors had expected.
 Time Warner, the world's largest media company, posted a higher fourth-quarter profit, beating analysts' forecasts. Time Warner shares rose 3.9 percent, or 69 cents, to $18.22.
 Oil futures trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange was volatile yesterday. After jumping by more than $1 at one stage during the afternoon to a session high of $69 a barrel, crude for March delivery fell $1.36, to settle at $66.56.
 Weekly government data that showed rising crude, gasoline and heating oil inventories helped drive crude futures prices lower, as well as the desire to take profits, traders said. Those factors offset mounting concerns about the Iranian nuclear dispute and short-term forecasts for colder temperatures in the United States, which had driven oil prices higher earlier in the day.
 Shares of some major energy companies declined, including Exxon Mobil, which shed 1.3 percent to end at $61.95, and Chevron, off 1.1 percent at $58.70.
 Trading was heavy on the New York Stock Exchange, with about 1.92 billion shares changing hands, above last year's daily average of 1.61 billion. On Nasdaq, about 2.30 billion shares traded, above last year's daily average of 1.80 billion.
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year note rose to 4.56 percent, from 4.52 percent Tuesday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, fell 10/32, to 99 18/32.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (73%); SEARCH ENGINES (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%); CANCER (66%); ANEMIA (60%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (60%); CANCER DRUGS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (97%); BOEING CO (94%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (83%); AMGEN INC (82%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%); ROCHE HOLDING AG (51%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (97%); BOE (LSE) (94%); BAB (BRU) (94%); BA (NYSE) (94%); RIM (TSX) (83%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (83%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (82%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%); ROG (SWX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (97%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



49 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Developer Will Compensate Merchants Evicted From Bronx Market 

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
The redevelopment of the Bronx Terminal Market into a shopping mall cleared its last major hurdle yesterday after the developer agreed to compensate displaced merchants and create a $3 million job training program for local residents. 
 The City Council approved the $400 million project after weeks of intense negotiations between the developer, the Related Companies, city officials and community groups. It will transform a stretch of crumbling buildings in the shadow of Yankee Stadium into a shiny complex of brand-name stores, restaurants and a waterfront park.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had supported the project, which is expected to create jobs and generate revenue for struggling neighborhoods. In addition, the borough president, Adolfo Carrion Jr., and Bronx members of the City Council pushed the project forward.
 But the redevelopment had been opposed by about two dozen wholesale produce and ethnic foods merchants being displaced from the city-owned terminal; some of these merchants have since relocated. Community groups have also expressed concerns that the shopping mall would increase noise and traffic.
 Related agreed yesterday to help pay for the relocation of the remaining merchants. The merchants will receive up to $9.6 million if they relocate within an economic empowerment zone in the South Bronx, and substantially less if they move elsewhere. The merchants have until June 1 to vacate the terminal.
 ''The deal is poor compensation for merchants who have worked in the Bronx for decades,'' said Richard Lipsky, a lobbyist for the merchants. ''They are being summarily evicted with no relocation opportunity for the market to survive intact.''
 In addition, Related will provide additional benefits to the area, like a job training program for local residents and preference to local contractors for construction jobs. When leasing space to a warehouse discount store, it will require the store to accept food stamps, and will even subsidize half the store's membership fee for up to 2,000 families for five years.
 In an unusual move, Related specifically agreed not to lease space to Wal-Mart, in deference to concerns among council members and community groups about the company's labor practices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EVICTION (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); MAYORS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); APPROVALS (72%); FAMILY (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (55%) Retail Stores and Trade; Bronx Terminal Market; Shopping Centers; Finances; Labor

ORGANIZATION: Related Companies

PERSON: ADOLFO CARRION JR (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%) Winnie Hu

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006



50 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Indictments Raise Pressure In Insurer Case

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON; John Files contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

 BODY:
Three former General Re executives and one former executive of American International Group have been charged with fraud and conspiracy, federal prosecutors and regulators announced yesterday, possibly ratcheting up the pressure on other senior executives. 
 At the heart of the charges is a two-part reinsurance transaction, executed in 2000 and 2001, that federal prosecutors described as a sham, intended to inflate A.I.G.'s financial position and mislead investors. That transaction, investigators have said, was initiated and approved by Maurice R. Greenberg, who was ousted as A.I.G.'s chairman and chief executive last March.
Mr. Greenberg is not named in either the indictment, made by a federal grand jury in Norfolk, Va., or in a related complaint from the Securities and Exchange Commission, but he is referred to as an '''A.I.G. unindicted co-conspirator'' in the indictment. 
 The indictments put more pressure on the defendants to cooperate against more senior executives, including Mr. Greenberg, lawyers said. 
 ''It moves prosecutors that much closer to the possibility of criminal charges against executives above the level of people who have already been charged,'' said Robert A. Mintz, a former federal prosecutor who is currently the head of the white-collar criminal defense group at McCarter & English. ''Certainly prosecutors will pressure these defendants to assist them in their investigation in exchange for a more lenient sentence.''
 But other lawyers argued that not being named was a positive sign for Mr. Greenberg, who has denied any wrongdoing. ''The simple answer is, they may not have the goods yet'' on Mr. Greenberg, said Jay Fahy, a former federal prosecutor now at the law firm of Fahy Choi, which is based in Rutherford, N.J. ''They are working up the food chain, Hank is the goal, but that may or may not happen.'' 
 Mr. Greenberg's spokesman, Howard Opinsky, said Mr. Greenburg had no comment on the indictments.
 The criminal indictment and the civil complaint offer new accusations about the extent to which executives acted to cover up the reinsurance transaction between General Re and A.I.G., the world's leading insurance company; General Re is a unit of Berkshire Hathaway, which is controlled by Warren E. Buffett. 
 ''These four executives arranged a complex scheme to cook the books at A.I.G,'' said Alice S. Fisher, assistant attorney general of the criminal division of the Department of Justice. ''This scheme was accomplished through sham transactions.''
 The defendants are accused of drawing up two reinsurance contracts that appeared to show that General Re paid $500 million in premiums to A.I.G. In return, A.I.G. should have provided $600 million in reinsurance. In reality, there was no responsibility to pay out any liabilities, and the effect was to increase A.I.G.'s loss reserves by $500 million. 
 Reserve levels are closely watched as an indicator of how prepared an insurance company is to meet potential liabilities. But the transactions, according to the S.E.C. complaint, ''had no economic substance, amounting to a round trip of cash.''
 The indictment and the S.E.C. complaint name Ronald E. Ferguson, General Re's former chief executive; Elizabeth A. Monrad, the company's former chief financial officer; Robert D. Graham, a former assistant general counsel, and M. Christian Milton, the former head of reinsurance at A.I.G.
 They are charged with 13 counts of conspiracy, fraud and making false statements to the S.E.C. If convicted on all counts, each could face as much as 95 years in prison and $7.75 million in fines. The defendants are expected to appear at an arraignment hearing before Judge Gerald Bruce Lee of the Federal District Court in Alexandria, Va., on Feb. 16, a Justice Department official said. 
 ''Mr. Milton will vigorously contest the charges and is confident that he will be exonerated at trial,'' said his lawyer, Frederick P. Hafetz.
 Mr. Graham's lawyer, Alan Vinegrad, said: ''Rob Graham is an attorney of the highest integrity who always acted in good faith and within the bounds of the law. He looks forward to having his day in court and expects to be vindicated at trial.'' 
 Lawyers for Ms. Monrad and Mr. Ferguson did not return calls for comment.
 Last June, two former General Re executives, Richard Napier and John Houldsworth, pleaded guilty to charges that they had helped A.I.G. manipulate its financial position.
 General Re's current chief executive, Joseph P. Brandon, was notified by the S.E.C. in September that it intended to file a complaint against him, but no action has been announced to date.
 Mr. Milton, who was fired by A.I.G. in March after he refused to cooperate with regulators investigating the transaction with General Re, is the first former A.I.G. executive to face criminal charges in the matter. 
 A.I.G. declined to comment yesterday. The New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, has sued the company; Mr. Greenberg; and Howard I. Smith, A.I.G.'s former chief financial officer, accusing them of manipulating financial statements. He cited the General Re transaction among others. 
 A.I.G., which has been in talks with Mr. Spitzer's office over a settlement, acknowledged in March that the General Re transaction and a number of others were improper. Shares of A.I.G. fell 1.21 percent yesterday, to $65.47. Mr. Spitzer's office declined to comment. 
 In another inquiry, federal prosecutors in Manhattan have been looking at whether Mr. Greenberg tried to manipulate A.I.G.'s stock price in his final weeks as chief executive. 
 The indictment announced yesterday contends that it was widely understood among the four and others that the transaction they created -- called Project A or Alpha -- was a sham. The deal was initiated in October 2000, when Mr. Greenberg called Mr. Ferguson at General Re. 
 Mr. Graham, in an e-mail message to an unnamed General Re executive, wrote: ''Our group will book the transaction as a deposit. How A.I.G. books is between them, their accountant and God; there is no undertaking by them to have the transaction reviewed by regulators,'' according to the indictment. 
 Ms. Monrad is quoted in the indictment as saying in an e-mail message to an unnamed official: ''These deals are like morphine. It's very hard to come off of them.''
 The S.E.C. complaint stresses that the case is not about the merits of reinsurance, a murky area where the accounting rules have long been debated. ''This case if not about the violation of technical accounting rules,'' the complaint says. ''The defendants structured two phony reinsurance transactions that had no real economic substance.'' 
 Such an argument may make it harder for Mr. Greenberg's lawyers to make the case that finite reinsurance transactions are notoriously complex. 

Restraining Order Extended
By Dow Jones/AP
 A state judge in Manhattan extended a temporary restraining order yesterday to prevent several private insurance agencies controlled by Maurice R. Greenberg from taking business from American International Group.
 At a hearing yesterday, Justice Herman J. Cahn of the New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan extended the order until Monday.
 The restraining order prevents the agencies of C. V. Starr & Company from ceding existing policies with A.I.G. to other insurers. C. V. Starr and A.I.G. are battling over whether the Starr agencies can write policies for insurers other than A.I.G.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alice S. Fisher, an assistant United States attorney general, said yesterday that the executives indicted had altered the books at A.I.G. (Photo by Yuri Gripes/Associated Press)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (92%); INSURANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); REINSURANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); LAWYERS (88%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); SENTENCING (73%); APPROVALS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); ETHICS (68%) Insurance; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations; Accounting and Accountants; Insurance

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); MCCARTER & ENGLISH LLP (55%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) General Re Corp ; Securities and Exchange Commission; American International Group

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); BRK.B (NYSE) (52%); BRK.A (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%) Ronald E (Co Exec) Ferguson; Elizabeth A Monrad; Robert D Graham; Christian Milton; Maurice R Greenberg; Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



51 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LEGAL BEAT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Restated? Don't Blame a Lawsuit for It 

BYLINE: By Stephen Labaton

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THERE was a record number of earnings restatements in the last year -- around 1,200 at last count -- but you would not know it by looking at the dockets of the federal courts.
 For all of the handwringing in some corners of Washington and in corporate America about vexatious litigation, it turns out that you can count last year's number of investor class-action lawsuits against accounting firms on one hand.
A mere five cases were filed, according to the tally produced each year by Prof. Joseph A. Grundfest of Stanford Law School, a former commissioner at the Securities and Exchange Commission. The report found a sharp decline in the overall number of securities fraud class actions, as well as a marked reduction in the investor losses claimed by the suits. And it found that the Ninth Circuit, which includes California, a traditional haven for lawsuits because of the large number of technology start-ups, has been ''losing its prominence.'' 
 What's going on?
 Professor Grundfest, who has often been critical of what he sees as baseless shareholder litigation, has two explanations. The lawsuits related to the bursting of the market bubble beginning in 2000 are now largely over. 
 ''The pig may have moved through the python,'' he said.
 Second, he said, corporations have improved the way they govern and monitor themselves after a string of large scandals and the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in 2002.
 Professor Grundfest said that there was a simple explanation for the decline in litigation coming simultaneously with the rapid growth in earnings restatements. Many of the accounting corrections do not rise to the level of misconduct.
 ''Restatements are becoming more common because of greater sensitivity among audit firms,'' he said. ''Even plaintiff law firms are recognizing that not every restatement comes about because of a fraud. Honest companies are just doing their best to keep their books accurate.''
 But other specialists see something disturbing in the trends. 
 They say that a crusade by business groups and many lawmakers over the last decade to weed out meritless lawsuits has also had the effect of making it harder to bring sound cases, and that the latest figures reflect tougher burdens imposed on shareholders by both Congress and the courts.
 Among the changes was the adoption of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The law shields executives from liability for making dubious financial projections. It also generally eliminated the ''joint and several'' liability of accountants, which made their deeper pockets available to compensate investors, particularly when companies had little or no money to satisfy damage claims.
 ''The evidence I've seen shows that the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act is working in the sense that the rate of dismissals has gone up substantially and it has caused plaintiff's law firms to choose cases based on their ability to pigeonhole them into some exceptions that courts have recognized to the higher pleading standards,'' said Prof. Donald C. Langevoort, a securities law expert at Georgetown University Law Center. ''What I worry about are the cases we don't see -- which to some extent the Grundfest report demonstrates -- and that we're not seeing cases that may be real fraud cases. When you lose those, you lose some real deterrence.''
 The courts have steadily made it harder for investors. Last April, the Supreme Court ruled that investors could not merely allege that a stock price was inflated by fraud when they bought the stock, but must also prove that their losses were caused by the fraud and not some other factor, like a general decline in the market. And last month a majority of the Supreme Court justices indicated in a case involving Merrill Lynch that they would interpret a 1998 law as precluding investors from using state courts in a variety of securities fraud cases.
 ''What we are seeing, in part, is the increasing conservative drift in the judicial process that is coming to fruition in all kinds of contexts,'' said Prof. James D. Cox, a securities and accounting expert at Duke Law School. 
 Despite the latest numbers on declining lawsuits and lower damage claims, some business groups think that there is more to be done to make it harder for investors to bring lawsuits. 
 Hoping to provoke a wider debate on the subject, the Institute for Legal Reform at the United States Chamber of Commerce recently commissioned a study that concluded that large institutional investors unfairly benefit from shareholder lawsuits. Cheryl L. Evans, special counsel at the institute, said there was a growing movement to reconsider the appropriateness of large damage claims against companies, just as the S.E.C. had begun to rethink whether it was appropriate to issue fines against companies.
 She questioned whether investor suits really served as a deterrent to corporate misconduct and suggested that most of the work of policing the markets should be left to the exchanges and the S.E.C. She acknowledged that, with the experiences of Enron and WorldCom beginning to fade into history, it had become easier politically to begin exploring ways to further restrict shareholder lawsuits. 
 ''We don't want to be out there saying people who commit crimes shouldn't be sued,'' she said. ''We do want to make sure these lawsuits are not a drag on the economy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (94%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (77%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); LAWYERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (75%); TRENDS (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); SCANDALS (74%); MISCONDUCT (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); AUDITS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



52 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: Mourning a Child in a Silence That's Unbearably Loud 

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
THE Biltmore Theater had better be paid up on its flood insurance. ''Rabbit Hole,'' the wrenching new play by David Lindsay-Abaire that opened there last night, inspires such copious weeping among its audience that you wonder early on if you should have taken a life jacket. Do your best, though, to keep your eyes clear. Otherwise, you might miss some of the most revealingly nuanced acting to be seen on a stage or screen this year.
 Thanks to a certain former American president, it has become almost impossible to say that you feel someone else's pain without its sounding like a punch line. Yet the sad, sweet release of ''Rabbit Hole'' lies precisely in the access it allows to the pain of others, in its meticulously mapped empathy. With an exceptional, emotionally transparent five-member cast led by Cynthia Nixon and directed by Daniel Sullivan, this anatomy of grief doesn't so much jerk tears as tap them, from a reservoir of feelings common to anyone who has experienced the landscape-shifting vacuum left by a death in the family. 
The plot of ''Rabbit Hole,'' centered on the impact of the accidental killing of a small child, is one used regularly on television channels that specialize in domestic tales of redemption. You could even say that this play's shape is determined, as such television fare often is, by the steps of mourning commonly described in self-help manuals and support groups. 
 Yet with ''Rabbit Hole,'' a Manhattan Theater Club production, you never feel as if you have been mauled by a sentimental brute who keeps telling you to go ahead and cry, Honey. There's too much honesty, accuracy and humor in the details provided by the play and by the ensemble, which also includes Tyne Daly in an invigorating return to Broadway.
 With works like ''Fuddy Meers'' and ''Kimberly Akimbo,'' Mr. Lindsay-Abaire established himself as a lyrical and understanding chronicler of people who somehow become displaced within their own lives. Like his peer in poetic empathy, Craig Lucas, Mr. Lindsay-Abaire has also shown a special affinity for female characters suddenly forced to re-evaluate the roles by which they define themselves.
 In this sense, ''Rabbit Hole'' runs true to form. But the drama also marks a significant departure for Mr. Lindsay-Abaire, which may leave his fans wondering if they have come to the right theater. A sprawling sense of whimsy and the grotesque has hitherto been Mr. Lindsay-Abaire's most conspicuous hallmark, with characters who suffer from extreme and exotic medical conditions, like amnesia or premature aging.
 ''Rabbit Hole'' dispenses with the flashy metaphors. It is as if Mr. Lindsay-Abaire had set for himself the task of holding up a mirror to life that for once didn't come from a fun house. The resulting work belongs squarely to the school of what were once called kitchen-sink dramas. But the sink, in this instance, has been polished to a high, reflective sheen. The dialogue is blessed with Mr. Lindsay-Abaire's customary grace and wit. But it never sounds less than organic, at least not from the mouths of these superlative performers.
 Ms. Nixon -- in her first Broadway appearance since the end of her hit television series, ''Sex and the City'' -- portrays Becca, a onetime Sotheby's employee turned stay-at-home mom in a gleaming beige-toned residence in Larchmont, N.Y. (John Lee Beatty's revolving set and Christopher Akerland's lighting are subtly infused with an aura of fractured solidity.)
 That Becca's very reason to be has vanished registers by affecting degrees in the first scene, which finds her sorting laundry from a basket as she chats with her younger, all-too-lively sister, Izzy (Mary Catherine Garrison). But a loud silence pervades the room. And while the talk is inflected with the ritualistic familial rhythms of fondness and annoyance, the strain of something unspoken pulses. It takes you perhaps five minutes to realize that the child-size clothes Ms. Nixon is folding with such mechanical efficiency belonged to Becca's son, a 4-year-old boy named Danny who was struck and killed by a car eight months earlier. 
 Every action, big and small, and every word that follows are informed by our awareness of the characters' awareness of Danny's death. Grief has obviously not brought the members of Becca's family -- including her husband, Howie (John Slattery), and her mother, Nat (Ms. Daly) -- closer together. Sorrow isolates them. Anything that anyone says is almost guaranteed to be the wrong thing.
 Jokes and cute anecdotes only wound; kindly advice is received as if it were a slap in the face. Family conversations are shaped by a spastic pattern of recrimination and apology, of irritation and misdirected comfort. This rueful awkwardness is only enhanced by the unexpected appearance of the high school student, Jason (John Gallagher Jr.), who was driving the car that killed Danny.
 This may sound like the stuff of blistering confrontations. Yet ''Rabbit Hole'' is, by and large, a quiet play. Mr. Sullivan's masterly, cadenced production is filled with the silent ceremonial bustle and surface numbness that Emily Dickinson describes in her poems about houses where someone has recently died. Yet the internal despair of each character is always, unmistakably visible. It's as if every ensemble member were made of a glass that magnifies all thoughts and sensations within.
 Ms. Nixon, always an actress of rare integrity, astonishes here with the pure eloquence of her restraint. You never feel that you're watching an actress strategically working the brakes; instead, you believe that it's the control-craving Becca who is keeping her emotions on such a tight rein. This is achieved without the usual signals of folded lips and clenched hands. Ms. Nixon is too good to signal. Like all first-class magicians, she achieves her artistry invisibly.
 The same can be said of the rest of the cast. Note the stunning resourcefulness and economy of Mr. Slattery's two scenes in front of a television set, on which Howie watches videotapes of Danny. Consider the forms of discomfort Mr. Gallagher conveys without moving from the corner of a sofa. Or the way Ms. Garrison's effervescent Izzy is so clearly waging an unending battle with her desire to be the center of attention.
 Whether in television (''Judging Amy'') or theater (''Gypsy''), Ms. Daly is one of the finest American actresses working. She enfolds the vulgar, overbearing Nat in a compassionate embrace that avoids condescension and exaggeration. Mr. Lindsay-Abaire has given Nat the play's most beguilingly off-center dialogue. (Her monologue on ''the Kennedy curse'' is priceless.) But Ms. Daly never simply plays the comedy instead of the character.
 Such turns of plot as there are in ''Rabbit Hole'' are, in description, cliches, involving sibling jealousy, conjugal estrangement, the rivalry of grief and the urge to blame. And while the play probably ends the only way it could, given Mr. Lindsay-Abaire's obvious love for his characters, its conclusion doesn't take you anywhere that you haven't anticipated. As beautifully observed as ''Rabbit Hole'' is, it never rises to the shock of greatness.
 But as embodied by Ms. Nixon, the self-contained, order-obsessed Becca may offer more immediate catharsis to contemporary theatergoers than more grandly bereaved mothers like Medea and Mary Tyrone. At one point, Nat, helping Becca clear out Danny's room, picks up a tiny sneaker and freezes. ''Don't,'' says Becca, without looking up. ''Quick and clean, like a Band-Aid. Otherwise, we'd never get through it.''
 Anyone who has ever gone through the possessions of a deceased family member or close friend understands instantly the crispness of Becca's tone. But without even flinching, Ms. Nixon makes it clear that the wound beneath the Band-Aid never really stops hurting. Nat, who lost a son of her own, says as much later in the scene. But the cast has already let us know this with an expressiveness that -- like great sorrow -- is beyond words.

Rabbit Hole

By David Lindsay-Abaire; directed by Daniel Sullivan; sets by John Lee Beatty; costumes by Jennifer von Mayrhauser; lighting by Christopher Akerland; original music and sound design by John Gromada; production stage manager, Roy Harris; director of artistic operations, Mandy Greenfield; production manager, Ryan McMahon; director of development, Jill Turner Lloyd; director of marketing, Debra A. Waxman; general manager, Florie Seery; director of artistic development, Paige Evans; director of artistic production, Michael Bush. Presented by Manhattan Theater Club, Lynne Meadow, artistic director; Barry Grove, executive producer. At the Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street; (212) 239-6200. Running time: 2 hours 10 minutes.

WITH: Cynthia Nixon (Becca), Mary Catherine Garrison (Izzy), John Slattery (Howie), Tyne Daly (Nat) and John Gallagher Jr. (Jason).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cynthia Nixon as Becca and John Slattery as Howie, grieving parents in Manhattan Theater Club's production of David Lindsay-Abaire's new play, ''Rabbit Hole.'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg.E1)
 Cynthia Nixon, left, and Tyne Daly in ''Rabbit Hole,'' at the Biltmore. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); CELEBRITIES (70%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); THEATER (58%) Theater; Reviews

PERSON: Ben Brantley; David Lindsay-Abaire; Daniel Sullivan; Cynthia Nixon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



53 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE LISTINGS: FEB. 3-FEB. 9; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 15567 words

 BODY:

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.

 Previews and Openings

'CONFESSIONS OF A MORMON BOY' Opens Sunday. Not many people can claim to be both a gay New York escort and a straight Utah Mormon in the same lifetime. Steven Fales tells his unusual life story (1:30). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Varick Street; (212) 691-1555. 


'KISMET' Performances start Thursday. Closes Feb. 12. Encores! 2006 season begins with this 1953 musical set in a mythical Baghdad and featuring a score adapted from the melodies of Alexander Borodin (2:00). City Center, 131 West 55th Street; (212) 581-1212.

'RED LIGHT WINTER' Opens Thursday. Throw two men, a prostitute and one Amsterdam evening into an Adam Rapp drama, and you may well have some trouble. Variety calls it Mr. Rapp's ''most commercial outing'' (2:25). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village; (212) 239-6200.

'THE RIGHT KIND OF PEOPLE' Opens Thursday. A grumpy Charles Grodin delves into the dark, mysterious world of Manhattan co-op boards in this Primary Stages comedy (1:30). 59E59, 59 East 59th Street; (212) 279-4200.

'BAREFOOT IN THE PARK' Opens Feb. 16. Patrick Wilson and Amanda Peet star in Neil Simon's classic romantic comedy about New York newlyweds (2:20). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street; (212) 239-6200.

'CLEAN ALTERNATIVES' Previews start Thursday. Opens Feb. 15. A comedy by Brian Dykstra about a woman who must choose between taking a check or saving the environment. Or doing both (2:00). 59E59 Theaters , 59 East 59th Street; (212) 279-4200.

'DEFIANCE' Previews start Thursday. Opens Feb. 28. Set on a Marine Corps base during the 1970's, John Patrick Shanley's new play, his first since ''Doubt,'' revolves around an explosive incident between an African-American marine and a white one. Doug Hughes directs (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club, Theater 1, 131 West 55th Street; (212) 581-1212.

'FANNY HILL' Opens Feb. 14. A musical based on the 18th-century novel about a country girl who moves to London to become a prostitute (2:00). York Theater, at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, 619 Lexington Avenue, at East 54th Street; (212) 868-4444.

'I LOVE YOU BECAUSE' Opens Feb. 14. Mr. Darcy becomes Marcy in this gender-switching musical retelling of ''Pride and Prejudice,'' which stars Stephane D'Abruzzo from ''Avenue Q'' (2:00). Village Theater, 158 Bleecker Street, near Sullivan Street, East Village; (212) 307-4100.

'INDOOR/OUTDOOR' Opens Feb. 22. The playwright Kenny Finkle aims for the cat lover demographic in this relationship comedy about a computer programmer and his chatty feline companion (1:50). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Flatiron district; (212) 239-6200.

'JUMP/CUT' Opens Feb. 12. Neena Beber's cinematic, dry play about the love triangle of two aspiring filmmakers and a manic-depressive was a hit in Washington. Leigh Silverman directs (2:10). Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, Clinton; (212) 239-6200.

'THE LIEUTENANT OF INISHMORE' Previews start Wednesday. Opens Feb. 27. Dead pets, severed limbs, black Irish humor -- Martin McDonagh (''Pillowman'') is up to his old tricks in this devilish comedy about terrorism and torture (1:45). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea; (212) 239-6200.

'THE PAJAMA GAME' Opens Feb. 23. Labor unrest leads to romance in this classic musical about a manager and a union representative at a pajama factory. Harry Connick Jr. stars, and Kathleen Marshall directs (2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street; (212) 719-1300.

'RING OF FIRE' Previews start Wednesday. Opens March 12. Johnny Cash hits form the backbone of this musical about three couples. So far, it's received surprisingly good buzz. Richard Maltby Jr. directs (2:00). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street; (212) 239-6200.

'THE SEVEN' Opens Feb. 12. The hip-hop theater pioneer Will Power's large-cast adaptation of Aeschylus' ''Seven Against Thebes.'' Jo Bonney directs (2:00). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village; (212) 239-6200.

'SOLDIER'S WIFE' Previews start Tuesday. Opens Feb. 23. The Mint Theater revives another forgotten drama, Rose Franken's romantic comedy from the 1940's set against the backdrop of World War II (2:00). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton; (212) 315-0231.

'THE WOODEN BREEKS' Opens Feb. 15. MCC Theater presents Glen Berger's gothic fairy tale set in the fictitious Scottish town of Brood (2:00). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village; (212) 279-4200.

Broadway

* 'BRIDGE & TUNNEL' This delightful solo show written and performed by Sarah Jones is a sweet-spirited valentine to New York City, its polyglot citizens and the larger notion of an all-inclusive America. In 90 minutes of acutely observed portraiture gently tinted with humor, Ms. Jones plays more than a dozen men and women participating in an open-mike evening of poetry for immigrants (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'CHITA RIVERA: THE DANCER'S LIFE' At 72, Ms. Rivera still has the voice, the attitude and -- oh, yes -- the legs to magnetize all eyes in an audience. If the singing scrapbook of a show that surrounds her is less than electric, there is no denying the electricity of the woman at its center (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' So much plot, so many years, so many characters to cram into less than three hours. This beat-the-clock musical adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prizewinning novel about Southern black women finding their inner warriors never slows down long enough for you to embrace it. LaChanze leads the vibrant, hard-working cast (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' On paper this musical tale of two mismatched scam artists has an awful lot in common with ''The Producers.'' But if you are going to court comparison with giants, you had better be prepared to stand tall. ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels,'' starring Jonathan Pryce and Norbert Leo Butz, never straightens out of a slouch (2:35). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'DOUBT, A PARABLE' (Pulitzer Prize, Best Play 2005, and Tony Award, Best Play 2005) Set in the Bronx in 1964, this play by John Patrick Shanley is structured as a clash of wills and generations between Sister Aloysius (Eileen Atkins), the head of a parochial school, and Father Flynn (Ron Eldard), the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge. The play's elements bring to mind those tidy topical melodramas that were once so popular. But Mr. Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions (1:30). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped bio-musical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many-flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE ODD COUPLE' Odd is not the word for this couple. How could an adjective suggesting strangeness or surprise apply to a production so calculatedly devoted to the known, the cozy, the conventional? As the title characters in Neil Simon's 1965 comedy, directed as if to a metronome by Joe Mantello, Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick reprise their star performances from ''The Producers,'' and it's not a natural fit. Don't even consider killing yourself because the show is already sold out (2:10). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street; (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2005) This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence has found a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SWEENEY TODD' Sweet dreams, New York. This thrilling new revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's musical, with Michael Cerveris and Patti LuPone leading a cast of 10 who double as their own musicians, burrows into your thoughts like a campfire storyteller who knows what really scares you. The inventive director John Doyle aims his pared-down interpretation at the squirming child in everyone who wants to have his worst fears both confirmed and dispelled (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did on Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'THE WOMAN IN WHITE' Bravely flouting centuries of accepted scientific theory, the creators of this adaptation of Wilkie Collins's spine tingler have set out to prove that the world is flat, after all. This latest offering from Andrew Lloyd Webber, directed by Trevor Nunn, seems to exist entirely in two dimensions, from its computer-generated backdrops to its decorative chess-piece-like characters (2:50). Judy Kuhn replaces Maria Friedman from Feb. 14 through March 26. Marquis Theater, 211 West 45th Street; (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

* 'ABIGAIL'S PARTY' Scott Elliott's thoroughly delectable production of Mike Leigh's 1977 comedy about domestic discord among the British middle classes. Jennifer Jason Leigh leads a superb ensemble cast as a party hostess who wields the gin bottle like a deadly weapon, resulting in an evening of savagely funny chaos (2:15). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton; (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

* 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 4, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton; (212) 239-6200.(Isherwood)

'ALMOST, MAINE' John Cariani's comedy comprises almost a dozen two-character vignettes exploring the sudden thunderclap of love and the scorched earth that sometimes follows. It will evoke either ''awww's'' or ''ick's,'' depending on your affection for its whimsical approach to the joys and perils of romance (2:00). Daryl Roth Theater, 101 East 15th Street, Flatiron district; (212) 239-6200.(Isherwood)

'BEAUTY OF THE FATHER' A crisp outline of the Pulitzer Prizewinner Nilo Cruz's new play suggests the crazy-quilt melodramas of early Almodovar: Father and daughter are attracted to the same sexy bad boy, igniting all manner of emotional fireworks. But Mr. Cruz's reflective, unhurried pace and his meandering, lyrical dialogue allow his fuses to burn a little too long, resulting in more fizzle than flash (2:10). Manhattan Theater Club, at City Center, Stage II, 131 West 55th Street; (212) 581-1212. (Isherwood)

'BINGO' Play bingo, munch on popcorn and watch accomplished actors freshen up a stale musical about game night (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton; (212) 239-6200. (Jason Zinoman)

'CANDIDA' The two men -- David Tillistrand as Candida's husband, and Danaher Dempsey as the sniveling poet who falls under her spell -- aren't strong enough to make this a great ''Candida,'' but Shaw's insights still shine a century after he wrote the play, and the director, Michael Halberstam, manages to draw some good laughs in the third act (1:55). Jean Cocteau Repertory, at the Bouwerie Lane Theater, 330 Bowery Lane, at Bond Street, East Village; (212) 279-4200. (Neil Genzlinger)

'DOG SEES GOD: CONFESSIONS OF A TEENAGE BLOCKHEAD' The ''Peanuts'' characters grow up, do drugs and have sex in this dark, disposable parody. Good grief (1:30). Century Center for the Performing Arts, 111 East 15th Street, Flatiron district; (212) 239-6200. (Zinoman)

'DRUMSTRUCK' This noisy novelty is a mixed blessing. Providing a two-foot drum on every seat, it offers an opportunity to exorcise aggressions by delivering a good beating, and, on a slightly more elevated level, it presents a superficial introduction to African culture, lessons in drumming and 90 minutes of nonstop music, song and dancing by a good-natured cast. So, while literally and figuratively giving off many good vibes, it adds up to lightweight entertainment that stops just short of pulverizing the eardrums (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 2, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton; (212) 239-6200. (Lawrence Van Gelder)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'FUNNYHOUSE OF A NEGRO' Adrienne Kennedy's one-act nightmare from 1964, about a young black woman obsessed with whiteness, is still innovative theater, but it also plays as a period piece, making it doubly interesting (50 minutes). Harlem School of the Arts, 645 St. Nicholas Avenue, near 141st Street, Hamilton Heights; (212) 868-4444. (Genzlinger)

'HECUBA' At an intermissionless 90 minutes, this rendition of Euripides' tragedy is fairly painless -- though that's not necessarily a good thing (1:30). Pearl Theater Company, at Theater 80, 80 St. Mark's Place, East Village; (212) 598-9802. (Genzlinger)

'INFERTILITY' A harmless, insubstantial and highly amplified musical about the struggles of five people hoping to become parents (1:20). Dillon's, 245 West 54th Street; (212) 868-4444. (Zinoman)

* 'IN THE CONTINUUM' Danai Gurira and Nikkole Salter are both the authors and the performers of this smart, spirited and disarmingly funny show about two women: one a middle-class mother in Zimbabwe, the other a 19-year-old at loose ends in Los Angeles whose lives are upended by HIV diagnoses. Emphatically not a downer (1:30). Perry Street Theater, 31 Perry Street, Greenwich Village; (212) 868-4444. (Isherwood)

* 'THE LITTLE DOG LAUGHED' Lean, mean and about as deep as a shot glass, Diane the Hollywood agent is just the tonic New York theatergoers need in the depths of an urban winter. Played by Julie White in an irresistible adrenaline rush of a performance, Diane is the arch-manipulator in Douglas Carter Beane's tangy fable of fame and its discontents, directed by Scott Ellis. With Neal Huff as a closeted Hollywood star, and Johnny Galecki as the rent boy who loves him (2:10). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton; (212) 246-4422. (Brantley)

'LOVELY DAY' Tiresome evening (1:15). Beckett Theater, Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton; (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

* 'MRS. WARREN'S PROFESSION' An absolutely splendid Dana Ivey takes the title role in Charlotte Moore's sensitively acted production of Bernard Shaw's famously provocative play, which is celebrating its 100th anniversary on the New York stage this year (2:20). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea; (212) 727-2737. (Isherwood)

'RFK' This solo show written and starring Jack Holmes is a reasonably accurate historical portrait, but the performance, unfortunately, lacks the charisma and charm that made the real Bobby Kennedy a star (1:35). Culture Project @ 45 Bleecker, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village; (212) 253-9983. (Jonathan Kalb)

* 'THE TRIP TO BOUNTIFUL' Led by Lois Smith in a heart-wrenching performance, the cast never strikes a false note in Harris Yulin's beautifully mounted revival of Horton Foote's drama, finding an emotional authenticity in a work largely remembered as a tear-jerking chestnut. This is not to say you should neglect to bring handkerchiefs (1:50). Signature Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton; (212) 244-7529. (Brantley)

Off Off Broadway

* 'APARTMENT 3A' Jeff Daniels's romance about a woman who lost her faith is written with wit, conviction and a real affection for its characters (1:30). Arclight Theater, 152 West 71st Street; (212) 352-0255. (Zinoman)

'BELLY OF A DRUNKEN PIANO' In this splendidly imperfect cabaret, Stewart D'Arrietta howls and growls convincingly through Tom Waits's three-decade song catalog, backed by a snappy trio. His patter and his piano playing are variable, but Mr. D'Arrietta makes a genial tour guide through Mr. Waits's wee-hours world (1:45). Huron Club at SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Varick Street, (212) 691-1555. (Rob Kendt)

* 'MAJOR BANG OR: HOW I LEARNED TO STOP WORRYING AND LOVE THE DIRTY BOMB' This disarming exercise in political cabaret demonstrates that laughter in the dark need not be desperate. Written by Kirk Lynn, this multilevel, multiform tale of nuclear anxiety resurrects the sane, inquisitive satiric spirit of the early 1960's, a time when irony was a strategic tool instead of a conditioned reflex. Paul Lazar directs Steve Cuiffo and Maggie Hoffman in a multitude of roles (1:10). St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water Street, at Dock Street, Brooklyn; (718) 254-8779. (Brantley)

'SAFETY' A cynical, contrived portrayal of the life of a war photographer that attacks its subject with a heavy hand (1:25). Urban Stages, 259 West 30th Street; (212) 868-4444. (Zinoman).

* 'ZOMBOID! (FILM/PERFORMANCe PROJECT #1)' O, the heresy of it! Richard Foreman has introduced film into the realm of exquisitely artificial, abstract theater in which he has specialized for four decades. As it turns out, juxtaposing two art forms allows Mr. Foreman to underscore in resonant new ways what he has been saying for years: reality is, well, relative. And he continues to work in a style guaranteed to infect your perceptions for hours after (1:15). Ontological-Hysteric Theater, 131 East 10th Street, East Village; (212) 352-3101. (Brantley)

Long-Running Shows

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street; (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street; (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street; (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street; (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street; (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street; (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin are stirring up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 307-4100.(Van Gelder)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street; (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'HARVEST' Manjula Padmanabhan's sci-fi parable is a dark fantasy about a high-tech racket in body organs -- a cross between the 2002 thriller ''Dirty Pretty Things'' and an episode of ''The Twilight Zone.'' Based in Delhi, India, Ms. Padmanabhan wrote the play in 1996; this is its New York premiere (1:25). La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village; (212) 475-7710; closing Sunday. (Phoebe Hoban)

* '(I AM) NOBODY'S LUNCH' The elusive nature of truth in a culture swamped with stuff that looks, sounds and smells like information -- but may be something a little more suspicious -- is the serious subject of this merrily unserious, vaudevillian romp through the anxious chatter of contemporary America. Snappy, scrappy and performed with a youthful blend of earnestness and deadpan razzmatazz by the buzzed-about downtown troupe the Civilians (1:30). 59E59, 59 East 59th Street; (212) 279-4200; closing Sunday. (Isherwood)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'ANNAPOLIS' (PG-13, 108 minutes) ''Annapolis'' is so gung-ho about the United States Naval Academy's ability to turn boys into fighting men and rebels into scrappy team players that it could easily be confused with a military recruiting film. (Stephen Holden)

'BIG MOMMA'S HOUSE 2' (PG-13, 98 minutes) Martin Lawrence is back in fat-lady drag in this inconsequential sequel for undemanding moviegoers. Mr. Lawrence makes the most of the incongruity of a manly F.B.I. agent posing as a nanny in floral-print dresses, but the humor doesn't go much beyond oversize underwear and a tequila-drinking dog. (Anita Gates)

* 'BROKEBACK MOUNTAIN' (R, 134 minutes) Annie Proulx's heartbreaking story of two ranch hands who fall in love while herding sheep in 1963 has been faithfully translated onto the screen in Ang Lee's landmark film. Heath Ledger (in a great performance worthy of Brando at his peak) and Jake Gyllenhaal bring them fully alive. (Holden)

* 'BUBBLE' (R, 72 minutes) A rigorously minimalist story about three factory workers, all played by nonprofessionals, whose placid existence is shattered after two in the little group become romantically linked. Violence liberates the three from the bubble of their existence, much as creative experimentation has periodically liberated the movie's director, Steven Soderbergh, from the prison of commercial mainstream filmmaking. (Manohla Dargis)

* 'CACHE (HIDDEN)' (R, 121 minutes, in French) Michael Haneke, one of the most elegantly sadistic European directors working today, deposits his audience at the intersection of voyeurism and paranoia in this tense, politically tinged psychological thriller about vengeance and injustice. Juliette Binoche and Daniel Auteuil are in top form as an affluent Parisian couple menaced by mysterious drawings and videotapes. (A. O. Scott)

* 'CASANOVA' (R, 110 minutes) Heath Ledger affirms his status as the pansexual art-house heartthrob of the moment in this high-spirited farce suggested by the career of 18th-century Venice's most notorious seducer. Silly, sly and delightful. (Scott)

'END OF THE SPEAR' (PG-13, 112 minutes) This fact-based story of conflict and resolution between a primitive warrior tribe in Ecuador and North American missionaries in the mid-1950's is inspiring enough to make you wish that the sentimental excesses of this Kiplingesque tale had been reined in. (Holden)

'GLORY ROAD' (PG, 109 minutes) The true story, more or less, of the 1966 Texas Western College basketball team -- the first all-black starting five to play in an N.C.A.A. final. By the numbers, but inspiring all the same. (Scott)

* 'GOOD NIGHT, AND GOOD LUCK.' (PG, 90 minutes) George Clooney, with impressive rigor and intelligence, examines the confrontation between the CBS newsman Edward R. Murrow (a superb David Strathairn) and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy (himself). Plunging you into a smoky, black-and-white world of political paranoia and commercial pressure, the film is a history lesson and a passionate essay on power, responsibility and the ethics of journalism. (Scott)

* 'HARRY POTTER AND THE GOBLET OF FIRE' (PG-13, 150 minutes) Childhood ends for the young wizard with the zigzag scar in the latest addition to the Potter saga, even as the director Mike Newell keeps its British eccentricity, fatalism and steady-on pluck irresistibly intact. (Dargis)

'HOODWINKED' (PG, 81 minutes) Little Red Riding Hood is deconstructed in this sub-''Shrek'' bummer, the latest collaboration between computers and cynicism. (Nathan Lee)

'HOSTEL' (R, 95 minutes) Two ugly Americans rampage through Europe before finding themselves ensnared in an underground Slovakian snuff club. The calculated outrages of this brutal exploitation film prove less shocking than its relentless bigotry. (Lee)

'IMAGINE ME & YOU' (R, 93 minutes) A bland romance from the British writer and director Ol Parker about a woman (Piper Perabo) who's fast-tracking down the straight and narrow when the florist-next-door (Lena Headey) throws up a roadblock. (Dargis) * 'KING KONG' (PG-13, 180 minutes) Peter Jackson's remake is, almost by definition, too much -- too long, too big, too stuffed with characters and effects-driven set pieces -- but it is also remarkably nimble and sweet. Going back to the Depression-era setting of the 1933 original, Mr. Jackson's film is as much a tribute to the old seat-of-the-pants spirit of early motion pictures as it is an exercise in technological bravura. Naomi Watts as the would-be movie star Ann Darrow and Andy Serkis as the big monkey who loves her have a rapport that gives the spectacle the pathos and sweetness it needs, and help to turn a brute spectacle into a pop tragedy. (Scott)

'LA PETITE JERUSALEM' (No rating, 96 minutes, in French and Hebrew) In her sensitive but overly schematic debut feature, the filmmaker Karin Albou reflects on the lives of two women living in an Orthodox Jewish enclave in a Parisian banlieue. (Lee)

'THE LAST HOLIDAY' (PG-13, 112 minutes) Based on a 1950 British film, Wayne Wang's comedy about a gentle soul who learns to live only after learning of her imminent death is one of those generic wish-fulfillment flicks in which the soul in question actualizes her goals through perseverance and pluck. The star Queen Latifah charms, but even she can't gold-plate junk. (Dargis)

* 'MANDERLAY' (R, 138 minutes) To warm to ''Manderlay,'' the chilly second installment of the Danish filmmaker Lars von Trier's yet-to-be-completed three-part Brechtian allegory examining American history, you must be willing to tolerate the derision and moral arrogance of a snide European intellectual thumbing his nose at American barbarism. Those willing to endure his scorn are in for a bracing satire of the legacy of slavery in the United States. (Holden)

* 'MATCH POINT' (R, 124 minutes) Woody Allen's best in years, and one of his best ever. Beneath the dazzling, sexy surface, this tale of social climbing in London (brilliantly acted by Jonathan Rhys-Meyers, Scarlett Johansson and Emily Mortimer) is ice cold and pitch black, which curiously enough makes it a superior diversion. (Scott)

'THE MATADOR' (R, 96 minutes) Pithy remarks put into the mouth of a star (Pierce Brosnan) playing against type impart a greasy sheen of sophistication to this weightless, amoral romp about a professional hit man facing a midlife crisis. (Holden)

'MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA' (PG-13, 144 minutes) Think ''As the Geisha Turns,'' with devious rivals, swoonworthy swains, a jaw-dropping dance number recycled from Madonna's Drowned World tour and much clinching, panting and scheming. Directed by Rob Marshall from the Arthur Golden book, and starring Ziyi Zhang, Gong Li and Michelle Yeoh. (Dargis)

* 'MUNICH' (R, 164 minutes) With his latest, Steven Spielberg forgoes the emotional bullying and pop thrills that come so easily to him to tell the story of a campaign of vengeance that Israel purportedly brought against Palestinian terrorists in the wake of the 1972 Olympics. An unsparingly brutal look at two peoples all but drowning in a sea of their own blood, ''Munich'' is by far the toughest film of the director's career, and the most anguished. (Dargis)

'NANNY McPHEE' (PG, 99 minutes) In the endearing but somewhat scatterbrained British film ''Nanny McPhee,'' Emma Thompson creates an indelible character reminiscent of the pre-Disney Mary Poppins working benign magic to shape up an unruly brood of children. (Holden)

* 'PRIDE & PREJUDICE' (PG, 128 minutes) In this sumptuous, extravagantly romantic adaptation of Jane Austen's 1813 novel, Keira Knightley's Elizabeth Bennet exudes a radiance that suffuses the movie. This is a banquet of high-end comfort food perfectly cooked and seasoned to Anglophilic tastes. (Holden)

'THE PRODUCERS' (PG-13, 127 minutes) At a fraction of the Broadway ticket price, it's no bargain. (Scott)

'ROVING MARS' (G, 40 minutes) Mars. IMAX. If you want to grow up to be an astronaut, prepare to bliss out. (Lee)

* 'SYRIANA' (R, 122 minutes) Ambitious, angry and complicated, Stephen Gaghan's second film tackles terrorism, American foreign policy, global trade and the oil business through four interwoven stories. There are at least a half-dozen first-rate performances, and Mr. Gaghan, who wrote and directed, reinvents the political thriller as a vehicle for serious engagement with the state of the world. (Scott)

'TAMARA' (R, 98 minutes) Low in budget as well as ambition, this ''Carrie'' knockoff is a movie of few innovations but one genuine surprise: the inability of the title character, an evil sorceress, to manage in high heels. (Lee)'THE TOLLBOOTH' (No rating, 85 minutes) In ''The Tollbooth,'' 22-year-old Sarabeth Cohen (Marla Sokoloff) narrates the travails of her Jewish American family and her own coming of age. Written and directed with overwhelming earnestness by Debra Kirschner, the movie presents a sincere attempt to address the opposing tugs of tradition and modernity, but is undermined by dated dialogue and a reliance on stereotype. Would a modern Jewish mother really insist that a daughter's lesbianism was a reaction to overwork? (Jeannette Catsoulis)

'TRANSAMERICA' (R, 103 minutes) Felicity Huffman's performance as a preoperative transsexual on a cross-country journey with her long-lost son is sensitive and convincing, and helps the picture rise above its indie road-picture cliches. (Scott)

* 'TRISTRAM SHANDY: A COCK AND BULL STORY' (R, 91 minutes) Michael Winterbottom both confirms and refutes the assumption that Laurence Sterne's 18th-century masterpiece of digression could never be made into a movie by making a movie about the making of such a movie. Steve Coogan is wonderful as Tristram, Tristram's father and himself, though Rob Brydon steals more than a few of Mr. Coogan's scenes. (Scott)

'WALK THE LINE' (PG-13, 138 minutes) Johnny Cash gets the musical biopic treatment in this moderately entertaining, never quite convincing chronicle of his early years. Joaquin Phoenix, sweaty, inarticulate and intense as Cash, is upstaged by Reese Witherspoon, who tears into the role of June Carter (Cash's creative partner long before she became his second wife) with her usual charm, pluck and intelligence. (Scott)

'UNDERWORLD: EVOLUTION' (R, 106 minutes) In this sequel to ''Underworld'' (2003), the writer and director Len Wiseman and the writer Danny McBride pick up the story of the vampire Selene (Kate Beckinsale) and the vampire/werewolf hybrid Michael (Scott Speedman) as they race to prevent the release of an imprisoned uber-werewolf. With leads who strain to manage one facial expression between them, and a cinematographer who shoots everything through the same steel-blue filter, ''Underworld: Evolution'' is little more than a monotonous barrage of computer-generated fur and fangs. (Catsoulis)

'YOURS, MINE AND OURS' (PG, 90 minutes) Dennis Quaid and Rene Russo inhabit roles originated by Henry Fonda and Lucille Ball in this snug, airtight remake of the 1968 comedy about the combining of two antagonistic families with 18 children between them. Cutesy unreality prevails. (Holden)

Film Series

ANOTHER SPANISH CINEMA: FILMS IN CATALUNYA 1906-2006 (Through Feb. 14) The Film Society of Lincoln Center's retrospective of Catalan film continues this weekend with Antoni Ribas's ''Burned City'' (1976), one of the first Catalan-language films released after the death of Franco; and Vicente Aranda's ''Fata Morgana'' (1965-67), a Barcelona School collage that includes Pop Art, performance art and images from Richard Lester's Beatles movies. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5600; $10. (Gates)

DOCUMENTARY FORTNIGHT EXPANDED (Through March 13.) The Museum of Modern Art's exhibition of contemporary nonfiction films runs five weeks this year. It begins on Thursday with three films set in Iraq: ''The Tenth Planet, a Single Life in Baghdad'' (2004), Melis Birder's portrait of a secretary's everyday life; ''Terror'' (2005), the Termite TV Collective's visual essays about the current war; and ''The Liberace of Baghdad'' (2004), Sean McAllister's portrait of Samir Peter, a concert pianist reduced to playing in a hotel bar. 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

FASSBINDER (Through Feb. 26) IFC Center's Weekend Classics Program honoring Rainer Werner Fassbinder (1946-82) continues this weekend with ''The Bitter Tears of Petra van Kant'' (1972), his drama about an arrogant fashion designer (Margit Carstensen) who falls in love with a model (Hanna Schygulla). 323 Avenue of the Americas, at West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771; $10.75. (Gates)

FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Through Feb. 12) This year the theme of the Museum of the Moving Image and the New York Film Critics Circle's series is the experience of being a stranger in a strange land. This weekend's films include two stories set in Paris. ''The Last Flight'' (1931), selected by Lou Lumenick, is William Dieterle's Lost Generation drama about American fliers in France just after World War I. Ernst Lubitsch's ''Ninotchka'' (1939), selected by Leah Rozen, stars Greta Garbo as a stern Russian comrade seduced by everything Parisian. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077; $10. (Gates)

KARLOFF (Through Thursday) Film Forum's 14-movie festival honoring the great horror star Boris Karloff (1887-1969) begins this weekend with two double features. James Whale's ''Frankenstein'' (1931), starring Karloff as the monster, and Charles Brabin's ''Mask of Fu Manchu'' (1932), with Myrna Loy as co-star, will be shown today and tomorrow. Whale's tongue-in-cheek sequel ''Bride of Frankenstein'' (1935) and Karl Freund's tale of the return of Imhotep, ''The Mummy'' (1932), play on Sunday. 209 West Houston Street, South Village, (212) 727-8110; $10. (Gates)

NEW YORK 10th SEPHARDIC JEWISH FILM FESTIVAL (Through Wednesday) The American Sephardi Federation, Sephardic House and the Yeshiva University Museum sponsor this event. Films include Radu Mihaileanu's ''Live and Become'' (2004), about an Ethiopian boy adopted by a Moroccan Israeli family; Ademir Kenovic's ''Secret Passage'' (2004), set in 16th-century Venice; Ed Askinazi's documentary ''The Last Greeks on Broome Street'' (2004); and Vittorio De Sica's Oscar-winning World War II drama, ''The Garden of the Finzi-Continis'' (1970). Center for Jewish History, 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron district, (917) 606-8200; $10; $8 for members. (Gates)

RECENT FILMS FROM SWEDEN (Through Feb. 22) Scandinavia House's program of Swedish features begins with Maria Blom's ''Dalecarlians'' (2004), about three sisters celebrating their father's 70th birthday, and Lea Farmlohde's ''Completely Mad'' (2005), about married actors starring in Strindberg's ''Miss Julie.'' 58 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 879-9779; $8. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

THE ACADEMY IS , PANIC! AT THE DISCO, ACCEPTANCE, HELLOGOODBYE (Wednesday) Both the Chicago emo band the Academy Is and Panic! at the Disco were discovered by the pop-punk hitmakers Fall Out Boy. Both play a similar sort of anthemic, stop-start rock, the Academy Is boasting a histrionic front man, and Panic! at the Disco employing drum-machine mechanics. Acceptance and Hellogoodbye also play. 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; $16.50 (sold out). (Laura Sinagra)

BABY LOVES DISCO, THE RUB (Tomorrow) Because it's important to introduce your hipster child to good clubs and good music very early, the eclectic hip-hop, funk and global beat mavens DJ Ayres and Cosmo Baker spin a family-friendly afternoon play-date set. Later, they kick the kiddies out and proceed with their monthly dance party called the Rub. 2 to 5 p.m. (Baby Loves Disco), Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236; $10 ($40 family rate, limit of 5 people). The Rub begins at 10 p.m.; $5 for women; $10 for men. (Sinagra)

GLENN BRANCA'S HALLUCINATION CITY: SYMPHONY 13 FOR 100 GUITARS (Tomorrow) One way to hear music is as a convergence of physics and psychology, exploring the ways certain wave forms affect human perception. Since the 1980's, Glenn Branca has been investigating the subtleties of tunings and overtones, creating instruments and compositions that provide an eerie immersion in pure sound. A hundred guitars should make a mighty noise. 7:30 p.m., Montclair State University, Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair, N.J., (973) 655-5112; $25. (Jon Pareles)

BURNSIDE PROJECT (Wednesday) The Burnside Project plays its guitars in the intermittently splashing indie-rock style of the slacker 90's but uses electronic burbles beneath them. 8 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $8 in advance, $10 at the door. (Sinagra)

CALLA (Tomorrow) Burrowing into the dark corners of New Wave's shiny, happy side, the band Calla offers something more than brooding and vintage black couture. 8:30 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703; $10. (Sinagra)

BLUES FALLIN' DOWN LIKE RAIN: THE MUSIC OF ELIZABETH COTTEN (Wednesday) The guitarist and composer Elizabeth Cotten (1895-1983) added a new dimension to finger-picking blues guitar with her upside-down, left-handed playing on songs like ''Freight Train.'' Her music is honored here by the guitarists Taj Mahal, Mike Seeger, Jolie Holland and Carla Kihlstedt and Mark Orton. 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330; $35. (Sinagra)

A FLOCK OF SEAGULLS (Thursday) The former hairdresser Michael Score is etched in the minds of 80's MTV watchers as much for his sculpturally ambitious hairstyles as for songs like ''I Ran'' and the hit ''Wishing.'' He has less hair and new bandmates now. 8 p.m., Crash Mansion, 199 the Bowery, at Spring Street, Lower East Side, (212) 982-0740; $20. (Sinagra)

HACKENSAW BOYS (Tomorrow) The eight-member Virginia band Hackensaw Boys plays raw traditional bluegrass with lots of fast fiddling, banjoing, speedy stomps and ripe hollers. 8 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132; $12 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sinagra)

HEM (Thursday) Against an orchestral backdrop and acoustic guitars, Sally Ellyson whispers and coos Dan Messe's songs in muslin tones. It's a style that recalls dreamy early 90's indie Americana pop. 8:30 p.m., Allen Room, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, Broadway at 60th Street, (212) 258-9958; $20 to $45. (Sinagra)

HIGH ON FIRE (Tonight) This dark metal band's recent work with the producer Steve Albini highlights its precision. 9 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $15 in advance, $17 at the door (sold out). (Sinagra)

BILLY JOEL (Thursday) The piano man recently released a boxed set celebrating four decades of his music. From ''Just the Way You Are'' to ''Allentown,'' it's the trademark mix of real confidence and false bravado in both his playing and his delivery that keeps him compelling. 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741; $54 to $89.50 (sold out). (Sinagra)

THE JUAN MACLEAN (Tomorrow) These know-it-all hipster musicologists play electro disco that sounds like post-industrial slackers having a party in a junk shop, dancing freely. 9 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111 ; $15. (Sinagra)

DANIEL LANOIS (Tonight) The producer and atmospheric musician Daniel Lanois here showcases the soundtrack for his experimental film ''Silvio'' with a group that includes the vocalist Lori Anna Reid, the guitarist Jim Wilson and the drummer Brian Blade. 8:30, Zankel Hall at Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $30 and $35. (Sinagra)

JENNY LEWIS WITH THE WATSON TWINS (Sunday) The Rilo Kiley frontwoman Jenny Lewis's solo material is inspired by Laura Nyro-style 70's white soul. Her combination of school-recital fussiness and barely-caught cry is in fine form, but it's her vocal tone and phrasing that make her special. Especially here, where her pointy songbird desperation is augmented by gospel's Watson Twins. 7 p.m., Orensanz Center for the Arts, 172 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171; $20. (Sinagra)

LOW (Tonight and Monday) For more than a decade, this Duluth, Minn., trio has been writing storm-cloud songs that evoke expansive sadness and long, cold distance. Tonight at 8, Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236; $15 (sold out). Monday at 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111; $15. (Sinagra)

AIMEE MANN (Thursday) Ms. Mann's recent concept album about two addicts in the 70's who meet at the Virginia fairgrounds features the astute, sad lyrics and low-key but enduring melodic hooks that this singer-songwriter is known for. Chuck Prophet also plays. 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 840-2824; $25 to $35. (Sinagra)

RICKY MARTIN (Monday) This Puerto Rican pop superstar, who has been keeping a relatively low profile since his 90's heyday, returns to the spotlight. You wonder if he will incorporate any reggaeton into his act. 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-7171; $50.50 to $120.50.(Sinagra)

MATT POND P.A., DIOS (MALOS) (Tuesday) The band Matt Pond P.A. has lots of nicely formed indie-pop songs, none very memorable. Live, however, the band, which features a cello, delivers with a forceful crispness. Dios (Malos), a laid-back California quintet, plays shaggy indie-rock marked by questing vocals, dream-pop harmonies and a kind of acoustic-electronic psychedelia that conjures a couch daydream rather than a desert drive. 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side; (212) 533-2111; $13 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sinagra)

GEAROID OhALLMHURAIN AND PATRICK OURCEAU (Tonight) The University of Missouri professor and concertina player Gearoid OhAllmhurain specializes in the traditional songs of his native County Clare. He plays with a sometime collaborator, the French fiddler Patrick Ourceau. 9, Glucksman Ireland House at New York University, 1 Washington Mews, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-3950; $15 free to members and N.Y.U. students. (Sinagra)

RAIN (Tonight) Bi (pronounced Bee), the Korean soap-opera heartthrob and pan-Asian pop star whose name translates as Rain, has soaked up English-speaking pop, from Michael Jackson to Usher. He croons ballads, steps through dance tunes and even raps a little, all in Korean, and this concert is part of his long-term plan to add the United States to his fan base. 8:30, Theater at Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741; $60 to $150. (Pareles)

RACHEL SAGE (Thursday) This local singer-songwriter makes piano pop folk. 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778; $12 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sinagra)

JULIA SARR AND PATRICE LAROSE (Tuesday) The New York Guitar Festival brings to town the West African vocalist Julia Sarr and the guitarist Patrice Larose, who together make introspective music combining the Senegalese and flamenco traditions. 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778; $15. (Sinagra)

SIGUR ROS, AMINA (Thursday) The Icelandic atmospherists Sigur Ros continue to pursue the hope and dread of open expanse and to conjure with their sung gibberish a kind of ur-poetry. Amina is an all-female string quartet that similarly muses on vastness. 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, , (212) 465-6741; $38 to $58.50. (Sinagra)

Supergrass (Thursday) This buoyant, hooky mid-90's Brit-pop band had a sound more glammy than Oasis's and heftier than Blur's. By late in the decade, it was tired out, but now seems to have found a new conduit to the old excitement. 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 353-1600; $25. (Sinagra)

M. WARD (Tonight) The echoing guitar folk-pop songs of this singer-songwriter combine heartfelt campfire zeal with the ruminative sadness of midtempo 70's AM radio hits. His delicate ascents can also lilt upward into a cabaret falsetto reminiscent of Jeff Buckley's. 9 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505; $18.50. (Sinagra)

Cabaret

Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday) Even when swinging out, this Lady of a Thousand Songs remains an impressionist with special affinities for Thelonious Monk and bossa nova. 2 p.m., Oak Room, Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $55, including brunch at noon. (Stephen Holden)

ANNIE ROSS (Tomorrow) Cool, funny, swinging and indestructible, this 75-year-old singer and sometime actress exemplifies old-time hip in its most generous incarnation. 7 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133; $25, with a $12 minimum. (Holden)

* ELAINE STRITCH (Tonight and tomorrow night) Dispensing with her theatrical signature numbers, Ms. Stritch weaves 16 songs new to her repertory into a funny running monologue about her adventures in and out of show business. 8:45, Cafe Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600; $125; dinner, required, is served at 6:30; sold out. (Holden)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

LUCIAN BAN AND ASYMMETRY, ALEX HARDING AND BLUTOPIA (Wednesday) The Norwegian label Jazzaway, an increasingly potent outlet for experimentalism, showcases two ensembles with new releases: the pianist Lucian Ban, whose Asymmetry ensemble features the alto saxophonist Jorge Sylvester, the bassist Brad Jones and the drummer Derreck Phillips (in an early set); and the baritone saxophonist Alex Harding, whose Blutopia includes Mr. Ban, the drummer Nasheet Waits and Mr. Jones (in the late set). 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $20.(Nate Chinen)

SAM BARDFELD QUINTET (Wednesday) Mr. Bardfeld, a violinist with a wide-ranging resume, regroups the core musicians from his coolly evocative new album, ''Periodic Trespasses (The Saul Cycle)'' (Fresh Sound): the trumpeter Ron Horton, the vibraphonist Tom Beckham, the bassist Sean Conly and the drummer Satoshi Takeishi. 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover, $10. (Chinen)

JAMES CARNEY GROUP (Sunday) Mr. Carney is a worldly pianist and composer who usually arranges his music for five pieces; here he pares down to a trio, enlisting the flexible rhythm team of Chris Lightcap on bass and Mark Ferber on drums. 8 and 10 p.m., BAR 4, 444 Seventh Avenue, at 15th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 832-9800, www.bar4.net; cover, $5. (Chinen)

AVISHAI COHEN GROUP (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Cohen is an assertive and accomplished trumpeter with a taste for modernism; he performs here with the tenor saxophonist Mark Turner, the pianist Jason Lindner, the bassist Omer Avital and the drummer Greg Hutchinson. 9 and 10:30, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063; cover, $15. (Chinen)

MARK HELIAS'S OPEN LOOSE (Wednesday) Together with the tenor saxophonist Tony Malaby and the drummer Gerald Cleaver, the bassist-composer Mark Helias walks a line between form and freedom, confirming that there can be rigor in both. 8 and 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $10. (Chinen)

BARRY HARRIS TRIO (Tuesday through Feb. 12) A crisp and courtly pianist firmly in the bebop idiom, Mr. Harris appears with his longtime rhythm section, the drummer Leroy Williams and the bassist Earl May. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

* HIGHLIGHTS IN JAZZ (Thursday) This jazz series produced by Jack Kleinsinger celebrates its 33rd anniversary with some distinguished guests, including the trombonist Slide Hampton and the saxophonists Frank Wess and Jimmy Heath; the pianist Bill Charlap lends his superb trio as a rhythm section. 8 p.m., TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, 199 Chambers Street, between Greenwich and West Streets, (212) 220-1460; $30; $27.50 for students. (Chinen)

MARC JOHNSON'S SHADES OF JADE (Through Sunday) As he did on the recent album ''Shades of Jade'' (ECM), the bassist Marc Johnson works with the pianist Eliane Elias to produce a bated-breath luminescence; the effect is heightened by the sensitive contributions of Joe Lovano on tenor saxophone, and Joey Baron on drums. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set Fridays and Saturdays, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

LAGE LUND QUINTET (Thursday) Mr. Lund, the winner of last year's Thelonious Monk International Jazz Competition, is an introspective guitarist and a thoughtful composer; his supple ensemble features Seamus Blake on tenor saxophone and Aaron Parks on piano. 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212)242-1063; cover, $12. (Chinen)

ADAM MAKOWICZ TRIO (Wednesday through Feb. 11) Mr. Makowicz has been a powerful if sometimes elusive presence in jazz since moving to the United States from Poland nearly 30 years ago; his crystalline piano technique is well supported here by the drummer Al Foster and the bassist George Mraz. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

RUDRESH MAHANTHAPPA, MARK DRESSER, GERRY HEMINGWAY (Tonight) This is strenuous experimentalism, but not without a point: Mr. Mahanthappa's flinty alto saxophone tone should abrade effectively against Mr. Dresser's probing bass playing and Mr. Hemingway's textural percussion. 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $10. (Chinen)

MAHAVISHNU PROJECT (Wednesday) This single-minded repertory project, led by the accomplished drummer Gregg Bendian, pursues the visionary fusion of the Mahavishnu Orchestra; this one-night stand will revisit, in its entirety, music from ''The Inner Mounting Flame'' (Columbia/Legacy), a landmark album. 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

MIYA MASAOKA TRIO (Sunday) Ms. Masaoka brings an avant-garde sensibility to the koto, a Japanese zither; she also works with a laptop and with the cellist Okkyung Lee and the pianist Sylvie Courvoisier. 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

COOPER-MOORE (Sunday) Cooper-Moore is an extreme polyglot, even by avant-garde standards, as he demonstrates in two afternoon sets: first singing, manipulating electronics and playing percussion with the cellist Nioka Workman and the keyboardist Matt Motel; then playing piano and a host of other instruments, alongside Assif Tsahar on reeds and Chad Taylor on drums. 1:30 and 3 p.m., Clemente Soto Velez Cultural Center, 107 Suffolk Street, at Rivington Street, Lower East Side, (212) 696-6681; cover, $10 per set; $7 for students; free for children 14 and under. (Chinen)

NYNDK JAZZ COLLECTIVE (Wednesday) The New York-based trombonist Chris Washburne, the Norwegian saxophonist Ole Mathisen and the Danish pianist Soren Moller formed this pointedly cosmopolitan post-bop collective several years ago; its ranks have expanded to include the drummer Tony Moreno and the bassist Francois Moutin. 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319; cover, $7, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

MARTIN AND BUCKY PIZZARELLI (Monday) Warmth and wit are assured in this swing-centric family act, which stars Bucky Pizzarelli, the venerable jazz guitarist, and Martin, his bass-playing son. 7 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

RENEE ROSNES QUINTET (Tuesday through Feb. 12) Ms. Rosnes, a versatile and articulate pianist, pays homage to one of her early supporters, the saxophonist Joe Henderson; her quintet includes Jimmy Greene on tenor saxophone, Eddie Henderson on trumpet, Peter Washington on bass and Lewis Nash on drums. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set Fridays and Saturdays, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

JAKE SHIMABUKURO (Monday) Mr. Shimabukuro is an excitable fusion shredder whose instrument happens to be the ukulele; as on the recent album ''Dragon'' (Hitchhike), he performs with the bassist Dean Taba and the drummer Noel Okimoto, fellow natives of Hawaii. 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778; cover, $20, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)

DR. LONNIE SMITH TRIO (Through Sunday) Under Dr. Lonnie Smith's command, the Hammond B-3 organ can be subtly atmospheric or growlingly ecstatic; he sounds best in this format, with guitar and drums behind him. 8 and 10 p.m. and an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow night, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121; cover, $25 and $27.50, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

CECIL TAYLOR + 2: AHA 3 (Tuesday and Wednesday) Mr. Taylor, the leonine father figure of free-jazz piano, has lost none of his percussive fire, and he still takes satisfaction in a churning trio; this one features Albey Balgochian on bass and Jackson Krall on drums. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $35 at tables, and a $5 minimum or $20 at the bar, and a one-drink minimum.(Chinen)

KENNY WERNER'S COSMOCENTRIC (Through Sunday) Mr. Werner is a well-seasoned pianist who tempers fearsome technique with a kind of questing spiritualism; this aptly named ensemble consists of musicians with similar temperaments, like the trumpeter Kenny Wheeler, the saxophonist David Sanchez and the drummer Brian Blade. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $30 at tables, and a $5 minimum or $20 at the bar, and a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

* JOE WILDER QUARTET (Through Sunday) The trumpeter Joe Wilder, still playing well in his mid-80's, has had a wealth of professional experience both in and out of jazz. But he has only rarely led his own group in a New York club residency, which makes this quartet engagement -- with the pianist Michael Weiss, the bassist John Webber and the drummer Lewis Nash -- a sort of landmark event. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

MATT WILSON'S ARTS AND CRAFTS (Wednesday) Mr. Wilson, a boyishly mischievous drummer, includes sturdy originals alongside well-chosen covers in this buoyant ensemble with the trumpeter Terell Stafford, the pianist and organist Larry Goldings and the bassist Dennis Irwin. 8:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, at Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $42. (Chinen)

PETE ZIMMER QUINTET (Tuesday) Recording live for a future release on his own label, the drummer Pete Zimmer shines a spotlight on his working hard-bop quintet, which has a solid frontline of Michael Rodriguez on trumpet, and Joel Frahm on tenor saxophone. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $20. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

 Opera

'AIDA' (Monday and Thursday) The Met's big production rumbles on with Andrea Gruber, Olga Borodina and Johan Botha. Monday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $26 to $175. (Bernard Holland)

'CYRANO DE BERGERAC' (Tomorrow) Alfano's elegant, ambling ''Cyrano'' returns for a matinee, with Antonio Barasorda once again filling in for Placido Domingo in the title role. 1:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6200; $220 tickets remain.(Holland)

'RIGOLETTO' (Wednesday) The soprano Anna Netrebko and the tenor Rolando Villazon, opera's hottest vocal couple of late, bring star appeal and impressive artistry to the Met's 1989 Otto Schenk production of Verdi's ''Rigoletto.'' With her dusky-toned and exciting voice, Ms. Netrebko gives an unusually emotional portrayal of Gilda. Mr. Villazon infuses the role of the Duke of Mantua with an ardent voice, Verdian style and virile energy. The baritone Carlo Guelfi makes a stolid but finally sympathetic Rigoletto. Placido Domingo, who knows a thing or two about the lead tenor role, conducts. 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $26 to $175. (Anthony Tommasini)

'LA TRAVIATA' (Tomorrow and Tuesday) The soprano Angela Gheorghiu, who first gained international attention for her portrayal of Verdi's Violetta in performances conducted by Georg Solti, sings the role at the Met. Like others before her, she will have to contend with Franco Zeffirelli's overblown production. Still, she should be abetted by Jonas Kaufmann, a handsome and highly touted German tenor, who is making his Met debut. 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; sold out tomorrow, $26 to $175 on Tuesday. (Tommasini)

'DIE ZAUBERFLOTE' (Tonight) The Metropolitan Opera evidently thinks that Julie Taymor's pageant of a ''Zauberflote,'' with its wonderful puppets and game-show-style sets, is attraction enough that it can fill it with a less-known, largely homegrown cast. The spectacle is undeniable and sometimes beautiful, but ultimately seems empty without stronger musical values, though Mary Dunleavy does her best as a capable Pamina. Still, the Met is evidently right, because tonight's performance will probably be sold out. 8, Metropolitan Opera, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; returned tickets may be available. (Anne Midgette)

Classical Music

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight, tomorrow, Sunday and Thursday) Great views and typically fresh performances help make this floating concert hall one of the city's more inviting settings for chamber music. Tonight, the pianist Olga Vinokur performs music by Liszt, Chopin, Schumann and Brahms. Tomorrow and Sunday, Chris Pedro Trakas (baritone) and Gerald Robbins (piano) offer Schubert's much-loved ''Winterreise.'' And Thursday, the violinist Anna Rabinova plays two Bach sonatas and one Bach partita. Tonight, tomorrow and Thursday nights at 7:30, Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083; $35.(Jeremy Eichler)

FOCUS FESTIVAL (Tonight) Anne Manson leads the Juilliard Symphony in the final installment of this year's festival of works from 2005, with premieres by Paul Schoenfield, Jukka Tiensuu and Zhou Long. 8, Peter Jay Sharp Theater, Juilliard School, 155 West 65th Street, Manhattan, (212) 769-7406; free, but tickets are required. (Eichler)

MICHAEL GORDON (Tomorrow) This inventive composer has undertaken several collaborations in recent years with the filmmaker Bill Morrison, whose preferred medium at the moment is disintegrating silent film stock from around the 1920's. The poor condition of the film creates imagery of its own -- bubbles, blobs and amorphous shapes that recall those of the psychedelic light shows of the late 1960's. More to the point, it usually matches the impulses of Mr. Gordon's eclectic music. The program includes the premiere of ''Who by Water,'' as well as two older works, ''Light Is Calling'' and ''Gotham.'' 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330; $20. (Allan Kozinn)

GUARNERI STRING QUARTET (Tomorrow) The Peoples' Symphony Concerts are a great deal if want to hear big-name performers without breaking the bank. This weekend, the Guarneri plays works by Dvorak, Haydn and Richard Danielpour. 8 p.m., Washington Irving High School, Irving Place at 16th Street, Manhattan, (212) 586-4680; $9. (Eichler)

STEVEN ISSERLIS (Tuesday) A distinctive and quirky artist, this cellist is joined by the pianist Ana-Maria Vera for his New York recital debut, a program with an intriguing twist: every composer on the program acted as a mentor to the one after him, from Mendelssohn and Schumann to Suk and Martinu. 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, Manhattan, (212) 415-5500; $35. (Midgette)

JUPITER SYMPHONY CHAMBER PLAYERS (Monday) In the spirit of its idiosyncratic founder, Jens Nygaard, this feisty ensemble offers programs that combine oddities and major works. This week the ensemble's guests are Desiree Halac, a mezzo-soprano; Philippe Quint, a violinist; and Benjamin Hochman, a pianist, who will collaborate on a tasty program that includes songs by Brahms, the Schumann Piano Trio No. 2, a wind sextet by Reinecke and a string quintet by Zemlinsky. 2 and 7:30 p.m., Good Shepherd Presbyterian Church, 152 West 66th Street, Manhattan, (212) 799-1259; $10 to $25. (Kozinn)

STEVEN MACKEY (Thursday) At his best, this American composer writes pieces that draw from his training as a rigorous modernist and his experience as a dynamic rock guitarist. He will talk about this, while introducing and participating in a program of his works in one of Carnegie Hall's Making Music programs. The Brentano String Quartet and the Prism saxophone quartet are among the performers. 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, (212) 247-7800; $20. (Tommasini)

EKATERINA MECHETINA (Sunday) This 20-something Russian pianist, who studied in Moscow, won the World Piano Competition in Cincinnati in 2004, and this weekend claims a New York recital as her prize. Her advance billing advertises a strikingly full program, with works by eight composers, from Mozart to Shchedrin. 8 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $15 and $20. (Midgette)

THOMAS MEGLIORANZA (Thursday) Working with a pianist and a violinist, this adventurous young baritone offers works by Aaron Jay Kernis, Jorge Martin, John Rommereim and others. This concert is part of an admirable series presented with the Concert Artists Guild. 7:30 p.m., the Thalia at Symphony Space, Broadway at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400; $21. (Tommasini)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Tonight, tomorrow, Tuesday and Thursday) It's all-Mozart. This weekend and Tuesday, Jeffrey Kahane conducts and is the soloist for two piano concertos, and also leads the E-flat Sinfonia Concertante. Beginning Thursday, Lorin Maazel conducts four performances of the last three symphonies. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m., Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6000; $26 to $94. (Holland)

ORLANDO CONSORT (Tuesday) This a cappella ensemble has made several beautifully sung thematic recordings for Harmonia Mundi, with texts so copious that the label has produced them as miniature hard-cover books. The latest, ''The Rose, the Lily and the Whortleberry,'' explores the use of floral imagery by medieval and Renaissance composers to describe both physical and heavenly love. 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330; $25. (Kozinn)

EMMANUEL PAHUD and YEFIM BRONFMAN (Tuesday) Mr. Pahud, the popular Swiss flutist, is joined by the accomplished pianist for sonatas by Reinecke, Brahms and Prokofiev. 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $44 to $52. (Eichler)

'THE PASSION OF OSVALDO GOLIJOV' (Tomorrow and Wednesday) The exuberant, genre-bending music of this Argentinean-born composer is the focus of a monthlong festival at Lincoln Center. It continues tomorrow with Dawn Upshaw, the Kronos Quartet and the Andalucian Dogs on a program of arrangements and original music by Mr. Golijov including his ''Ayre,'' a heady song cycle that draws on the folk and pop traditions of the Mediterranean. On Wednesday, the St. Lawrence String Quartet is joined by the cellist David Finckel and the clarinetist Todd Palmer for more Golijov chamber music and Schubert's Cello Quintet. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Rose Theater, Broadway at 60th Street; Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $30 to $65 tomorrow, $45 on Wednesday. (Eichler)

PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (Tuesday) Simon Rattle returns with the Philadelphia Orchestra in a program of Lutoslawski, Mussorgsky and Bruckner, with the Czech mezzo-soprano Magdalena Kozena. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $25 to $99. (Holland)

ST. THOMAS CHOIR (Tuesday) John Scott leads his extraordinary choir of men and boys, with the support of Concert Royal, the period-instrument band, in Haydn's ''Creation.'' The soloists are Ava Pine, soprano; Alan Bennett, tenor; and Christopheren Nomura, baritone. 7:30 p.m., St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street, (212) 664-9360; $25 to $60. (Kozinn)

ROLANDO VILLAZON (Tonight) The tenor Rolando Villazon, who has been beguiling audiences at the Metropolitan Opera this season as the duke in ''Rigoletto,'' crosses town to sing a recital at the other Met, in the museum's cavernous Temple of Dendur, which has startlingly reverberant acoustics. The program includes songs by Liszt, Beethoven, Falla, Schumann and others. 8 pm., Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 570-3949; sold out, but returned tickets may be available. (Tommasini)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

BALLET BIARRITZ (Tonight through Sunday) Direct from sunny France, the company will perform ''Creation,'' which sees the story of the creation of the world as a metaphor for the history of dance. Or vice versa. The choreographer is the company director, Thierry Malandain, who trained and performed with the Paris Opera Ballet and has won numerous European awards for his work. (Through Sunday.) Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800 or www.joyce.org; $40. (Jennifer Dunning)

BROOKLYN ARTS EXCHANGE (Tonight and tomorrow night) This month's ''First Weekend'' program features dance and talk by Chase Granoff, Sujin Lee and Laura Meyers. 8, Brooklyn Arts Exchange, 421 Fifth Avenue, at Eighth Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 832-0018; $8 to $15. (Dunning)

'COOL NEW YORK 2006 DANCE FESTIVAL' (Tonight through Sunday) Dance by 60 companies, at last count, will be presented in this ambitious 10-program festival. Tonight at 7 and 9; tomorrow at 2 (family matinee), 7 and 9 p.m.; Sunday at 4 and 6 p.m.; White Wave's John Ryan Theater, 25 Jay Street, at John Street, Brooklyn Heights, (718) 855-8822 or www.whitewavedance.com; free, though donations are requested. (Dunning)

DANCEBRAZIL (Tomorrow) ''Retratos da Bahia'' celebrates the rhythmically vibrant dances of Bahia, the northeastern Brazilian state where that country's largest number of people of African descent reside. 8 p.m., Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts, Brooklyn College, Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, Flatbush, (718) 951-4500 or www.brooklyncenteronline.org; $15 to $35. (Jack Anderson)

TAYE DIGGS/DRE.DANCE (Tonight through Sunday) The popular actor Taye Diggs has a secret passion, and it's dance. Although not known as a dancer per se, he has formed his own modern-dance company, dre.dance, for which he is the principal choreographer with Andrew Palermo. Michael John La Chiusa is providing the music. Its ''pre.view'' program can be seen this weekend. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, tomorrow at 2 p.m., Sunday at 3 and 7:30 p.m., Citigroup Alvin Ailey Theater, 405 West 55th Street, at Ninth Avenue, Clinton, (212) 868-4444 or www.smarttix.com; $35. (John Rockwell)

NILES FORD/URBAN DANCE COLLECTIVE (Tonight through Sunday) A dancer of compelling intensity and intelligence, Mr. Ford and his company will present ''In Search of the Invisible People,'' a dance he created with Nathan Trice that traces the path of house music and dance from the underground black club circuit to commercial success. 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, between Houston and Prince Streets, (212) 431-9233; $15.(Dunning)

CURT HAWORTH (Thursday through Feb. 12) ''Descent'' presents a choreographic panorama of 24 hours in a city on the brink of war. 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194 or www.danspaceproject.org; $15. (Anderson)

SARA EAST JOHNSON AND LAVA (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) Ms. Johnson's award-winning, all-female company, LAVA, presents ''(w)HOLE'' (short for ''The Whole History of Life on Earth''), its first new work since 2003. Using trapeze, Chinese acrobatics and swing dancing, among other things, the company tackles rock formation, punctuated equilibrium theory and magnetic polarity reversal with its usual strength and verve. (Through Feb. 19.) Today, tomorrow and Thursday at 7 p.m.; Sunday at 5 p.m.; Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, www.TheaterMania.com; $20 to $25.(Erika Kinetz)

HEATHER KRAVIS AND ANTONIJA LIVINGSTONE, PO.V.S. TANZE (Wednesday through Saturday) What promises to be a lively, internationally flavored double bill, with a three-year, long-distance collaboration between Heather Kravis from New York and Antonija Livingstone from Montreal by way of Berlin, and a duet from PO.V.S., a dance collective from Moscow. 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077 or www.dtw.org; $12 and $20. (Rockwell)

GABRIELLE LANSNER & COMPANY (Tonight and tomorrow night) Those legs, that voice -- the diva Tina Turner is celebrated in ''River Deep,'' a new production combining dance, live music and spoken word. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., the Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; $22 to $34. (Claudia La Rocco)

NEW YORK BAROQUE DANCE THEATER (Thursday) ''Courting an English Lady'' shows how dancing could help a lover win the heart of a woman in the 18th century. 12:30 p.m., Winter Garden, World Financial Center, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-0505 or www.worldfinancialcenter.com; free.(Anderson)

* NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Midseason, a flock of new ballets re-enter the repertory. This week will see Robbins's ''In the Night'' and ''Fancy Free'' (there's an all-Robbins program with those two, as well as ''Fanfare'' on Thursday), along with Balanchine's ''Allegro Brillante'' and ''Union Jack,'' Christopher Wheeldon's ''American in Paris,'' Peter Martins's ''Octet,'' Richard Tanner's ''Sonatas and Interludes'' and Sean Lavery's ''Romeo and Juliet.'' Today, tomorrow and Thursday at 8 p.m.; tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m.; New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570 or www.nycballet.com; $30 to $86. (Rockwell)

NEW YORK THEATER BALLET (Tonight through Sunday) A group whose works for children also prove diverting for adults presents Keith Michaels's ''Mother Goose!,'' a day in the life of the Old Woman Who Lived in a Shoe and other nursery-rhyme characters. Today at 10 a.m.; tomorrow at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.; Sunday at 11 a.m., 1 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100; $30; children 12 and under, $25. (Anderson)

92nd STREET Y HARKNESS DANCE FESTIVAL (Wednesday through Feb. 12) A 12-year old festival opens in a new location with WilliamsWorks, a new troupe directed by Todd Williams, a former New York City Ballet dancer. The program includes ''Value Intensity,'' based on the writings of the psychoanalyst C. J. Jung, and ''108 Version 3,'' inspired by Tibetan religious sand paintings. Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m., Feb. 11 at 8 p.m., Feb. 12 at 2 and 7 p.m., Ailey Citigroup Theater, Joan Weill Center for Dance, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 415-5500 or www.92Y.org/HarknessFestival; $20; students and 62+, $15. (Anderson)

JENNIFER NUGENT AND PAUL MATTESON (Tonight through Sunday) These two award-winning alumni of David Dorfman Dance continue their collaboration with an evening-length duet, ''Fare Well.'' 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194 or www.danspaceproject.org; $15. (Kinetz).

SPOKE THE HUB (Tonight and tomorrow night) This outpost for the performing arts opens ''The Gowanus Wildlife Preserve,'' its showcase series, with a program devoted to new dance and physical theater by five choreographers and groups. 7:30, Spoke the Hub Space in the Gowanus Arts Building, 295 Douglass Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 408-2324; $15; children, $5. (Dunning)

JEREMY WADE (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Wade presents ''Glory,'' a naked duet about prostration, and a new solo, ''Fiction.'' 7:30, Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077 or www.dtw.org; $12 to $20. (Kinetz)

REGGIE WILSON/FIST & HEEL PERFORMANCE GROUP (Thursday) Mr. Wilson and his dancers and musicians have their own distinctive, revealing approach to merging ethnic art forms. Their new piece, ''The Tale: Npinpee Nckutchie and the Tail of the Golden Dek,'' applies the black American folk tradition of ''stepping'' to traditional African mating rituals. 7 p.m., Main Theater, Hostos Community College, 450 Grand Concourse, at 149th Street, Mott Haven, the Bronx, (718) 518-4455 or www.hostos .cuny.edu/culturearts; $10 and $15. (Dunning)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

 Art Fairs

'10TH ANNIVERSARY BLACK FINE ART SHOW' Most of the significant names in African-American art history will be represented in a fair that is unique in New York for its dedication to black artists. The general quality is usually uneven, but chances are you will find lots of interesting things, including works by 19th-century landscape painters like Edward Bannister and Henry Tanner; Harlem Renaissance artists like Aaron Douglas and Hale Woodruff; modernists like Romare Beardon and Norman Lewis; and postmodernists like Danny Simmons and Carrie Mae Weems. The Puck Building, 295 Lafayette Street, at Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 925-5257, through Sunday. Hours: Today, noon to 8 p.m.; tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $15; students, $10. (Ken Johnson)

Museums

* AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'SURFACE ATTRACTION: PAINTED FURNITURE FROM THE COLLECTION,' through March 26. The remarkable images, abstract patterns and floral motifs that flutter across the 30 or so tables, chairs, cabinets and blanket chests in this beautiful, convention-stretching show confirm that from the late 1600's to the late 1800's, quite a bit of American painting talent and ambition was channeled into the decoration of everyday wood objects. The combination of imagination and utility, of economic means and lush effects, defines the human desire for beauty as hardwired. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040. (Roberta Smith)

* Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum: 'FASHION IN COLORS,' through March 26. Drawn from the collection of the Kyoto Costume Institute in Japan, this sumptuous show arranges 68 often lavish Western gowns and ensembles according to the colors of the spectrum and reinforces their progress with a posh color-coordinated installation design. For an experience of color as color, it is hard to beat, but it also says a great deal about clothing, visual perception and beauty. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400.(Smith)

International Center of Photography: 'Che!: Revolution and Icon,' through Feb. 26. This is, in a sense, a one-image show, the image being Alberto Korda's famous 1960 head shot of Che (Ernesto Guevara), taken in Cuba. But the theme is the transformation that the portrait has undergone in the passage of 46 years, as Che's soulful likeness has migrated from political posters to album covers, T-shirts, paper currency, vodka ads and gallery art. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0045. (Holland Cotter)

Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Art of Medicine in Ancient Egypt,' through May 7. Egypt was no picnic 5,000 years ago. The average lifespan was about 40 years. Wild animals were ever present. Childbirth was perilous. Prevention, diagnosis and treatment of illness was a shot in the dark. Doctors were priests. Medicine was a blend of science, religion and art. The 65 objects in this beautiful show functioned as all three. Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710. (Cotter)

* MET: ANTONELLO DA MESSINA, through March 5. This small, focused show presents the work of a Sicilian master (about 1430-1479) regarded as the greatest painter to emerge from southern Italy in the 15th century. His signature work, shown here, is ''The Virgin Annunciate'' (about 1475-76), depicting Mary as a young Sicilian girl at the moment of the Annunciation, when she is told by the angel Gabriel that she will bear Jesus. The genius of the work lies in the way a traditional icon has been imbued with the life force of a flesh-and-blood human being. (See above.) (Grace Glueck)

* MET: Robert Rauschenberg: 'Combines,' through April 2. Big and handsome almost to a fault. There's something weird about seeing once joyfully rude and over-the-top contraptions from the 1950's and 60's lined up like choirboys in church, with their ties askew and shirttails out. But even enshrined, the combines still manage to seem incredibly fresh and odd, almost otherworldly. I thought of a medieval treasury -- all the rich colors and lights and intricate details. The most beautiful tend to be the early ones: large but delicate, with a subtle, fugitive emotional pitch. (See above.) (Michael Kimmelman)

* New York Public Library: 'THE SPLENDOR OF THE WORD: MEDIEVAL AND RENAISSANCE ILLUMINATED MANUSCRIPTS,' through Feb. 12. Few objects encapsulate their times like the exquisite full-service concentrations of text, image and decoration that are illuminated manuscripts, and few institutions in North America have as many great ones as New York City's favorite library. Fifth Avenue, at 42nd Street, (212) 869-8069. (Smith)

ONASSIS CULTURAL CENTER: 'FROM BYZANTIUM TO MODERN GREECE: HELLENIC ART IN ADVERSITY, 1453-1830,' through May 6. This show is a busy, ambitious hodgepodge that sets out to present all aspects of the visual art in Greece during this period. The range spans wonderful early paintings and icons, like a panel by the youthful El Greco; examples of domestic crafts practiced by Greek women; jewelry and church ornaments; and maps and charts. 645 Fifth Avenue, at 52nd Street, (212) 486-4448. (Glueck)

* P.S. 1: 'Peter Hujar,' through March 6. When Peter Hujar died in 1987, he was a figure of acute interest to a small group of fans, and unknown to practically everyone else. His photographs of desiccated corpses in Sicilian catacombs and studio portraits of New York's downtown demimonde were a gorgeous shock, and their cocktail of Nadar, Weegee and Vogue shaped the work of many younger artists. This surveyish sampling includes several of his recurrent themes: portraits of people and animals, landscapes, still lifes and erotica. Sensuality and mortality are the binders throughout, inseparable. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084. (Cotter)

* P.S. 1: 'The Painted World,' through March 13. Though this 23-artist exhibition of mostly contemporary abstractionists lacks bite as a whole, every individual painter in it is worthy of attention. In addition to ancestral figures like Myron Stout and Moira Dryer, the show includes Philip Taaffe, Mary Heilmann and Chris Martin. (See above.) (Johnson)

The Noguchi Museum: 'The Imagery of Chess Revisited,' through April 16. In 1944, the artists Max Ernst and Marcel Duchamp and the gallery director Julien Levy organized an attention-getting New York exhibition devoted to chess, once a chic pastime for members of the artistic intelligentsia. Organizers of this historically intriguing show managed to find most of the works that were in the original exhibition, including chess sets designed by the artists Isamu Noguchi, Alexander Calder and Man Ray, and artworks in various media relating to chess by Dorothea Tanning, Alberto Giacometti and John Cage, whose chessboard incorporates musical notation for a piano composition that you can hear on headphones. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088. (Johnson)

* Studio Museum in Harlem: 'FREQUENCY,' through March 12. Despite some marked unevenness, this display of new and recently emerged talent confirms the current vitality of black art, contemporary art and midsize New York museums. Names to look out for include Kalup Linzy, Leslie Hewitt, Jeff Sonhouse, Shinique Amie Smith, Demetrius Oliver, Michael Paul Britto, Nick Cave, Mickalene Thomas and Michael Queenland, but don't stop there. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500. (Smith)

* WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'OSCAR BLUEMNER: A PASSION FOR COLOR,' through Feb. 12. Not exactly a well-known name today, except to devotees of American Modernism, this German-born architect-turned-painter (1867-1938) was one of the major American artists of the early 20th century., right up there with the likes of Marsden Hartley, John Marin, Arthur Dove and Charles Demuth, to name a few. Most of his compositions are unpeopled landscapes depicting houses and building fragments in brilliantly stylized settings in which trees, clouds, smokestacks, telephone poles, water and snow are rendered as rhythmic and dramatic shapes that play off one another almost musically. Too, he was a superb colorist, assigning psychological properties to each color, red in particular, which he considered symbolic of power and energy. Among the best works here are his last ones, landscapes that have the magic of Expressionist theater, with houses, trees and the like assuming almost human presences. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676. (Glueck)

Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Raymond Pettibon,' through Feb. 19. If you are unfamiliar with the influential Mr. Pettibon's emotionally resonant mix of noirish cartooning and enigmatic literary verbiage, this show of works on paper and, for the first time, a low-tech animated video, serves as a good introduction. (See above.) (Johnson)

Galleries: Uptown

The Hudson River School at the New-York Historical Society: Nature and the American Vision By the mid-19th century, the United States was a trans-Atlantic political power in search of a cultural profile. Hudson River School landscape painting was the answer: it presented America as the un-Europe. Europe had its Romantic ruins; America had its ultra-Romantic wilderness. Europe had antique; America had primeval. Europe told time in centuries; America told time in eons. It's all here to see in this display of a venerable local institution's permanent collection. New-York Historical Society, 2 West 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, through Feb. 19. (Cotter)

Galleries: 57th Street

* Maria Elena Gonzalez This excellent two-gallery show plays with the forms of Roman Catholic religious imagery and reliquaries that Ms. Gonzalez encountered during a yearlong stay in Rome, but translates both into highly personal post-Minimalist forms. The symbols of martyrdom at the Project become emblems of power; the clouded architectural sculptures at Knoedler look like reliquaries within reliquaries, which is one way to speak of the relationship of memory to art. The Project, 37 West 57th Street, third floor, (212) 688-1585, through Feb. 17, and Knoedler & Company, 19 East 70th Street, (212) 794-0550, through March 4. (Cotter)

* 'RON NAGLE AND THE HOLY GRAIl' Nominally, the 12 absurdly beautiful little ceramic objects that make up Mr. Nagel's eighth New York solo show are teacups. But an exquisite combination of sculptural form, color, surface and craftsmanship elevates each to a transcendental realm of pure aesthetic contemplation. They are smart and slyly humorous, too. Garth Clark, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 246-2205, through Feb. 25. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

MIKE CLOUD Mike Cloud is a young artist of the moment, with a project exhibition at P.S. 1, photo-collages in ''Frequency'' at the Studio Museum in Harlem, and new paintings in a solo at Protetch. The work, and his Protetch show in particular, is a tough nut to crack. But rude, funny and meaty, it's well worth the attempt. Max Protetch, 511 West 22nd Street, (212) 633-6999, through Feb. 11. (Cotter)

ORI GERSHT: 'THE FOREST' This briefly mesmerizing film consists of silent, panning shots of immense trees interrupted at intervals by the sight and sound of one of them falling violently and slowly to the ground. The mood is somber, even tragic, but in the end, too easily won. CRG Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 229-2766; through Feb 11. (Smith)

* Warren Isensee Could this be Mr. Isensee's breakout show? His glowing grid, striped and concentric rectangle paintings play adroitly with conventions of Modernist abstraction and are almost hallucinogenically beautiful. Danese, 535 West 24th Street, (212) 223-2227, through Feb. 11. (Johnson)

ERWIN OLAF The large, carefully staged photographs of people in midcentury American clothes and environments by this successful Dutch commercial photographer look like the dreams of a deeply depressed Norman Rockwell. Hasted Hunt, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 627-0006, through Feb. 18. (Johnson)

ROXY PAINE The main attraction of this extraordinarily inventive sculptor's show is a computer-controlled sandblaster that is slowly sculpturing a piece of sandstone into something resembling a topographical model of a Southwestern landscape. James Cohan, 533 West 26th Street, (212) 714-9500, through Feb. 25. (Johnson)

AMY RATHBONE: 'UNBENT' Operating somewhere between Richard Tuttle and Ree Morton, this artist embeds wires of different lengths and colors in the wall to create whiskery textures, clustered hoops or trailing lines. The resulting wall drawings are endearing, if a bit too close to abstract New Yorker cartoons. Priska C. Juschka Fine Art, 547 West 27th Street, (212) 244-4320; through Feb. 11. (Smith)

Stuart Rome This landscape photographer points his camera into the woods and comes up with subtly pantheistic pictures of extraordinary lucidity and absorbing complexity. Sepia, 148 West 24th Street, (212) 645-9444, through Feb. 11. (Johnson)

Other Galleries

JOHN BRATTIN: 'THE TRIUMPH OF NIGHT' John Brattin's short film ''The Triumph of Night'' is like a basement-tapes version of ''Wuthering Heights.'' Written and directed by Mr. Brattin, its title lifted from a book of Edith Wharton ghost stories, it delivers a Hollywood-ready Victorian plot in an ingeniously homespun package. Participant Inc., 95 Rivington Street, Lower East Side, (212) 254-4334, through Feb. 12. (Cotter)

* 'THE DOWNTOWN SHOW: THE NEW YORK ART SCENE, 1974-1984' The real down-and-dirty Downtown art scene, when the East Village bloomed, punk and new wave rock assailed the ears, graffiti spread like kudzu, and heroin, along with extreme style, raged, is the subject of this wild and woolly show. It's a humongous time warp of more than 450 paintings, sculptures, drawings, photographs, videos, posters, ephemera and things in between by artists, writers, performers, musicians and maestros of mixed media, from a photograph of the transvestite Candy Darling as she posed on her death bed to a small, painted sculpture made of elephant dung by David Hammons. With so many clashing ideologies, points of view and attitudes toward art-making, this no-holds-barred hodgepodge generates the buzz and stridency of, say, Canal Street on payday. New York University, Grey Art Gallery, 100 Washington Square East, (212) 998-6780; and Fales Library, 70 Washington Square South, (212) 988-2596, Greenwich Village; through April 1. (Glueck)

* Anya Gallaccio: 'One Art' The viscerally poetic single work occupying Sculpture Center's spacious main gallery is a 50-foot-tall weeping cherry tree that was cut up and reassembled in the gallery, where it is held in place by steel cables and bolts. Sculpture Center, 44-19 Purves Street, at Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 361-1750, through April 3. (Johnson)

*'DAVID HAMMONS: THE AUTHORIZED RETROSPECTIVE' How do you do a show if you don't have art? Use copies. How do you get copies? Find photographs of the original art. That's what Triple Candie has done with David Hammons's work. The gallery photocopied illustrations of existing, or once existing, Hammons pieces from books and magazines and downloaded others from the Internet. They then taped the 8 1/2 -by-11 prints to the gallery wall. The result: an homage that is very much in this important artist's maverick, dematerialized spirit. Triple Candie, 461 West 126th Street, Harlem, (212) 865-0783, through Feb. 12.(Cotter)

Last Chance

* 'Constructing Realities' See this conceptually ambitious exhibition for Andy Warhol's amazing, rarely seen 1965 film of an 83-year-old performer named Paul Swan who dances and recites poetry in exotic, Middle Eastern-style costumes with wonderfully un-self-conscious verve. A one-act play on video by Mike Kelley; videos transmitted from cellphones for a project by Robert Whitman; a multiscreen video portrait of a man by Gary Hill; Stan Douglas's well-known film ''Der Sandemann''; and a selection of classic Diane Arbus photographs round out the show. PaceWildenstein, 32 East 57th Street, Manhattan, (212) 421-3293; closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

* Katy Grannan: 'Mystic Lake' Ms. Grannan makes exceptionally intimate photographs of nonprofessional models posing outdoors partly or fully unclothed. Greenberg Van Doren, 730 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street, (212) 445-0444; closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

Kim Levin: 'Notes and Itineraries, 1976 - 2004' The longtime art critic for The Village Voice is the subject of a fascinating retrospective that views her career, as well as the history of the New York art scene, through the lens of ephemera that she has accumulated over the past 25 years, including postcard announcements, news releases and handwritten exhibition lists. Ronald Feldman, 31 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 226-3232; closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

Museum of Modern Art: 'PIXAR: 20 YEARS OF ANIMATION' With more than 500 drawings, collages, storyboards and sculptured models by 80 artists; numerous projections; and a mesmerizing three-dimensional zoetrope, this exhibition offers a detailed glimpse of the creative and technological processes behind such computer-animation wonders as ''Toy Story,'' ''Monsters Inc.'' and ''Finding Nemo.'' (A complete retrospective of Pixar animated films concludes with ''The Incredibles'' (2004), the Oscar-winning story of the Parr family, superheroes trying not to be so super.) In the end, nothing has as much art or magic as those films themselves, but the concentrated effort and expertise that go into them is nonetheless something of a wonder, too. 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; closes Monday. (Smith)

* Whitney Museum of American Art: 'THE ART OF RICHARD TUTTLE' For 40 years, Richard Tuttle has murmured the ecstasies of paying close attention to the world's infinitude of tender incidents, making oddball assemblages of prosaic ephemera, which, at first glance, belie their intense deliberation and rather monumental ambition. Out of cord, tin, Styrofoam, florist's wire and bubble wrap he has devised objects whose status is not quite sculpture or drawing or painting but some combination of the three, and whose exquisiteness is akin to that of jewelry. His outstanding retrospective is a cross between a kindergarten playroom and a medieval treasury. (See above); closes Sunday. (Kimmelman)
 (Photo by $; 2005 Jack Vartoogian/FrontRowPhotos); (Photo by $; Disney/Pixar)

GRAPHIC: Photos: ART -- Above, ''Classroom'' by Erwin Olaf, whose photographs look like the dreams of a deeply depressed Norman Rockwell, is on view at Hasted Hunt in Chelsea, Page 27.
JAZZ -- Below, Slide Hampton performs as the Highlights in Jazz series celebrates its 33rd anniversary at TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, Page 26.
LAST CHANCE -- Left, Tia Kratter Sullivan's fur-pattern studies from ''Monsters Inc.'' are part of ''Pixar: 20 Years of Animation,'' which closes on Monday at MoMA, Page 27. (Photo by Courtesy Hasted Hunt/Erwin Olaf)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (77%); PROSTITUTION (76%); THEATER (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); COMEDY FILMS (65%); ARMED FORCES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UTAH JAZZ (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



54 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 2028 words

HEADLINE: Forget the Freedom Fries. All Is Forgiven, Cherie.

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
WE came crawling back, of course. Is anyone out there skipping over the Burgundies on the wine list and, just to twist the knife a littler harder, opting for a tangy Finger Lakes Riesling instead? Does a trip to historic Valley Forge still seem like a better idea than a week in the Dordogne? I personally have returned to Camembert and Epoisses after an unsuccessful attempt to love the carefully matured, individually wrapped cheeses from the caves of Kraft.
 It was never going to work out, this break-up with France. The French-American love affair just keeps on going, a folie a deux that's lasted nearly three centuries. It's tempestuous, hot and heavy, beyond reason. Like all the great, impossible mismatches -- F. Scott Fitzgerald and Zelda, Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor, Pamela Anderson and Tommy Lee -- it cannot end. The United States and France just can't keep their hands off each other. And no wonder. France is a high-maintenance double diva, demanding and capricious, but she's just too beautiful to resist, probably, as we now know, because she eats such tiny portions. Even Jacques Chirac cannot dampen her allure. 
It would be nice to understand why. For that reason, there can never be too many books on France and the French. Over the years I have jumped at books like ''The French'' by Theodore Zeldin, ''France Today'' by John Ardagh and (a personal favorite) ''Village in the Vaucluse'' by Laurence Wylie. Anything at all, really, that will help me fathom why, no matter how much I plead, French waiters will not bring my coffee until after I have finished dessert.
 A stack of new books come to the rescue. Alistair Horne, a prolific British historian, offers the big picture in ''La Belle France,'' an insouciant, relatively brief tour of France from the Romans to the death of Francois Mitterrand. Mr. Horne, whose many books on France include ''Seven Ages of Paris,'' seems to have written this one with one hand tied behind his back. It's urbane, breezy and highly entertaining, especially when the author arrives at a French ruler who appeals to him, like Henry IV. 
 Henry, the red-blooded Gascon who converted to Catholicism to secure the throne in 1589, kept a host of mistresses to whom he often confided his military secrets in torrid love letters. Once he got his hands on Paris, he embarked on a rebuilding and beatification program that left it with the glorious Place des Vosges in the Marais. All in all, Mr. Horne writes, ''he was an immensely attractive figure, both to women and to men -- despite it being said that he was economic with bathing and smelled strongly of goat! Tastes vary.'' 
 Mr. Horne moves quickly. Major writers and thinkers pass by in a blur. Descartes is hustled onto the stage, says ''Cogito ergo sum,'' and disappears into the wings. Gaudy details fly by. The young Louis XIV had a tiny gold cannon hauled by a team of fleas? The government of Pierre Mendes-France collapsed in 1955 partly because it insisted on policies like weaning Normandy schoolchildren away from calvados and onto milk. Mitterrand, while a prisoner of war in 1940, delivered a lecture to his fellow soldiers on ''Lady Chatterley's Lover.'' It's too bad that Mr. Horne, who drops any number of penetrating asides in his tour de France, does not take on Mr. Chirac. But he compensates with a shrewd reading of the impenetrable Mitterrand, making a convincing case that this Vichy functionary turned Resistance figure, turned Socialist, turned pragmatist, who once stated that ''the role of France is to retain its rank,'' may be the key to understanding modern France. 
 Like so many French heads of state before him, Mitterrand labored mightily to put his personal stamp on Paris. His ''grands travaux,'' notably the glass pyramid outside the Louvre, changed the face of a city that has been as tempting to dress as any fashion model for at least a thousand years. In ''Paris: The Biography of a City,'' Colin Jones charts the changes and the ringlike growth of Paris from its inception as a puny settlement on the Ile de la Cite to the present-day megalopolis of 20 arrondissements surrounded by an ever-widening suburban belt, recently seen in flames on nightly television.
 Mr. Jones weaves his way through traffic with great skill, establishing a cultural and historical context for the physical changes in the Paris map, which reached a frenzy with the grand alterations of Baron Haussmann in the 1850's and 1860's. (Haussmann, the ultimate anti-preservationist, took one look at the city's ancient, convoluted streets and said, ''Get these warts off my face.'') 
 Mr. Jones also stops to highlight, in tinted, stand-alone text, important people, streets, buildings and sights. Thus we get a nostalgic essay on the vespasiennes, the public urinals of yesteryear, which gave way in the late 1930's to more hygienic chalets de necessite for both sexes, and later to the unisex, coin-operated sanisettes of the Chirac era.
 We also learn the following facts. Parisians had to do without croissants during World War I. The city did not get its first traffic light until 1923. Until the late 19th century, anywhere from half to three-quarters of ''Parisians'' had come to the city from elsewhere. Mr. Chirac, as mayor of Paris, created 134 gardens, increasing the city's green space by a third. The population of Paris proper peaked in 1921, at 2.9 million. Its present population of 2.1 million is dwarfed by the 10 million or more living in the surrounding area. Mr. Jones's book appeared before the recent rioting and car-torchings, but he ends with a prophetic remark: ''Perhaps the greatest challenge to the city as it entered the 21st century, however, was its relationship with its suburbs.'' Apparently so.
 In ''France and the French,'' the British historian Rod Kedward traces, with a sensitive finger, the fissures and cracks running through French social and political life in the 20th century. Unlike Mr. Horne, he takes a rigorously analytical approach, with a poststructuralist insistence on regarding all ideological conflict as a war of competing narratives. 
 The whir of dialectical opposition, presented in arid prose, leaves the impression of France as a nation of irredeemable contrarians, roiled by ceaseless internal conflict and engaged in a tormented search for self-definition. As Andre Maurois once remarked, ''The French do not live on happiness.'' The nation that invented joie de vivre, it has often been noted, takes an extraordinary amount of sleeping pills and antidepressants. When those fail, there's always the corner bistro.
 No one really knows how the bistro got its name, but the writer Francois Thomazeau and the photographer Sylvain Ageorges know exactly what to look for when they walk into one. In ''The Authentic Bistros of Paris,'' they showcase 50 bistros in all 20 arrondissements. Each gets an atmospheric photograph or two and several paragraphs of text summing up the history and the virtues of the place. 
 The Little Bookroom, a New York press, has published a number of small-format travel books along the same lines, but ''Authentic Bistros,'' a translation of ''Au Vrai Zinc Parisien,'' may be the best, because the text lives up to the photographs. Mr. Thomazeau rules out a lot of the places that I might think of as bistros. His bistros are more bars than restaurants, with a few tried-and-true home-style dishes making up the usually very short menu. All have a few things in common. They make a good jambon-beurre (ham and butter on a crusty baguette), and they have soul.
 ''Entering a bistro is like entering someone's home,'' Mr. Thomazeau writes. ''And you are expected to behave like a guest; you have rights, but also responsibilities.'' This is where tourists go wrong. In a real bistro, the atmosphere is a joint creation of owner, waiters and customers. It's a relationship of equals. ''That's why you shouldn't expect a bistro owner always to be friendly,'' Mr. Thomazeau writes. ''He's at home. He's entitled to his moods.'' 
 Not so the vendor at a French market. As Michele de La Pradelle tells it, in ''Market Day in Provence,'' the essence of the market-day experience is a jovial back-and-forth between buyer and seller in which class boundaries are suspended and the normal rules of etiquette do not apply. The man offering his farmhouse cheeses is entitled to chaff and tease. The customer is free to poke and squeeze and fondle the merchandise, unthinkable behavior in a shop. It's all deliciously rural and traditional, and, Ms. de La Pradelle takes great pains to demonstrate, as phony as it can possibly be, ''a collectively produced anachronism'' with no rational economic reason for existing. 
 Ms. de La Pradelle, an ethnologist who was sent by the French government to analyze public markets, spent years scrutinizing the goods and the behavior and the underlying rules governing the market in Carpentras. Her findings amount to a cold shower for anyone, like myself, who has constructed a rich fantasy life around such places. All those farm-fresh fruits and vegetables, those delectable cheeses, those mouth-watering pates, come from the same wholesalers who supply the stores. The region switched over to large-scale industrial farming way back in the 1920's. ''A market is a collectively produced anachronism, and in this it responds to deeply contemporary logic,'' she says. 
 What French markets do offer is a kind of free space to construct different social roles and create new forms of interaction. ''For a few hours,'' Ms. de La Pradelle writes, ''we constitute a world of the alike.'' She goes about her demolition work with great good humor, but a lofty disregard for the pain and suffering inflicted on innocent readers. 
 It is important to keep the great French cliches alive. An entire industry once existed to carry them across the ocean and keep them thriving on alien American soil. Important ambassadors of French culture like Charles Boyer and Pepe le Pew reassured Americans that the French spent every waking hour refining their joie de vivre and savoir-faire. Where are they today, the Maurice Chevaliers and Louis Jourdains? When Americans knew nothing about France, they were our guides. It was their civilizing mission to create an image of the Frenchman as a flaneur and boulevardier, an insatiable Romeo intoxicated by the faintest whiff of a woman's perfume, a venal, easily offended egomaniac expert in the art of love. 
 In 1948, a photojournalist named Philippe Halsman collared the comic actor Fernandel and subjected him to a mock interview. Mr. Halsman posed the questions, and Fernandel answered, wordlessly, with a French expression. The resulting book, ''The Frenchman,'' documents the Gallic male as Americans saw him in a period when, in fact, not that many Americans had ever seen one. 
 ''Does the average Frenchman still pinch pretty girls in a crowd?'' Mr. Halsman asked. Fernandel obliged with an unembarrassed ear-to-ear grin. And how about those American sweater girls? A big grin and a big O.K. sign. And so it goes, through the great French repertory of facial expressions and body language. This rich subject was explored, quite seriously, by Mr. Wylie (of ''Village in the Vaucluse'') in a little book, now out of print, called ''Beaux Gestes.'' Look for it. Study the photographs. Then, when Chirac shows up on television, turn off the sound. Amazingly, you'll know exactly what he's saying. The French are not that hard to understand.

Words of Love

La Belle France: A Short History by Alistair Horne. Illustrated. 485 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $30.

Paris: The Biography of a City by Colin Jones. Illustrated. 566 pages. Viking. $29.95.

The Authentic Bistros of Paris by Francois Thomazeau and Sylvain Ageorges. Illustrated. 191 pages. The Little Bookroom. $16.95.

Market Day in Provence by Michele de La Pradelle. Translated from the French by Amy Jacobs. Illustrated. 264 pages. University of Chicago Press. $35.

The Frenchman by Philippe Halsman. Illustrated. 108 pages. Taschen. $19.99.

France and the French: A Modern History by Rod Kedward. Illustrated. 741 pages. The Overlook Press. $35.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Images from ''The Frenchman,'' recording the 1948 conversation the photojournalist Philippe Halsman had with the French comic actor Fernandel, who responded wordlessly, but unmistakably, to questions like, ''Would a Frenchman let a Kinsey researcher interview him?'' (far right). (Photo by Philippe Halsman/Magnum, courtesy of Taschen)(pg. E39)Drawing (Drawing by Peter Hoey)(pg. E33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEESE (90%); LITERATURE (90%); HISTORY (72%); WRITERS (70%); BRITISH MONARCHS (67%); RELIGION (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (51%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (55%) William Grimes; Alistair Horne; Colin Jones; Francois Thomazeau; Sylvain Ageorges; Michele de La Pradelle; Philippe (1906-79) Halsman; Rod Kedward

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (72%) AQUITAINE, FRANCE (92%) FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



55 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Women Win New Role With Hamas Victory
Women played a large part in Hamas's parliamentary election triumph in Gaza, going from door to door in last-minute campaign efforts, and now hold 6 of the 74 seats in parliament, giving them a new and unaccustomed public role. A1

Iraq Corruption Case Guilty Plea 

A former American government official in Iraq who is at the center of a corruption investigation pleaded guilty, but not before asserting that an American businessman who has also been arrested had set the scandal in motion. A14

Two car bombs detonated near a crowded market in eastern Baghdad, killing at least 16 people and wounding 90 in one of the worst attacks in the capital in weeks. A14

Australia Hit by U.N. Scandal
The Australian leader of an inquiry into the United Nations oil-for-food program said testimony that the country's monopoly wheat exporter poured $220 million in kickbacks and bribes into Iraq's treasury before the war warranted an examination of the Australian government's role in the program. A14

Guns Raised Over Cartoons
Muslim gunmen threatened the European Union offices in the Gaza Strip over cartoons published in European newspapers. At the same time, more papers published the drawings, which many Muslims call blasphemous, as an affirmation of their freedom of speech. A3

Iran Says It May Ban Inspectors
Iran notified the International Atomic Energy Agency that it would end all ''voluntary'' nuclear cooperation with the agency if it referred Iran's nuclear activity case to the United Nations Security Council. A4

NATIONAL A16-21

In an Upset, Republicans In House Choose a Leader
Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio in an upset became the new House majority leader as Republicans -- worried about a corruption scandal and their own tarnished image -- tried to distance themselves from the former leader, Representative Tom DeLay. A1

An Unexpected Mayoral Race
In great confusion and peculiar circumstances, New Orleans has suddenly found itself in the midst of an unexpected mayoral election campaign that may ultimately change the city's racial order. A18

Arizona Education Fight
Arizona's Democratic governor and its Republican-controlled Legislature are locked in an election-year stalemate over the teaching of English to public-school children whose native language is other than English and how much to pay for it. A16

Spy Debate Erupts in Senate
Senate Democrats angrily accused the Bush administration of mounting a public relations campaign to defend the National Security Agency's domestic surveillance program while withholding details of the secret eavesdropping from Congressional oversight committees. A16

In Energy Work, Goals Clash
President Bush and Congress support the development of renewable energy. So does Congress. But their goals differ in ways that compete for research dollars and are costing some government researchers their jobs. A17

Patients Pick Lower Premiums
Federal spending on the new Medicare drug benefit will be 20 percent lower than expected because patients are choosing prescription drug plans with lower premiums. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Police Officers Sue the City Over Monitoring of Rallies
The Patrolmen's Benevolent Association is suing New York City, charging that the police procedures used at the union's rallies, held to protest the pace of contract talks, were so heavy-handed and intimidating that their First Amendment rights were violated. A1

Officers' Ill-Fated Collision
Officer Eric Hernandez, a rookie just beginning his police career, and Officer Alfredo Toro, a 20-year veteran planning his retirement, worked less than two miles apart, but a flash of violence in a Bronx fast-food restaurant, and a 911 call for help brought the men together. B1

Tax Code Fuels Oil Habit
President Bush, in his address to the nation, said the United States must move to wean itself from foreign oil, but New York's energy policies show how hard that may be, with a tax code that offers more than $1 billion in breaks for gasoline and diesel. B1

Neediest Cases B5

ESCAPES F1-12

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-6

OBITUARIES B7

WEEKEND E1-32; E33-40

Met to Return Ancient Vase
The Metropolitan Museum of Art said it would relinquish ownership of a 2,500-year-old Greek vase to Italy. The Italians have long contended that the vase was stolen from an Etruscan tomb near Rome. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

A Mansion for Pensions
The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, a federal agency that insures pensions, is poised to lay claim to the 29-bedroom $185 million oceanfront mansion of Ira L. Rennert to make sure he delivers on hundreds of millions of dollars worth of pensions promised to a group of steelworkers in Ohio. A1

Auto Redesign Saves Lives
Design changes that automakers initially resisted and then reluctantly adopted have sharply reduced the number of deaths among drivers of cars struck by a sport utility vehicle or pickup, according to a study done by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: The lopsided Bush health plan; no help to democracy in Haiti; the House search for leadership; another child, beaten to death.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E39
TV Listings E31
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HAMAS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); ESPIONAGE (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); MAYORS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); SHOOTINGS (74%); TESTIMONY (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (70%); ARRESTS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); RELIGION (66%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (63%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); AUSTRALIA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



56 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1933 words

HEADLINE: Pension Battle May Entangle Mogul's Home

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Ira L. Rennert's colossal house in the Hamptons, built with the riches from his sprawling industrial empire, has withstood lawsuits from angry neighbors, appeals to the local zoning board, even an attempted documentary filming by Michael Moore.
 But now a new challenge is looming. The federal agency that insures pensions appears poised to lay claim to Mr. Rennert's 29-bedroom oceanfront estate, along with other assets, to make sure he delivers on hundreds of millions of dollars in pensions promised to a group of steelworkers in Ohio.
In most pension failures, the federal Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation has little choice but to absorb the liabilities of the pension fund itself. That is because the sponsoring company has filed for bankruptcy and there is rarely enough wealth tucked away in related entities to be worth going after. 
 But Mr. Rennert's business empire, according to Carol Connor Flowe, a former general counsel for the pension agency, presents a rare opportunity: a bankruptcy with a deep pocket. 
 ''It's especially a situation where they're going to be aggressive,'' she said of the agency, ''because there looks to be quite a bit of value'' in Mr. Rennert's holdings -- including his $185 million house. 
 Mr. Rennert built up his wealth by buying a variety of distressed industrial companies, often with high-yield junk bonds that allowed him to avoid putting up much of his own money. Besides his house in the Hamptons, Mr. Rennert owns a Manhattan duplex on Park Avenue and a home in Israel. 
 With a hearing scheduled for Monday in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Ohio, in Akron, the pension agency declined to discuss the Rennert case specifically. But ''in every case where there's value that we can chase to cover the pension liabilities,'' said Randolph J. Clerihue, a spokesman for the agency, ''we're going to do so.''
 Mr. Rennert is not likely to lose his estate in Sagaponack, the biggest, most expensive home in the Hamptons. But it is a particularly tempting target because of its personal value to Mr. Rennert. To prevent the government from placing a lien on it, he could be forced to hand over as much as $189 million -- somewhat more than the value of his property -- to cover the government's cost of paying the pensions that he promised to the steelworkers.
 A similar tactic worked with the financier Carl C. Icahn, who controlled Trans World Airlines when it filed for bankruptcy in 1992, recalled Ms. Flowe, now a partner at the law firm of Arent Fox in Washington.
 The agency, seeing that it was about to be stuck with T.W.A.'s huge, underfunded pension plan, laid claim to Mr. Icahn's vast holdings, including such prized possessions as a racehorse and a beach house. As a result, Mr. Icahn agreed to pay $30 million a year for eight years to help cover the costs of the airline's pensions. 
 In Mr. Rennert's case, the first step in such a process could come as early as today, with the pension agency going to court to seize the steelworkers' pension fund.
 Gary M. Ford, a former general counsel of the pension agency who is now Mr. Rennert's lawyer on pension law matters, said such an outcome would be ''an abuse of the rules.'' 
 No matter how big and valuable Mr. Rennert's house is, Mr. Ford said, the agency should instead be setting its sights on a group of Wall Street firms that he said were really the ones trying to dump the pension fund. 
 ''They are the ones driving this,'' said Mr. Ford, now a partner at the Groom Law Group in Washington. Mr. Rennert ''has never proposed to abandon the pension plan or not meet its obligations.''
 ''He has made very responsible proposals,'' Mr. Ford said. ''I think he ought to get credit for that.''
 The steelworkers caught up in these maneuverings are the roughly 2,000 employees and retirees of WCI Steel, a maker of custom steel products in Warren, Ohio. Mr. Rennert's closely held company, the Renco Group, acquired WCI Steel out of bankruptcy in 1988, and he became WCI's chairman. After a strike in 1995, he agreed to create a new pension plan for the workers, whose old plan had collapsed in the previous bankruptcy. 
 Buying WCI was in keeping with Mr. Rennert's general business strategy of acquiring gritty companies, often in bankruptcy sales, in basic, cyclical industries like mining and metals. Over the years he has amassed holdings that include lead smelters, coal mines, magnesium producers, vehicle assembly lines and other operations as far away as Peru.
 The most successful of Mr. Rennert's acquisitions was probably A. M. General, which makes the Humvee armored troop carrier and its civilian counterpart, the original Hummer, which is sold through General Motors. Mr. Rennert bought the company out of bankruptcy in 1992 for $133 million, and sold 70 percent of it to the financier Ronald O. Perelman in 2004 for about $930 million. He still holds the remaining stake. 
 Elsewhere, Mr. Rennert has used his newly acquired companies to issue junk bonds, capturing a big chunk of the proceeds for his own company, the Renco Group. In 1996, for example, WCI Steel sold $300 million worth of notes, which would come due in 2004, and passed $108 million of the proceeds to the Renco Group as a dividend. 
 Two years later, Mr. Rennert created a holding company over WCI, Renco Steel Holdings, which did much the same thing, issuing $120 million worth of notes that would come due in 2005. ''Substantially all'' of that money went to the Renco Group as well, according to bankruptcy court documents. 
 Layering big debts onto a cyclical company like WCI Steel is risky, because the interest and principal will come due on schedule, no matter what is happening to steel prices or how long an industry downturn might last. The Renco Group said it disclosed these risks to investors, as well as the fact that Mr. Rennert would be taking a big chunk of the money out of WCI Steel. 
 In the Hamptons, meanwhile, few were paying any attention to Mr. Rennert's financial activities in the Rust Belt. Attention was instead riveted on Fair Field, the 63-acre estate that was under construction in Sagaponack.
 A Renco Group company called Blue Turtles bought what had been a potato field there for $11 million in 1997. Word spread that the plans for the site called for 29 bedrooms, 39 bathrooms, a 164-seat theater, two bowling alleys, a restaurant-size kitchen, a 2.5 million-B.T.U. furnace, and a parking garage that could hold 200 cars. 
 Shocked neighbors, many owners of trophy houses themselves but on a lesser scale, said Fair Field was going too far. They raised money and filed lawsuits, arguing that such a compound -- consisting of five structures and encompassing more than 100,000 square feet -- could not possibly be what Mr. Rennert said it was: a private, single-family residence. 
 But the lawsuits failed.
 By 2003, Fair Field was approaching completion, and in Warren, the due date on WCI Steel's $300 million of notes was approaching as well. That fall, WCI declared bankruptcy. An actuary studied the company's pension fund and reported that if it were terminated, it would owe the workers $282 million. But it had only $93 million in assets, leaving a $189 million shortfall. 
 That made the pension plan radioactive to investors who might want to take WCI out of bankruptcy. But as time went on, WCI itself started to look more attractive; steel prices firmed, and several investment groups, including one led by Mr. Rennert, came forward with reorganization proposals.
 Mr. Rennert's offer included a pledge to keep the pension plan going at WCI, reviving it by putting in $66 million over four years. Mr. Ford, the lawyer for Mr. Rennert, said that was sufficient for an continuing pension plan, even though it was less than the $189 million shortfall the actuary had identified, because the money would compound over time if the plan were kept intact. 
 But the federal bankruptcy judge in Akron handling the case, Marilyn Shea-Stonum, rejected the proposal, saying Mr. Rennert had understated the value of the company and could not be counted on to act in ''the most economically reasonable manner.'' 
 She cited a deposition in which Mr. Rennert said he did not know who sat on the Renco Group's board, where the company kept its records or what its ownership structure was. 
 But Judge Shea-Stonum also wrote disapprovingly of the other main reorganization proposal, the one submitted by the Wall Street firms that now hold the notes WCI sold in the late 1990's. They want to pump money into the steel company in exchange for ownership, but they do not want the pension fund. Their proposal calls for abandoning it, contending that the Renco Group should pick up the pension costs.
 William Daniels, an expert hired by the Wall Street firms, filed a report with the bankruptcy court stating that ''the most likely outcome'' if the firms' proposal succeeded would be for Mr. Rennert's holdings to be tapped, with the pension agency forcing him to pay ''by threatening an involuntary plan termination.'' 
 Despite the temporary loss of the pension plan, the steelworkers have rallied behind that proposal, and it has emerged as the front-runner. Monday's court hearing has been scheduled to consider whether it should be confirmed. 
 If it is, then the nonpension assets of WCI Steel will soon be transferred, leaving the ailing pension plan in the empty shell of the old, bankrupt WCI Steel.
 But by moving quickly, the government may be able to force the Renco Group to pick up the tab. Among its assets is Fair Field, where Mr. Rennert took occupancy in 2004. Its inlaid floors, its frescoes and other splendors have an assessed value of $185 million -- uncannily close to the $189 million shortfall that the WCI Steel actuary found.
 There are also the Renco Group's other businesses and assets, including the cash Mr. Perelman paid for his stake in A. M. General. As a private company, the Renco Group is not required to disclose the extent of its holdings. But it said in a stipulation with the bankruptcy court that its related companies have more than enough ''cash, securities and other assets'' to cover all the pension benefits owed to the steelworkers in the future.
 Which assets the pension agency can go after, it turns out, depends on the legal structure of Mr. Rennert's holdings. 
 ''The 80 percent test is the critical test to look at,'' said Edward R. Mackiewicz, the pension agency's general counsel from 1985 to 1987. By law, he explained, all business entities that are at least 80 percent owned by a single parent company are part of a ''controlled group'' and are jointly liable for their bankrupt brethren's pension debt. 
 So where does that leave Fair Field?
 Mr. Mackiewicz said he once handled a pension case in which a farm was found to be part of a controlled group, so he saw no reason why a house, particularly Mr. Rennert's house, would necessarily be spared, provided that its owner of record, Blue Turtles, was at least 80 percent owned by the Renco Group. 
 Mr. Ford, speaking for the Renco Group, said he had never heard of Blue Turtles before and could not say exactly how the two companies were related. 
 But Mr. Mackiewicz, now a partner at the law firm of Steptoe & Johnson in Washington, said the pension agency would have its own records of Mr. Rennert's holdings that would guide its actions.
 ''They are no shrinking violets,'' he said. ''I would not expect that the agency is going to sit on its hands if there are hundreds of millions of dollars of liability'' at stake.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fair Field, the Rennert estate in Sagaponack, N.Y., as it appeared last month. The estate was the subject of suits filed by Hamptons residents. (Photo by Doug Kuntz)
 Ira L. Rennert and his wife, Ingeborg, in 2001. Mr. Rennert acquired WCI Steel in 1988. (Photo by Bill Cunningham/The New York Times)(pg. C5)Chart: ''A Company, a House and a Pension''In the 1990's, the Renco Group received large dividends from its subsidiaries. One of those subsidiaries, WCI Steel, is now in bankruptcy protection and the pensions of 2,000 employees are caught up in the reorganization.1. The Renco Group owns WCI Steel and Renco Steel Holdings, a holding company for WCI Steel. The two companies take on debt.2. A portion of the proceeds from issuing the debt goes back to the parent, the Renco Group, as dividends. The assets of WCI Steel are used to back the debt.WCI SteelIssues $300 million in debt in Nov. '96$108 millionRenco SteelIssues $120 million in debt in Feb. '98$100 million*The Renco Group's $208dividends million3. In 1997, a Renco unit, Blue Turtles, purchases land in the Hamptons for $11 million used to build an estate for Ira Rennert, chairman of the Renco Group. The estate is now valued at $185 million.4. WCI Steel files bankruptcy, raising doubts about the pensions of 2,000 workers. By coincidence, the shortfall in the pension fund has about the same value as Mr. Rennert's estate.Assessed value of Hamptons $185estate millionWCI Steel's pension $189fund million shortfallActuary's estimate of total pension obligations, if terminated: $282 million*Estimated(Source by Bankruptcy court filings)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ZONING (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); MOVIE FILMING (72%); BONDS (69%); DIVESTITURES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (64%); AIRLINES (63%) Steel and Iron; Labor; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Bankruptcies; Suits and Litigation; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Steel and Iron; Steel and Iron

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (71%); ARENT FOX LLP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp; WCI Steel (Co); Renco Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (69%) Mary Williams Walsh; Ira Rennert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (57%) OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



57 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 815 words

 BODY:

Federal Pension Agency to Make a Claim On a Hamptons Estate to Aid Steelworkers
The federal agency that insures pensions appears poised to lay claim to a Hamptons house owned by Ira L. Rennert to make sure he delivers on hundreds of millions of dollars worth of pensions promised to a group of steelworkers in Ohio. [Page A1.] 


More Patients Move Away From Traditional Health Care
Feeling misled or even betrayed, millions of people are venturing outside conventional health care by taking herbal medicine or seeking alternative treatments; the government estimates that such measures add up to annual spending of $27 billion. [A1.]

Drug industry executives are voicing new hope that their companies are past the worst of the scientific, political and legal problems that dogged them through 2005. [C1.]

Federal spending on the new Medicare drug benefit will be 20 percent lower than expected this year because beneficiaries are choosing prescription drug plans with lower premiums, the Bush administration said. [A20.]

Executives of Boston Scientific will meet with regulators from the Food and Drug Administration to discuss quality control problems at some of its factories. The agency has already suspended the company's ability to introduce new products, and the meeting could affect its plans to acquire another medical device maker, Guidant. [C1.]

Study Finds Automakers' Design Changes Save Lives
Design changes that automakers initially resisted and then reluctantly adopted for sport utility vehicles and pickups have sharply reduced the number of deaths among drivers in cars they hit, according to results from the first such study of the standards. [C1.]

Charges Filed Against Former Insurance Executives
Three former General Re executives and one former American International Group executive have been charged with fraud and conspiracy in connection with a deal that authorities say artificially inflated A.I.G.'s financial position, possibly raising the pressure on other senior executives. [C1.]

Amazon's Results Come In Below Expectations
Amazon, the online retailer, reported that its profit declined 43 percent during the holiday quarter, in large part because of a decreased tax benefit. A smaller-than-expected increase in revenue, along with high expenses, concerned investors. Amazon's shares declined $3.49, or 8.2 percent, to $39.25 in after-hours trading, after they had fallen in regular trading to close at $42.74. [C2.]

The iPod Spawns an Industry for Its Accessories
Apple's iPod has given rise to an entire industry in accessories. Sales of cases, docking stations, rechargers and other accessories -- 2,000 at last count -- totaled $850 million last year. [C1.]

Image Defied Reality, an Enron Executive Testifies
The former Enron chief executives Jeffrey K. Skilling and Kenneth L. Lay continued to publicize the company's retail energy services division as being successful, even as other top executives knew the unit had suffered huge losses from trading and overpriced contracts, Enron's former head of investor relations testified. [C3.]

Similar Goals but Different Routes on Energy
President Bush supports the development of ethanol, wind power and other forms of renewable energy. So does Congress. But their goals differ in ways that compete for research dollars and are costing some government researchers their jobs. [A17.]

With a tax code that offers more than $1 billion worth of breaks for gasoline and diesel, New York's energy policies show just how hard it will be for the nation to wean itself from foreign oil. [C19.]

Retailers Report Their Biggest Sales Gain Since June
Retailers reported their biggest monthly sales gain since June, as shoppers redeemed gift cards and bought spring fashions during one of the warmest Januaries on record. [C3.]

Workers' Efficiency Increases, but at a Slower Rate
The efficiency of American workers rose in 2005 at the slowest pace since the recession year of 2001 while a major gauge of wage pressures rose at the fastest pace in five years, according to a government report. [C3.]

General Motors Buys $15 Billion in Technology Services
General Motors said it would spend up to $15 billion over the next five years to contract out information technology services. Electronic Data Systems, its former subsidiary, will remain the biggest supplier but will receive a little less work. [C5.]

Comcast Posts a Decline in Quarterly Profit
The Comcast Corporation, the nation's largest cable company, said profit slid 69 percent in the fourth quarter as investment losses and a higher tax rate offset gains in its core businesses of selling television, high-speed Internet connections and phone service. [C2.]

European Bank Paves the Way for a Rate Increase
The European Central Bank laid the groundwork for a rate increase next month, its second in five years, saying that Europe was continuing to grow and that inflation remained a threat. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: Graph shows Amazon share prices since December, 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (87%); MEDICARE (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (75%); CONSPIRACY (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); REINSURANCE (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); MEDICAL DEVICES (71%); HERBAL MEDICINE (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (70%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (69%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); INTERNET RETAILING (67%); QUALITY CONTROL (67%); RETAILERS (66%); SECURITIES TRADING (65%); NEW PRODUCTS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (82%); APPLE INC (80%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (55%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (82%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (80%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); BSX (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (82%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (82%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (80%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (80%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (80%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (80%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (55%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (55%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



58 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: Was That Liza on the Black Diamond Run? 

BYLINE: By DENNY LEE

 BODY:
Serena Williams, or at least her drag-queen stunt double, didn't stand a chance. Sporting three blond wigs, a leather corset and faux diamonds the size of cough drops, Miss Elaine Lancaster sashayed down Aspen Mountain and made downhill skiing look as effortless as runway modeling. 
 As the transvestite skier ascended the outdoor stage, the subdued spectators put down their champagne flutes and erupted into applause. Whether they were cheering for athletic technique or sartorial grace wasn't clear. But the judges, a bit tipsy by now, sprinkled confetti in the air and granted a perfect 10.
''The bigger the hair, the closer to God,'' declared Miss Lancaster, a drag performer from Miami whose real name is James Davis. The Chanel sunglasses came off, but the milelong eyelashes stayed on. ''I'm the queen of Aspen.'' 
 Miss Lancaster wasn't the only person to claim that title. Park City may have the Sundance Film Festival, and Turin has this year's Winter Olympics, but when January rolls across the Colorado Rockies, Aspen takes the crown for the most outre and outlandish performances, both on and off the slopes. 
 Every January for the last three decades, this ski resort, synonymous with fur-wearing celebrities and jet-setters, turns into a roving gay pride parade on snow. In what is known simply as Gay Ski Week, more than a thousand well-groomed men (and a smattering of women) converge on Aspen for seven days of cocktail mixers, shopping sprees, sushi dinners, pool parties, dancing and, if time allows, some skiing and snowboarding, too. 
 This year's jamboree was no different, except that the gays finally bested the straights in the annual Battle of Sexual Preferences hockey match. ''It's skiing and gay -- what more could you ask for?'' said Yoav Arad, 33, a computer science student from Tel Aviv who was strapping on his snowboard atop Aspen Highlands. ''Whenever I travel, I always seek out the gay angle. It's the same reason that a straight person seeks out a straight angle in a foreign place.'' 
 The town has an angle, too. Gay revelers help fill the gap between the holidays and the peak ski season, not only in terms of lift tickets, but for bigger-ticket items like Prada parkas (about $1,300) and St. Regis suites (starting at about $1,125 a night). ''January has historically been our quietest month,'' said Paul Menter, Aspen's finance director. ''After the holidays, Gay Ski Week is the most lucrative time for retail stores.'' 
 That might explain why more than 16 copycat events are now held across the globe, from the itinerant European Gay Ski Week, in Pila, Italy, this March, to the newly reorganized GayWhistler Ski Week starting Sunday in Whistler, British Columbia. 
 There are also gay gatherings for snowboarders (Outboard in Keystone, Colo.), cross-country skiers (Seattle Ski Buddies in Methow Valley, Wash.) and black snow bunnies (Denver Winter Meltdown, which includes a day trip to Winter Park, Colo.). 
 ''It transplants the magic of an all-gay resort'' to a mainstream ski area, said Ed Salvato, the travel editor at PlanetOut, an entertainment company that owns Out&About, a gay travel newsletter. ''It's also a sporting event, which appeals to gays and lesbians who are athletic. You kind of own the place for the week.'' In Aspen this year, gay skiers descended like booze cruise passengers on shore leave, moving in lockstep from chairlift to chairlift, boutique to boutique, hot tub to hot tub. A person could spend the entire week in a lavender bubble, chatting, laughing and gossiping only with other ostensibly well-to-do gays. 
 ''It's like a class reunion with my Gay Ski Week friends,'' said Enrique McGregor, 42, a management consultant from Dallas who was with his boyfriend, Mark Niermann, a 42-year-old lawyer. It was Mr. McGregor's ninth visit. 
 Festivities began on Sunday, Jan. 15, with a sit-down lunch on top of Aspen Mountain. But the unofficial kickoff, at least for those in the know, was three days later, at an invitation-only party at the home of Tim Gill, the philanthropist and founder of Quark, the desktop publishing company. 
 With snow falling on Aspen, some 300 self-styled A-list gays drove five miles out of town, up a steep hill illuminated with candles encased in ice, to a 13,000-square-foot log cabin manned with young valets. To further set the mood, a polar bear sculptured from snow was installed in the porte-cochere and bathed in purple lights. 
 ''This year's theme is the white party,'' Mr. Gill, 53, explained, as a swirl of buff waiters (male models from Denver) passed around silver trays of lobster risotto, Kumamoto oysters and Patron margaritas. Everyone wore white, including the Amsterdam couple who showed up in hotel bathrobes. ''It's a tongue-in-cheek reference to circuit parties,'' said Mr. Gill, referring to hedonistic gay raves, ''where everyone does cocaine.'' 
 ''But not here,'' Mr. Gill added. ''In Aspen, the powder is all about the snow.'' 
 Not exactly, judging by the groups of two and three who took turns locking the bathroom door, right under Mr. Gill's nose. Still, the skinny among gay circuit-goers is that the party boys go to Whistler while the preppy boys prefer Aspen. Sure enough, by 11 p.m. most of the guests had left the party. 
 As one New Zealander put it: ''You can party every night, but there are only so many powder days.'' 
 Gray skies and high-altitude hangovers did little to dampen the enthusiasm. At 10 a.m. the next day, a gaggle of bleary-eyed attendees dragged themselves to the base of Aspen Highlands for the first of seven official activities that day. Even with all the designer ski gear, the crowd was not easy to miss. Darrell Daniel, a 49-year-old telecommunications executive from Los Angeles, glued rainbow flags to his ski poles, clipped portable loudspeakers to his jacket and cued up his MP3 player. ''I play disco and aerobics music,'' he said as he turned himself into a one-person float. ''I want to celebrate my gayness.'' 
 Those who slept late found other ways to celebrate. ''I ate and shopped all day,'' said George Harding, 46, a salesman from Denver who arrived at the designated apres ski lounge looking suspiciously refreshed. ''I bought a nice ski vest at Gorsuch for $300.'' Was he planning to introduce it on the slopes? ''Maybe,'' he said. ''We're having a hot tub party at our condo later. I'll have to see if you can come.'' 
 Who had time? Besides the apres ski drinks (''It's all dudes,'' one straight straggler observed), there was dinner at Barclay's (''Gays are the best tippers,'' a waiter commented), comedy night at the Wheeler Opera House (''Do the writers of gay porn ever get writers' block?'' asked a comic, Bob Smith), and the Brokeback Mountain Western Hoedown at the Sky Hotel (''Maybe you'll find your own Heath Ledger,'' the invitation read). 
 AND it was only Thursday. The best events were still to come, like the Friday night pool party with free-flowing Pravda Vodka and masses of chest-shaved men in R-rated swimwear. 
 Gay Ski Week wasn't always so action-packed. As the old-timers fondly recall, it began innocently in the mid-1970's, when members of several California gay ski clubs flirted with the locals. (Aspen, like many old-money resorts, was long known for its liberal streak.) ''They invited us back to their condo for a party,'' recalled Jon Busch, 64, who still lives in town. ''It was just beers and gay guys hanging out.''
 Within a few years, the condo keggers grew into ballroom mixers, and as the crowds multiplied, so did the number of events. In 1996, the Aspen Gay & Lesbian Community Fund, a nonprofit group, took over the party planning, in part to funnel proceeds to local gay and AIDS charities. But the lavish productions, which many gays came to expect, usually meant that little money was left over. Mountaintop galas with all-night gondola rides, after all, don't come cheap. 
 Making matters worse, Liza Minelli and lesser-known activists boycotted Aspen after Colorado voters passed a constitutional amendment in 1992 that nullified existing and future legal protections for gays. (It was struck down by the Supreme Court in 1996.) Other ski resorts quickly seized the opportunity to start their own gay ski weeks. 
 Attendance at Aspen plunged from a high of 5,000 to fewer than 2,000 today, according to the organizers. Just as significant, in a subculture that clings to youth, was the demographic shift. ''The crowd is a lot older than I would have thought,'' said Marcel Hermes, 36, an economist from New York City who wasn't sure if he would return, even after seeing his ''friend,'' Hillary Rodham Clinton, parodied on the slopes. ''There aren't too many young gays around.''
 But if Aspen, the granddaddy of gay ski weeks, has lost ground to other resorts, it wasn't clear during the closing party on Saturday night. Sure, there would be no rainbow-colored fireworks. And instead of a magical gondola ride, the party was held at a mothballed restaurant at the edge of town that lacked running water and cost $1 to rent. 
 Still, by midnight, the place was so packed with sweaty bodies that no one noticed that the furnace was also broken. Drinks tickets were flying across the bar. Dinner companions were given nicknames. And, like clockwork, a crush of gay men descended on the dance floor when Madonna's latest single, ''Hung Up,'' was played for what seemed like the 10th time that week. 
 Amid the revelry, someone yelled, ''Look, the boys are taking off their shirts.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: GAY ASPEN -- Miss Elaine Lancaster (James Davis), Coyote-licious (Troy Alexander) and Miss Gay Edna (William Harris). (Photo by Michael Brands for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
POOLSIDE -- Gary Palochko, of New York, and, in front, Elisard Serra, of Barcelona, at the popular Pravda Vodka pool party.
 SLOPESIDE -- Jim Patton, of Los Angeles, as Serena Williams in drag queen contest. (Photographs by Michael Brands for The New York Times)(pg. F10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); SNOWBOARDING (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); SKIING FACILITIES (77%); PARADES & MARCHES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); FESTIVALS (76%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (72%); WINTER OLYMPICS (72%); RESORTS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (67%); OLYMPICS (67%); RETAILERS (64%) Skiing; Homosexuality

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO ROCKIES (55%)

PERSON: SERENA WILLIAMS (89%); JIM DAVIS (88%) Denny Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (70%) UTAH, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%) Aspen (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



59 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: In Another Threat, Iran Warns It May Block Inspections

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: VIENNA, Feb. 2 

 BODY:
Iran formally notified the International Atomic Energy Agency on Thursday that it would end all ''voluntary'' nuclear cooperation with the agency if, as expected, its 35-country board referred Iran's nuclear activity case to the United Nations Security Council.
 If the threat, in a letter from Ali Larijani, Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, to Mohamed ElBaradei, the director of the agency, is carried out, inspectors will no longer be permitted to conduct spot inspections and will lose access to crucial sites, including several military areas that have aroused the agency's suspicions. 
In addition, Iran has said it will resume its program to build 50,000 centrifuges at Natanz and begin full-scale production of enriched uranium, which can be used to produce electricity or to build nuclear bombs.
 Iran delivered its threat as John D. Negroponte, the director of national intelligence, told the Senate Intelligence Committee that ''we judge that Tehran probably does not yet have a nuclear weapon and probably has not yet produced or acquired the necessary fissile material'' to produce one.
 Nevertheless, he said, ''the danger that it will acquire a nuclear weapon and the ability to integrate it with ballistic missiles Iran already possesses is a reason for immediate concern.''
 Mr. Negroponte made no estimate of how much time Iran would require to produce a weapon. But he focused on the new government's increasingly strident threats against Israel, and said, ''The regime today is more confident and assertive than it has been since the early days of the Islamic republic.''
 That assertiveness was clear in Mr. Larijani's letter, which put into writing a threat that several Iranian officials have made orally.
 Iran ''would have no other choice but to suspend all the voluntary measures and extra cooperation with the agency,'' the letter said. ''In that case, the agency's monitoring would extensively be limited and all the peaceful nuclear activities being under voluntary suspension would be resumed without any restriction.''
 The letter was delivered as the board opened talks on a resolution sponsored by Britain, France and Germany that for the first time would open the door to possible Security Council action against Iran. 
 The resolution was challenged by the 16-country nonaligned bloc, which proposed amendments deleting all references to the Security Council and keeping Iran's case the responsibility of the nuclear agency. 
 But the resolution as drafted enjoys the support of the United States, Russia and China, and is expected to win passage. Only Cuba, Syria and Venezuela have said they will definitely vote against it. 
 Iran would not be violating any treaty obligations if it carried out its threat. But the action would almost certainly further erode confidence in Tehran as a reliable negotiating partner and fuel suspicion that its nuclear program was not peaceful. 
 In various public statements. Iranian officials, including President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, have explained that Iran is obliged under a law passed last year to end voluntary monitoring activities if its case is reported to the Security Council. 
 Mr. Larijani has assured the I.A.E.A. that Iran has no intention of withdrawing from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, a senior agency official said.
 But ''voluntary'' measures are different, and refer to Iran's de facto implementation of the treaty's 1997 ''additional protocol,'' which gives expanded rights to the agency to inspect a country's facilities. Iran has signed the protocol but has not ratified it, so is not obliged to comply with it. 
 The letter delivered Thursday means Iran has rejected the demands of the five permanent members of the Security Council -- the United States, Russia, China, France, Britain -- as well as Germany and Dr. ElBaradei himself, that Iran once again close its uranium enrichment plant at Natanz. 
 The plant was shut down under a November 2004 agreement with France, Britain and Germany that froze Iran's enrichment activities while the two sides negotiated economic and political incentives for Tehran. Tired of waiting for the rewards, Iran last month reopened part of the plant for what it called research, but it has yet to operate any of the machinery or process any uranium. 
 Dr. ElBaradei sought to calm fears about the looming referral to the Security Council. ''We are reaching a critical phase, but not a crisis,'' he told reporters on Thursday, adding that there would still be a monthlong ''window of opportunity'' before the Security Council could take up the issue. He said the threat was not ''imminent,'' a word that he appeared to choose carefully to tamp down discussion of turning to a military solution. 
 On Wednesday evening, Robert Joseph, the under secretary of state for proliferation issues, said in a speech, ''The president has repeatedly emphasized that all options are on the table to deal with the threat from Iran, but that our strong preference is to do so through effective diplomacy.''
 Until Thursday night, Iran's delegation was struggling with Dr. ElBaradei to find a face-saving formula that would allow Tehran to keep Natanz open but essentially nonoperational, said two officials involved in the talks. 
 In a last-ditch effort to avoid any involvement of the Security Council, Dr. ElBaradei met with Iranian officials at their request at his home, the officials said. But the Iranian side offered no new substantive concessions, they said. 
 Even on Thursday, multilateral diplomacy continued, as the senior Russian and Chinese nuclear negotiators met in Tehran to press Iran's leaders to avoid a crisis and close Natanz.
 The Iranian letter reflects the victory of the faction in Iran that has argued, even before the victory of a hard-liner, Mr. Ahmadinejad, as president last summer, that the Europeans had not reached the nuclear agreement with Iran in good faith and were determined to permanently deprive Iran of its right to develop a fuel cycle for peaceful purposes.
 As evidence, Iranian negotiators continually refer to a lengthy implementation document presented last August by the Europeans that asked Iran to give up two rights guaranteed under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty: its right to enrich uranium to produce electricity, and its right to withdraw from the treaty if its security is threatened. 
 Indeed, in demanding that Iran close Natanz, the international community is essentially reinterpreting the treaty by holding Iran to a higher standard than other countries because, the United States and other countries argue, Iran cannot be trusted with the technology to produce nuclear fuel that can also be used for weapons. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); CENTRIFUGES (69%); RELIGION (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Atomic Weapons; Uranium; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%) International Atomic Energy Agency; United Nations

PERSON: JOHN NEGROPONTE (89%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (59%); ALI LARIJANI (58%) Elaine Sciolino; John D (Dir) Negroponte

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (91%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SYRIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (52%) Iran; Natanz (Iran); Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



60 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Chavez Ousts U.S. Diplomat on Spying Charge

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Feb. 2 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela announced Thursday that his government had ordered the expulsion of the American naval attache at the United States Embassy in Caracas for spying, further increasing tensions with the Bush administration. 
 Speaking on the seventh anniversary of his ascension to power, Mr. Chavez also warned that he would order the detention and removal of any other American military officials caught spying. ''If accredited military officials continue with the espionage, we will imprison them, we will order them thrown out,'' Mr. Chavez said.
The embassy denied the accusations against the attache, John Correa, and other high-ranking military officers. ''None of the military attaches in Caracas was or is involved in inappropriate activities,'' Salome Hernandez, a spokeswoman in the embassy, said by phone from Caracas. 
 Mr. Chavez's comments came on the same day that senior Bush administration officials, who have been relatively silent after weeks of constant verbal volleys by the Venezuelan leader, harshly criticized his governing style. Warning that Mr. Chavez is consolidating power at the expense of democracy, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld went so far as to compare Mr. Chavez to Hitler. ''He's a person who was elected legally just as Adolf Hitler was elected legally and then consolidated power and now is, of course, working with Fidel Castro and Mr. Morales and others,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said, referring to the Cuban leader and the new president of Bolivia, Evo Morales. ''It concerns me.''
 In testimony on Thursday before the Senate Intelligence Committee, John D. Negroponte, director of national intelligence, said Mr. Chavez ''appears ready to use his control of the legislature and other institutions to continue to stifle the opposition, to reduce press freedom, and entrench himself through measures that are technically legal, but which nonetheless constrict democracy.''
 Mr. Negroponte also said Mr. Chavez's populist government was seeking closer economic and military ties with Iran and North Korea, while meddling in the internal affairs of neighboring countries. Little, if anything, has ever been publicly raised about ties to North Korea, and Mr. Negroponte did not offer evidence. But Mr. Chavez, whose country has the hemisphere's largest oil reserves, has met with Iranian leaders and has vigorously defended Tehran's goal of developing a nuclear program.
 The barbs from Washington are sure to infuriate Mr. Chavez, an outspoken leftist who at every turn -- in speeches, inaugurations of public works projects, his weekly television show -- warns that the Bush administration is out to assassinate him. In recent days, Venezuelan officials have claimed that American Embassy officials are part of a spy ring involving dissident Venezuelan military officers. ''I urge the embassy of the United States in Venezuela to stop spying,'' Mr. Chavez said on Monday. ''We have you infiltrated.''
 On Thursday, Mr. Chavez elaborated, saying that the rogue Venezuelan officers were providing videotapes of military exercises and personal information about high-ranking commanders. He said that the full weight of the law would come down on those officers, whom he did not name. ''We will be inflexible with those traitors,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ASSASSINATION (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); ACCREDITATION (71%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) United States Foreign Service; United States International Relations; Espionage; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (89%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%) Juan Forero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; George W (Pres) Bush; John D (Dir) Negroponte; John Correa

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (59%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (52%) UNITED STATES (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); IRAN (52%) Venezuela; United States; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



61 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; The iPod Ecosystem; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: Add-Ons Have Become a Billion-Dollar Bonanza

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
In the weeks leading up to last month's Macworld conference, few people knew what the notoriously secretive Steven P. Jobs was going to announce. 
 Gavin Downey, the director of product management at the Belkin Corporation, listened to all the rumors leading up to the everything-Apple conference in San Francisco, from the outlandish to the logical. He had to. His job is making sure there are cases, rechargers and other accessories that add features to all the variations of iPods that Apple Computer makes. Any change in direction by Apple means his company has to scramble.
Last September, for instance, on the eve of an Apple announcement, Belkin's lead designer was dispatched to China. There he waited for word of the rumored replacement to the iPod Mini, which turned out to be the slim Nano.
 Despite the radical redesign, different from any previous iPod, the Belkin designer was able to mock up prototype cases within two weeks. Models were in the stores well before Christmas. ''There is no room in this industry for lack of execution,'' Mr. Downey said. 
 Not when making add-ons for the iPod is a $1 billion business. Does that sound like hyperbole? Consider this. Last year, Apple sold 32 million iPods, or one every second. But for every $3 spent on an iPod, at least $1 is spent on an accessory, estimates Steve Baker, an analyst for the NPD Group, a research firm. That works out to three or four additional purchases per iPod.
 That obviously makes accessory makers happy. It thrills retailers, whose profit margin on the accessories is much higher than on an iPod. And it delights Apple because the racks of add-ons made just for the iPod -- 2,000 different items at last count -- send a strong statement to consumers that the Apple player is far cooler than a Creative or Toshiba player, for which there are few accessories. 
 Sales of all those cases, car rechargers and docking stations totaled $850 million last year, Mr. Baker said, and that is not even counting Internet sales. Sales will easily soar well beyond $1 billion this year. 
 ''Most of us were caught a little bit by surprise by the growth trajectory,'' admitted Rob Humphrey, director of marketing for Kensington, a maker of computer peripherals and now one of the biggest makers of iPod accessories. The accessories now account for about 20 percent of Kensington's total sales.
 An entire ecosystem has emerged around the music player, introduced by Apple in October 2001. Other manufacturers had produced MP3 players earlier. But the simple design of the iPod, plus Apple's iTunes store, quickly helped Apple to dominate the market. And that simple design -- some might even call it bland -- encouraged people to personalize the machine.
 There are now more than twice as many iPod accessories as there were just last summer, according to Apple. And that number does not include the docking stations that will be available in 40 percent of cars sold in the United States this year. 
 About 28 percent of all accessories are cases. You can find microfiber sleeves or neoprene iPod cases made by dozens of start-ups for $10 or $20 or a $200 python-skin case made by Coach, the maker of stylish leather handbags. About 30 percent of sales are for car chargers or transmitters and the remainder are speakers and docking stations. 
 But the forest of products includes a baby stroller from Kolcraft with a slot for an iPod, and a belt called the TuneBuckle with an iPod holder as the buckle. For sheer extravagance, Hammacher Schlemmer lives up to its reputation for selling the ridiculously expensive in its catalogs with the $4,000 Triode-Tube iPod speakers with old-fashioned vacuum tubes that glow through see-through panels. The Sharper Image catalog has a $700 iJoy massage chair with an iPod holder in the armrest.
 The iBoom is a white boom box that Digital Lifestyle Outfitters is selling for $150. At the Consumer Electronics Show in January in Las Vegas, a company showed a prototype of a black and yellow boom box, the size of a work site gasoline-powered generator, for the tiny iPod.
 Apple could not be happier about this exploding iPod economy. ''For us it's great because the decision to buy an iPod is reinforced when consumers see all the accessories,'' said Greg Joswiak, Apple's vice president for worldwide iPod marketing. 
 Mr. Humphrey of Kensington, which makes about a dozen iPod accessories, called the accessory market ''a real phenomenon,'' adding, ''I've never seen anything like it in my career.'' 
 Few have. Rarely does one product foster such a sizable industry around it. Many of the iPod accessory makers, like Belkin, Kensington or Logitech, cut their teeth making accessories for personal computers. But no one product, not even the Macintosh, created the kind of accessory mania that the iPod has. 
 Some creations, like Mickey Mouse for Disney or Barbie dolls for Mattel, created an enormous market for accessories, but most of those items, like the Mickey Mouse watch or the Barbie Dream House, were licensed or made by the same company that created the original product. In contrast, Apple has encouraged a free-for-all, and its own share of the accessories market remains small.
 That will change. Apple is aware of the power of this market and is getting more active. Indeed, at the recent Macworld conference, Apple demonstrated that it wanted more of this lucrative field. It made a splash with an attachment, the $50 Radio Remote, that plays FM radio through the iPod. Meanwhile, Kensington, with a new device that transmitted music from an iPod to an FM radio and also received FM broadcasts, was overshadowed. 
 Until recently, Apple's add-ons have been low-impact items like colorful cloth sleeves, which it calls socks, for the iPods. ''We've chosen to participate in the market, not overwhelm it,'' Mr. Joswiak said.
 By standardizing the 30-pin electronic connection on all of its models, Apple allows companies that stick with its standards the right to use an official ''Made for iPod'' logo. In return, Apple gets a royalty for the logo's use. 
 However, Apple, always tight-lipped, does not give much else to the accessory makers. ''We may get a day's notice even with our strong relationship with Apple,'' Mr. Humphrey said. ''In a meeting you might get a hint that something is gong to happen, but you don't know what. You occasionally get a, 'I don't think you want to go in that direction,' but you never know why they say that.''
 It could be because Apple will introduce a new size, as it did with the Nano, or because it is moving its connector from the top of the unit to the bottom, or because Apple has plans to introduce a competing product.
 Undaunted, the big makers like Logitech, Griffin, Targus and Xtreme Accessories keep working on electronics that add functions and battery power to the iPod. Devices that turn the iPod into a home media center, allowing consumers to shuttle music from one room to another wirelessly, have become popular. 
 One big reason for the size of the iPod economy is that retailers love the accessories business. ''Retailers have a love-hate relationship with iPod,'' Mr. Humphrey said. They must compete against Apple's own retail outlets for sales and the gross profit margins are slim, less than 15 percent. 
 Retailers' margins for the iPod accessories are much higher. Mr. Baker of NPD estimates that margins for the electronics are around 25 percent, while cases offer 50 percent margins. ''They make money on that and they make no money on the iPod,'' he said.
 While there is shelf-space competition among the hundreds of vendors, there has not been a lot of price competition, so profit margins hold.The iPod economy is also wide because the accessories are not limited to retailers like Best Buy or Circuit City as they were with personal computers. IPod accessories are showing up in Urban Outfitters stores and auto dealerships. 
 If at times the iPod economy seems packed with iThis and iThat, it is because manufacturers have recognized the selling power of the iPod. Take clock radios, which have been a sleepy category for more than a decade. SDI Technologies turned that around by creating the iHome clock radio, which Apple says was the strongest selling accessory last year. (You dock the iPod in the machine.) The speaker maker JBL has jumped in with the $300 JBL On Time clock radio/iPod dock.
 ''You throw an iPod in there and you have a growth category again,'' said Mr. Baker of NPD. Likewise, the headphone and earphone business also took off last year, growing about 25 percent in volume and 10 percent in average price, said Robert Heiblim, senior vice president for sales and marketing at Altec Lansing, a speaker maker.
 No one is predicting that the iPod economy will be slowing soon. Mr. Baker said: ''We've barely scratched the surface with the video iPod.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: 1. TuneCenter connects to a TV and stereo. 2. IHome clock radio. 3. TuneFM sends music to any stereo with a tuner. 4. Digital FM Radio transmits to a car stereo. 5. Python-skin case. 6. Triode tube speakers. 7. TuneCast FM transmitter. 8. TuneBuckle belt. 9. Caribiner case for the Nano.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); RETAIL SALES (88%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (75%); RETAILERS (72%); COMPUTER PERIPHERAL MFG (72%); INTERNET AUDIO (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); INTERNET RETAILING (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); RECORD INDUSTRY (62%) Music; Computers and the Internet; Recordings (Audio); Sales; Recording Equipment ; Music

COMPANY: BELKIN INTERNATIONAL INC (93%); APPLE INC (92%); TOSHIBA CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Computer Inc; Creative (Co); Toshiba Corp

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%); TOS (LSE) (53%); 6502 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (93%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (78%) Damon Darlin

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%); CHINA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



62 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Rose More Slowly in '05; Wages Rose More Quickly 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2 

 BODY:
The efficiency of American workers rose in 2005 at the slowest pace since the recession year of 2001 while a major gauge of wage pressures rose at the fastest pace in five years, the government reported Thursday. 
 The Labor Department said productivity rose by 2.7 percent last year while labor costs rose by 2.4 percent, the biggest gain since a 4.2 percent increase in 2000. For the final three months of the year, productivity actually fell by 0.6 percent, the first decline since early 2001, and labor costs rose by 2.4 percent.
 The combination of slowing productivity, which is the amount of output per hour of work, and rising labor costs was certain to attract attention at the Federal Reserve, which is worried that rising wage demands could set off inflation problems down the road. 
 ''The glory days of surging productivity that kept labor costs down look to be behind us,'' said Joel Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisers. ''The expected slowdown in productivity has arrived and that is putting pressure on costs and the Fed.'' 
 The Federal Reserve raised interest rates for a 14th time on Tuesday, and many economists expect at least one more rate increase on March 28 as the central bank tries to make sure that tighter labor markets do not set off rising wage pressures that could push inflation higher. 
 The Fed's concerns would probably be increased by the report on the productivity of nonfarm workers. Analysts cautioned, however, that productivity growth for 2005, even with the slowdown, was still slightly above the average for the last 50 years, and was more than double the weak growth rates of the 1970's and the 1980's. 
 In other economic news, the government said the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits dropped to 273,000 last week, a decline of 11,000 from the previous week. 
 Claims have been below 300,000 for four of the last five weeks, an improvement that pushed the four-week moving average for claims down to 283,500 last week, the lowest level in 51/2 years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%) Labor; Productivity; Unemployment Insurance

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



63 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Sam Goddard, 86, an Arizona Governor

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Feb. 2 

 BODY:
Former Gov. Sam Goddard of Arizona, who helped secure water for the region, advanced civil rights and improved the state's trade relations with Mexico, died Wednesday. He was 86. 
 His death was confirmed by Andrea Esquer, a spokeswoman for his son, Terry Goddard, Arizona's attorney general. The cause was not immediately available, Ms. Esquer said, but the former governor had been in hospice care after complications from a broken hip.
 Mr. Goddard, a Democrat, served one two-year term, from 1965 to 1967. He lost a re-election bid to Jack Williams, a Republican, in 1966. He was also state Democratic Party chairman for more than a decade and was on the Democratic National Committee for 20 years.
 Mr. Goddard helped organize a compromise agreement among several governors to support a bill authorizing the Colorado River Basin Project. That established the 336-mile Central Arizona Project, providing a reliable water source in the desert that propelled the state's economic and population growth.
 Mr. Goddard also signed a bill in 1965 that prohibited discrimination in voting and access to public places based on race, religion, sex or ethnicity.
 He established the first budget office in Arizona history and improved state trade relations with Mexico through his close relationship with the governor of Sonora, Luis Encinas. Sonora is the Mexican state due south of Arizona.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); HOSPICE (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); BUDGETS (67%); ETHNICITY (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (57%); BONE FRACTURES (56%); RIVERS (53%); RELIGION (51%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%)

PERSON: TERRY GODDARD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



64 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Make Industries' Tax Breaks Permanent, President Urges

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: MAPLEWOOD, Minn., Feb. 2 

 BODY:
President Bush went Thursday to a center of American innovation, the 3M Company, which invented Scotch Tape and Post-it notes, to call for permanent tax breaks for industries that invest in research and development and to improve Republican chances in a pivotal state in a midterm election year. 
 Mr. Bush also renewed his promise from the State of the Union address to reduce oil imports from the Mideast, even as the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries objected and after Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman said Mr. Bush's words should not be taken literally.
In a conference call with reporters on Wednesday, Mr. Bodman said the goal of replacing 75 percent of Middle East oil imports to the United States with ethanol and other energy sources by 2025, a headline from the State of the Union address, was ''purely an example'' of what might be done.
 On Thursday, Mr. Bush went even further in calling for independence from Middle East oil in a speech on scientific innovation and research.
 ''I'm confident that we'll be able to say to the American people when this research is complete that the United States is on our way to no dependence on oil from the Middle East,'' Mr. Bush said to applause from several hundred employees and Republican supporters at 3M headquarters here.
 Mr. Bush's trip to this St. Paul suburb was part of his annual post-State of the Union travels to try to pound home the major themes of the address in the big news media markets and competitive political races. This year, Republicans have their sights on Minnesota, where there is an open Senate seat and Gov. Tim Pawlenty, a Republican, faces a tough challenge from Democrats.
 Mr. Bush will spend much of this year on similar trips as he tries to help his party hang on to its slim majority in Congress. Mr. Pawlenty was in the audience at 3M, and Mr. Bush singled him out by telling the crowd that the governor had offered him lutefisk, a smelly local Scandinavian specialty. Mr. Bush said he had told Mr. Pawlenty, ''No, I think I'll eat on Air Force One.''
 The theme of the speech was the ''American Competitiveness Initiative,'' a White House slogan for proposals in the State of the Union address to try to improve the teaching of mathematics and science, train workers, aid universities and increase federal support for research and development.
 The initiative, aimed at quelling voters' fears that America is losing an edge to economic powerhouses like China and India, would cost $5.9 billion next year and $136 billion over 10 years. Of the 10-year cost, the White House has said $86 billion would help make permanent the tax breaks for industries when they invest in research and development. The breaks expired Dec. 31.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush yesterday at 3M headquarters in Maplewood, Minn. (Photo by Larry Downing/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); ALCOHOLS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); ETHANOL (69%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (60%) Taxation; Elections; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Governors (US); Taxation

COMPANY: 3M CO (95%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%) Threem (3m) Co; Senate (US)

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (95%); MMM (NYSE) (95%); MMM (FRA) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (95%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (95%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (95%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TIM PAWLENTY (79%); SAMUEL W BODMAN (74%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush; Tim (Gov) Pawlenty

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%) Minnesota; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



65 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Senate Approves Legislation Cutting Taxes by $70 Billion 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2 

 BODY:
The Senate passed $70 billion in tax cuts on Thursday, one step in an effort that Republican leaders hope will preserve President Bush's tax reductions for capital gains and dividends. 
 The central feature of the tax bill, left over from last year's agenda, holds back the alternative minimum tax, which threatens millions of families with higher taxes this year unless lawmakers stop its growth.
 Originally intended to prevent the wealthy from erasing their tax liabilities through deductions and credits, the alternative minimum tax encroaches further on the middle class each year. Inflation and recently passed tax cuts have fueled its growth.
 The bill passed, 66-31.
 The House version of the bill carries a Republican priority, a two-year extension of the Bush administration's tax cuts on investment income. Though not scheduled to expire until the end of 2008, many Republicans want to act now to give the tax breaks a longer life.
 Republicans expect the final version of the bill to extend tax cuts for capital gains and dividends. It will be up to negotiators to determine how to use their instructions to cut taxes by as much as $70 billion over five years to deal with the growing alternative minimum tax and expiring tax breaks for investors.
 Senate tax writers used the bill to revive a business credit for research and development and keep it in place for two years. President Bush urged lawmakers to make the research incentive permanent during his State of the Union address.
 Much of the Senate bill extends tax breaks popular with taxpayers, and therefore popular with their elected leaders. They include deductions for college tuition and teachers' expenses, as well as a credit for low-income savers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); LEGISLATION (92%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); TUITION FEES (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (65%) Taxation; Law and Legislation; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Alternative Minimum Tax; Capital Gains Tax

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006



66 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-6

1,000 Feared Lost as Ferry Sinks Near Egyptian Coast
A ferry carrying more than 1,400 people, mostly Egyptian laborers returning from Saudi Arabia, sank about 40 miles off the coast of Egypt, and by late evening, only about 300 people had been rescued and hopes for others was fading. Egyptian officials said most of the survivors had escaped on lifeboats, with a few plucked directly from the waters of the Red Sea. A1

Nuclear Board Delays Iran Vote 

The International Atomic Energy Agency put off a vote on a resolution on Iran's nuclear program because of American opposition to a clause indirectly criticizing Israel's nuclear weapons status, according to diplomats. But later a compromise seemed to have been worked out. A6

U.S. Defends Cartoon Protests
As anger continued to spread in the Muslim world over caricatures of the Muhammad published in European newspapers, the White House said it understood ''why Muslims would find these images offensive.'' A3

U.N. to Send Troops to Sudan
The United Nations Security Council, acknowledging the failure of the current strategy for ending the carnage in Darfur, Sudan, agreed to deploy thousands of peacekeepers to the troubled province. A6

Mexico Closes Medical Clinic
Mexican health officials shut down an alternative medicine clinic where Coretta Scott King died this week, saying the doctors there were using unproven treatments. A5

Taliban and Afghan Police Clash
Heavy fighting in Afghanistan between Taliban fighters and Afghan police forces left three policemen and at least six Taliban militants dead, Afghan officials said. A5

NATIONAL A7-10, 14

Bush Budget to Propose Major Savings in Medicare
In his budget next week, President Bush will propose substantial savings in Medicare, stepping up his efforts to rein in the growing costs of social insurance programs, administration officials and others said. A1

5 Alabama Churches Burned
Suspicious fires destroyed three small churches and damaged two others in central Alabama, officials said. A7

Court Limits Records Search
The Kansas Supreme Court restricted an unusual and divisive investigation by state Attorney General Phill Kline into illegal abortions and child rape, ruling that the names and personal information of 90 women and girls must be removed from the records he is seeking from two abortion clinics. A7

Papers in Leak Case Released
Vice President Dick Cheney's former chief of staff told prosecutors that Mr. Cheney had informed him ''in an off sort of curiosity sort of fashion'' in mid-June 2003 about the identity of the C.I.A. official at the heart of the leak case, according to a formerly secret legal opinion. A8

Religion Journal A10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

NASA Chief Calls for Openness
A week after NASA's top climate scientist complained that the space agency's public-affairs office was trying to silence his statements on global warming, Administrator Michael D. Griffin issued a terse statement calling for ''scientific openness'' throughout the agency. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Child Deaths Cast Glare On Child Welfare System
In 1999 the New York City child welfare system started to lean toward a practice of keeping troubled families intact, with frequent monitoring by caseworkers, and using foster care only as a last resort. But a string of deaths of children left in their homes has put the city on the defensive about its family preservation policies. A1

Minorities Plagued by AIDS
In the decade since effective drug treatments for AIDS have slashed death rates across the country, black New Yorkers continue to fall ill -- and die from -- the disease at startling rates, according to new data from the city health department. B1

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-7

Knicks Add Offense in Rose
Isiah Thomas, not idling amid the turmoil swirling around him, made a trade typical of his tenure as Knicks president by taking on an expensive player slightly past his prime, but acquiring a first-round draft pick in the process. Before the Knicks' 104-90 loss to the Raptors in Toronto, Thomas shipped the veteran power forward Antonio Davis to the Raptors for small forward Jalen Rose and a draft pick. D1

ARTS B7-18

OBITUARIES A11

Henry S. Coleman
An administrator at Columbia University for a third of a century, including a memorable 24 hours in 1968 when student demonstrators took him hostage, he was 79. A11

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Internet Privacy Questioned
Despite the promise to protect the privacy of their users, companies that provide Internet services are routinely fulfilling requests to provide user information to criminal investigators and lawyers fighting civil cases. C1

Unemployment Rate Falls
In one of the strongest job reports since the start of the recovery in late 2001, the government reported that the unemployment rate fell to 4.7 percent, its lowest level in more than four years. The nation's employers hired workers in nearly every industry. C1

U.S. Seeks Pension Plan
The federal government announced that it filed suit to seize the pension plan of the bankrupt WCI Steel from its parent corporation, the Renco Group. C4

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: Mardi Gras medical; tax talk goes Orwellian; the high cost of public information; a turning point for New York courts.

Columns: Maureen Dowd, John Tierney.

Bridge B16
Crossword B14
TV Listings B18
Weather C14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FERRIES (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); TALIBAN (88%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); MEDICARE (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); FIRES (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); CLIMATOLOGY (60%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (60%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (60%); ABORTION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (92%); RED SEA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); KANSAS, USA (72%) EGYPT (97%); SUDAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



67 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: Broad Rise In Hiring Last Month

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
In one of the strongest job reports since the start of the recovery in late 2001, the government reported yesterday that the unemployment rate fell to 4.7 percent, its lowest level in more than four years. The nation's employers hired workers in nearly every industry.
The widespread hiring added 193,000 jobs to the work force, well short of what forecasters had expected. But upward revisions for November and December brought average monthly job growth for the three months to a hefty 229,000. The cumulative effect has been a sharp drop in the unemployment rate -- to a level approaching what some economists define as full employment.
 ''This latest report is unmistakable evidence of an improving economy,'' said Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist for Global Insights. ''What you have to look for is evidence that the fourth-quarter slowdown in economic growth will continue. And this jobs report is evidence that just the opposite is happening.''
 For months, the unemployment rate had hovered at 5 percent, dropping occasionally to 4.9 percent, as it did in December. The plunge to 4.7 percent broke the pattern -- bringing the unemployment rate to its lowest level since July 2001, when the boom of the late 1990's began to unwind. 
 The January report, compiled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, raised the likelihood that the Federal Reserve's policy makers will continue their quarter-point rate increases beyond their March meeting, the first one at which the new Fed chairman, Benjamin S. Bernanke, will preside. The new expectation is that the Fed will almost certainly add another quarter-point to short-term interest rates not only in March but also in May. 
 Stock prices fell yesterday and bond yields rose, which often happens when the expectation of rising rates makes bonds seem the more attractive investment.
 The Bush administration welcomed the jobs news, but cautiously. ''We're actually in a sweet spot in the economy right now,'' John W. Snow, the Treasury secretary, said in an interview with the Bloomberg news agency. He argued that the wages of ordinary workers could continue to rise, as they did last month, without forcing companies to push up prices. That can happen, he said, because of rising productivity, which means workers are paying for their own raises by increasing their output.
 His remarks seemed to be aimed at least in part at Mr. Bernanke and at Wall Street. Many forecasters argue that an unemployment rate of 4.7 percent gives workers the leverage to bargain for raises that may prompt their employers to then increase prices. The Fed, in expectation of a higher inflation rate, could respond with rate increases that might stifle the expansion. 
 ''We are exhausting the pool of the unemployed and of otherwise available workers,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief domestic economist at Goldman Sachs. 
 The new jobs report was not all good news. Over the last year job growth averaged 189,000 a month, not counting the impact of Hurricane Katrina. In the early 1990's recovery, by comparison, the work force was growing at 303,000 a month in the fourth year. 
 In past recoveries, the average number of hours worked in a week rose along with employment; this time, employment is rising but hours have been stuck at just under 33.8 a week, on average, for more than three years. And unemployment among blacks, which fell more last month than for any other group, was nevertheless 8.9 percent -- more than double the 4.1 percent for white men and women.
 Still, by the standards of the current recovery, the employment report offered plenty of good news, and this despite the bureau's annual benchmark revisions, which resulted in a slight lowering of job numbers reported last year.
 The most striking bit of good news was the way in which the unemployment rate dropped in January. Most of the earlier declines in the current recovery have come about in part because many jobless have left the labor force rather than actively hunt for work, which people must do to be listed as unemployed. 
 This time, the unemployment rate fell but not because people left the labor force. The so-called labor force participation rate held steady at 66 percent, suggesting that enough job openings exist to draw people into the hunt for work. The percentage of long-term unemployed -- that is, those out of work six months or longer -- fell to 16.3 percent from 18.2 percent in December.
 ''As jobs become more available, people are no longer finding themselves stuck as long in unemployment,'' said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute. 
 Employers added workers in virtually every sector of the economy except government and retailing. Construction led the list, with 46,000 new jobs, a result of unseasonably warm weather as well as continued strength in the housing market. 
 Manufacturers, who had been shedding jobs until late last summer, added 7,000 last month, continuing a gradual upward climb. Most of the gains, however, came in services. Education and health services produced 39,000 new jobs, followed by business services, particularly temporary workers; financial services; and leisure and hospitality, which includes restaurants and bars.
 ''Consumers don't have to go to restaurants and bars,'' Mr. Gault said, ''and when they do, that reflects consumer confidence.''
 The jobs report tracks the wages of production workers, white collar and blue collar, below the rank of supervisor. They represent 80 percent of the nation's workers. Their average wage rose 7 cents, to $16.41 an hour.
 That brought the 12-month increase in wages to 3.3 percent, not enough to match the annual 3.4 percent rise in the Consumer Price Index through December. Despite this shortfall in purchasing power, most forecasters expect growth in the first quarter to surge to an annual rate of more than 4 percent from 1.1 percent in the fourth quarter. 
 Rising auto sales, business spending on new equipment, relatively low interest rates despite the Fed rate increases, and a still healthy housing market are all listed by the forecasters as likely to contribute to the growth surge.
 ''The first quarter will be great,'' Mr. Gault said. ''The second quarter won't be as good. Maybe we are talking 3 percent growth for that quarter.''

 BY DEMOGRAPHICS
 White
 JAN.: 4.1%
 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.2
 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.4
 Black
 JAN.: 8.9
 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.4
 1-YEAR CHANGE: -1.6
 Hispanic*
 JAN.: 5.8
 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.2
 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.4
 Asian
 JAN.: 3.2+
 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.8
 1-YEAR CHANGE: -1.0
 Teenagers (16-19)
 JAN.: 15.3
 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1
 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.9
 DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT (in weeks)
 Average
 JAN.: 16.8
 1-MONTH CHANGE: -2.9%
 1-YEAR CHANGE: -9.7
 Median
 JAN.: 8.4
 1-MONTH CHANGE: -1.2
 1-YEAR CHANGE: -9.7
 SHARE OF POPULATION
 Employed
 JAN.: 62.9%
 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1
 1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.5
 Labor force (workers and unemployed)
 JAN.: 66.0
 1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.
 1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.2
 'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (In millions)
 Working part time, but want full-time work
 JAN.: 4.1
 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.1%
 1-YEAR CHANGE: -5.8%
 People who currently want a job
 JAN.: 5.1+
 1-MONTH CHANGE: +2.2
 1-YEAR CHANGE: -2.9
 UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVEL
 Less than high school
 JAN.: 7.0%
 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.5
 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.6
 High school
 JAN.: 4.4
 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.2
 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3
 Some college
 JAN.: 3.5
 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.4
 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.6
 Bachelor's or higher
 JAN.: 2.1
 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.1
 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3
 Graph tracks unemployment rate. (2006: 4.7%)
 EMPLOYMENT
 AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS
 Rank-and-file workers
 JAN.: $554.66
 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.4
 1-YEAR CHANGE: +3.6%
 BY TYPE OF WORK
 Nonfarm
 JAN.: 134.6
 1-MONTH CHANGE: 0.1%
 1-YEAR CHANGE: 1.6%
 Goods
 JAN.: 22.3
 1-MONTH CHANGE: 0.3
 1-YEAR CHANGE: 1.6
 Services
 JAN.: 112.2
 1-MONTH CHANGE: 0.0
 1-YEAR CHANGE: 1.6
 Agriculture
 JAN.: 2.2
 1-MONTH CHANGE: 3.2
 1-YEAR CHANGE: 2.8
 Graph tracks employment, nonfarm payroll, 12-month change
 Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted.
 *Hispanics can be of any race.
 +Not seasonally adjusted.
 People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health.
 (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C13)

GRAPHIC: Photo: A jobs board in Oakland, Calif. Continuing strength in the economy may prompt the Fed to extend it run of interest rate increases. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)(pg. C13)Chart: ''The Labor Picture in January''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INFLATION (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); STATISTICS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); BOND MARKETS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2006



68 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: New Printer Cartridge or a Refill? Either Way, Ink Is Getting Cheaper

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
Bill Powell, a sports photographer in Tulsa, Okla., shoots high school and college games and sells his work to the players and their parents. 
 He prints on a Canon Pixma photo printer, but he does not use Canon ink. For the last eight months he has been buying refilled cartridges from Cartridge World. ''I couldn't tell the difference, and my customers couldn't tell the difference,'' Mr. Powell said. ''It saves me about 50 percent.''
 On the face of it, the logic of buying refilled ink cartridges seems pretty obvious. A new HP 26A cartridge, for use in about two dozen Hewlett-Packard printers, costs $29 at Staples. Buy a $21 Staples-brand remanufactured unit and you save 28 percent. Go to Cartridge World and you pay $18.39, a 37 percent discount. 
 Walgreens is installing cartridge refilling machines in the photo department of 1,500 of its 5,120 drugstores. Office Depot is testing the same kiosks in Charlotte, N.C., and Minneapolis. These machines, called the Ink-O-Dem, cost about $40,000 and can refill a cartridge in about 2.5 minutes. ''We cut out the middlemen,'' said Harry Nicodem, chief executive of TonerHead, the maker of the kiosk. 
 The automation gives Walgreens a price advantage: its HP 26A is $14.50. (You can also refill one yourself at home and, after you scrub the ink from your hands, save even more, 65 percent.)
 End of story, right? You would go for the cheaper alternatives. But saving money is not just a matter of finding the lowest price. Two recent studies suggest that the more important consideration is the price per page printed, a number that is affected by the quality of a refilled cartridge.
 Hewlett-Packard executives argue that you are wasting your money with refills, which is what you might expect the company to say. Manufacturers have a lot riding on a business model in which they sell ink cartridges that can cost a third of what the printer did.
 The company has a point. QualityLogic, a Moorpark, Calif., test laboratory found that while new Hewlett-Packard cartridges had a 2 percent failure rate, 70 percent of remanufactured units did not last as long as promised. Hewlett commissioned the study, but Consumer Reports magazine came to a similar conclusion last May. Testers there found that in almost all cases, the refilled cartridges cost as much or more when evaluated on their per-page output. 
 Hewlett executives said that was because the company optimized each printer head -- the strip of silicon containing the microscopic ink nozzles -- for its printer, ink and paper. In its San Diego lab, ''print head architects'' use high-powered microscopes and cameras to watch the firing of those nozzles with various ink formulations made in three company labs to find the designs that work best. Lexmark International and Brother use similar printer-head technology on their cartridges. (Canon and Epson put their printer heads in the printer itself. Those companies did not respond to requests for interviews.)
 Hewlett makes printer heads for some of its commercial printers that can last five years in continuous use. But the company said that its consumer printer cartridges were designed to be disposable. A printer head lasts just long enough to jettison that last drop of ink, a company official said. 
 Cartridge refillers have a differing opinion. They say those cartridges can be used three to seven times. And they have built a $6.5 billion industry to prove it. ''It creates an opportunity for us,'' said Burt Yarkin, the chief executive for the United States operations of Cartridge World, which has 1,100 stores worldwide, 350 of them in the United States. He says a refilled cartridge drives down the cost of making a color print at home to about 13 cents a print, less than most retail photofinishers charge.
 The refillers have put a dent in the printer makers' business. Market analysts at Lyra Research in Newton, Mass., which specializes in this industry, said the manufacturers were hanging onto about 79 percent of the $30.1 billon printer supplies business. The high-volume ''remanufacturers,'' which supply stores with refilled cartridges, have about 18 percent of the market. The refillers at retail do about $1 billion in business, but that is growing at the rate of 18 percent a year. 
 The impact is being felt. The migration to alternatives is a major reason net income dropped 47 percent in the fourth quarter at Lexmark International. ''Consumers are becoming more aware of refilling and Walgreens effort will make even more people aware of it,'' said Charlie Brewer, managing editor of Hard Copy Supplies Journal, published by Lyra.
 Dave Shaw, the vice president for franchise development at Rapid Refill, a Springfield, Ore., refiller with 40 outlets, said, ''It's not a bunch of guys in the back with syringes punching holes in the cartridges.'' Franchisees buy about $200,000 worth of machines that suck out the old ink, centrifuge out any remaining ink that could contaminate the new ink, rinse the cartridge with cleaning fluid and then refill it. (A Cartridge World franchisee's equipment costs about $150,000.) ''They absolutely have to worry about quality,'' Mr. Brewer said. 
 The ink used by some of the refillers is very similar to that used by the manufacturers. For instance, Rapid Refill's ink is supplied by OCP of Germany and formulated to perform like the ink that Hewlett, Lexmark or Brother put in originally. Cartridge World will not disclose its sources of the 150 to 200 different inks at a typical store, but Mr. Yarkin said, ''We are matching their ink.''
 It is no empty boast. Hewlett went after Cartridge World last October for using ink that infringes on patents for its Vivera line of inks. It demanded that the company, based in Emeryville, Calif., stop using inks with the same chemical composition. Also last year, Hewlett filed a lawsuit against InkCycle, the company that makes refills under the Staples brand, asserting that the company had violated three patents covering fast-drying ink for plain paper and methods for preventing color from bleeding on paper. The dispute was resolved when InkCycle changed its formulation.
 So if the ink used by the reputable refillers is good enough to provoke Hewlett's lawyers, it should be O.K. to use with confidence, right? 
 The upshot is that you will not have much problem with used cartridges from reputable refillers if you are printing documents with black ink on standard 20-pound paper, what most people call copier paper. Most have money-back guarantees. You will not have much problem with color inks if the scope of your printing is maps and the children's homework.
 At half the price, even if half of what you buy fails to print as much as a new cartridge, you are not much worse off. Unless, that is, you are printing photographs on expensive photo paper that you want to keep as heirlooms for 75 to 100 years -- and you might include greeting cards or company brochures in this category. Then you will want to stick with the printer manufacturer's ink and the recommended photo paper.
 Hewlett, for instance, has developed photo paper with a polymer coating that swells in thickness as it absorbs the droplet of inkjet ink. The polymer then encapsulates the ink, protecting from fading for as long as 100 years if the photo is kept under glass or in storage, according to Wilhelm Imaging Research, which tests photo longevity. The ink and paper are also tested to protect photographs from fading because of pollution, humidity and heat. 
 That means that two prints, one made with original ink and one with refillers, could look identical when they come off the printer. But a few decades later, the refiller's print could fade.
 What it may boil down to is how offended you are that Hewlett-Packard sells a $30 cartridge that cost it an estimated $3.50 to make (not including the hundreds of millions of dollars it spent on research and development of the technology).
 But you are not going to feel much better about refillers. It costs refillers about $2 to refill a cartridge that they sell for $10 to $15. It costs them a bit more if you do not bring in an empty cartridge. The spot market price for a core, as they are called by the refillers who buy and sell the empties in Internet auctions, is about $3, but can be as much as $9.
 There is a happy result of the intense fight over refills. Prices of the new cartridges have been dropping. A manufacturer like Hewlett has figured out how to more efficiently spray ink on the paper so a cartridge can hold less ink and it can drop the price to $10 or less. That disrupts the refillers' economics and makes a 20 percent or 30 percent discount on refills look less dramatic. 
 Indeed, one day ink may be as cheap as Champagne. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: An inkjet cartridge being refilled at a Cartridge World store. (Photo by Matthew Staver for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Brenda Byrd, above, demonstrating a new inkjet cartridge refiller at a Walgreens store on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. At right, Vernon Cox at a Cartridge World store in Westminster, Colo. (Photos by Above, John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times
 right, Matthew Staver for The New York Times)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (90%); PRINTING INK (89%); OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MFG (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (72%); PRINTING INK MFG (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Printers; Ink; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: CANON INC (92%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Cartridge World Inc; Hewlett-Packard Co; Walgreen Co; Office Depot Inc

TICKER: CAJ (NYSE) (92%); 7751 (TSE) (92%); HPQ (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%)

PERSON: Damon Darlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (73%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (73%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (71%); COLORADO, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



69 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: When It Comes to Pay, It Helps To Be the One Signing the Checks 

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
IT was a great year to be an employer in the United States. It was not so great a year to be an average employee.
 The Labor Department reported this week that the wage cost to private-sector employers, after adjusting for inflation, fell 0.8 percent in 2005, after an identical drop in 2004. It was the first consecutive decline in real wages since a four-year stretch from 1987 through 1990. 
Wages are only part of the cost of labor, of course, and the cost of benefits continued to rise in 2005, but by only 0.7 percent. That was the smallest gain in eight years, and meant that the overall employment cost index fell 0.4 percent in 2005, its largest decline since 1990, a recession year.
 A decline in the cost of benefits would be welcomed by employers and employees alike if it meant that the costs of things like health care and pensions were actually falling. Unfortunately, the low growth of benefit costs in 2005 may reflect the fact that some employers cut back on benefits or required employees to shoulder more of the costs. 
 To the extent that happened, it would mean the real wage decline could seem larger to many workers, since they may now be paying more for health care or having to plan for retirement with a smaller employer pension than they had anticipated.
 In the state and local government sector, workers did a little better. There, wages also failed to keep up with inflation. But the real decline was just 0.3 percent, and the overall wage cost including benefits was up 0.6 percent.
 Over the long run, the trends have been no secret. Wages of white-collar workers have risen faster than those of blue-collar workers and service-industry employees. And executives have done better than most other white-collar workers.
 Over the last 20 years, for example, the real wages of blue-collar workers in the United States have risen only 1.1 percent, although total compensation was up 10 percent thanks to the rise in benefit costs. Service workers did a little better in wages, with a 1.4 percent increase, but over all had only a 9.1 percent increase in compensation over the two decades.
 For white-collar workers, on the other hand, real wages increased over 20 years by 11.1 percent, while total compensation rose 18.1 percent. Within the white-collar group, executive pay rose 14.4 percent and total compensation was up 18.3 percent.
 But those days may be ending. There is no sign of decline for chief executives, but middle management in many companies may be feeling the pinch of cost-cutting. Over all, the government says, real wages for private-sector executives fell by 1.1 percent in 2005 -- the same as service-industry workers but worse than the experience of blue-collar employees. It was the second year of falling real wages for business managers, after a 1.4 percent slide in 2004.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Real Wages Have Declined . . .''The total employment cost for privatesector workers in the United States fell 0.4 percent after inflation in 2005, the first decline since 1996 and the biggest fall since 1990, during recession. Real wages fell 0.8 percent, the same decline as in 2004, and the real cost of benefits rose just 0.7 percent, the lowest since 1998.Graphs track the following from 1986-2005:WagesBenefitsTotal compensation. . . And White-Collar Workers Have Done BetterOver a 20-year period, growth in wages and benefits for white-collar workers in the private sector has outpaced the growth for either blue-collar or service workers.Graphs track the 20-year change in total compensation, wages, and benefits for the following:ALL PRIVATE WORKERSWHITE COLLARBLUE COLLARSERVICE WORKERS(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT COSTS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (85%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (67%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (67%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Fringe Benefits

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Labor Department (US)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



70 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Oilmen Meet With Cubans in Mexico, but U.S. Intervenes

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Feb. 3 

 BODY:
United States government officials said Friday that they had asked the owner of a hotel here, which is part of an American corporation, to expel a Cuban delegation that was meeting with American oil executives. 
 The delegation later left the hotel.
The request was made by the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, which told Starwood Hotels, the owner of the Sheraton Maria Isabel in Mexico City, that American law prohibited it from supplying services to Cuban individuals or companies. The move is the latest in what seems be a hardening by the Bush administration of the trade embargo against Cuba. 
 A spokeswoman for the Treasury Department, Molly Millerwise, said, ''The hotel acted in accordance with U.S. sanctions.''
 A spokeswoman for Starwood Hotels, Nadeen Ayala, confirmed that the Treasury Department had asked the hotel ''to have the Cuban nationals leave.'' 
 Cuban officials are trying to court American petroleum companies to produce oil in the nation's territorial waters after succeeding in attracting exploratory investments from Chinese, Indian and Norwegian energy companies. The meeting of largely Texan oil executives and elite bureaucrats from Havana began Thursday and was to end Saturday.
 ''It's outrageous that I, as an American citizen, can't go and talk to someone on Mexican soil,'' said Kirby Jones, a former World Bank official and the organizer of the meeting for the U.S.-Cuba Trade Association, a nonprofit group in Washington. 
 Mr. Jones said this was the 10th meeting he had organized between American executives and Cuban officials, although it was the first to focus on opportunities for American energy companies in Cuba. 
 Previous meetings had resulted in sales of American food products to Cuba. 
 This week's meeting, Mr. Jones said, was originally scheduled for December in Cancun, Mexico, but was rescheduled for Mexico City.
 Other meetings had been at hotels controlled by American companies, he said, including a hotel in Cancun, where the energy meeting was originally scheduled in December.
 ''This issue has never come up,'' Mr. Jones said. The American executives will try to meet with the Cubans at another location on Saturday.
 Some of the largest American oil companies, including Exxon Mobil and the Valero Energy Corporation, had agreed to meet with Cuban officials on what was thought to be neutral ground at a hotel here in the cradle of Mexican capitalism, a short stroll on Paseo de la Reforma from a Starbucks, the United States Embassy and Mexico's stock exchange. The oil-importing Port of Corpus Christi and American shipping and oil field equipment companies also sent representatives. 
 ''They're sensing a lost opportunity in their own backyard, less than 100 miles from the Florida coast,'' said Mr. Jones.
 Although Cuba has suffered from energy shortages since the Soviet Union halted subsidized oil shipments more than a decade ago, its potential as an oil producer has caught attention. 
 According to the Energy Information Administration, Cuba's proven oil reserves of 750 million barrels exceed those of Sudan, an African nation that has lured large non-American investments to its oil industry despite American economic sanctions in place since 1997. 
 ''We have absolutely no limitations on working with American oil companies. The barriers, unfortunately, come from the other side,'' said Alberto Wong Calvo, director of hydrocarbons at the National Office of Mineral Resources in Cuba. 
 Oil production in Cuba has surged since an opening to foreign investment in the 1990's, with operations by two Canadian companies, the Sherritt International Corporation and Pebercan Inc., helping to increase output to about 70,000 barrels a day in 2005 from a low of 18,000 barrels a day in 1992. Cuba consumes more than 150,000 barrels a day, with Venezuela providing imports on favorable financial terms.
 The American economic embargo on dealings with Cuba prohibits energy companies from reaching exploration deals with Union Cubapetroleo, Cuba's national oil company. But executives who attended the conference said they were encouraged by the recent relaxation of restrictions on American food exports to Cuba and the implications of Chinese rigs searching for oil this year in Cuban waters off the Straits of Florida. 
 ''It's a difficult road ahead, but we're in the same neighborhood,'' said Amado Duron, director of operations at Valero Energy, the San Antonio-based refining company that could profit from processing Cuban oil at its refineries in Texas, Louisiana or the island of Aruba. 
 Cuba has been busy reaching exploration deals in the last year with Sinopec, the energy concern controlled by the Chinese government, ONGC Videsh of India and Norsk Hydro of Norway. So far, however, none of the ventures have found large fields like those in the American waters of the Gulf of Mexico. 
 Repsol of Spain spent $20 million on drilling that came tantalizingly close to a commercial discovery, but executives said oil from the field only partly met expectations. Petrobras of Brazil shelved Cuban exploration efforts after hitting a dry hole in 2001. Still, elevated oil prices have brought frontier plays like Cuba into play. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); RESORTS (73%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: VALERO ENERGY CORP (63%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Sheraton Maria Isabel Hotel (Mexico City); Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc; Office of Foreign Assets Control

TICKER: VLO (NYSE) (63%); XOM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (63%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (63%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%)

PERSON: Simon Romero; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (95%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); MEXICO (98%) Cuba; Mexico City (Mexico)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



71 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Service Sector Gains, But Pace Is Slower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The service sector grew again in January, but the pace of growth slowed while extending an expansion that has stretched for nearly three years. 
 The Institute for Supply Management said yesterday that its index of nonmanufacturing activity fell to 56.8 from a revised reading of 61.0 in December. The new figure was lower than the 60 reading forecast by analysts.
 A reading of 50 and above points to a growing service sector, while a figure below that signals contraction. January was the 34th consecutive month of growth for the service sector, the institute said. 
 In a separate report, the government said orders to factories rose 1.1 percent in December, the third straight monthly rise. For all of 2005, factory orders rose 8.1 percent, after a 9.7 percent gain the previous year. 
 Economists and investors were also studying a report released yesterday by the University of Michigan showing its consumer sentiment index slid 2.2 points, to 91.2. Economists had predicted a slight decrease, to 93.1. 
 Businesses surveyed by the Institute for Supply Management were largely positive in assessing the economy, although some expressed continuing concerns about high energy prices and rising interest rates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%) United States Economy; Consumer Behavior; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (93%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%) Institute for Supply Management; University of Michigan

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



72 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW -- With Joseph Walsh; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Entrepreneur Lets Fingers Do Walking 

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
Forgive Joseph Walsh for gloating. As president and chief executive of Yellow Book USA, Mr. Walsh, 42, relishes his role as David to the Goliath in the $15 billion yellow pages industry: the Bell phone companies. Historically, the Bells have dominated the business, but mainly in their own regions. That has changed significantly in the last decade with the rapid growth of the independent publishers, led by Yellow Book.
 In December, Verizon Communications announced that it was considering selling or spinning off its directories business for about $17 billion to concentrate on wireless, data and phone services. 
Here's where the gloating comes in. ''We're very excited about it,'' Mr. Walsh said during a recent interview. ''It's certainly a victory for competition. We've been locked in this Armageddon battle with the phone companies, Verizon in particular.'' But snatch up his competitor's business? Thanks, but no thanks, he says.
 ''I go to church on Sunday and being a monopolist is not my idea of fun,'' he said. ''We're not interested in buying the Verizon business at all. We already have, in many cases, the strongest directory in the markets where we compete with Verizon, so it's sort of too late. If we were going to look at that, it would have been a long time ago.''
 Mr. Walsh discussed acquisitions that do interest him, including the $1.6 billion deal last year that brought TransWestern Publishing into the fold, online searches and the shelf life of his company's ubiquitous directories. Following are excerpts:

Q. You've been on a bit of a spree.

A. Well, over a long period of time. About a decade of steady progress. In fact, we have another one we're getting ready to close. We just fairly recently acquired Clarke Directory Publications in California.

Q. Is this an effort to broaden your footprint?

A. We have a stated goal of building Yellow Book USA to be a national directory publisher.

Q. Don't you already feel that you're national, with 900 directories in 46 states and the District of Columbia and over 100 million circulation?

A. Oh we are, but there are still holes, and we're still filling in those holes.

Q. Who gets Yellow Book? Anyone and everyone, or only non-Bell customers?

A. Yellow Book is hand-delivered to every home and business where we publish a directory, and to everyone who moves into the area throughout the year. It doesn't matter if they are Bell customers or not.

Q. In the move toward online, from a consumer point of view, why would you need the book?

A. We're sort of agnostic. We take the view that we're channel-neutral. Our role is to put the consumer or the buyer together with the seller who can meet their needs. We'll do that through the printed Yellow Book, through yellowbook.com and we'll do that through the broader Web through a product that we call Web Reach. We're O.K. with however they want to search. Our business is going to react to the market -- as opposed to tell the market what to do.

Q. Obviously, one channel is cheaper than the other?

A. We're working pretty hard in our business model to make sure we're truly agnostic, not just that we're saying that we are, that we have economics in each of those areas that are similar. I think we're there.
 The printed directory still has the vast majority of lookups -- 15 billion annual references -- and that number is holding in there pretty steady; it hasn't declined. It's not vinyl records. The printed directory won't go away overnight.

Q. Do you have a relationship with Google or Yahoo?

A. We do business with most of the major search outfits, both on their behalf, channeling ads to them, and in some cases buying keywords ourselves. It's interesting, some people ask, jeez, aren't they your competitor? In a sense they are, but I think of them more as the man who puts the phone book on the door of your house. They are a delivery mechanism for our information.

Q. What keeps you up at night?

A. I think that the development of local search is moving quickly. I feel great about our assets and about the position we've taken in the market. But deep down in your heart you're always asking yourself: Do we have it right? Is there a missile coming at us that we don't see? Or will people adopt this in a different way, that they don't need us somehow? And you're concerned about that.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph Walsh

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIRECTORY & DATABASE PUBLISHING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Directories; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); YELLOW BOOK USA INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Yellow Book Usa ; Verizon Communications

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (85%)

PERSON: Joseph (Co Exec) Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



73 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Disappointing Technology Earnings Send Shares Lower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Falling consumer confidence and a smaller-than-expected rise in new jobs sent stocks lower for a second session yesterday, with disappointing earnings from Amazon.com burdening the technology sector. The major indexes each lost more than 1 percent this week. 
 A January upswing in job creation by the nation's employers signaled that the economy was off to a good start this year, but the strength stoked fears about higher interest rates after the Federal Reserve gave no indication that the 14th consecutive increase, imposed Tuesday, would be the last. 
 While the 193,000 jobs added last month came in below the 250,000 estimate of economists, upward revision to November's and December's figures compensated for that shortfall, said Jack Caffrey, equities strategist for J. P. Morgan Private Bank. 
 Coupled with a spike in unit labor costs reported by the Labor Department on Thursday, an indication that companies are paying more for less productive workers, the increased hiring was evidence of a growing economy. It revived concern that the Fed might have to continue raising interests beyond the one increase that had been expected, Mr. Caffrey said. 
 Crude oil futures built on earlier gains late in the session, helping widen stocks' losses. A barrel of light crude oil rose 69 cents, to settle at $65.37 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 At the close of trading, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 58.36 points, or 0.54 percent, to 10,793.62. Inflation worries sent the Dow down 101 points on Thursday. 
 Broader stock indicators also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index sank 6.81 points, or 0.54 percent, to 1,264.03. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 18.99 points, or 0.83 percent, to 2,262.58. 
 Bonds recovered from an early decline, with the price of the 10-year Treasury note rising 8/32, to 99 26/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, slipped to 4.52 percent, from 4.56 percent late Thursday. 
 The dollar was mixed against other currencies, while gold prices edged higher. 
 Wall Street's mood was muted further by a drop in the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index, which slid 2.2 points, to 91.2. Economists had predicted a slight decrease, to 93.1. 
 Investors also mulled data from the Institute for Supply Management, which said the service sector grew again last month, but at a slower pace than in December. 
 The major stock indexes tumbled this week as renewed uncertainty about inflation and interest rates haunted Wall Street. Generally strong fourth-quarter earnings reports helped prop up stocks somewhat, but disappointing results from the Internet search engine Google weighed on the Nasdaq. 
 Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist for Spencer Clarke, said yesterday's losses might have been limited by the market's hopes that the Fed was near the end of its rate tightening, though Wall Street could see more volatility in the coming weeks. 
 ''February has historically been a lackluster month for the stock market,'' Mr. Sheldon said. ''Despite many positive corporate earnings reports, investors should be prepared for some choppy or sideways trading over the near term.'' 
 The home appliance maker Maytag posted a wider fourth-quarter deficit after higher costs ate away at sales growth. Maytag lost 51 cents, to $17.51. Whirlpool, which is buying Maytag, rose 24 cents, to $86.61. 
 The Web retailer Amazon.com said late Thursday that its quarterly earnings fell 43 percent despite higher sales as it continued to invest heavily in technology and marketing. Amazon.com sank $4.41, to $38.33. Google fell $14.49, to $381.56. 
 Wendy's International, the fast-food chain, posted a modest profit, reversing a year-earlier loss, but sales at its restaurants open at least a year fell for the first time in 18 years. Shares of Wendy's slipped 22 cents, to $58.17. 
 ConAgra Foods said it planned to sell its refrigerated-meats business, which employs about 6,000 people at 15 plants and generated $1.9 billion of sales last year. ConAgra added 41 cents, to $21.15. 
 Declining issues led advancers by 5 to 3 on the New York Stock Exchange. The Dow Jones industrials ended the week down 113.59 points, or 1.04 percent, finishing at 10,793.62. The S.& P. 500 index lost 19.69 points, or 1.53 percent, to close at 1,264.03. 
 The Nasdaq declined 41.65 points, or 1.81 percent, to end at 2,262.58. 
 The Russell 2000 index closed the week down 8 points, or 1.09 percent, to 724.22.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FUTURES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); STATISTICS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); SEARCH ENGINES (72%); METALS MARKETS (71%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (71%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); ENERGY MARKETS (71%); BOND MARKETS (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



74 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET VALUES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Looking For Growth? Look Abroad

BYLINE: By Conrad de Aenlle

 BODY:
THE free-spending days of the American consumer may be close to an end.
 The embossed numbers on our credit cards have worn thin, the housing market shows signs of rolling over and the savings rate is bumping along near zero. Any extra cash in our pockets disappears through the crack in the bulletproof window at the gas station.
So what's a resourceful business to do? Find other consumers, of course. Many American companies are becoming traveling salesmen on a gargantuan scale, increasing their overseas revenue just when it is needed most. 
 Buying shares of such companies is a popular bet on Wall Street. David Rosenberg, an economist at Merrill Lynch, noted that exports account for just 10 percent of American economic output but comprise 40 percent of revenue for the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500.
 ''A major investing theme for U.S. equity investors this year is growth outside the U.S.A.,'' Mr. Rosenberg told Merrill clients in a research note. That growth ''is set to accelerate this year without the help of the savings-stretched, debt-strapped, tapped-out American consumer.''
 Indicators of economic growth and business sentiment in Europe are showing improvement and inflation remains low, he said. The business climate is not too hot and not too cold, an ideal set of circumstances.
 ''How do you say 'Goldilocks' in German?'' he wondered. Mr. Rosenberg might well ask for a translation into Japanese. In another note, he pointed to data showing a 27 percent increase in imports into Japan last year, a sign that its citizens are at last dipping into their wallets after years of hard-core frugality.
 Shoppers around the world may be more inclined to buy American if the dollar continues to lose value, as it has in the opening weeks of this year. A falling dollar makes American products cheaper to foreign buyers, and it increases the dollar value of overseas sales.
 Technology or energy sales tend to bring in the greatest proportion of money from abroad, Mr. Rosenberg said. Utilities and phone companies derive almost all of their revenue close to home, by contrast.
 When searching for tech companies with strong prospects abroad, Mark Mowrey, editor of the newsletter TechValue Report, concentrates on makers of cellphones, like Motorola, and semiconductor manufacturing equipment, like Novellus and Applied Materials.
 ''Getting into the Japanese market is a goal of a lot of American semiconductor equipment makers,'' Mr. Mowrey said. ''They have a lot more room to grow.'' He said Novellus, in particular, ''had a great quarter,'' in part because of foreign sales.
 In addition, he said that ''a significant amount of growth in unit sales of mobile phones is coming from abroad,'' most notably from China and India. ''Targeting those users is huge for handset makers,'' he said.
 Other tech stocks that Mr. Mowrey says are in a strong position to benefit from increased foreign activity include Texas Instruments, Hewlett-Packard and Seagate Technology.
 Manufacturers of various sorts of consumer goods derive much of their revenue abroad, too. Zu Cowperthwaite, an analyst who follows multinational consumer companies for Evergreen Investments, expects foreign sales to provide a big lift this year. One of her favorites is Nike.
 ''If you could pick one stock as a case study, it would be Nike,'' she said. ''Nike is as global as you can be.''
 Half of the company's revenue is generated overseas, Ms. Cowperthwaite said, and a softer dollar will help keep that proportion up.
 Makers of luxury goods are also in a good position to take advantage of stronger foreign economies and currencies, Ms. Cowperthwaite said, offering Tiffany as a prime example. ''It has a strong brand name in North America,'' she said, ''but store growth is maturing, so growth is going to come from European, Asian and Latin American countries.''
 Ms. Cowperthwaite anticipates strong expansion in Ralph Lauren's foreign sales, too. The company ''has done really well in establishing its brand in Europe,'' she said. Asia accounts for just 4 percent of its business, she said, but she foresees an increase to 10 percent in five years.
 Another choice is Coach, the handbag and accessory maker. ''This is a company I love,'' she said, adding that it ''is big in Japan, and it's starting to crack other Asian markets and move to Europe.'' 
 Such an emphasis on foreign markets is likely to become a common strategy at consumer-oriented companies trying to build their businesses, Ms. Cowperthwaite predicted.
 ''Everybody who has done well in North America is eyeing overseas markets,'' she said. ''That's where the growth is.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BONDS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CURRENCIES (85%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (84%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (84%); US DOLLAR (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); TRENDS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (65%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (64%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); SEMICONDUCTORS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Investments; International Trade and World Market; United States Economy; Foreign Investments; Stocks and Bonds; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Merrill Lynch & Co Inc; European Union

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle; David Rosenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (76%); GERMANY (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



75 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Collectors Resist Investing in Western Art

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Feb. 3 

 BODY:
As with many mansions and luxury apartments of the emerging commercial elite across China, Linus W. L. Cheung's elegant home overlooking Victoria Harbor here is almost entirely decorated with Chinese art.
 A large, very heavy abstract bronze by Zhu Ming, a living Taiwanese sculptor, stands in the living room in front of a plate-glass wall with breathtaking views of the city skyline below. Two lovely scrolls by Qi Baishi, a mainland Chinese painter who died in 1957, are suspended at the entrance to the room. In the master bedroom, near another sweeping view of the city, hangs a large canvas in somber shades of blue by Lin Fengmian, a Chinese painter who died in 1991.
But in a corner of the living room, next to one of the Qi Baishi scrolls showing a magnificent predatory bird against a large, red sun, is another kind of art, seen less often here. It is an unsigned charcoal sketch of two boys that is attributed to Monet, which Mr. Cheung, the retired chairman of Hong Kong's main phone company, bought at a Sotheby's auction in London.
 China's spectacular economic rise over the past quarter-century has started to create enormous wealth, and prices for Chinese art have risen steeply, especially in the last three years. But Chinese art collectors have barely begun to show interest in Western masterpieces. 
 Japanese banks, insurers and individuals shook the art world with their purchases of van Goghs, Renoirs, Modiglianis and Picassos when their country's economy seemed unstoppable in the late 1980's. Oligarchs from suddenly oil-rich Russia have made their presence known in the art market. But wealthy Chinese have been leery of investing their own sudden gains in Western art. 
 Mainland Chinese collectors have purchased a minor Picasso and a Renoir in the last two years and have bid unsuccessfully on a couple of Monets and a van Gogh drawing, said Ken Yeh, the deputy chairman of Christie's Asia. Hong Kong collectors, more cosmopolitan because of the territory's history as a British colony until 1997, have been somewhat more active, buying a Picasso, a Leger, a Degas, a Renoir, a Pissarro, a Monet, a Matisse, a Cezanne and an early drawing by van Gogh.
 ''In mainland China, it's still a bit early for Impressionist, Modern paintings,'' Mr. Yeh said.
 But few doubt that in the years to come, wealthy Chinese on the mainland and in Hong Kong will become important buyers of Western art. 
 ''In China, it's not enough just to be rich, you've got to be cultured,'' said Oscar Ho, the founding director of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Shanghai. ''The younger ones have such a passion for Western stuff that it's just a matter of time before you see a demand for Western art.''
 Christie's and Sotheby's are trying to accelerate that process, and have started shipping costly Impressionist paintings to Hong Kong in the past two years for previews before auctions in New York and London. (Before 2004, they seldom shipped even less expensive Western art here for previews.)
 As part of the new trend, an exhibition here by Sotheby's on Jan. 17 and 18 drew particular attention because it featured a well-known Gauguin painting from 1902, ''Deux Femmes,'' with an estimated price of $:11 million to $:14 million ($19.4 million to $24.7 million), as well as works by Monet and Picasso.
 The paintings are to be auctioned in London on Tuesday. But Henry Howard-Sneyd, the managing director for Asia and Australia at Sotheby's, said that while some Chinese collectors were likely to attend, he was doubtful they would make any significant purchases.
 ''They haven't shown yet the willingness to pay the kind of money Westerners pay,'' he said.
 China's total economic output now is a little over half of Japan's in 1990, but China has 10 times as many people as Japan had when its economy was riding high. So while some Chinese tycoons have clearly grown wealthy, their country remains poor: economic output per person was $1,740 last year, compared to $29,600 in Japan 15 years earlier.
 Tax rules in Japan encourage the choice of art as an investment, but the tax systems in Hong Kong and mainland China do not. Mainland China taxes imports of art and limits the ability of wealthy citizens to take large sums of money out of the country, which makes it harder for them to bid at Western auctions.
 Sending a valuable painting to mainland China as air cargo, the way most art is shipped, results in a delay of three or four weeks on arrival for customs clearance, even if the painting is to be exhibited but not sold in China. So auction house employees carefully package the smaller artworks and take them as checked baggage when they fly to China, quickly clearing airport customs controls. Mr. Yeh said that the theft of checked baggage had not been a problem, but that size limitations on checked baggage had kept larger paintings from being shown in mainland China.
 Most paintings scheduled for exhibition to Chinese buyers are brought instead to Hong Kong, a duty-free port where air cargo clears customs in less than a day. China lifted most restrictions two years ago on Chinese citizens who want to visit Hong Kong, as a way to help revive a Hong Kong economy crippled by an outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, in early 2003.
 Hong Kong presents its own special challenges. Hot, smoggy, very humid weather from late April through early October rivals New York City's stickiest August days. While exhibition sites are air-conditioned, auction houses are still leery of shipping artworks here in the summer, and do not send fragile works.
 ''We would tend to send pieces that can comfortably stand the journey,'' Mr. Howard-Sneyd said.
 But the biggest obstacle to selling Western art in China is its low profile among potential buyers, especially older tycoons.
 Shanghai was a cosmopolitan city in the 1920's and 30's, and many wealthy Russians took refuge there with their Western art collections after the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917. A few prominent Chinese painters, including Lin Fengmian, studied in France between the two world wars.
 But the Communist takeover in 1949 soon led to an emphasis on art as propaganda. During the Cultural Revolution in the late 60's and early 70's, Western paintings were burned and Chinese painters who displayed Western stylistic influences were forced to destroy their work and in some cases were imprisoned or killed. 
 Although government discouragement of Western art has disappeared since the death of Mao Zedong in 1976, Mr. Cheung said that in mainland China and in Hong Kong, interest in Western art was largely confined to people in their 40's and younger who attended Western schools for at least part of their education. Internet millionaires and financiers have shown much more interest in art purchases, he added, than have manufacturing bosses and property tycoons.
 But Mr. Cheung said that his dwindling success over the last decade in bidding for ever pricier Chinese art suggested that increasingly prosperous mainland Chinese could someday become important buyers of Western art as well.
 ''From 1995 to 2000, nobody could beat me because I earned in Hong Kong and spent in China,'' he said. But recent auctions in Beijing have been very different, he added. ''Now it's the other way around: I got squashed, absolutely squashed.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Picasso's ''Mousquetaire a la Pipe'' on display in Hong Kong in 2004. (Photo by Bobby Yip/Reuters)(pg. B7)
 Linus W. L. Cheung (Photo by Paul Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ART DEALERS (88%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ART COLLECTING (77%); PAINTING (77%); HISTORY (71%); INSURANCE (64%) Art; Auctions; Collectors and Collections; Art

ORGANIZATION: Sotheby's; Christie's

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) EAST CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (95%); TAIWAN (92%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%) China; New York City; London (Eng); Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



76 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Home Bursting With Children, and Troubles, Reaches Fatal Breaking Point

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS; Colin Moynihan and Jeremy Smerd contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Aleshia Smith's oldest daughter was living with a relative, but the two-bedroom apartment on Kossuth Avenue in the Bronx was still crowded with her five other children -- and two cats. Then on a November afternoon she invited Jose Calderon, 18, a virtual stranger with a nice smile but a bad temper, to move in, friends and relatives said.
 A dark chronology was set in motion that would end this week with Ms. Smith's 4-year-old son, Quachaun Browne, dead and the couple in jail, Mr. Calderon charged with fatally beating the boy, Ms. Smith with doing nothing to stop him.
According to interviews with relatives, friends and neighbors, many details of this story are unique to this man and woman, their life stories and their circumstances, but other elements seem to crop up whenever a child dies at the hands of an adult: a mother on welfare struggling to care for more children than she can handle; a string of boyfriends who promise to stick to the straight and narrow, but never do; and finally, an ominous new presence in an already distressed home. 
 And there are some surprisingly tender moments: children who find happiness despite their circumstances, piling clothing on the floor so they can jump on it, and a little boy -- Quachaun -- nicknamed Booty because he did not like wearing clothes.
 ''She was a decent person; she just struggled,'' said Ebony Milliner, who lived as a foster child under the care of Ms. Smith's mother. ''Sometimes she seemed very overwhelmed, and sometimes she seemed to have everything in control. She didn't have a job. None of the kids' fathers were around. Welfare was all she had.''
 Ms. Smith, who turns 27 on Feb. 21, dropped out of high school in Brooklyn not long after having her first child. Though pregnant with her third child by the time she was 19, she earned a high school diploma by completing general equivalency requirements. In recent years, she took courses at Touro College in Manhattan.
 Her life was dominated by her six children, who had four different fathers. Ms. Smith had contact with two of the men. Relatives, including her sister, Leatrice Alleyne, said Ms. Smith rarely went out for fun, and had never even been to a nightclub. They said she did not use drugs and rarely drank alcohol. Her apartment was provided by the city's Department of Homeless Services.
 Neighbors said they occasionally intervened. They baby-sat, brought over groceries and paid Ms. Smith to braid their hair. Ms. Smith's mother, Sally Alleyne, also pitched in, even though the two had a difficult relationship. 
 Ms. Smith, who has lived much of her life with her children in city shelters since she turned 18, was clearly overwhelmed, neighbors said. At times, she seemed incapable of providing basics like food, clothing and baths, and ensuring that they went to school, even though it was only two blocks away.
 Guadalupe Garcia, 44, who lives next door, said that while left unattended, the children kept the door to the apartment ajar and scampered in the building's hallways. They sometimes seemed hungry, Ms. Garcia said. ''The children, all the time, were crying,'' she said.
 When Ms. Smith went to Atlantic City with her sister and a friend one weekend last June, her children were left alone at home, the authorities said. The children were temporarily taken away after Ms. Smith told child welfare authorities that she had had a baby-sitting mix-up. After that, Ms. Smith's mother took custody of the oldest daughter, age 10.
 The city's Administration for Children's Services said it had received eight complaints about Ms. Smith's child-rearing practices during the past 10 years, including six since October 2004. The complaints came from a variety of sources, including a school guidance counselor and a doctor.
 While most of the complaints involved suspicion of neglect, two reports alleged possible physical abuse, though it remains unclear whether they were substantiated. After Quachaun's death, however, the authorities said that the four other children in the apartment -- daughters ranging in age from 1 to 9 -- had bruises consistent with physical abuse.
 But Leatrice Alleyne, the sister, said she never saw Ms. Smith strike the children. ''My sister never abused her kids,'' she said.
 Last summer, Ms. Smith broke off a relationship with Mandinga Browne, the father of Quachaun and her two youngest children, ages 1 and 2.
 Mr. Browne, 23, had been arrested several times. He promised that he would become a family man. As proof, he got a job at a McDonald's, Ms. Alleyne said, and Ms. Smith thought he had turned a corner.
 But on Aug. 26, Mr. Browne and two other men tried to rob three men in front of a building on 139th Street in the Bronx, the police said. One of the men with Mr. Browne fired a gunshot; in the car the men were using, officers found a loaded machine gun with 22 rounds in the clip, officials said. Mr. Browne, who says he is innocent, is in jail on Rikers Island awaiting trial.
 Ms. Alleyne, 21, said frustration with Mr. Browne may have been what led her sister to take up with Mr. Calderon, who arrived in New York from Puerto Rico not long after Mr. Browne was arrested.
 ''She was tired of him in and out of jail,'' Ms. Alleyne said.
 Mr. Calderon, who was unemployed, was helping his uncle, who was the superintendent of Ms. Smith's apartment building, near Montefiore Medical Center in Norwood. He and Ms. Smith saw each other around the building and started to flirt. 
 A sexual relationship developed. When Mr. Calderon had a falling out with his uncle, he moved in with Ms. Smith in Apartment A1, Ms. Alleyne said.
 Almost immediately, Mr. Calderon established rules for the children: First and foremost, they were told to keep their hands off his possessions.
 About one month ago, according to relatives, Mr. Calderon struck Ms. Smith's 9-year-old daughter in the face. When Ms. Smith found out, the relatives said, she confronted Mr. Calderon, and they threw punches at each other.
 Neighbors said that noise from the already clamorous apartment grew even louder after Mr. Calderon moved in, and that the sound of the couple's fights sometimes lasted for hours.
 A frequent source of tension was the way Ms. Smith was raising the children, neighbors and relatives said. The children often pulled clothes from the closets, piled them up and jumped on the mound. They skipped school for days at a time.
 Mr. Calderon also had run-ins with the law. He was arrested on Jan. 18 and charged with driving a stolen vehicle. Now he is accused of beating Quachaun over the course of several days after the 4-year-old knocked over Mr. Calderon's 27-inch flat-screen television.
 The authorities said Ms. Smith had delayed in getting medical help for her son, who suffered a fractured skull and a lacerated spleen and pancreas. Mr. Calderon has been charged with murder and Ms. Smith with manslaughter. Child welfare officials have removed the four remaining children from the home. 
 Ms. Alleyne said her sister may not have immediately sought medical help for Quachaun for any number of reasons, including her fear of Mr. Calderon; her anxiety over the possibility that the city might take her children again; and Mr. Calderon's fear of further trouble with the police after his arrest on the stolen vehicle charge.
 ''She was just young and made a mistake,'' Ms. Alleyne said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Leatrice Alleyne, in the Bronx building where the family of her sister, Aleshia Smith, lived. Ms. Smith, a suspect in her 4-year-old son's death, ''never abused her kids,'' Ms. Alleyne said. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)
 Outside the home of the dead boy, Quachaun Browne, on Kossuth Avenue, Deborah Heater prayed on Monday at a memorial set up by neighbors, who said they used to buy groceries and baby-sit for the family. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CATS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); HOMICIDE (75%); ANIMAL WELFARE (73%); CHILD ABUSE (72%); FOSTER CARE (72%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Child Abuse and Neglect ; Murders and Attempted Murders

PERSON: Timothy Williams; Colin Moynihan; Jeremy Smerd; Aleshia Smith; Jose Calderon; Quachaun Browne

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



77 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: Politics and Gifts As Owners Pick Super Bowl City

BYLINE: By JOHN BRANCH

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 3 

 BODY:
Most owners of the National Football League's 32 teams are averse to cold-weather sites for the Super Bowl. But they are willing to make exceptions, which is how Sunday evening's game between the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Seattle Seahawks ended up here, a city where the average temperature in early February is 27 degrees.
 The selection of Super Bowl sites is predicated primarily on weather and facilities. But the league owners determine the sites, and they can use the game as a reward for fellow owners and cities. Increasingly, backroom politics and gifts are helping to lure the votes of owners, one of only two decisions -- the other being the selection of a commissioner -- cast by secret ballot.
Detroit used an elaborate production with a rotating stage to court votes during its 15-minute bid presentation. The golf legend Arnold Palmer gave each owner a putter to help Tampa, Fla., in its winning bid for the 2009 Super Bowl. And Miami was awarded the 2010 game after owners were promised the use of yachts during Super Bowl week. 
 All of this has some owners questioning the way Super Bowl sites are chosen.
 ''I don't think we should have owners compete against one another,'' Arthur Blank, the Atlanta Falcons' owner, said in a telephone interview. ''That's not in the best common interest of our league.''
 Generally, the owners resort to a rotation of warm-weather sites -- mainly stadiums in Florida, Southern California, Arizona and New Orleans. 
 But they have expanded their Super Bowl horizons in recent years, using the game as a sort of payback to a city for having a new stadium built or as a reward to an owner for years of service -- and sometimes both. 
 ''There's definitely some truth to that,'' said John Mara, the Giants' owner.
 That is how the Super Bowl came back to Detroit after a 24-year absence. It is how it ended up in Houston and Jacksonville, Fla., the previous two years. And it is why it is slated for Glendale, Ariz., in 2008, and for Kansas City, Mo., sometime from 2012 to 2021, provided taxpayers approve two ballot measures in April that call for enhancements to Arrowhead Stadium.
 As the stakes are raised -- studies indicate that a Super Bowl infuses a city's economy with $50 million to $300 million -- and the game continues to grow in prestige and importance, the lengths to which owners and bidding cities go to lure the game also increase.
 Last fall's winning bid by South Florida and the Miami Dolphins' owner, Wayne Huizenga, included the use of a yacht for each of the owners during Super Bowl week in 2010. 
 ''When Wayne said it, a collective gasp kind of went around the room,'' Bob McNair, the Houston Texans' owner who was trying to secure the game for his city, told The Houston Chronicle at the time. ''That was a last-minute addition that kind of changed the dynamics.''
 Tampa, Fla., which will be the host in 2009, borrowed the influence of Palmer. It also offered owners an exclusive golf tournament at an area course and 150 tickets to an exclusive outing to Busch Gardens theme park, according to The Tampa Tribune. Other bids have included hunting and fishing expeditions for the owners. All of them include campaign calls and letters, sometimes from public officials or celebrities.
 ''Nobody's been buying each other off,'' Blank said. ''But putters or boats or hunting trips -- it's not good press. I just don't think that's where the focus should be.'' 
 Blank is one of the league's newest owners; he took over the Falcons in 2002. But his concern has spread to others.
 ''Arthur has a point,'' Pat Bowlen, the Denver Broncos' owner, said by phone. ''We have to be careful that we don't have owners put perks on it to help decide where we play the Super Bowl. I don't think it's there yet.''
 Commissioner Paul Tagliabue was noncommittal when asked Friday if the selection process concerned him.
 ''On the perks and the hunting trips, some of that is facetious, some of it was real,'' he said during his annual Super Bowl news conference. ''I still think the most important part of the Super Bowl is the game, the N.F.L. Experience, all of the community events that we do together with the city.''
 But the question is less about where the festivities are held, and more about how that decision is made.
 ''We are going to move the game around to a large number of cities, in a realistic way, to help give back and to thank those communities that partner with the N.F.L., support the teams for many, many decades and also work with us to get stadiums built,'' Tagliabue said.
 Most N.F.L. cities are not candidates to play host to a Super Bowl simply because the average high temperature in early February must be at least 50 degrees, unless the game can be played in an enclosed stadium. 
 Bowlen; the New England Patriots' owner, Robert K. Kraft; and the Washington Redskins' owner, Daniel Snyder, are among those who have said the Super Bowl could be played in unpredictable elements. Bowlen and Snyder have campaigned to play host to games at their open-air stadiums. 
 ''The argument is that the most important game of the season shouldn't be affected by potentially bad weather,'' Mara said. ''Now, the argument on the other side is that some of the greatest games ever played were in bad weather.'' 
 Detroit was awarded this Super Bowl as a reward. The owners of the Detroit Lions, the Fords, are one of the grand ownership families of the N.F.L. And when they provided the bulk of the $500 million to build the domed Ford Field -- about $125 million came from public money -- a Super Bowl was virtually assured, even if good weather could not be guaranteed.
 ''There is a recognition that these stadiums are important to the league,'' Lamar Hunt, the Kansas City Chiefs' owner, said during a phone interview. 
 Owners voted to give a Super Bowl to Kansas City, provided area residents approve a sales-tax increase to fund refurbishment of football's Arrowhead Stadium and baseball's adjacent Kauffman Stadium, and a use-tax increase aimed mostly at businesses that would build an estimated $200 million rolling roof over the two facilities.
 The N.F.L. has thrown its weight behind such measures, and has often dangled the Super Bowl as a carrot to communities. 
 ''The game has been used strategically to support the building of stadiums,'' said Greg Aiello, the league spokesman. ''It can help justify the economics.''
 The league promised to award the 2010 Super Bowl to New York, contingent on the Jets' completing a stadium on the Far West Side of Manhattan in time for the 2009 season, but the stadium deal fell apart.
 Hunt said, ''There is no question that will be one of the commissioner's legacies -- the emphasis he has placed on stadium construction.''
 That is part of the predicament facing someone like Blank. While he says he believes that weather is the reason Atlanta lost out the past two years on bids for future Super Bowls -- memories linger from a debilitating ice storm days before the city played host to the game in 2000 -- it might not be the only one.
 Atlanta's Georgia Dome is enclosed but it is not new; it opened in 1992. And Blank is a relatively new member of the ownership group, which has recently awarded games to long-respected owners (like Hunt and the Fords) and persuasive ones (including Miami's Huizenga and Wayne Weaver, a former shoe salesman widely lauded for his ability to sell Jacksonville's bid to the other owners). 
 Blank has no issue with rewarding owners and cities, like the Fords and Detroit, for their contributions to new facilities.
 ''How can we shine some light on that commitment?'' Blank said. ''One way to do that is with the Super Bowl.''
 But he wants to see reform in the selection process. He would prefer that league officials make the site selections, taking the power away from the league's owners, who might be persuaded by politics or relationships -- or even by the lure of a yacht.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); REFERENDUMS (75%); BALLOTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); GOLF (68%) 

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (84%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); ATLANTA FALCONS (54%) Pittsburgh Steelers; Seattle Seahawks

PERSON: ARTHUR M BLANK (58%) John Branch; Arnold Palmer

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (52%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (95%) Detroit (Mich); Tampa (Fla); Miami (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



78 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1685 words

HEADLINE: As Tribal Leaders, Women Still Fight Old Views

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Gretchen Ruethling contributed reporting from Chicago for this article.

DATELINE: PINE RIDGE, S.D. 

 BODY:
Political life has been tense for Cecelia Fire Thunder since a little over a year ago, when she defeated Russell Means to become the top leader of the Oglala Sioux tribe, often remembered for its male leaders of long ago, men like Crazy Horse and Red Cloud.
 Mr. Means, an American Indian activist and actor, challenged Ms. Fire Thunder's election in a federal lawsuit. Months later came the calls from some tribe members for her impeachment, amid complaints she had unilaterally made questionable financial choices and ignored the wishes of respected elders.
The Tribal Council voted in December to drop the impeachment complaint and keep Ms. Fire Thunder, but by then she and many of her supporters had come to believe that her sex was really at the root of so much turmoil. Though some disagree with Ms. Fire Thunder's assertion of bias, she stands as an illustration of the shifting role American Indian women are playing in tribal governments. 
 Ms. Fire Thunder is the first woman to be elected president here on Pine Ridge, the country's second largest reservation in land area, and one of a growing group of women Indian leaders. Since 1999, at least 11 leaders, including Ms. Fire Thunder, have become the first women elected to the top post on their tribes' governing councils. 
 In the past quarter-century, the number of women serving as top tribal leaders has nearly doubled. In 1981, a study paid for by the Department of Education and called ''Ohoyo One Thousand'' found that 69 of the more than 500 federally recognized American Indian tribes and Alaska Native villages were headed by women. (Ohoyo means woman in Choctaw.)
 By 2006, the number of woman leaders of tribes was 133 among more than 560 recognized tribes, according to documents from the National Congress of Indians. 
 Among those leaders, Vivian Juan-Saunders, 46, who became the first woman to head the Tohono O'odham Nation in Arizona in May 2003, holds a master's degree in public policy. Erma J. Vizenor, 61, was elected in June 2004 as the first woman to lead the White Earth band of Ojibwe in Minnesota and holds a Ph.D. from Harvard. She is now known by tribal members as Ogimaakwe (pronounced oh-gih-maah-quay), or boss lady in Ojibwe. 
 Ms. Fire Thunder was trained as a nurse and spent years in California pressing for health clinics for American Indians before returning to Pine Ridge and working as a community organizer against domestic violence.
 ''I never thought my being a woman was a big deal until I got in,'' Ms. Fire Thunder, 59, said in an interview, as she glanced around Billy Mills Hall, a chilly faded auditorium here where a small cluster of residents men and women, young and old who had called for her ouster. ''A woman may not seem traditional to some, but in the traditional Lakota teachings I grew up with, you are required to do what you can with what you have. That's been my whole life.''
 In part, the shift may reflect the other roles women have come to fill on reservations. Increasingly, women have become the administrators, the teachers, the community organizers, and more and more, the ones to receive broader education or work experience beyond the reservation. 
 In the late 1970's, slightly more American Indian and Alaska Native men than women were receiving bachelor's degrees, a 2005 study by the National Center for Education Statistics showed. But by 2002-2003, those figures had shifted: American Indian and Alaska Native women were far more likely to receive associate's degrees, bachelor's degrees, master's degrees and doctoral degrees than were men. 
 That year, 5,945 American Indian women got their bachelor's, compared with 3,858 men. 
 Just as women returned to reservations, opportunities were opening up for new leadership. Some came about because of accusations of mismanagement or wrongdoing by longtime leaders, some because residents were ready for a change after years of stagnant economic growth. Tribes turned to women after the arrival of the new, more complex management and accounting challenges that accompanied the rush of new revenues from casinos and other programs. All of the 11 women tribal leaders since 1999 are from tribes that have casinos.
 ''This may not be so much a sudden change as a natural outgrowth,'' said Stephen Cornell, director of the Udall Center for Studies in Public Policy at the University of Arizona. ''Over the last 20 to 30 years, as tribal governments have grown -- partly because of the aggressive moves of tribes to take over governing functions and partly because of funding issues -- tribal administrations have tended to be filled with women, and now that is reaching into senior leadership.'' 
 The downside, some of the women said, is that the rise of women may also reflect the struggles that some men are wrestling with on reservations -- joblessness, alcoholism, poverty. Even with disparate tribes in distant places, a movement appears to be quietly building momentum among these women. Last summer, 150 of them gathered at Prior Lake, Minn., for the first conference of Women Empowering Women for Indian Nations, or WEWIN, a network for American Indian women pressing for political roles at the tribal, state and federal levels.
 ''What I know is that once you see other women do it, you have different dreams for yourself and that perpetuates more women leaders,'' said Susan M. Masten, who was the chairwoman of the Yuroks, a tribe in Northern California, until 2004, and is the former president of the National Congress of American Indians. 
 Change has also brought growing pains, both trivial and vast. How to adjust titles for constitutions (and parking space signs) that anticipated the possibility only of a chair-man. How to cope with council members or tribal elders who, some women leaders say, ignore their comments, repeatedly interrupt their speech making, or assume they are members of the secretarial staff. Some of those most critical of female leadership, these women said, have been other women.
 Tensions were far more pronounced in tribes that elected women earlier. Wilma Mankiller, who was the first woman elected principal chief of the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma and is considered the first modern woman to lead a major American Indian tribe, recalled the comments she heard when she was running for chief in 1985.
 ''I remember people saying that I wasn't -- quote, unquote -- chief material,'' she said. During a meeting, one man rose and told the assembled crowd of his fears: ''If we elect a woman,'' Ms. Mankiller remembered him saying, ''we'll be the laughing stock of all tribes.'' 
 Once elected, Ms. Mankiller consulted a communications expert, she said, because one council member repeatedly interrupted as she was speaking during meetings. Ultimately, she installed a switch for the microphones so that she could decide who would be heard. 
 Traditionally, leadership of tribes took different forms. In some tribes, clan mothers had a direct say in picking leaders, and female tribe members might be medicine women, holy women, or responsible for deciding whether to approve a war, said Jace DeCory, who teaches American Indian studies at Black Hills State University in Spearfish, S.D. 
 Now, with a rush of new women in tribal governments, the major agendas of those governments seem to be changing, leaning toward issues of child welfare, social services, education and Head Start programs.
 In 1996, Kathryn Harrison became the first woman to lead the Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde in Oregon. ''I think it's been kind of hard for men to back off,'' said Ms. Harrison, who is 81 and now retired.''I think what has happened is that one tribe has seen another have such good luck with a lady in charge. So then they kind of put away their usual tradition and move ahead.''
 For some of the women, moving ahead also means an awkward balancing act. Last spring, Rebecca A. Miles, 33, became the first woman to lead the Nez Perce Tribal Executive Committee in Idaho. She won the post largely after making herself an expert on a water rights question, which had become the tribe's most pressing and controversial issue.
 ''We've become less traditional, and I'm part of that, and that is a tough thing for me to say,'' Ms. Miles said. ''I'm a modern leader in a modern government, and that is good and bad. How does somebody like myself ensure that my leadership works to protect the traditions that are so sacred to us -- and that may not have included a woman in this role?''
 Here, along more than 3,100 square miles of bare, rolling reservation land, Ms. Fire Thunder will serve as president until the end of the year. Only her sex, she said, could explain why people were attacking her so often and with such vehemence for circumstances -- such as the tribe's deeply-strained finances -- which had been created by the male-led administrations, long before she came along. ''I ran on my merits, not a woman card,'' Ms. Fire Thunder said. ''But I walked into a hornets' nest. I didn't want to acknowledge it at first, but of course it has to do with me being a woman.''
 Mr. Means and others say she has little chance of winning re-election. And that, he said, ''is not any way, shape or form about her sex.'' He said Ms. Fire Thunder, faced with previous leaders' financial failings, had laid off workers and failed to get proper approval from her people before getting a $38 million loan from another tribe.
 Marie Randall, who is 86 and worked to have Ms. Fire Thunder impeached, agreed that sex was not the issue. Ms. Fire Thunder does not listen to the wishes of elders, as required by tradition, Ms. Randall said. She also left the reservation, went to school, held jobs, and, only then, came back, Ms. Randall said, contrary to the Lakota tradition of women of being ''the generation keepers.'' 
 When Ms. Fire Thunder put on traditional clothing after being elected, Ms. Randall said, ''It looks to me more like a dress-up.'' 
 She added, ''It's not that she is a woman that I have a problem with, but I would trust her only if she would be herself as a woman.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about women who lead American Indian tribes misstated the name of an organization that provided data on the number of such women. It is the National Congress of American Indians, not the National Congress of Indians.
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about women who lead American Indian tribes misstated the name of an organization that provided data on the number of such women. It is the National Congress of American Indians, not the National Congress of Indians.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Erma J. Vizenor, 61, was elected as the first woman to lead the White Earth band of Ojibwe in Minnesota. She holds a Ph.D. from Harvard. (Photo by Dan Koeck for The New York Times)
Gov. Dave Heineman of Nebraska with Cecelia Fire Thunder, president of the Oglala Sioux tribe from Pine Ridge in South Dakota. (Photo by Nati Harnik/Associated Press)(pg. A9)
 Rebecca A. Miles, the first woman to lead the Nez Perce Tribal Executive Committee, at the tribal headquarters in Lapwai, Idaho. (Photo by Jeff T. Green for The New York Times)(pg. A1)Map of South Dakota highlighting Pine Ridge: Pine Ridge is the country's second largest reservation in land area. (pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (91%); MEN (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); WOMEN (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); LITIGATION (56%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Oglala Sioux Indian Tribe

PERSON: DAVE HEINEMAN (59%) Monica Davey; Cecelia Fire Thunder; Russell Means; Rebecca A Miles; Erma J Vizenor

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pine Ridge (Sd)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



79 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Gridiron City

BYLINE: By Holly Brubach. 
Holly Brubach, a former style editor at The New York Times Magazine, is writing a novel.

DATELINE: Pittsburgh 

 BODY:
THE electronic signs above the windshields on city buses here alternate their destination with a flashing message: ''GO STEELERS!'' In stores, in restaurants, on the street, people are wearing team jerseys. The news is All Steelers, All the Time: for the past two weeks, the war in Iraq and the Samuel Alito confirmation have been supplanted by Jerome Bettis's mom, Coach Bill Cowher's decision to wear the white ''away'' uniforms, opinion forums (''Is God for the Steelers?''), and a raspy song by a local band setting Troy Polamalu's name to music. 
 At the airport, where the Carnegie Museum has installed on loan a specimen from its renowned dinosaur collection, the T. Rex is holding a Terrible Towel. Sitting at the gate waiting to board a flight to Newark, I overheard a man on his cellphone telling somebody back home, ''You can't believe how seriously these people take their football.'' 
Pittsburgh needs the Steelers in a way that few, if any, other cities need their teams. The Steelers are our mirror: they tell us who we are. When they win, we walk a little taller. I say ''we'' because I was born and raised in Pittsburgh, and now, after 30 years in New York, Paris and Milan, I'm moving back. The locals are mystified: they want to know what Pittsburgh has to offer in comparison to these so-called capitals of style. 
 For several years in a row back in the 80's, Pittsburgh was ranked the No. 1 place to live in the country, to the incredulity of its own citizens. Despite historic architecture, a distinguished cultural heritage, a scenic location and an ethnically diverse community, most Pittsburghers are remarkably lacking in civic pride. The city's inferiority complex is chronic, and its roots run deep. 
 The Scots and Germans who settled the area early on seem to have regarded life as one long, relentless struggle, as, indeed, for them it must have been, and their work ethic and frugality have been handed down intact. For Pittsburgh's most conspicuous benefactors -- the Fricks, the Carnegies, the Mellons -- the city in the Gilded Age was a base of operations where they built the fortunes that propelled them to New York's larger stage. Successive waves of immigrants (Eastern European, Irish, Italian) found jobs in the steel mills and the coal mines, and hard labor became fused in the public's perception with the image of an industrial inferno where the air was so soot-filled that the streetlights were illuminated 24 hours a day. 
 My own appreciation for Pittsburgh is relatively recent. Like a lot of natives, I grew up feeling apologetic that the city, with its smokestacks, factories and railroad trestles, wasn't picturesque (this was back in the days before ''industrial'' was an aesthetic); that, being closer to Ohio than to the Eastern seaboard, it wasn't more cosmopolitan; that it was a blunt, hard-charging, working-class town in an increasingly nuanced, executive world. When, beginning in 1975, the Steelers won four Super Bowls in six years, they earned us a respect we'd never had, not even for ourselves. 
 Steelermania these days includes a heavy dose of nostalgia, not only for those legendary 70's teams but also for the era before the steel industry's demise, when the city still had a strong identity. Pittsburgh's population today is less than half what it was in 1950, and if, with this week's report of three fans in Antarctica, Steeler Nation now extends to the planet's farthest corners, surely it's in large part because so many Pittsburghers have left home.
 The tech boom of the 90's, which was supposed to turn the city into another Seattle, fizzled. Pittsburgh has lately teetered on the verge of bankruptcy, and urban revitalization efforts, while finally gaining some traction, are several years behind those of other Midwestern cities. The ubiquitous luxury brands, with stores in every major American market, have made few inroads here, and their ''aspirational'' appeal seems lost on a populace persuaded that glamour is for other people. 
 Though today it's advanced-degree professions like medicine and education that drive the local economy, the Steelers' image has remained hardscrabble: ''blue-collar'' is the adjective most often used to describe Pittsburgh's style of football. For the past few days, hometown coverage has focused on the role of the running game, which the Steelers more or less abandoned during the playoffs. Against the Colts, quarterback Ben Roethlisberger passed on 7 of the first 10 plays, astonishing not only the Indianapolis defense but the Pittsburgh fans. Who was this team? Elegant, cerebral -- for a minute there, we could have been watching the Patriots. 
 The Steelers have historically gone about football the way people in Pittsburgh have gone about their lives. It occurs to me that what may appear to be a lack of pride is, more precisely, an acknowledgment that the city simply can't compete when it comes to the things American culture calls important: celebrity, fashion, fancy cars. Not because Pittsburgh has tried for all that and failed, but because here those aren't the things that matter. This may not be a popular position we've inherited, but we're sticking to it, and looking to the Super Bowl for vindication.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); MUSIC (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); ETHICS (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (67%); RANKINGS (63%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); COAL MINING (50%) Football; Super Bowl; Nostalgia; Steel and Iron

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (94%) Pittsburgh Steelers

PERSON: SAMUEL ALITO (56%) Holly Brubach

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (90%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (54%) Pittsburgh (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



80 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Compromises on Wording of Iran Nuclear Resolution

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: VIENNA, Feb. 3 

 BODY:
The 35-nation board of the International Atomic Energy Agency put off a vote on a landmark resolution on Iran's nuclear program on Friday, largely because of American opposition to a clause indirectly criticizing Israel's nuclear weapons status, according to several diplomats. 
 But late Friday evening the dispute was apparently resolved after the Americans backed down and accepted compromise language, an American official said. 
In Washington, R. Nicholas Burns, under secretary of state for political affairs, said the way had been cleared for the adoption of the resolution on Saturday. ''The I.A.E.A. board is now poised to adopt a very important resolution declaring the international community's lack of confidence in Iran,'' he said. ''This is a major development on this issue.''
 Earlier in the day, diplomats here had predicted the United States would have to accept a compromise on the clause, which mentions support for the creation of a nuclear-weapons-free zone in the Middle East. The clause was insisted upon by Egypt, with the strong backing of the nonaligned nations on the agency's board.
 Egypt and other Arab states routinely demand references to a ''nuclear-free zone'' in the Middle East in Security Council documents. They argue that Israel -- which has never admitted that it has nuclear weapons and, unlike Iran, has never signed the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty -- should be made part of a general security framework in the Middle East.
 The issue temporarily exposed a split between the Americans, who opposed the Egyptian demand, and Russia, China and the Europeans, who supported it.
 On Thursday night, Britain circulated a new, informal draft that added a clause that recognized that ''a solution to the Iranian nuclear issue would contribute to the goal of a Middle East free of all weapons of mass destruction, and their means of delivery.''
 That language reflected the official position of the 25-member European Union. But the United States delegation, led by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, initially opposed the compromise language, saying it could be used by Iran as a propaganda weapon against Israel, four senior diplomats said. 
 ''The Americans are worried that once it is there, it will stay there forever and allow the Iranians to hide behind it,'' one ambassador involved in the negotiations said.
 It was not immediately clear which compromise Washington had agreed to, though a senior official said the resolution would make reference to a nuclear-free zone. Earlier, a State Department spokesman, Sean McCormack, had said the United States accepted in principle that ''we all hope for a day when the Middle East achieves a state where there are not nuclear weapons.'' Throughout the day on Friday, the Europeans pressed the Americans to change their position.
 ''It's five against one,'' said one European ambassador.
 Another key ambassador called the Americans ''dogmatists,'' predicting that for the resolution to pass, ''The Americans will have to give in.''
 Gregory Schulte, the American ambassador to the agency, told reporters that he expected strong support when a vote was taken. ''We are convinced we have a solid majority for the resolution that reports Iran to the Security Council,'' he said. ''And that majority is growing.''
 Many diplomats here also said the resolution might not pass with as strong a majority as many had hoped, because of opposition among the 16-member bloc of nonaligned countries.
 Diplomats met behind closed doors throughout the day to meet some of the demands of the nonaligned countries, which wanted to delete all references to the Security Council or at least delay any report to New York until after the nuclear agency makes its full assessment of Iran's nuclear program in March.
 The current text is a compromise between the American push for immediate action against Iran by the Security Council and Russia's preference for a monthlong delay for more diplomacy.
 The resolution mentions Iran's ''many failures and breaches of its obligations'' under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, and ''the absence of confidence that Iran's nuclear program is exclusively for peaceful purposes.''
 In one important concession, the draft resolution was changed to reflect the fact that actions taken by Iran to build international ''confidence'' that it is not pursuing a nuclear weapon are ''voluntary and non-legally binding.''
 In another development, Javad Vaidi, the head of Iran's nuclear delegation, told reporters on Friday that if the resolution reported Iran to the Security Council, it would be the end of a Russian proposal under which uranium would be enriched for Iran's energy purposes at a site in Russia under solely Russian authority.
 Underscoring the fluid nature of the diplomacy, however, a Russian diplomat said that talks on the proposal were continuing.
 On Thursday, Iran informed the I.A.E.A. in a letter that all ''voluntary'' nuclear cooperation with the agency would end if the agency's board reported Iran's nuclear case to the Security Council. That would mean that the agency would no longer be allowed to do voluntary spot inspections and would lose access to important sites and installations.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Two foreign ministers, Li Zhaoxing of China and Ursula Plassnik of Austria, in Vienna yesterday with Javier Solana of the European Union. (Photo by Dieter Nagl/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%) International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%); JAVIER SOLANA (50%) Elaine Sciolino; R Nicholas (Under Sec) Burns

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (94%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); EGYPT (93%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); AUSTRIA (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%) Iran; Israel; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



81 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: America's Share of the Pie 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''The Nation of the Future'' (column, Feb. 2):
I'm sure that many readers will be reassured by David Brooks's optimistic analysis of the future of the United States. 
 How many of them will wonder, though, whether a group that constitutes only 5 percent of the global population, but that ''accounts for 30.74 percent of world G.D.P.,'' can, or should, feel secure?

Nathan Basik
Winston-Salem, N.C.
Feb. 2, 2006 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) United States Economy

PERSON: David Brooks; Nathan Basik

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



82 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: OPEC's Chief Shrugs Off Latest Twists in Oil Politics 

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: VIENNA, Feb. 1 

 BODY:
You'd think oil producers would be nervous these days. Several of them are facing serious trouble at home, consumers are increasingly defiant about high energy costs, and President Bush took a swipe when he deplored America's addiction to oil and set a goal to cut imports, particularly from the Middle East. 
 But for Ali al-Naimi, Saudi Arabia's oil minister, none of this is worth losing any sleep over. As long as there is an appetite for oil, Saudi Arabia, the world's largest producer, will be in business. In fact, Mr. Naimi was so busy -- dashing off to Vienna for an OPEC meeting, after trips to India and China -- that the presidential jabs against Middle Eastern producers got nothing but a big shrug out of him. 
''OPEC is a business organization, not a political organization anymore,'' he said on Tuesday while taking a stroll through Vienna's streets, hours before the president's speech. ''All the member countries want one thing; they want more money. All of us have benefited from this de-politicized organization. I have never deviated from that. We are oil ministers, not foreign ministers.''
 For Mr. Naimi, oil politics are better left to the diplomats. Sure enough, on Wednesday, as Mr. Naimi declined to comment on the president's speech, Prince Turki al-Faisal, the Saudi ambassador to Washington, said he would ask the White House to clarify exactly what the president had meant. 
 While Mr. Bush was making a political argument out of oil, Mr. Naimi stressed that OPEC had transformed itself in recent years. Gone are the militant years, when OPEC ministers barged into meetings and threatened to unsheath their oil weapon only to discover, much too late, that it could be a double-edge sword. 
 With Mr. Naimi's frantic pace, it is hard to believe producers are feeling any heat from critics. Demand for oil is still growing despite the doubling of oil prices in two years. Forecasters expect it to grow by a two million barrels a day this year, even as analysts see crude oil prices staying well above $50 a barrel for a while.
 On Friday, crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange closed at $65.37 a barrel, up 1 percent.
 In many ways, these gains are a result of OPEC policies engineered and enforced by Mr. Naimi within the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries since the late 1990's. OPEC has also been helped by a growing global economy; a boom in Asian countries like China; a scarcity of refined oil products around the world; and production disruptions in Iraq, Venezuela and, last summer, the Gulf of Mexico.
 OPEC said Tuesday that it would continue pumping all it could to keep enough oil in the global markets in an attempt to lower prices. 
 So far, OPEC has been more successful in propping up crude oil prices than the opposite, especially after prices collapsed to $10 a barrel in the late 1990's.
 Under the leadership of Mr. Naimi, OPEC managed supplies in line with oil stocks in consuming nations. By fine-tuning the group's output, and frequently raising or cutting its output, OPEC was able to influence oil markets and nudge prices back up.
 To micro-manage the markets, the group also increased the frequency of its meetings, which in the 1990's took place only twice a year at OPEC headquarters, a boxy building overlooking the Danube River. But since 2000, OPEC ministers have met a total of 34 times, a period that coincided with the run-up in oil prices. (Just last year, the conference convened six times, one meeting short of 2001 and 2003.)
 For many analysts, OPEC is now powerless to bring prices down.
 Mr. Naimi disagrees. 
 ''That's nonsense,'' he said. ''OPEC has not lost control of the market. It is an organization that has dedicated itself to the reliability of supplies and the lessening of the volatility in the markets.''
 Still, these days, that mission is proving particularly challenging. For one, OPEC's main tool in managing global supplies -- its production lever -- is broken. As a group, OPEC has only about 1.5 million to 2 million barrels of untapped output, and most of that is in Saudi Arabia. This means the group does not have much more oil to pour into the markets to help bring prices down. 
 ''OPEC is an anachronism today,'' said Roger Diwan, a managing director at PFC Energy, a Washington-based industry consultant. ''This is not a market where suppliers have to manage any spare capacity. They cannot manage the short-term risk, which is going to be on the upside. What we're seeing here is a demand shock, but everybody is looking to OPEC as if it were a supply shock.'' 
 Still, Mr. Naimi has reasons to feel vindicated. There are no signs that consumption is being hurt by high prices -- in fact, demand keeps rising. 
 Asked whether he was surprised that demand had not dropped despite the high prices, he said, ''Oh, I am not surprised because there is no longer a direct relationship between the two, because the cost of energy is a smaller part of the economy compared to the 1970's.''
 The Paris-based International Energy Agency has forecast that oil demand will grow by 2.2 percent this year, to 85 million barrels a day. Last year, consumption rose 1.1 percent and in 2004, it grew 3.8 percent, more than twice the average growth of the last decade.
 ''OPEC wants the maximum price they can sustain to meet their budgetary needs and investment plans, and keep their economies growing, while making sure that demand in the rest of the world keeps growing,'' said Yasser Elguindi, a senior managing director at Global Medley Advisors, a consulting firm for hedge funds. ''The Saudis have hinted they believe that price was now between $50 and $60 a barrel.''
 On Tuesday afternoon, Mr. Naimi chose to stroll through the narrow streets of Vienna, as he often does when OPEC meets here, preferring the 15-minute walk back to his hotel to the quicker drive in the black limousine waiting for him. 
 As Mr. Naimi sped along, passers-by looked on with curiosity at the man with the fur cap and the band of Austrian security officers and reporters glued to his every comment. 
 ''I keep telling you guys,'' he said to them, ''if you know a customer who wants oil, send him to me.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Abdel Aziz bin Salman, left, Saudi Arabia's deputy oil minister, and Ali al-Naimi, center, the oil minister, head toward the OPEC meeting Tuesday in Vienna, the headquarters city for the group. (Photo by Jakup Sukup/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (87%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (85%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (65%); FUEL MARKETS (65%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Ali Al- (Min) Naimi; George W (Pres) Bush; Turki Al- (Prince) Faisal; Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (94%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) AUSTRIA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); INDIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



83 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: VW Chief Defends Linking to Porsche 

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Feb. 3 

 BODY:
German companies have never been trendsetters in the realm of corporate governance, with their penchant for habits like owning each other's shares. But Volkswagen, shareholder activists say, has been a laggard, even in this undistinguished fraternity.
 Now, Volkswagen's chief executive, Bernd Pischetsrieder, is mounting a vigorous defense of his company's practices. The critics fail to understand how German companies are governed, he says.
 ''How a U.S. business is run versus a German business is completely different,'' Mr. Pischetsrieder said in an interview last week, while attending the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. ''Many of my American friends are not familiar with that.'' 
 Volkswagen's image problem began last fall, when a rival German carmaker, Porsche, bought a nearly 20 percent stake in the company and demanded two seats on the Volkswagen supervisory board. Such interlocking of companies, which used to be commonplace in German industry, has fallen out of favor in recent years, as German industry tries to become more streamlined to appeal to investors.
 Complicating matters, the Volkswagen chairman, Ferdinand K. Piech, is a member of the founding family of Porsche. His dual role at Porsche and Volkswagen raised the possibility of the glamorous sports car company, in effect, controlling Europe's largest car manufacturer.
 ''There is no conflict between Porsche and Volkswagen,'' Mr. Pischetsrieder said. ''The idea that Porsche could, or would, prevent us from doing something that we think is the right thing to do, is simply not on.''
 He has been meeting with investors in Britain and the United States in the aftermath of Porsche's investment and a subsequent boardroom battle at Volkswagen to try to reassure them that the company is being run properly.
 Volkswagen's biggest problem is with American investors. ''There was a question of governance inside the boardroom,'' said William H. Browne, a managing director of Tweedy Browne, an investment fund that owns Volkswagen stock. ''Mr. Piech had a conflict.''
 True, Mr. Browne said, Volkswagen is ''a different kind of animal.'' The company's other major shareholder is the German state of Lower Saxony, and that injects a political element into its decision-making.
 Indeed, the showdown over Volkswagen quickly turned political. Lower Saxony, urged on by smaller shareholders like Tweedy Browne, opposed giving Porsche the board seats and called for Mr. Piech's departure as chairman. Last month, however, Lower Saxony relented, agreeing to let Porsche have its seats in return for a pledge by Mr. Piech to step down in 2007.
 Some critics are not mollified. They say the Volkswagen directors from Porsche will still have a conflict of interest because Porsche competes with Lamborghini, Volkswagen's Italian sports car brand.
 Moreover, these Porsche directors could face potential conflicts regarding Volkswagen's ambitious cost-cutting plans. Porsche invested in Volkswagen to secure access to its technology and factories, where it already assembles its sport utility vehicle, the Cayenne, but Porsche needs good labor relations to push through its plans.
 ''They don't want to have disputes with the unions,'' said Jens Schattner, an auto analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in Frankfurt. ''Porsche's only interest is having control over Volkswagen.''
 Mr. Pischetsrieder insisted there were legal safeguards in place that would prevent Porsche from imposing its will on Volkswagen.
 German companies, he said, have two boards -- a management board, which runs day-to-day operations and is led by the chief executive, and the supervisory board, which oversees the company and has equal representation from both employees and shareholders.
 Business decisions are made by the management board, he said. They do not require the supervisory board's approval.
 The supervisory board does, however, have the right to hire and fire members of the management board, including the chief executive. Corporate governance experts said that threat hangs over Mr. Pischetsrieder.
 ''It's inconceivable that a man with his employment contract on the line would go against Mr. Piech, when he knows that Mr. Piech's interests lie first with Porsche,'' said Manuel Rene Theisen, a professor of business administration at Ludwig-Maximilians University in Munich.
 Mr. Pischetsrieder said he welcomed the election of the two Porsche executives, Wendelin Wiedeking and Holger P. Harter, because they know the car business, and could offer a seasoned perspective. As a financial investor, he said, Porsche was more likely to advance, than obstruct, his campaign to cut Volkswagen's costs and restore its profits.
 As for Mr. Piech's influence, Mr. Pischetsrieder said: ''For the last four years, he did not interfere in a single executive decision. I know very well that he didn't like quite a few of them.''
 Mr. Piech, however, did support a candidate to be Volkswagen's head of labor relations whom Mr. Pischetsrieder opposed. Mr. Piech was able to push through his choice because he cobbled together enough board votes from the employee and union representatives.
 Mr. Pischetsrieder is making the best of the situation: he noted that the new labor chief is a onetime union official. The workers, he said, might find it harder to rebuff one of their own in wage negotiations.
 Volkswagen and Porsche have, meanwhile, signed an agreement that governs their dealings. A crucial provision is that all negotiations are to be conducted at arm's length. The auditor of Volkswagen will scrutinize agreements and submit a report to a committee of the supervisory board.
 To the question of whether Porsche should own shares of a competing carmaker, Mr. Pischetsrieder says yes, because like a marriage vow, it secures a partnership in which Volkswagen is likely to share its resources.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Volkswagen is trying to overcome an image problem that started last fall when Porsche bought a nearly 20 percent stake in the company and demanded two seats on the Volkswagen supervisory board. (Photo by Nicolas Asfouri/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); SPORTS CARS (74%); DIVESTITURES (73%); ETHICS (69%) Automobiles; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Boards of Directors; Ethics; Automobiles

COMPANY: PORSCHE AUTOMOBIL HOLDING SE (93%); VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (91%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%) Volkswagen Ag; Porsche Ag; Lamborghini

TICKER: PAH3 (FRA) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%)

PERSON: FERDINAND K PIECH (79%) Bernd Pischetsrieder; Mark Landler; Ferdinand Piech; Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: LOWER SAXONY, GERMANY (93%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (59%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (88%); EUROPE (79%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



84 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Skepticism Over Businessman's Plans to Build Cars in Bridgeport

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY and JIM MOTAVALLI

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn. 

 BODY:
The deal that would bring AC Cars, the British maker of one of the world's most muscular and mythical sports cars, to this struggling city was celebrated at the highest level of state government when it was announced last fall.
 A Nov. 15 news release from the office of Gov. M. Jodi Rell said that, by the summer of 2006, AC Cars was expected to begin production on three models in a historic 40,000-square-foot brick warehouse beside the Pequonnock River. The company would spend $4.5 million and create 141 ''top-quality, well-paying manufacturing jobs,'' Mrs. Rell said in the release. The deal would be supported by a proposed $1.5 million secured loan from the State Department of Economic and Community Development.
''This commitment,'' Mrs. Rell said, ''demonstrates that our policies are working and that companies are eager to grow here.''
 Yet for all the cheering for an alluring economic development project, as well as a clean deposit of political capital for Mrs. Rell heading into an election year, not everyone views the proposed move as a wise one -- or even a plausible one. 
 The skepticism is multilayered, but the greatest concern centers on the company's chairman, Alan Lubinsky. In interviews with more than a dozen former investors, partners, employees, customers and industry experts on three continents, Mr. Lubinsky was often described as a man who has made ambitious plans but has not delivered on all of them.
 In the last decade, these people said, he set out to rejuvenate a beloved but indebted century-old British car company, but instead it fell further into debt. Manufacturing in England has halted. Some longtime AC employees have filed claims that they were shorted weeks of wages, and some customers who had put down tens of thousands of dollars to order cars never saw a delivery. Some never got their money back.
 As production unraveled in England, and finally ceased last year, Mr. Lubinsky began pursuing plans to move some of AC's operations to Malta, in the Mediterranean. The move, as well as the plans to come to Connecticut, follows two decades in which Mr. Lubinsky has led or been involved with dozens of corporate identities on at least three continents, from car leasing to magnesium research. 
 Some people view Mr. Lubinsky as a determined visionary who has made mistakes in some of his business decisions. Others say he secures investors for his ideas, then leaves them with little, if anything, to show.
 ''I just would never, ever consider recommending him to anyone for anything in any place,'' said Jim Price, a South African replica carmaker. He said that he lost more than $100,000 in 2002 when he invested to help keep AC Cars in business in England and that Mr. Lubinsky abruptly abandoned their arrangement for another deal.
 Mr. Lubinsky, 48, disputes some complaints, including those of Mr. Price, saying that he is trying to take over his company.
 ''Everybody's entitled to be skeptical,'' he said, speaking in a phone interview from Malta on Friday. ''It comes through jealousy. We have our plans and we're going to go on with our plan. There are many experts in this industry and not many of them have ever built a car.''
 He added, ''We will do whatever we can to meet whatever commitments we have in the future in Connecticut.'' 
 David P. Raccio, a spokesman for the Department of Economic and Community Development, said negotiations with Mr. Lubinsky were confidential. ''This is a very complex deal, as most international deals are,'' he said in a written statement. ''Often times, issues arise during the due diligence process. Like many deals, we have identified some issues, and we are addressing them with AC Cars. We are hopeful that we can work through them.''
 By some accounts, Mr. Lubinsky, who was born in South Africa, can be charming, convincingly passionate about AC Cars and impressively confident of his ventures. 
 In England, a machinist who did work for AC Cars, Graham Bates, said that Mr. Lubinsky could be aloof, that he rarely came in or even called in to the factory and that, by last year, he had stopped paying his workers.
 ''But if you said, 'Could you lend me 50 quid?' he'd reach into his pocket and give it to you,'' Mr. Bates said.
 The promise of manufacturing jobs for Bridgeport drew Connecticut officials' interest in AC Cars. The city has several new capital projects, including a minor league baseball stadium, and is trying to rise from years of poverty, crime and mismanagement. 
 Mr. Lubinsky approached the state in January 2005 with a proposal to move some of his operations to Connecticut. After several months of discussion, Mr. Raccio said, ''we had enough confidence in the deal that we could recommend it to the governor.'' 
 By the November announcement, the state had tentatively agreed to loan AC Cars $1.5 million for what the governor's office described as ''site preparation, construction, machinery and equipment and moving expenses.'' The loan must still be approved by the State Bond Commission; Mrs. Rell is the chairwoman.
 Mr. Lubinsky said he planned to produce three new car models in Bridgeport under the AC Cars brand, the AC Ace and the Mk VI -- both two-seat convertibles -- and the Mamba, a hard-top coupe. Only one of the cars, the Mamba, exists even in prototype form. Mr. Lubinsky has said that 50 cars would be built in Bridgeport the first year, and that 800 could be built annually by 2012, though he now says a completed car is not likely to roll out of a Bridgeport factory until October 2007.
 To avoid lengthy and expensive federal production standards, the cars would be sold to distributors as kit cars, ''rolling chassis,'' with engines to be installed after they leave the factory. Mr. Lubinsky has said that these incomplete cars could sell for $55,000 or more. 
 James Seeley, who owns a composites manufacturing company in Bethel, Conn., and is vice president of manufacturing and corporate secretary for AC Cars, said he had ''no clue'' as to how the Bridgeport-built cars will be distributed. 
 Several dealers, in Connecticut, New York and Colorado, said Mr. Lubinsky had asked them for deposits for cars to be built in Malta. Some said they gave him the money and he has not delivered.
 One, Ron Gafni, general manager at Riley Motorsports in Stamford, Conn., said cars Mr. Lubinsky said would arrive in October or November have not materialized. Mr. Gafni said that his dealership had paid Mr. Lubinsky a deposit of about $40,000 but had not been able to reach him since May 2005.
 ''We're in limbo now,'' he said.
 In an interview, Mr. Lubinsky said that he had promised Mr. Gafni cars by last fall but that ''from what I understand we've made them aware that we have delayed that until March. They asked to be refunded the deposits. We will do that when those cars get sold to a distributor.''
 Mr. Lubinsky said he had signed a distribution deal for Malta and Bridgeport cars with Unique Performance, a small-volume muscle-car manufacturer based in the Dallas suburbs. But it is unclear whether it would include the Bridgeport cars. 
 Brent Fenimore, Unique Performance's vice president of business development, said that his company was concentrating on producing replicas of other AC models and that any distribution of the Bridgeport cars was ''yet to be determined.'' 
 Mr. Fenimore added: ''It's kind of confusing right now. We have to get the AC name cleaned up. We want to get it back to the reputable side of life.'' Founded in 1901, AC Cars is one of England's oldest automotive brands. Internationally, the company's identity has been built around the AC Cobra, a tiny convertible, propelled by powerful Ford eight-cylinder engines, that became an icon on dorm room walls in the 1960's.
 Mr. Lubinsky, who spent his early career selling Jaguars in South Africa, was the owner of a commercial car leasing company in England when he bought AC Cars out of receivership in 1996 for about $9 million, declaring that he would restore what had become an embattled company. But by 2002, Mr. Lubinsky had placed AC Cars back in the control of outside accountants, this time filing a form of bankruptcy and claiming debts of about $15 million. 
 The company, which often built cars to order, had left orders unfilled, sometimes after taking tens of thousands of dollars in deposits that were never reimbursed, according to documents. The company's workforce dwindled from more than 40 employees a few years ago to about a dozen by last year. Finally, said Mr. Bates, the former machinist, ''We weren't getting paid so we all stopped working. The landlord wasn't being paid the rent, so he changed the locks.''
 Of the claims by workers, Mr. Lubinsky said: ''Those are situations that are under legal investigation. We may have a difference of opinion.''
 With AC Cars bound by a creditors agreement in England, Mr. Lubinsky shifted some of his operations to Malta. Mr. Lubinsky said on Friday that he had ''18 or 19'' employees there and that the company would be building one car a week by ''the next couple of weeks.''
 John Owen, AC Cars' chief engineer in Malta, said that the Malta factory employs 14 people and that he expected to begin producing one car a week ''as soon as some of these parts come in; we'll be up and running by May.''
 The Malta factory has produced a total of six cars, four of which have been exported, Mr. Owen said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: James Seeley, a vice president for AC Cars, with aluminum shells of two models in Bethel, Conn.
 AC Cars was expected to begin production on three models in a historic brick warehouse by summer 2006. (Photographs by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%) Automobiles; Production; Factories and Industrial Plants

ORGANIZATION: Ac Cars (Co)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (79%) William Yardley; Jim Motavalli; Alan Lubinsky

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ENGLAND (90%); MEDITERRANEAN (75%) Bridgeport (Conn); Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



85 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: BUSH TO PROPOSE CURBING GROWTH IN MEDICARE COST

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 3 

 BODY:
In his budget next week, President Bush will propose substantial savings in Medicare, stepping up his efforts to rein in the growing costs of social insurance programs, administration officials and health care lobbyists said Friday. 
 For the first time since taking office five years ago, they said, Mr. Bush will try to reduce projected Medicare payments to hospitals and other health care providers by billions of dollars over the next five years. In addition, they said, Mr. Bush intends to seek further increases in Medicare premiums for high-income people, beyond those already scheduled to take effect next year.
Despite the failure of his plan to overhaul Social Security last year, Mr. Bush has signaled that he intends to curb rapid increases in federal spending linked to the aging of the population. ''The retirement of the baby boom generation will put unprecedented strains on the federal government,'' Mr. Bush said in his State of the Union address on Tuesday. 
 Administration officials, Congressional aides and lobbyists said the president was contemplating a package of proposals that would cut the projected growth in Medicare spending by $30 billion to $35 billion in the next five years. That represents less than 1.5 percent of total Medicare spending in those years. But whether Congress has the appetite to trim popular benefit programs in an election year is unclear.
 The House passed another deficit-reduction bill this week by just two votes, underscoring the qualms among moderate Republicans about how far to go in limiting the growth of domestic programs at a time when the administration continues to push tax cuts.
 Mr. Bush plans to send his budget for next year to Congress on Monday. Many of his proposals follow recommendations from the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, an independent federal panel.
 At a meeting last month, the panel said hospitals did not have to be fully compensated for the increased costs of the goods and services they used. These costs are expected to rise 3.4 percent in the fiscal year 2007. But the panel said that hospitals could get along with a smaller increase, 2.95 percent, if they became more efficient.
 Jack Ashby, a research director at the commission, said, ''We expect the recommendation to have no effect on hospitals' ability to furnish care to Medicare beneficiaries.''
 But Richard J. Pollack, executive vice president of the American Hospital Association, said the cutback could damage the quality of hospital care. Already, he said, two-thirds of hospitals lose money serving Medicare patients.
 ''At the same time cuts are being proposed,'' Mr. Pollack said, ''demands on hospitals are increasing. We are taking care of a rising number of uninsured, we are investing in new technology to increase patient safety and to move toward electronic medical records, and we are preparing for emergencies, including the threat of pandemic disease.''
 The president's 2007 budget also calls for a freeze in Medicare payments to nursing homes and home health agencies, as recommended by the commission. In addition, he proposes to reduce payments for oxygen equipment provided to Medicare beneficiaries. 
 This proposal is likely to touch off protests from a coalition of patients and oxygen suppliers. The coalition has been running television commercials against a powerful California congressman who has supported such changes.
 In one commercial, an Air Force veteran, with an oxygen tube in his nose, asks the congressman, Representative Bill Thomas: ''I was proud to fight for my country. Why are you not willing to fight for me?''
 Mr. Thomas, who is a Republican and the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, denounced the commercials. ''It's outrageous that some companies are trying to scare seniors,'' he said Friday. 
 Mr. Bush's budget does not seek any change in Medicare payments for doctors. Their payments were frozen this year. Under current law, they will be cut more than 4 percent next year. 
 Beneficiaries now pay premiums of $88.50 a month -- more than $1,000 a year -- for coverage of doctors' visits and other outpatient care. 
 Under the 2003 Medicare law, any beneficiary with more than $80,000 of annual income will have to pay higher premiums in 2007 and later years. For people with incomes of $100,000 to $150,000, premiums would more than double. 
 Under the law, the income thresholds are increased each year to reflect inflation. Mr. Bush's proposal would eliminate these adjustments, so that more people would have to pay the higher premiums each year.
 The last three presidents regularly proposed to cut Medicare payments to hospitals below the levels needed to keep up with inflation. But in the last five years, Mr. Bush generally avoided making such proposals. In 2002 and 2003, he was trying to persuade Congress to expand the program by adding a drug benefit. In later years, he did not want to reopen the debate over Medicare, for fear that Congress would alter the drug benefit.
 Medicare spending totaled $333 billion last year. Under current law, it will climb by one-third in two years, reaching $445 billion in 2007, as the new prescription drug program gets under way, the Congressional Budget Office says.
 William A. Dombi, vice president of the National Association for Home Care, a trade group, said that a freeze in Medicare payments to home care agencies in 2007, coming on top of a freeze this year, would reduce access to such services for patients in some parts of the country.
 But the Medicare payment commission said that home care agencies could reduce the number of visits for a patient or reduce the cost of services to offset the effects of a freeze. Sharon Bee Cheng, an analyst at the commission, said she expected ''no adverse impacts'' on patients or providers of home care.
 Nursing home operators said it would be absurd to freeze their Medicare payments at a time when patients, their relatives and the Bush administration were demanding improvements in the quality of care. But the staff of the Medicare payment commission said current rates were ''more than adequate.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (96%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); AGING TRENDS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); TAX LAW (67%); EPIDEMICS (50%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Medicare Payment Advisory Commission

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



86 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: After a 'Tough Year,' House Republicans Try to Get Back on Course

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 3 

 BODY:
House Republicans began trying to put themselves back on course Friday after a leadership election that exposed party fractures and a crisis of political confidence.
 ''We have to rebuild our team and bring our members closer together,'' Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the newly elected majority leader, said after meeting with Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and fellow House leaders. ''It has been a tough year, and the members on the Republican side are looking at their own re-election, and the environment right now is not real good.''
Mr. Boehner and other senior Republicans said a retreat scheduled for next week on the Eastern Shore of Maryland would provide an opportunity for lawmakers to explore what they want to stand for as a party in light of a corruption scandal and dissent within the rank-and-file. 
 ''We are just going to do more soul-searching,'' said Representative Deborah Pryce of Ohio, chairwoman of the Republican conference and an organizer of the retreat.
 Republican division was on vivid display on Thursday as House members installed Mr. Boehner in the No. 2 spot, rejecting Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, the party whip who had been serving as majority leader since Representative Tom DeLay of Texas resigned after being indicted. 
 On Wednesday, House Republicans rejected a call for a full slate of leadership elections, but 85 lawmakers backed the idea on a secret ballot, a number that caught the leadership off guard.
 During the closed-door voting for majority leader, some who spoke in support of Representative John Shadegg of Arizona challenged their colleagues to deal with the idea that House Republicans appeared adrift after more than a decade in power.
 ''Duke Cunningham, Jack Abramoff and the ongoing and disgusting saga of abuse of power and public trust are not just made up by the Democrats,'' said Representative Mark Souder of Indiana in nominating Mr. Shadegg, according to remarks made available by Mr. Shadegg's office on Friday. ''We were put in power to be different,'' Mr. Souder added. ''What has happened to us?''
 The references were to the plea to bribery charges by Mr. Cunningham, a former representative from California, and a similar admission of guilt by Mr. Abramoff, a prominent lobbyist.
 In a speech seconding Mr. Shadegg's nomination, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin said: ''Friends, we are in trouble. If you come from a red state or safe seat, you probably don't see it yet. But if you come from a blue state and a tough district, that moment is here.''
 Although Mr. Shadegg fell short after the first ballot and dropped out of the race, lawmakers said speeches by Mr. Souder and others helped create an atmosphere where Republicans concluded they needed to start anew at the majority leader level and could not promote Mr. Blunt.
 ''I think our members were looking for a new face at the leadership table,'' said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the chief deputy whip. ''I think that pretty much explains the outcome.''
 In addition to dealing with internal turmoil, House Republican leaders will receive President Bush's budget next week and try to reach agreement with the Senate on tax cuts, which Mr. Boehner said Friday were crucial to maintaining economic growth. And they are struggling to assemble a promised package of changes to lobbying rules, an issue on which the party is divided.
 Mr. Boehner favors more immediate disclosure of contacts with lobbyists rather than imposing a series of new limits and bans.
 ''If you can't go out and justify a $60 meal and see it in the press, well then maybe you shouldn't do it,'' he said earlier this week. ''But if you can, go ahead and do it and let your constituents and the world see what that relationship looks like.''
 Mr. Hastert, however, has been pushing for a broad package with restrictions on travel and limits on gifts, though he said Friday that ''it is not going to be shoved down anybody's throat.'' The speaker also indicated reluctance to go too far in limiting the ability of lawmakers to win federal dollars for local projects, a change some say is needed to reduce lobbying pressure. 
 ''The Constitution says that members of Congress, the House of Representatives specifically, have a right to decide how money is spent,'' Mr. Hastert told reporters.
 Mr. Boehner said he received congratulatory phone calls Thursday from House Democratic leaders. His promotion raises the prospect of improved relations with the minority party, which has fought bitterly with Mr. DeLay and Mr. Hastert. Mr. Boehner has worked closely on education issues with Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and a close adviser to Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader.
 ''They have a job to do; we have a job to do,'' Mr. Boehner said of House Democrats. ''But there are a lot of issues where there is no reason why we can't work together.''
 Democrats said they were hopeful of a thaw but noted that Mr. Boehner began his tenure by trying to link Democrats to the Abramoff corruption scandal, saying Friday that there have been ''several members on both sides of the aisle that have been involved in problems.''
 That rubbed Democrats the wrong way. ''It is a Republican scandal and no amount of spin can change that fact,'' said Brendan Daly, a spokesman for Ms. Pelosi.
 Mr. Blunt, who retained his whip position, attended the leadership meeting and said he was happy to have added help after serving as both whip and majority leader for the past few months. He acknowledged the challenge facing Mr. Boehner as he tried to steer the party through a difficult period.
 ''I probably slept better last night than the leader did,'' Mr. Blunt said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The new majority leader, Representative John A. Boehner, left, after a House Republican leadership meeting yesterday in the office of Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, above. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BALLOTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); CORRUPTION (73%); BRIBERY (73%); SCANDALS (73%); INDICTMENTS (65%); GUILTY PLEAS (65%); RESIGNATIONS (65%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (60%) United States Politics and Government

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (91%); PAUL RYAN (79%); MARK E SOUDER (78%); DEBORAH PRYCE (58%); ROY BLUNT (58%) Carl Hulse; John A (Rep) Boehner; J Dennis (Speaker) Hastert

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



87 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Heads Out and the Enron Two Head to Court 

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
ONE important era ended this week and another entered its final lap. In Washington, Alan Greenspan presided over his last meeting as chairman of the Federal Reserve at the same time as the Senate was voting to confirm his successor. In Houston, the two most senior former executives of Enron went on trial for conspiracy and fraud.

JUDGMENT DAY -- It took four and a half years to bring Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling to trial, but only a day to pick the jury that would decide whether the two former Enron chief executives lied to investors about the company's finances as it careered toward the largest corporate collapse in American history.
In their opening statement, prosecutors told jurors that Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling ignored warnings from subordinates and hid financial problems at Enron from the public while they were taking home tens of millions of dollars a year and watching the value of their Enron shares soar. 
 The first prosecution witness, Mark E. Koenig, the former head of Enron's investor relations, testified that both Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling publicly proclaimed the company's strong performance even after being told of large trading losses. 
 In their opening statement, defense lawyers denied their clients committed any crime. The company collapsed because of misdeeds by a few underlings and a market panic that ruined Enron's credit, they said.
 Lawyers for Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling said their clients planned to testify in their own defense at the trial, which is expected to last four months. 

RECORD PROFIT -- As expected, oil companies reported record earnings for 2005, a year when rising demand and supply disruptions caused crude oil prices to surge. The world's biggest investor-owned oil company, Exxon Mobil, posted the largest profit, a record $36.13 billion on revenue of $371 billion.
 Exxon's profit surge, which came even as worldwide production declined by 1 percent, may renew Congressional interest in the company and the oil industry in general, particularly since Exxon said its profits climbed more than 40 percent last year while its tax bill rose only 14 percent.
 High energy costs have prompted some political leaders to call for a windfall profits tax on oil companies, an issue that Congress plans to take up again soon.

S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S -- A little earnings disappointment did not pop Google's bubblelike stock price, but it certainly let some air out of it.
 While Google's performance would have set a record at many companies -- profit soared 82 percent, to $372 million in the fourth quarter -- that was still less than the gain some investors anticipated when they had bid up the company's stock to as high as $475 a share. As a result, the stock fell as much as 20 percent on the news in after-hours trading immediately after the announcement Tuesday.
 Two other Internet stars also disappointed investors last week. Both Yahoo and Amazon said that their profits were not as large as analysts had expected. Amazon's results were depressed by disappointing sales abroad and the cost of its free-shipping policy.
 Breaking from the tradition of not making public forecasts of its financial performance, Google said it expected its tax rate this year would be 30 percent. Officials blamed an unexpectedly high rate of 32 percent this year for part of the earnings disappointment.

THICK SLICE -- Kraft Foods took another cut out of its overhead, saying it would eliminate another 8,000 jobs and about 20 more factories. The reductions came two years after Kraft pared 5,500 jobs and shut 19 plants in a previous cost-cutting campaign.
 Kraft's problem is not falling sales. Its revenue rose 10 percent in the last quarter, to $9.7 billion, and its profit increased 28 percent, to $773 million. Its problem is that sales growth is slowing and its profit margin is shrinking. 
 In a bid to increase its margins, Kraft plans to reduce its brand portfolio by about 10 percent and focus on increasing sales of its Sensible Solutions products. Those foods, which are lower in fat and calories, are growing at a rate three to four times that of other products.

ABOUT FACE -- Warning that the United States is ''addicted to oil,'' President Bush called on the nation to reduce its dependence on energy supplies from the Middle East and he used his State of the Union speech to encourage the use of nuclear power and alternative fuels.
 The policy outline appeared to reverse earlier calls to increase oil production, by granting tax incentives to oil companies and by opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and coastal waters to drilling.
 Mr. Bush also called for a bipartisan commission to examine ways to deal with problems in Social Security, along with Medicare and Medicaid.

END OF AN ERA -- At its last meeting with Mr. Greenspan as its helm, the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee once again raised interest rates by one-quarter of a percentage point, characteristically brushing aside signs of slower economic growth to focus on keeping a lid on inflation.
 Shortly after the meeting concluded, the Senate confirmed Ben S. Bernanke as Mr. Greenspan's successor as chairman of the Federal Reserve, ending the 18-year Greenspan era at the central bank.
 In a statement, the Fed gave Mr. Bernanke a wide berth to chart his own policy in the future by making clear that it is no longer seeking a ''measured'' pace of rate increases.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-viewed business news articles on nytimes.com from Jan. 28 through Feb. 3:

1. Seeing Fakes, Angry Traders Confront EBay
 2. David Pogue: Pixel Counting Joins Film in Obsolete Bin
 3. Why Hold the Superlatives? 'American Idol' Is Ascendant
 4. Pension Battle May Entangle Mogul's Home
 5. The iPod Ecosystem

Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan in the Federal Reserve boardroom last week. The Federal Open Market Committee raised the interest rate during his final day as chairman of the Fed. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LAWYERS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); HISTORY (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); CONSPIRACY (72%); MEDICAID (71%); ETHICS (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); TAX LAW (66%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (66%) United States Economy; Ethics; Accounting and Accountants; Frauds and Swindling; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States Economy; Food; Social Security (US); Medicine and Health; Medicare; Medicaid; Taxation; Windfall Profits Tax; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (67%); GOOGLE INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (59%) Federal Reserve System; Enron Corp; Kraft Foods

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (67%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (67%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (63%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Mark A Stein; Kenneth L Lay; Jeffrey K Skilling; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



88 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Bush Urges Study of Math And Science

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: DALLAS, Feb. 3 

 BODY:
President Bush told the nation's students on Friday that if they studied math and science they would not be joining the ''nerd patrol'' but helping their own futures and the economic health of the United States. 
 ''You know, a lot of people probably think math and science isn't meant for me -- it kind of seems a little hard, algebra,'' Mr. Bush said at a panel discussion, organized by the White House, outside Albuquerque at the Intel Corporation's largest chip-making plant. ''I can understand that, frankly.''
But Mr. Bush urged people to heed the story of a high school senior on the panel, Nicole Lopez, who told the assembled crowd that she had joined gangs in her freshman year and was on the wrong road until two teachers, now her mentors, helped steer her toward math and science. Ms. Lopez said she would attend the University of New Mexico and planned to major in civil engineering.
 ''I hope people listening and hear Nicole's story take a look at math and science,'' Mr. Bush said. 
 The president also said, ''I'm looking for a mentor, by the way, both in math and English.''
 Mr. Bush was near Albuquerque, in the suburban city of Rio Rancho, as part of his post-State of the Union road show to promote major proposals in the address. In Rio Rancho, he pushed what the White House is calling the ''American competitiveness initiative,'' which calls for, among other things, doubling federal spending on basic research grants in the physical sciences over 10 years, at a cost of $50 billion.
 Later in the day, Mr. Bush flew to Dallas, where he and the first lady and a gaggle of reporters and camera crews visited an Advanced Placement biology classroom at the School of Science and Engineering in the Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Magnet Center.
 While the Bushes watched, Michael Harrell, a 12th grader, demonstrated a science experiment that involved DNA and insulin. Mr. Bush listened carefully, then said, ''I got it.'' Looking at some blank faces among reporters, he added, ''I'm not sure if the press got it.''
 In his State of the Union address, Mr. Bush called for the training of 70,000 Advanced Placement teachers and the recruitment of 30,000 math and science professionals to help out in school classrooms.
 ''In order for America to be a competitive nation in the years to come, we have got to have a work force that is strong in engineering and science and physics,'' he said at the end of the classroom visit. ''You know, some would hope that the competition around the world will go away. It's not going to. And so we have a choice to make: Do we want to retreat, become protectionist, or do we want to seize the moment and shape our future?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATHEMATICS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GANGS (68%); NEWS REPORTING (67%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (66%); SUBURBS (50%) Education and Schools; Mathematics; Science and Technology; United States Economy

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO (56%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (92%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006



89 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Creating Condos and Controversy in Minneapolis 

BYLINE: By JUDITH YATES BORGER

 BODY:
THREE years ago, when he was 28, Clark Gassen persuaded an investor to lend him about $700,000 to buy and fix up a $500,000 apartment building on a leafy street near a lake in southwestern Minneapolis. He sold all six units in weeks.
 ''I made my investor a half million dollars,'' Mr. Gassen said proudly. He also opened his career as the largest -- and most controversial -- condo-conversion impresario in Minneapolis.
 Mr. Gassen started in the real estate business working for his father, Reginald Gassen, and his business, the Gassen Companies, which manages residential buildings. Today, the often-rumpled, fast-talking younger Mr. Gassen is making his mark through his own company, Financial Freedom Realty Services. 
 He has created a company culture that is youthful and edgy, and often uses the word ''dude'' to address his sales people. He plans to put a game room in his new headquarters, which will house 120 sales people. 
 His ubiquitous yellow, red and black signs mark the spots throughout the pricey Uptown, Kenwood and Linden Hills neighborhoods in Minneapolis where in the last 18 months Mr. Gassen's company has spent about $55 million buying more than 400 units. After putting in $20,000 to $30,000 in amenities in each unit, and up to $1 million in common areas, Financial Freedom Realty sells the apartments for $150,000 to $300,000 each, Mr. Gassen said. About 150 apartments remain on the market. 
 While Mr. Gassen isn't the only developer involved in condo conversions in Minnesota, he is by far the biggest. 
 Timing and demographics have created his niche. The city's tax assessor, Patrick Todd, notes that low interest rates have turned renters into buyers, doubling the rental vacancy rate in the city. Owners of apartment buildings, frustrated by vacancies, are inclined to sell. 
 Meanwhile, those same low rates have made it possible for young professionals who can't afford to buy a single-family house to buy a condo. For up to $300,000, they get the unit, and perhaps more important, the location amenities.
 The Uptown neighborhood is a short bus ride from downtown Minneapolis and is filled with stores, restaurants and an energetic nightlife. On a windy day, Lake Calhoun, six blocks away, is dotted with windsurfers who glide across the water, or the ice, depending on the temperature. Nearby Lake Harriet, the anchor of Linden Hills, is jammed with runners, cyclists and walkers year round. In Kenwood, Lake of the Isles, with its view of the downtown skyline, is a favorite for canoeists. 
 Jon Petersen, 33, had lived in a 1920's apartment building on the edge of Lake Harriet for 10 years when Mr. Gassen's company bought it in 2004. He was paying $900 a month for a one-bedroom, 750-square-foot unit. Buying an apartment as a tenant for $220,000 meant increasing his living cost to about $1,200 a month, but he decided the added expense was justified. ''As a single person I would not have a chance to buy here, especially with my profession, which is a personal trainer,'' he said. 
 Mr. Petersen says that as a renter he paid little attention to neighborhood matters, but that he is now actively involved in his community, taking particular interest in neighborhood safety. He has also spent $20,000 to update the kitchen. Although Mr. Gassen updates most kitchens, he had not improved on Mr. Petersen's because it was in good condition. 
 Mr. Gassen argues that by increasing ownership he has improved property values in the neighborhood. ''Owners are not going to be urinating on the lawns and tossing beer cans around,'' he said. 
 While Mr. Gassen may be making the American dream accessible to young buyers, low-income residents -- often elderly or disabled renters who can't afford to buy their apartments -- are being forced to move. Caryl Anderson, 44, a manager of an assisted-living residence, has been displaced twice by Mr. Gassen's company. She had lived in her first apartment, a couple of blocks from Lake Harriet, for three years when she awoke one morning in the fall of 2004 to find workers outside pounding, drilling and sawing, seemingly everywhere.
 The next day a notice was taped to her apartment door telling her that Financial Freedom Realty had bought the building. ''There was nine months of chaos,'' she said.
 She was paying $750 a month for a one-bedroom overlooking the quaint shopping district in the Linden Hills neighborhood. Financial Freedom Realty said she could buy it for $183,000, without improvements, or move. A mortgage, taxes and association dues would have run her about $1,300 a month, more than she could afford. ''I really liked the location, but the building was in poor shape,'' she said. ''I was afraid I'd never get my money back out of it.''
 So she moved to the Greenhouse, a 72-unit apartment building a few blocks away, opposite the historic Lakewood Cemetery and a quick walk to Lake Calhoun. A month after she moved in, she received another notice that Financial Freedom Realty had bought that building and was offering her the chance to buy her apartment, smaller than the one she had just left, for $195,000. She didn't even bother to run the numbers. Ms. Anderson hadn't recovered financially from the $1,500 she had paid to move the month before, so she stayed in the building for almost a year while Financial Freedom Realty worked on it. 
 ''It was a nightmare,'' she said.
 The fire alarms went off all the time from the dust of construction, she said. There was constant noise, and water was shut off without notice. Chemical fumes permeated her unit. Security doors were left propped open. Mr. Gassen said he attended several local meetings to address residents' concerns and even moved into the Greenhouse himself three months ago, after Minneapolis newspaper articles chronicled complaints last spring and summer.
 ''I try to move into the largest buildings, so I'm the eyes and ears if there are issues,'' he said. ''We've handled all issues appropriately.''
 He readily acknowledges that it is difficult for low-income people, especially the elderly, to move. But he argues that there are still plenty of rentals available. According to Mr. Todd, the assessor, the rental vacancy rate in Minneapolis is around 15 percent. 
 With almost half his condo-conversion units still for sale, the ever-moving Mr. Gassen is on to several new projects. His company has almost finished the Edgewater, a new six-story glass and stone building overlooking Lake Calhoun. Along with a partner, the Ackerberg Group, a Minneapolis real estate company, he is also working on Mozaic, two new midrise condominium buildings that will include 165 units, commercial and office space, restaurants and an eight-screen cinema. A block away will be Lumen on Lagoon, with units ranging from $200,000 to $500,000. All are in the Uptown area. 
 Mr. Gassen said he is shifting into new construction in part because he wants to build ''timeless buildings.''
 ''I want to be involved in the transition of the Uptown neighborhood, and a conversion is not going to do that,'' he said. ''We want to make it a little Manhattan.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: CONVERSION IMPRESARIO -- Clark Gassen, left, has converted rental buildings into condos in Minneapolis, including one on Lake Harriet, above, with a typical living room, below. (Photographs by Dawn Villella for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); SALES & SELLING (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); BOATING & RAFTING (72%); CORPORATE CULTURE (70%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (68%); CITY LIFE (68%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); EXTREME SPORTS (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); TAX ASSESSORS (50%) Housing; Condominiums; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Renting and Leasing; Aged; Handicapped; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Judith Yates Borger; Clark Glassen

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Minneapolis (Minn)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



90 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES/Rosario Candela; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: A Renowned Architect's Less Renowned Designs

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY. 
E-mail: streetscapes@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE architect Rosario Candela is famous for the string of superluxury apartment houses he designed in the second half of the 1920's, culminating in the sumptuous co-op at 740 Park Avenue, at 71st Street. Candela made his name in unprecedented boom times, like those of recent years. After the stock market crashed in 1929, his quantity diminished -- but his quality persisted.
 Born in Palermo, Italy, in 1890, Candela came to the United States in 1909 to join his father, a plasterer. He studied architecture at Columbia University and began work around 1920. His reputation grew quickly. 
Andrew Alpern's book ''The New York Apartment Houses of Rosario Candela and James Carpenter'' (Acanthus Press, 2001) lists an increasing number of bigger and bigger commissions throughout the 1920's. In 1927 and 1928, Candela filed plans for a total of 19 apartment houses, including the sumptuous 960 Fifth Avenue, at 77th Street, and 720 Park Avenue, at 70th.
 The year 1929 looked even rosier -- Mr. Alpern's book lists 27 projects, like the legendary buildings at 740, 770 and 778 Park Avenue, from 71st to 73rd Street. But the boom began to falter even before the stock market crash in October 1929 -- of those 27, only 12 were completed. 
 Those left on the drawing table would excite any real estate broker with imagination. There were to be large new Candela buildings at the northeast corner of 79th and Fifth; the northeast corner of 96th and Park; the southwest corner of 89th and Lexington; the southeast corner of 80th and Amsterdam; and the southwest corner of 57th and Sutton Place. Two buildings were listed for East End Avenue. The number of major Candela apartment units in the city would have been doubled. 
 Most impressive was the romantically asymmetrical Water Gate complex, planned on the East River waterfront between 48th and 49th Streets. But the Depression wiped out many dreams, and those on Candela's drawing boards were among them. 
 In 1930 and 1931 the torrent subsided to a trickle -- a couple of commissions, including his 1931 apartment building at 2 Beekman Place, at East 49th Street, which was comfortable but hardly more than that. 
 Then practically nothing. At his office's peak, there had been 50 draftsmen, designing the most luxurious accommodations in New York. Did those who were left laugh -- or cry -- in 1932 when their only new building commission for Manhattan came in? That was a four-story garage at 409 East 106th Street (since demolished).
 In 1935, Anthony Campagna, one of Candela's regular clients, brought in the $250,000 Rialto building, at the northwest corner of 42nd Street and Seventh Avenue. Candela abandoned the country-house Georgian style he had perfected with his luxury co-ops, adopting instead a flashy Art Moderne of chunky blue glass panels, rounded milky glass forms with strips of metal, and aluminum finlike assemblies that looked like engine cooling blocks. 
 That the New Yorker critic Lewis Mumford called it ''unspeakable'' probably hurt very little -- in a year when the majority of new structures were one or two stories high, this was a plum project. The Reuters building is now on the site.
 The next year must have seemed like Champagne -- first a 200-foot-wide store and theater complex on the west side of Park Avenue, from 53rd to 54th Street (now the site of Lever House). The trim little swank-modern stores had bronze and marble detailing, and the lusciously Art Moderne movie theater, the Normandie, was of sculptured concrete. Eric Gugler and Ben Schlanger also worked on this commission. 
 Then, in September, John Thomas Smith, general counsel to General Motors, decided to build New York's first luxury apartment building since the boom years, at 19 East 72nd Street, at Madison Avenue. He hired Candela, along with Mott Schmidt, and they designed a 15-story limestone-front multiple dwelling of impeccable taste.
 In a 1996 interview in The New York Times, a Smith grandchild, who spoke on condition that he not be named, said that Schmidt had been brought in ''to ride herd on Candela, who was thought too extreme, too Art Deco-y.'' 
 A 1937 account in The Real Estate Record & Guide indicated the kind of tenants for whom the building had been designed. Air-conditioning was not offered because ''it is expected most of the tenants will live in their country or shore places in hot weather.'' 
 The lean years continued. In 1937, Candela designed a nice but not exceptional apartment house at 955 Fifth Avenue, at 77th Street, for Campagna; and Regency Park in Queens, a lovely, unassuming three-story development with faceted brick bays and Georgian detailing, northeast of the intersection of the Van Wyck Expressway and the Grand Central Parkway. 
 Candela's 1941 building at 44 East 67th Street was closer to the tenor of the times: a midblock building, mild Art Deco, with four or five apartments on floors that, in the go-go years, would have each held one. 
 Candela's career continued in reduced circumstances until his death at 63 in 1953. There was a mix of modest commissions -- like the suave reductionist modern building at 135 East 54th Street, built in 1948, and the more significant 18-story 1948 building at 1 East 66th Street, planned with small apartments, two central dining rooms and other hotel-like services. These buildings were designed with Candela's later partner, Paul Resnick. 
 Candela was also interested in codes and ciphers, and he wrote two books, ''The Military Cipher of Commandant Bazeries -- An Essay in Decrypting'' in 1938 and ''Isomorphism and Its Applications in Cryptanalytics'' in 1946. 
 Even in reduced times, Candela's skills allowed him to keep his devoted clients, including Campagna. In 1993, the architect Robert Bien recalled that his architect father, Sylvan Bien, had hoped to get some of Campagna's commissions after Candela's death. But at first Sylvan Bien heard nothing.
 ''Six months later,'' said Robert Bien (who died in 2002), ''Mr. Campagna called up and hired my father, who asked, 'Why me?' 'Because,' Mr. Campagna replied, 'you're the only architect who didn't call me up after Rosario died.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photos: HIS LATER YEARS -- Rosario Candela and his wife, Felicia, in the 1940's
above, his Rialto building (with ''wedding'' near the top), at the northwest corner of 42nd Street and Seventh Avenue, in 1937. For this building, Candela abandoned the country-house Georgian style he had perfected with his luxury co-ops, adopting instead a flashy Art Moderne style
right, his suavely economical reductionist modern 1948 building at 135 East 54th. (Photos by left, courtesy of Joseph Candela
above, Municipal Archives
 right, John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); DRAFTING (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (65%) Housing; Historic Buildings and Sites

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: Christopher Gray; Rosario Candela

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



91 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Q & A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 454 words

BYLINE: By ROGER COLLIS

 BODY:
My wife and I arrived in Paris on KLM and plan to make a quick trip to Italy before returning home from Paris. We had planned to take our four bags (total weight about 265 pounds) with us to Italy, but we understand that we may face charges for excess weight or number of bags. Can you explain why we would face these charges in Europe, but not, apparently, in the United States? Should we store our bags at Charles de Gaulle Airport? -- John Mitchell, Madison, Wisc.

Taking your heavy bags with you to Italy could be costly indeed -- even if the airline accepted them -- largely because of the difference between the so-called piece system baggage rule, which predominates in the United States and on flights between the United States and Europe, and the weight system, which is commonly used in Europe, the Middle East and Asia. And unfortunately, the option of storing your bags at Charles de Gaulle during your trip to Italy is not currently available. In the late 1990's, the service was suspended indefinitely for security reasons. 
 The piece system usually allows each person to check two bags measuring up to 62 inches overall (length plus height plus width) and weighing no more than 70 pounds each or 140 pounds together. Under the weight system, you are usually allowed any number of bags provided that their total weight does not exceed 40 kilograms (88 pounds) in first class, 30 kilograms (66 pounds) in business class and 20 kilograms (44 pounds) in economy.
 Excess weight is normally charged at 1.5 percent of the highest one-way economy fare. Airlines vary on how flexible they are on these rules; this can depend on how much you paid and how full the flight is. 
 Airlines in general are adopting tougher baggage rules to keep fuel costs under control. British Airways, for example, no longer accepts any checked baggage over 32 kilograms (70.5 pounds), except for certain items, including musical instruments, electric wheelchairs and sporting equipment, that have not been approved and registered 24 hours in advance. Northwest and American have recently reduced their baggage allowances for coach class to about 50 pounds an item, down from 70 pounds.
 Traveling in Europe, expect little flexibility, especially if you are on a no-frills carrier. To encourage passengers to travel only with carry-on luggage, Ryanair just announced that starting March 16, passengers will be charged $:2.50 (about $4.50) for each checked bag. 
 In general, its best to ask the airline before you travel which system applies. Watch out for reduced baggage allowances when changing carriers or seating classes. 
 The safest course is to travel with a maximum of two bags that are within the weight-system limits. ROGER COLLIS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (89%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (89%); AIR FARES (75%); AIRPORTS (75%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (75%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (50%); MUSIC (50%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (57%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (57%)

TICKER: RYAAY (NASDAQ) (57%); RYA (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



92 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: February 5, 2006

 BODY:
 


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	1	148	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	2	2	3	THE HOSTAGE, by W. E. B. Griffin. (Putnam, $26.95.) An Army officer probes the murder of an American diplomat and the kidnapping of his wife.		 	 	 	3	5	10	MARY, MARY, by James Patterson. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) The F.B.I. agent Alex Cross tracks a Hollywood killer who announces the crimes via e-mail.		 	 	 	4		1	DEATH DANCE, by Linda Fairstein. (Scribner, $26.) Alexandra Cooper, a Manhattan assistant district attorney, investigates the disappearance of a ballerina.		 	 	 	5	6	4	EVERY BREATH YOU TAKE, by Judith McNaught. (Ballantine, $25.95.) When the grandson of a Chicago philanthropist disappears, suspicion falls on the wrong man.		 	 	 	6	4	7	S IS FOR SILENCE, by Sue Grafton. (Marian Wood/Putnam, $26.95.) Kinsey Millhone searches for a woman who disappeared 34 years ago.		 	 	 	7	3	2	THE CAT WHO DROPPED A BOMBSHELL, by Lilian Jackson Braun. (Putnam, $23.95.) The columnist Jim Qwilleran and his cats probe the mysterious death of a wealthy couple.		 	 	 	8	7	14	AT FIRST SIGHT, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.95.) The young couple from ''True Believer,'' who are now expecting a child, receive a disturbing message.		 	 	 	9	8	4	TURNING ANGEL, by Greg Iles. (Scribner, $25.95.) To defend a friend wrongly accused of murder, a Mississippi lawyer must investigate the secret lives of local prep school students.		 	 	 	10		1	THE LAST TEMPLAR, by Raymond Khoury. (Dutton, $24.95.) A coding device stolen from an exhibit of Vatican artifacts may hold clues to the medieval Knights Templar's long-lost treasure -- and their secrets.		 	 	 	11	10	4	ON THE RUN, by Iris Johansen. (Bantam, $26.) A girl and her mother, a horse trainer who once worked for the C.I.A., are targeted by a Middle Eastern magnate.		 	 	 	12	9	3	JUST REWARDS, by Barbara Taylor Bradford. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) Concluding the story of the Harte family and its financial empire, told through four generations of women.		 	 	 	13	11	12	CHRIST THE LORD: OUT OF EGYPT, by Anne Rice. (Knopf, $25.95.) What happened in Bethlehem; a story narrated by a 7-year-old who discovers that he is the Prince of Peace.		 	 	 	14	12	3	ALL NIGHT LONG, by Jayne Ann Krentz. (Putnam, $24.95.) A journalist returns to her Northern California hometown to investigate the death of an old friend and the murder of her parents years before.		 	 	 	15		1	THE PALE HORSEMAN, by Bernard Cornwell. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) In this sequel to ''The Last Kingdom,'' a ninth-century Saxon warrior joins forces with King Alfred against the Vikings.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	3	FOR LACI, by Sharon Rocha. (Crown, $25.95.) Laci Peterson's mother recalls her daughter and describes her killer's trial.		 	 	 	2	2	14	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	3	4	42	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization.		 	 	 	4	3	16	MY FRIEND LEONARD, by James Frey. (Riverhead, $24.95.) The author of ''A Million Little Pieces'' remembers a helpful mobster friend.		 	 	 	5		1	NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Hill & Wang, $19.95.) A new translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald, first published in English in 1960.		 	 	 	6	5	16	THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING, by Joan Didion. (Knopf, $23.95.) The author's attempts to come to terms with the death of her husband and the grave illness of their only daughter.		 	 	 	7	7	41	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	8	6	10	TEACHER MAN, by Frank McCourt. (Scribner, $26.) The author of ''Angela's Ashes'' remembers his years teaching high school English in New York City.		 	 	 	9		3	A MILLION LITTLE PIECES, by James Frey. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $22.95.) A controversial memoir by a man who was an alcoholic for 10 years and a crack addict for 3.		 	 	 	10	9	13	TEAM OF RIVALS, by Doris Kearns Goodwin. (Simon & Schuster, $35.) The political genius of Abraham Lincoln, from the author of ''No Ordinary Time.''		 	 	 	11		1	MONEY SECRETS, by Dave Barry. (Crown, $24.95.) The humorist looks at personal finance.		 	 	 	12	8	12	OUR ENDANGERED VALUES, by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) The former president warns against blurring politics and fundamentalist religion.		 	 	 	13	10	3	STATE OF WAR, by James Risen. (Free Press, $26.) The secret history of the C.I.A. and the Bush administration. ()		 	 	 	14	12	51	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	15	15	15	CONFESSIONS OF A VIDEO VIXEN, by Karrine Steffans. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A tell-all by an actress who has appeared in many hip-hop videos.		 	 	 	16*		1	AT CANAAN'S EDGE, by Taylor Branch. (Simon & Schuster, $35.) America in the King years, 1965-68; the final volume of the trilogy.		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Jan. 21, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest

AMERICAN VERTIGO: Traveling America in the Footsteps of Tocqueville, by Bernard-Henri Levy. (Random House, $24.95.) This French intellectual finds peculiarities and paradoxes aplenty.
 ACCIDENTAL GENIUS: How John Cassavetes Invented American Independent Film, by Marshall Fine. (Miramax/Hyperion, $27.95.) A study of the restless filmmaker whose influence has only grown in the 17 years since his death. 
 THE DREAM LIFE OF SUKHANOV, by Olga Grushin. (Putnam, $24.95.) A Soviet artist sacrifices his talent for the party in this first novel.
 PRESIDENT REAGAN: The Triumph of Imagination, by Richard Reeves. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) The 40th president as delegator in chief.
 PHYSICAL: An American Checkup, by James McManus. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) A baby boomer uses a pricey workup to review his own habits and the nation's health care system. 
 HONKY TONK PARADE: New Yorker Profiles of Show People, by John Lahr. (Overlook, $27.95.) Exhaustive portraits by the son of a comedian, drawn from his intimacy with the stars.
 CHRISTMAS IN PARIS 2002, by Ronald K. Fried. (Permanent Press, $26.) This novel of an American living in a comfortable bubble points to the hazards of detachment.
 CHRISTOPHER MARLOWE: Poet and Spy, by Park Honan. (Oxford University, $32.50.) A portrayal of the dramatist, an unredeemable rebel. 
 THE BATTLE FOR THE SOUL OF CAPITALISM, by John C. Bogle. (Yale University, $25.) Business scandals are not just the result of a few bad apples, a Wall Street insider argues, but of the whole barrel gone bad.
 THE BIRD IS A RAVEN, by Benjamin Lebert. (Knopf, $16.95.) The 23-year-old author of ''Crazy'' examines the limits of trust in this second novel, the tightly told story of a conversation between two strangers who meet on a train.
 FOREVER FREE: The Story of Emancipation and Reconstruction, by Eric Foner. (Knopf, $27.50.) A lucid account of this poorly understood period.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); JOURNALISM (70%); DANCERS (69%); BALLET (69%); RELIGION (69%); DANCE (69%); CATS (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); ARMIES (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (88%); JAMES PATTERSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); EGYPT (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



93 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: February 5, 2006

 BODY:
 


	 	 		Weeks		This	On			 	 	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	1	9	THE BROKER, by John Grisham. (Dell, $7.99.) The C.I.A. arranges a presidential pardon for a power broker who may know crucial secrets, laying a trap for the foreign intelligence service that wants him dead.		 	 	2	53	MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA, by Arthur Golden. (Vintage, $14.95; $7.99.) A young woman in Kyoto has to reinvent herself after World War II begins.		 	 	3	3	HONEYMOON, by James Patterson and Howard Roughan. (Warner, $13.95.) An F.B.I. agent who is investigating a beautiful and mysterious woman finds himself becoming obsessed with her.		 	 	4	4	ALONE, by Lisa Gardner. (Bantam, $7.99.) A sniper with the Massachusetts State Police faces a wrongful-death lawsuit -- and a killer who's on the loose.		 	 	5	4	CAROLINA ISLE, by Jude Deveraux. (Pocket, $9.95.) Two lifelong pen pals switch identities, and trouble quickly follows.		 	 	6	4	VENDETTA, by Fern Michaels. (Zebra, $6.99.) The Sisterhood, a group of friends, makes sure a hit-and-run driver pays for his crime.		 	 	7	4	DOUBLE TAP, by Steve Martini. (Jove, $7.99.) The lawyer Paul Madriani comes upon government secrets when he defends a soldier who is on trial for murder.		 	 	8	72	THE KITE RUNNER, by Khaled Hosseini. (Riverhead, $15.95 and $14.) An Afghan-American returns to Kabul to learn how his childhood friend has fared under the Taliban.		 	 	9	9	RED LILY, by Nora Roberts. (Jove, $7.99.) A woman who works in a nursery falls in love with the boss's son; conclusion of the ''In the Garden'' trilogy.		 	 	10	1	GILEAD, by Marilynne Robinson. (Picador/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $14.) A story of fathers and sons that reaches back to the abolitionist movement and into the 1950's, narrated by a 76-year-old Iowa pastor.		 	 	11	2	BROKEBACK MOUNTAIN, by Annie Proulx. (Scribner, $9.95.) The story of a love affair between two ranch hands, basis for the Ang Lee film. 		 	 	12	4	EDGE OF EVIL, by J. A. Jance. (Avon, $7.99.) A former TV journalist moves back home to Arizona and starts a blog -- then the threats begin.		 	 	13	21	WICKED, by Gregory Maguire. (ReganBooks/ HarperCollins, $15.) A little green-skinned girl grows up to become the Wicked Witch of the West. 		 	 	14	3	THE MOTIVE, by John Lescroart. (Signet, $7.99.) The investigative pair Dismas Hardy and Abe Glitsky return to look into two murders.		 	 	15	124	ANGELS & DEMONS, by Dan Brown. (Pocket Star, $7.99.) A Harvard scholar tries to save the Vatican from the machinations of an underground society.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	1	1	NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Hill & Wang, $9.) A new translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald, first published in English in 1960.		 	 	2	18	A MILLION LITTLE PIECES, by James Frey. (Anchor, $14.95.) A controversial memoir by a man who was an alcoholic and a crack addict. 		 	 	3	5	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Penguin, $17.) A historical investigation into why some societies succeed while others fail.		 	 	4	76	THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95.) A journalist's study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.		 	 	5	4	THREE WEEKS WITH MY BROTHER, by Nicholas Sparks and Micah Sparks. (Warner, $13.95.) The novelist and his sibling describe their world trip. 		 	 	6	3	CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN, by John Perkins. (Plume, $15.) A former employee of an international consulting firm denounces the American global empire and its ''corporatocracy.''		 	 	7*	49	IN COLD BLOOD, by Truman Capote. (Vintage, $14.) A murder in Kansas in 1959 and its consequences.		 	 	8	149	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Broadway, $12.95; Anchor, $6.99.) The author tells of his visits to his old college mentor, who was near death's door. 		 	 	9	2	ANIMALS IN TRANSLATION, by Temple Grandin and Catherine Johnson. (Harvest/Harcourt, $15.) How autism can help lead to a better understanding of the brains, emotions and talents of animals.		 	 	10	10	THE END OF FAITH, by Sam Harris. (Norton, $13.95.) The clash between reason and religion in the modern world. 		 	 	11	12	MAGICAL THINKING, by Augusten Burroughs. (Picador/St. Martin's Press, $14.) Life after rehab, from the author of ''Running With Scissors.''		 	 	12	2	THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $14.) The author, a contributor to MSNBC.com, recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved from one bleak place to another.		 	 	13	177	GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEL, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $16.95.) An argument that Western dominance is due to geographical advantages.		 	 	14*	102	THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $14.95.) The tale of a great architect and a serial killer, who were linked by the Chicago World's Fair of 1893.		 	 	15	105	NICKEL AND DIMED, by Barbara Ehrenreich. (Metropolitan/Owl/Holt, $13.) A social critic reports on what it was like to become a member of the working poor.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover		 	 	1	29	NATURAL CURES ''THEY'' DON'T WANT YOU TO KNOW ABOUT, by Kevin Trudeau. (Alliance Publishing Group, $29.95.) Remedies that do not include drugs or surgery. ()		 	 	2	7	LOVE SMART, by Phil McGraw. (Free Press, $26.) Dr. Phil gives advice on finding a relationship or fixing the one you already have.		 	 	3	158	THE PURPOSE-DRIVEN LIFE, by Rick Warren. (Zondervan, $19.99.) The meaning of life through God. ()		 	 	4	65	YOUR BEST LIFE NOW, by Joel Osteen. (Warner Faith, $19.99.) A faith-based approach to living with enthusiasm. ()		 	 	5	3	BAD CHILDHOOD -- GOOD LIFE, by Laura Schlessinger. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) How to keep past troubles from causing present-day unhappiness.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback		 	 	1	12	365: NO REPEATS, by Rachael Ray. (Clarkson Potter, $19.95.) A year's worth of dinner recipes from the Food Network host.		 	 	2	34	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET, by Arthur Agatston. (St. Martin's, $14.95 and $7.99.) A weight-loss plan devised by a Miami cardiologist.		 	 	3	5	THE BIGGEST LOSER, by Maggie Greenwood-Robinson et al. (Rodale, $18.95.) A diet and exercise program adapted from the weight-loss reality TV show.		 	 	4	249	WHAT TO EXPECT WHEN YOU'RE EXPECTING, by Heidi Murkoff, Arlene Eisenberg and Sandee Hathaway. (Workman, $13.95.) For parents-to-be. ()		 	 	5	8	THE WORLD ALMANAC AND BOOK OF FACTS 2006. (World Almanac, $12.95). The latest edition of a reference work issued annually since 1868.		 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Jan. 21, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.//

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BESTSELLERS (78%); PARDONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); WOMEN (76%); TALIBAN (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); LITIGATION (74%); ESPIONAGE (72%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (66%); RELIGION (61%); POLICE FORCES (54%); HIT & RUN (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (78%); JAMES PATTERSON (55%); DAN BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



94 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/New Jersey; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Competing Plans to Transform a Town

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
A DEVELOPER proposing to create what amounts to a new waterfront town within Sayreville on 400 acres of polluted land claimed last week that the project could eliminate the need for current residents to pay taxes. 
 At a public hearing on four proposals by ''finalists'' in the quest to redevelop the former site of the National Lead Company, an area surrounded on three sides by water, Beacon Pointe, a development group, told assembled residents that if it ushers in this project, they can usher out their annual town tax bills.
Which made them laugh.
 Incredulous titters filled the air, according to Randy Corman, the chief of Sayreville Economic Redevelopment Agency, after Beacon Pointe executives made the claim. Their massive project combines a towering commercial building, an elaborate waterfront entertainment zone with an aquarium and performing arts center, and harborside housing along an esplanade. 
 Shortly after that, the sound of booing exploded at a rival developer's mention that its project would include 1,700 housing units. The Beacon Pointe group did not specify in its public presentation how many housing units it proposes -- probably a good thing for eardrum preservation. In fact, its plans call for up to 20,000 studio and one-bedroom condos, to be built over 20 years. 
 ''I guess our residents are just very skeptical or, you might say, sophisticated,'' Mr. Corman said. His agency, known as SERA, sponsored the session. ''They've come to understand that an urban kind of growth always comes with a cost.''
 Mr. Corman said residents are especially skeptical of residential development because it can bring school-related costs that outstrip property tax benefits. ''But people are also concerned about the lifestyle impact of growth, like traffic,'' he added. ''The common kind of complaint you hear already is, 'I just can't get out of my driveway anymore.' ''
 Sayreville is a borough with about 40,000 residents, living on 17.1 square miles along the Raritan River where it opens onto Raritan Bay. Its property taxes have been kept relatively low because of the presence of heavy industry, like National Lead and the paint manufacturing concerns that succeeded it on the waterfront site; the ammunitions supplier Hercules; and other types of now-defunct operations like Sunshine Biscuits. 
 But manufacturing in New Jersey has declined precipitously over the last two decades, Mr. Corman observed, affecting Sayreville like other former factory towns.
 The town is looking to the National Lead property, the largest brownfield in the state, to determine its economic future, he acknowledged. The redevelopment agency was able to take control of the property, after National Lead failed to initiate a cleanup, by virtue of a $39 million loan from Middlesex County. Payment on the short-term loan comes due in March.
 The agency will make a recommendation on the best course of action, and municipal officeholders will be responsible for the final decision.
 Borough officials will be studying the critical matter of the different developers' ability to pay off the loan and to pay for an estimated $40 million to $50 million pollution cleanup. 
 They must also weigh the more ephemeral matter of which plan suits the community's vision of itself, Mr. Corman said. 
 Beacon Pointe, proposed by a consortium including the Spector Group and Tishman Construction, both of Manhattan, is by far the biggest and densest of the four proposals. But all proposals are big and dense. Three include a minor league baseball field, an amenity favored by town officials, as part of multiuse projects.
 One proposal, by V. Paulius & Associates of Allendale, N.J., eschews both housing and baseball. Saying a ''practical'' approach is needed, V. Paulius envisions shop and restaurant space, a 300-room hotel, a recreation center, a public pavilion and a 300-boat marina. An industrial park would be built on the site's periphery and a jogging path along the waterfront.
 The LNR Property Corporation of Quincy, Mass., by contrast, plans to create a regional office center at the heart of the site. A section devoted to retailing would include shopping, nightlife and restaurant districts, two hotels, two marinas with 500 slips and 2,000 units of housing.
 A company from Cleveland, Forest City Enterprises, proposes a new ''town center'' with several office buildings, lots of big-box stores, entertainment venues, restaurants, three marinas and 1,700 units of apartment-style housing.
 At Beacon Pointe, a 38-story commercial tower would be the ''beacon,'' a landmark visible from the various roadways approaching the site: the Garden State Parkway, Interstate 287 (the Outer Bridge Crossing) and Routes 9 and 37. A commuter bus and light rail system is also under consideration, developers said, to link the development to nearby train and ferry terminals.
 ''We know Sayreville is fairly averse to housing,'' said Marc B. Spector, a principal with the Spector Group, ''but we believe with such a propitious traffic pattern, the growth could easily be absorbed over a 20-year period.'' Furthermore, the Beacon Pointe group has pledged to ''subsidize'' construction of new schools if they become necessary.
 Mr. Spector said a large corporation has already shown interest in settling its headquarters in the Beacon Pointe tower. ''The company is interested because of what they could offer employees in terms of housing and amenities if such a beautiful piece of property were restored with a location only 30 minutes from New York,'' he said.
 Spector, an architectural firm, planned the community with residential and mixed-use buildings that will step down to the waterfront in increments, from 15 stories to 3, ending at the esplanade, which will have cafes, boutiques, restaurants and specialty shops. The residential buildings would be set in rows along the edge of the esplanade and a ''Grand Canal'' to be cut from the Beacon tower to the waterfront.
 The tower and esplanade would be part of a ''town center,'' which would also include a 400-room hotel-convention center, a high-end shopping mall, multiplex movie theater and municipal service buildings.
 A second hotel and a 600-slip marina would be built on the waterfront.
 The eastern side of the property would be a ''public zone'' with the stadium, arts center, aquarium and a children's park, another hotel complex, retail center, parking and municipal service buildings.
 Meanwhile, the Beacon Pointe group is in the midst of negotiating to get several hundred acres of open space and wetlands in the center of Sayreville through a foreclosure sale -- and is holding out the property as a bonus to the town if its plan is chosen. 
 ''It's another giveback we can promise,'' Mr. Spector said. ''Our goal is to turn over that property to the borough and create parkland and a K-through-12 megacampus for its children.''
 The next meeting of SERA is Thursday, Mr. Corman said, adding dryly, ''There will be a lot to discuss.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: AN ELABORATE PROJECT -- An aerial rendering of the plan proposed by Beacon Pointe, one of four proposals for a site in Sayreville near Raritan River and Raritan Bay. (Photo by Beacon Pointe Spector Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); BROWNFIELD SITES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); PAINTS & COATINGS MFG (60%); PAINTS & COATINGS (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (59%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (54%) Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Housing; Area Planning and Renewal; Waste Materials and Disposal

COMPANY: NL INDUSTRIES INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: National Lead Co

TICKER: NL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423710 HARDWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS332991 BALL & ROLLER BEARING MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Jersey; Sayreville (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



95 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Westchester; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: High-End Rentals Aim for New Heights

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
AFTER some false starts in the last five years, largely because of uncertainties about the strength of the residential rental market, AvalonBay Communities, a Virginia-based real estate investment trust, has broken ground on the second phase of a luxury apartment complex in New Rochelle overlooking Long Island Sound.
 Now, however, AvalonBay, which builds rental communities throughout the country, is so certain of the renewed vigor of the high-end rental market in Westchester County -- where condominiums have dominated the multifamily real estate scene in recent years -- that it has also filed applications for another nonownership complex in White Plains.
AvalonBay's new plans are indicative of a rebound in the rental market around the country, where the company has begun a number of new projects, said Philip Wharton, a senior development director. 
 Because of the high price of land and construction in Westchester, the company is building apartment towers that are taller than ever. In New Rochelle, it is building the sibling of its 412-unit Avalon on the Sound high-rise residential development; that 24-story luxury complex opened in 2001. 
 The new $180 million, 588-unit sister building will be 39 stories high. At 390 feet, it will be the second-tallest building in Westchester behind the Trump Plaza condominium project in New Rochelle, which is to reach 435 feet, counting the mechanicals on the roof.
 Not only are soaring apartment buildings more cost-efficient to construct, but they also draw renters who are willing to pay more for spectacular views, Mr. Wharton said. AvalonBay, which limits itself to rental developments, has another 39-story project under way in the region: Avalon Riverview along the East River in Queens overlooking Manhattan.
 The company, which has about 150 apartment complexes with more than 44,000 units in 10 states, is also planning a new high-rise complex in San Francisco; that proposal is in the early stages.
 In terms of height, the White Plains proposal, called Avalon Rockledge, is relatively short by the standards of the current market. As proposed now to the local zoning board, it would have 344 rental apartments in a T-shaped 14-story building and 39 attached town houses in three adjoining four-story buildings. 
 Rachel Loeb, a development director for that project, explained that because Avalon Rockledge would be at the edge of the downtown near a residential section of smaller homes, it was being designed to blend in with the neighborhood. 
 The company, which builds mostly in downtown neighborhoods that are in the midst of economic revivals, like New Rochelle and White Plains, ''has been waiting for the right time in the marketplace to start construction again,'' Mr. Wharton said.
 Rents at the older Avalon on the Sound building start at $1,500 for a studio and go up to $3,400 for a three-bedroom apartment. The rents for the two new Westchester apartment buildings have not yet been set.
 Continued job growth in the national economy over the past two years is a major factor fueling Avalon's decision to move ahead with new construction. 
 But also, the ever-rising cost of for-sale housing has made this an auspicious time to construct new apartments. In Westchester, the median price of a single-family home in the county hit $711,700 at the end of the third quarter of last year -- a record high, according to the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service.
 Additionally, many apartments have been converted to condos in recent years, creating a shortage of high-end rental housing. In White Plains last spring, for example, JPI Northeast, an apartment builder based in Irving, Tex., switched a nearly complete 281-unit that was to be rentals to condos.
 As a result of the shortage, occupancy rates at luxury rental apartment complexes like Avalon on the Sound are about 96 percent, which is considered full.
 The company generally markets its properties to empty-nesters, who no longer need large homes, and to young workers who not ready to purchase a house, said Stephanie Cuba, a development director for Avalon.
 For example, at Avalon on the Sound, Ivar and Diane Hyden moved into a two-bedroom corner unit overlooking the shoreline last summer. They had recently sold a building nearby in New Rochelle, out of which Mr. Hyden, 61, ran his framing shop, and where the couple also lived. But with prices so high and their children no longer at home, Mr. Hyden said, ''renting was an easy choice for us.''
 ''We didn't want to buy, and we aren't sure of what we want for the longer haul,'' said Mr. Hyden, who also moved his frame store to rented space. ''So we're here for now.''
 Typical of younger Westchester residents who are choosing to rent are Dr. Jonathan Leff, 32, an anesthesiologist at two hospitals in the Bronx, and his girlfriend, Anafe Casas, 28, an occupational therapist. ''We thought only briefly about buying,'' Dr. Leff said. ''If we were married and had children, maybe it would have been different.'' They live in a two-bedroom apartment on the 22nd floor of Avalon on the Sound.
 In White Plains, AvalonBay is aiming at a similar but somewhat different market: a younger crowd willing to spend more to rent in a downtown that offers lots of shopping and entertainment, Ms. Cuba said.

Sotheby's International Acquires Julia B. Fee
 Sotheby's International Realty has acquired the assets of Julia B. Fee, an independent real estate brokerage firm in Scarsdale. The Fee agency's eight Westchester offices will take the name of the larger firm.
 Julia B. Fee was founded in 1960 with an office in Scarsdale and now also has offices in Armonk, Chappaqua, Katonah, Rye and Larchmont. In the last 12 months, it was a broker for about $1.8 billion in closed sales. In September, it acquired the independent agency Burbank Whittemore, which had offices in Larchmont and Mamaroneck.
 Under the terms of the Sotheby's acquisition, Randall Katchis and George Stone, co-owners of Julia B. Fee, will become senior vice presidents of the larger company, managing the Westchester operations. Neither company would reveal the price. 
 Based in Manhattan, Sotheby's International, which brokered about $15 billion in sales in the past year, has brokerage offices in Fairfield County, Conn.; the Hamptons; Cape Cod; Palm Beach, Fla.; Santa Fe, N.M.; Beverly Hills and Malibu, Calif.; and Jackson Hole, Wyo.
 In 2004, Sotheby's International Realty announced it was being sold by the auction house Sotheby's to the Cendant Corporation, which franchises such brands as Century 21, Coldwell Banker, Avis Rent-a-Car, Days Inn and Howard Johnson.
 Last spring, Houlihan Lawrence, the largest privately owned residential real estate company in Westchester, severed its 28-year business alliance with Sotheby's, saying it did not want to be part of such a large firm with mass-market brands.


GRAPHIC: Photo: COMING SOON: 39 STORIES -- Next to Avalon on the Sound in New Rochelle, AvalonBay Communities has started a sister building that will be one of the county's tallest. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ZONING (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Real Estate; Housing

COMPANY: AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Avalonbay Communities Inc; Sotheby's; Julia B Fee (Co)

TICKER: AVB (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (84%)

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; New Rochelle (NY); Scarsdale (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



96 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; COMINGS & GOINGS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 276 words

 BODY:
Apparently being a television star and a self-proclaimed billionaire isn't enough. Last month, Donald J. Trump started a new travel site -- called, of course, gotrump.com -- powered by Travelocity. But one New York hotel listed, the Mayflower at 15 Central Park West, no longer exists. 
The Mayflower was demolished at the start of last year, and a condominium building designed by Robert A. M. Stern Architects is going up in its place. The Trump Web site listed the hotel as ''sold out'' but included a map of its former location and an overview of its amenities. Later, the site was amended to point out that the hotel is ''nonexistent.'' When the listing was brought to the attention of the Web site, ''it was removed immediately,'' said Jim Dowd, a gotrump.com spokesman, who added that the hotel was still listed on competitor sites.. Feeling lucky? The Ritz-Carlton in Key Biscayne, Fla., will randomly place a diamond-and-sapphire necklace worth more than $3,000 under one guest's pillow each month through May to celebrate its new distinction as an AAA Five Diamond resort. Radisson Seven Seas is offering free economy-class air fare on a handful of seven-night sailings from May to September. Prices, including free air fare from 86 North American gateways, start at $3,497 per person. Romance on the cheap: Apple Core Hotels, a group of five budget hotels in midtown Manhattan, is offering about 20 percent off regular prices from Feb. 10 through Feb. 28 with the Big Apple Romance package. The package, which includes Continental breakfasts and two tickets to the observation deck at Rockefeller Center, costs $169 a night, not including tax.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); WEB SITES (78%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



97 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Week in Review Desk; Laugh Lines; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 280 words

 BODY:

Jay Leno
 Let me sum up the State of the Union for you. We're in good shape. Not as good as Exxon, but still pretty good.
 If you didn't see it in the State of the Union address, President Bush said that the United States must move beyond a petroleum-based economy. And Dick Cheney screamed ''No!'' then clutched his heart and fell over.
 
 Bush vowed to fund research into cutting edge methods of producing fuel from wood. The program is called ''No Tree Left Behind.''
 New Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito was confirmed by the Senate and sworn in. He replaces Sandra Day O'Connor, who is leaving the court to be a regular on ''Dancing With the Stars.''
 The first confirmed case of bird flu has just been discovered in Iraq. This is just the kind of thing that can destroy their tourism industry.

David Letterman
 Tomorrow is Groundhog Day. Groundhog Day is a little different in New York City. Last year he climbed out of the hole and witnessed a homicide.
 The State of the Union address was stopped 72 times last night for applause and another 30 for subpoenas.
 There was one awkward moment when the president's speech was interrupted by a standing ovation from crooked lobbyists. 

Jon Stewart
 I was reading today about Exxon's profits. Boy, they are doing so well. You can't not be happy for them. In just this quarter of 2005 they made $10.7 billion. Their net income for the year, $36 billion -- that's net, that is not gross. That's after paying -- well, they have electricity, they have phones.
 Sometimes they are making so much money they are literally buying two tankers to fill with oil to just crash into Alaska. Because they have the money. They just feel like it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); SUBPOENAS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); TOURISM (54%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JAY LENO (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); DAVID LETTERMAN (59%); DICK CHENEY (57%); SAMUEL ALITO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



98 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Something Happening Here

BYLINE: By MEGAN MARSHALL. 
Megan Marshall is the author of ''The Peabody Sisters: Three Women Who Ignited American Romanticism.''

 BODY:
THE LAST OF HER KIND
 By Sigrid Nunez.
 375 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $25.
FIRST a disclaimer: like the narrator of Sigrid Nunez's new novel, I was a scholarship student at an elite East Coast college during the Vietnam era, with a millionairess as my freshman roommate -- a young woman who became, for a while, my best friend and the most powerful influence on my life. Also like Nunez's narrator, I had ties of friendship to a spectacular courtroom drama. It was my high school classmate Jonathan Jackson who, in 1970, staged an attack in the Marin County courthouse, where his brother was on trial, that ended with two prisoners, a judge and Jonathan himself dead, and Angela Davis charged as an accomplice.
 The Jackson trial is referred to in Nunez's novel as a touchstone event, along with the Patricia Hearst case, which bears a greater resemblance to the pivotal incident at the heart of ''The Last of Her Kind.'' So I'd have been drawn to this book even if it weren't also a compelling account of the 1960's and their aftermath, a carefully written and discerning narrative with closely drawn portraits of two prototypical yet unique women trying to construct a friendship across an unbridgeable class divide. 
 Georgette George, the oldest daughter in a large working-class family headed by a physically abusive single mother, arrives at Barnard College from a drab village in upstate New York in the fall of 1968, a stranger to the big city and the privileged way of life nearly all her classmates have known from birth. Struggling to assimilate, she's thrown farther off balance when she learns that her roommate, Ann Drayton, an heiress from Connecticut, ''had asked specifically to be paired with a girl from a world as different as possible from her own.'' Georgette hasn't had the time, let alone the money, to acquire the ''B.A.'' (Ann's shorthand for ''bourgeois affectations'') that her wealthy roommate, destined to become a notorious campus radical, is so eager to shed.
 Early in the novel, Nunez adroitly establishes her two main characters as Georgette and Ann talk late into the night, each desperately curious about the other's life. Although Ann's questioning is full of doctrinaire assumptions about the poor and Georgette's is driven by naive envy, one thing unites them: both are in need of a friend. When Ann reveals that she had hoped for a black roommate, Georgette feels a combination of regret at disappointing the charismatic Ann and rage at her insensitivity, but she suppresses both reactions.
 Georgette's passivity has been learned in a household where any expression of need was met with a slap. And there wasn't much solace to be found elsewhere in her dead-end hometown: ''Given the sparseness of the population, you had to ask yourself, Why so many prone to violence? . . . Here was a place where people seemed to be forever falling.'' Georgette will struggle with this self-defeating quality throughout the book. ''You always begin by thinking it can't be done,'' she's admonished by the worldly, entitled Ann, who is always stubbornly attempting the impossible and believing she can succeed.
 Both women drop out of college, Georgette to take a secretarial job at a fashion magazine, Ann to clerk at a bookstore and cohabit in Harlem with a black teacher who writes poetry, Kwame Kwesi -- her ideal roommate! -- with whom she plans to raise a family and reform the world. At times, it almost seems that Nunez has taken all the textbook moments from women's lives of the era and assigned them to one or another of her characters: visits to a free clinic for birth control pills, a brush with a Weather Underground-style militant cell, crystal meth and acid trips, a rape in Riverside Park, protest rallies and treks to Woodstock and Altamont. The catalog begins to strain credulity. And yet . . . that was the 60's.
 Finally, Ann's passions take her one step too far and she shoots a policeman in a vain attempt to defend her lover from what she fears will be lethal harassment. Her trial and its consequences fill out the remainder of the book, in which Nunez reflects on how and why her characters were propelled toward this moment of reckoning.
 As Nunez tracks the two roommates beyond their college years -- through marriages, jobs and, in Ann's case, a prison term -- ''The Last of Her Kind'' appears to share common ground with novels like ''The Group'' by Mary McCarthy and Rona Jaffe's ''Class Reunion.'' And the historical events, both real and invented, that provide its backdrop give Nunez's story tragic dimensions. By including several pointed allusions to ''The Great Gatsby,'' she seems to be asking us to see Georgette's fascination with the doomed, idealistic Ann as an updated version of Nick Caraway's infatuation with Jay Gatsby. Ann certainly holds center stage -- as enigmatic as Gatsby, with her self-loathing disdain for the ''white skin privilege'' that both empowers her and seals her fate.
 But Nunez has chosen to tell her story in the style of a memoir, and in this role Georgette must be faulted for a certain degree of self-indulgence. She goes on about pill-popping at exam time and a bad acid trip, forgetting that no one but the partaker can find such tales of interest, and she makes readers privy to a good deal of unnecessary gossip about the staff members of fictional New York publications. At times, you long for the economy of ''Gatsby'' or the assured storytelling of two other novels about the period -- Mary Gordon's ''Company of Women,'' also set at Columbia during the protest era, and Sue Miller's ''While I Was Gone,'' which returns to the communal houses of late 1960's Cambridge, Mass. For that matter, you occasionally wish that Nunez, herself a 1972 Barnard graduate, had written her own memoir. There is room for a woman's story to rival Sven Birkerts's quietly moving ''My Sky Blue Trades,'' which so artfully captures the mood of the era without resorting to theatrics.
 When it comes to the 1960's, the truth often seems like fiction, and one of the best ways to believe what you're reading is to know that the writer herself was there as an eyewitness. Nunez's keen powers of observation make her a natural chronicler. It's not hard to suspect she has plenty of good stories about her own life to tell.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A review on Feb. 5 about ''The Last of Her Kind,'' a novel by Sigrid Nunez set in the Vietnam War era, referred incorrectly to the brother of Jonathan Jackson, the man who staged a 1970 hostage-taking attack in the Marin County Courthouse in California. His brother, the black militant George Jackson, was in prison at the time, not on trial in the courthouse.
A review on Feb. 5 about ''The Last of Her Kind,'' a novel by Sigrid Nunez set in the Vietnam War era, referred incorrectly to the brother of Jonathan Jackson, the man who staged a 1970 hostage-taking attack in the Marin County Courthouse in California. His brother, the black militant George Jackson, was in prison at the time, not on trial in the courthouse.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Marion Ettlinger)Drawing by Danijel Zezelj)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); LITERATURE (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); FAMILY (76%); WOMEN (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (64%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Megan Marshall; Sigrid Nunez

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



99 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2516 words

HEADLINE: A Bold Plan To Go Where Men Have Gone Before

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

DATELINE: EL SEGUNDO, Calif. 

 BODY:
ASK Elon Musk what he wants to do with his life -- after having amassed a $300 million fortune from the Internet -- and the answer is surprising. At 34, he says he is too young to retire. Philanthropy is a bit staid. Starting another Web-based venture is hardly a challenge, not for a man who bought the idea for PayPal, built it up and then sold it to eBay for $1.5 billion.
 In seeking a new direction in life that would be as ambitious as his dreams, Mr. Musk has picked a doozy: cheap and reliable access to space.
Making money from space is a road that several other self-made millionaires have traveled, from a Texas banker named Andrew Beal to one of Microsoft's co-founders, Paul G. Allen. There have been enough of them to warrant a mocking nickname: ''thrillionaires.'' And so far their efforts have either ended in failure or have been just ventures in ''space tourism'' that brought test pilots to the fringe of space. 
 Mr. Musk wants more, and he has put $100 million of his fortune on the line to try to get it. His goal is to make a business out of inexpensively launching satellites into orbit. Inexpensive, of course, is a relative term, in a business where launchings of private commercial weather, telecommunications and other payloads start at $30 million and go up to $85 million or more.
 Through his company, Space Explorations Technology, or SpaceX, Mr. Musk wants to send things to space for one-third of the going rate or less -- even bringing down the price to $7 million for small payloads to low Earth orbit -- with a series of simple rockets of his own design. His goal is to build a Volkswagen of the cosmos, a bare-bones and dirt-cheap rocket that will go into space and return, to be used again and again. Commercial launchings currently cost $5,000 to $10,000 per pound of payload; Mr. Musk says his simple rockets could do it for $1,000 a pound.
 His first rocket, the Falcon 1, is a two-stage, liquid fuel design that is scheduled to lift off on Wednesday from a United States Army facility on Omelek Island in the Kwajalein Atoll, part of the Marshall Islands. On board will be a 43-pound satellite, the FalconSAT-2, which was designed by Air Force Academy cadets to study the ionosphere.
 THE launching has been postponed twice for technical reasons, but if it succeeds, it will move SpaceX closer to filling some of the $200 million in firm launching orders already placed by the Pentagon, foreign governments and private companies.
 Less clear is whether a success will also silence the many skeptics who have seen wealthy space dreamers fail in the past. 
 ''This is an enormously difficult business to make money in,'' said John E. Pike, a space policy analyst at GlobalSecurity.Org, a nonprofit group in Alexandria, Va., that analyzes national security issues. ''The best way to make a small fortune in space is to start out with a large one. New rocket science has a high mortality rate, and we don't know what he's got his hands on until he's flown it a half-dozen times.''
 Part dreamer and part realist, Mr. Musk says he was drawn to the project not only because he has long been fascinated by space -- he has a degree in physics from the University of Pennsylvania -- but also because he sees a market opportunity in America's declining share of the world's satellite-launching business.
 In the commercial market, the United States' two big rocket giants, Lockheed Martin and Boeing, have been priced out by lower-cost competitors from Russia, Ukraine and France. Lockheed's Atlas 5 had only one commercial order in 2005, compared with 22 in 1998. Boeing has withdrawn its Delta 4 rocket from the commercial market and relies exclusively on business from the United States government.
 At stake is a market that was worth $4 billion last year, when governments and businesses paid for 55 launchings, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. Of those, 18 were commercial, with a value of $1 billion.
 American companies compete for commercial orders only by teaming with foreign partners -- often former cold-war foes. Lockheed has teamed up with Khrunichev State Research of Russia to form International Launch Services, which mainly uses Russia's Proton rockets. Boeing has joined with several nations to form a consortium called the Sea Launch; it uses the Ukrainian Zenit 3SL to put up commercial payloads. 
 Mr. Musk says he wants to develop an all-American option that will be price-competitive and break the duopoly of Lockheed and Boeing on contracts with the federal government. Ultimately, he wants to send people into space, to the moon and beyond.
 ''We have to do something dramatic to reduce the cost of getting to space,'' said Mr. Musk in an interview in his cubicle at SpaceX's offices here. ''If we can get the cost low, we can extend life to another planet. 
 ''I want to help make humanity a space-faring civilization,'' he said with disarming -- or alarming -- candor.
 SpaceX's first effort, the Falcon 1, will not put anyone on the moon. It is designed to send small satellites -- typically communications and scientific payloads weighing less than 1,000 pounds -- into low orbit, which is up to 300 miles above the Earth. The two-stage Falcon 1 is designed to be mostly recyclable, with part of it falling into the ocean to be picked up and used again.
 The Falcon 1 will charge $6.9 million a launching. It is intended to go head to head with the Pegasus rocket made by the Orbital Sciences Corporation of Dulles, Va., which charges $25 million to $30 million for the same launching, as well as rockets from such newcomers as India and Israel.
 Next up are the Falcon 5, the same rocket with five engines, and the Falcon 9, with nine engines. The Falcon 9 would bring SpaceX into direct competition with Boeing's Delta 4 and Lockheed's Atlas 5 in the so-called heavy-lift market, in which the United States government is the main customer. A Falcon 5 plans to launch 8,000-pound payloads for $18 million, a third of the price of competitors. The Falcon 9, which will put 10 tons of payload as far as 22,000 miles into the sky, will cost $27 million per launching. The same launching by Lockheed or Boeing would be about $70 million to $80 million.
 Expecting that it can compete in this market, SpaceX has sued Boeing and Lockheed in federal court in California, seeking to prevent them from combining their rocket units in a joint venture called the United Launch Alliance, which would have a lock on $32 billion in Air Force launchings through 2011. 
 ''SpaceX has the potential of saving the U.S. government $1 billion a year,'' Mr. Musk said. ''We are opposed to creating an entrenched monopoly with no realistic means for anyone to compete.''
 A native of Pretoria, South Africa, Mr. Musk moved by himself at age 17 to Canada, where he briefly attended Queens University in Kingston, Ontario. He later transferred to the University of Pennsylvania, where he received two undergraduate degrees -- one in theoretical physics and the other in business from the Wharton School. He enrolled in the graduate physics program at Stanford in 1995 but dropped out within days to become an Internet entrepreneur.
 His first big hit was Zip2, a Web-based ad company that he sold in 1999 for $307 million. (The New York Times Company was an investor in Zip2.) He moved on to another Web venture, involving electronic payments over the Internet -- even though, as skeptics noted, he lacked experience in banking. That business ultimately became PayPal, which eBay bought for $1.5 billion in 2002.
 By the time Mr. Musk was 30, he had amassed $300 million and was pondering his future.
 His first thoughts were of philanthropy -- and of space. He came up with the idea of ''Mars Oasis,'' an effort to send a small greenhouse to Mars to gather scientific information and create excitement about space travel -- or so Mr. Musk thought. His idea was quickly derailed by the extraordinary cost of getting to space, but that led him to wonder why technology had not brought down the cost of space exploration or led to more of it. And that led him to found SpaceX in 2002. 
 Every day since then, Mr. Musk has driven to a gritty industrial zone, where he puts in long days at SpaceX. Still, he allows himself a few perks of the newly rich: a big house in Los Angeles, a $1 million McLaren F1 sports car, and a Dassault Falcon 900 business jet, which he sometimes uses to ferry his staff to the Marshall Islands. 
 In some ways, SpaceX is a throwback to his dot-com days. Many of the 160 employees, including former engineers from Boeing and other aerospace companies, are on a first-name basis with him. One building houses a Ping-Pong table; another has a Segway. All employees -- who call themselves ''SpaceExers'' -- have received stock options that could make them millionaires someday. In one spot, a blue tarp covers a small piece of a rocket that Mr. Musk casually described as a ''top secret'' project and joked about putting a sign on it saying so. Indeed, it was a part for a launching scheduled by the Pentagon, which already has $100 million of SpaceX business lined up. He has another $100 million in launchings from the government of Malaysia, the Swedish Space Corporation and several American companies, including Bigelow Aerospace, which is planning to build a private space station.
 TheFalcon 1 flight this week is for the Air Force and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the Pentagon's research and development arm. ''DARPA is excited about the launch,'' said Steven Walker, the DARPA manager for the Falcon program. ''A successful launch demonstration will change the way we do space launch in this country.''
 WHAT sets SpaceX apart from other rocket makers is that the boldness of its ambition is matched by the modesty of its design. To meet his goal of a cheap and reliable rocket, Mr. Musk is producing a basic design, with fewer opportunities for systems to fail -- even if it means some technical compromises with performance. ''SpaceX is optimizing for simplicity rather than performance, and that's what sets it apart from the others,'' said Jeffrey Foust, an analyst at the Futron Corporation, an aerospace consulting firm. ''When you have a limited number of things that could fail, you can increase a rocket's reliability.''
 Where most other rockets have multiple stages and multiple engines, the Falcon will have just two stages, each with one engine. Most of SpaceX's stages are designed to be reusable. Although fishing small used rockets out of a vast ocean can be difficult, Mr. Musk says that it is cheaper than building a new one every time. 
 ''Throwing away multimillion-dollar rocket stages every flight,'' he said, ''makes no more sense than chucking away a 747 after every flight.'' 
 Instead of buying engines from established suppliers, Mr. Musk has designed his own and built them in-house. The bigger first-stage engine, called the Merlin, is a model of 1960's technology, a simple ''pintle'' engine that has only one fuel injector rather than the costly showerhead of injectors used in most rockets.
 ''The Merlin is much more analogous to a truck engine than a sports car engine, which is how all other engines are designed,'' he said. ''Instead of designing it to the bleeding edge of performance and drawing out every last ounce of thrust, we designed Merlin to be easy to build, easy to fix and robust. It can take a beating and still keep going.''
 AS such remarks make clear, economy is everything at SpaceX. While Boeing and Lockheed typically have more than 200 people in their mission control launching centers, SpaceX will have 23, in part because all the Falcon's manufacturing is done in the factory and nothing is left to be assembled at the launching pad. SpaceX plans some launchings for Vandenberg Air Force Base near Lompoc, Calif., where it will move its mission control, which is now housed in a truck in SpaceX's parking lot. 
 SpaceX also has a 300-acre test site in McGregor, Tex., that it bought from Mr. Beal, the Texas banker, after he abandoned his private space-launching effort. He closed his company, Beal Aerospace, in 2000, complaining that Boeing, Lockheed and NASA had a lock on launchings and that small entrepreneurs could not compete against these government-subsidized ventures.
 Mr. Beal and others have said that the biggest problems for space entrepreneurs are more political than technical. For Mr. Musk, wealth provides some protection -- a point that even critics like Mr. Pike of GlobalSecurity.Org concede. ''He's got the advantage of deep pockets,'' Mr. Pike said.
 For the moment, Mr. Musk is bankrolling SpaceX alone. But if he can launch Falcon 1, he anticipates getting venture capital money along with more commercial orders.
 ''There is concern that the United States is losing its competitive edge in commercial space launches,'' said Mr. Foust, the Futron analyst. ''If SpaceX can provide low-cost launches that are reliable, it could turn the tide. He's certainly got the mind-set, the team and the money.''
 Most other ''thrillionaire'' ventures revolve around space tourism and suborbital trips, which are less challenging and costly.
 Mr. Allen, the billionaire co-founder of Microsoft, provided $25 million to help bankroll SpaceShipOne, which was designed by the aeronautical engineer Burt Rutan and won the $10 million Ansari X Prize in October 2004 for being the first private manned spacecraft to reach suborbital space twice. Mr. Rutan is now designing a bigger version for Virgin Galactic, the space tourism venture of Sir Richard Branson, who founded Virgin Atlantic Airways.
 The engines on Mr. Rutan's SpaceShipOne came from SpaceDev, founded by Jim Benson, a computer engineer who had started two software companies. SpaceDev plans to put satellites on Falcon 1 and is developing the ''Dream Chaser'' to pursue suborbital space tourism.
 Jeff Bezos, founder of Amazon.com, has started Blue Origin to develop a three-person suborbital rocket. And John Carmack, developer of the Doom and Quake computer games, has founded Armadillo Aerospace near Dallas and has already put in $1 million to build a suborbital craft.
 Space tourism presents no threat to Boeing or Lockheed, but Mr. Musk could. The two companies are quick to dismiss him. ''Launching into space is an extremely challenging and complex business,'' said Dan Beck, a Boeing spokesman, adding: ''For SpaceX to be considered a potential competitor they need to have a launch.'' 
 Tom Jurkowsky, a spokesman for Lockheed, had a similar view. ''SpaceX needs to prove themselves,'' he said, ''and thus far they have been unable to demonstrate that they are a competitor.'' 
 Still, some cheer on Mr. Musk.
 ''I'm particularly happy to see it happen,'' said Robert Sackheim, chief propulsion engineer at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center and an early consultant to Mr. Musk. ''Their engine design is less than perfect, but it is good enough. I think he is doing all the right things. This can be an incredibly important advance to the country.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Elon Musk, who made his millions by building and selling PayPal, aims to build and launch rockets to take people and other payloads into orbit and to the moon. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
At its plant in El Segundo, Calif., SpaceX is building its two-stage Falcon rockets. At top are the domes for fuel tanks
 above an engine is being assembled. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); DIVESTITURES (76%); AIR FORCES (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (70%); SPACE PROPULSION (70%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (70%); ARMIES (69%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%) Space; Rockets and Rocket Propulsion; Satellites; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: PAYPAL INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Paypal; Space Exploration Technology; Ebay Inc

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: PAUL ALLEN (53%); ANDREW BEAL (53%) Elon Musk; Leslie Wayne

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); MARSHALL ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



100 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Retreat on Rate Fears and Weak Results

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
It was a dismal week for the stock market, which declined on concerns about even more interest rate increases and on disappointing earnings reports from some highflying companies, including Google and Amazon.com. 
 The interest-rate worries stemmed mainly from the Federal Reserve, which raised its benchmark interest rate to 4.5 percent on Tuesday, Alan Greenspan's last day as the Fed chairman. Just before he left the helm, the Fed issued a statement that said ''some further policy firming may be needed.'' That determination will be made under the leadership of Ben S. Bernanke, who was confirmed as chairman by the Senate.
A series of earnings reports disappointed Wall Street. Two came from companies whose stock has often lifted the markets: Google, which fell 12 percent for the week, and Amazon.com, which declined 15 percent. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 113.59 points, or 1 percent, to close at 10,793.62. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 19.69 points, or 1.5 percent, to close at 1,264.03. The Nasdaq composite index shed 41.65 points, or 1.8 percent, to close at 2,262.58. The 10-year Treasury bond's yield rose to 4.53 percent from 4.51 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.StarbucksNNM: SBUXThe coffeehouse chain said its first-quarter earnings rose 20 percent on demand for its espresso drinks and strong holiday sales, especially of gift cards. Sales jumped 22 percent, to $1.93 billion, the company said.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $33.88WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.04%EST. '06 P/E: 49.82New York & CompanyNYSE: NWYThe specialty apparel chain said its January same-store sales -- those for stores open at least a year -- rose 0.6 percent, falling well short of the 3.8 percent increase that Wall Street was expecting.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $18.05WEEK'S CHANGE: -5.89%EST. '06 P/E: 17.64SepracorNNM: SEPRThe drug maker reported a fourth-quarter profit in contrast to a loss in the same period a year earlier. The company said its revenue more than doubled in the period, driven by sales of Lunesta, its insomnia drug.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $58.26WEEK'S CHANGE: +17.65%EST. '06 P/E: 39.42JetBlue AirwaysNNM: JBLUThe airline reported a wider-than-expected fourth-quarter loss, and said increased revenue could not offset sharply higher fuel costs. It also forecast losses for the first quarter of 2006 and for the entire year.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $11.75WEEK'S CHANGE: -7.99%EST. '06 P/E: 85.15E. W. ScrippsNYSE: SSPThe newspaper publisher and owner of the Food Network and other cable networks posted a loss in the fourth quarter but broke even on a per-share basis. Its operating results surpassed Wall Street's expectations.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $49.94WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.91%EST. '06 P/E: 23.38GymboreeNNM: GYMBThe seller of children's clothing said its January same-store sales rose 2 percent. Thomson First Call said analysts had expected a 7 percent gain. The company attributed the shortfall to cuts in promotional spending.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $21.99WEEK'S CHANGE: -11.51%EST. '06 P/E: 23.57Monster WorldwideNNM: MNSTThe online recruiting company said its quarterly net income rose 49 percent from a year earlier. The company also said that it had won a contract, valued at $2.8 million, to build a job search system for Indiana.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $47.50WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.71%EST. '06 P/E: 38.03Amazon.comNNM: AMZNThe Internet retailer said that its fourth-quarter earnings fell 43 percent, compared with the same period in 2004. It said it had increased spending to attract customers, but its sales missed Wall Street's targets.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $38.33WEEK'S CHANGE: -15.24%EST. '06 P/E: 40.73(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%) Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



101 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Why Let the I.R.S. See What the S.E.C. Doesn't?

BYLINE: By ANNA BERNASEK

 BODY:
IMAGINE a company that makes a practice of keeping two sets of accounts. One version is revealed to the public through periodic Securities and Exchange Commission filings and public announcements. The other is never made public and conveys a markedly different picture. 
 Does it sound scandalous? Actually, it's common practice. 
It isn't as if companies are breaking the law. Public companies are required by the S.E.C. to keep their books in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and to announce their results each quarter. At the same time, companies keep a separate and confidential set of books according to rules established by the Internal Revenue Service. These accounts seldom match. After all, companies typically have an incentive to state the highest possible earnings under GAAP and the lowest possible under tax rules.
 Economists have long understood that profits reported to the I.R.S. may be a more reliable guide than those reported to the S.E.C. and scrutinized on Wall Street. The public presentation of accounts involves the exercise of an accountant's judgment on such topics as the useful life of assets, the probability of uncertain events and the fair value of property. Each exercise of judgment, on which reasonable people may differ, offers a degree of flexibility in the final reporting of results. 
 In general, tax rules are less lenient. That is because allowing companies too much leeway in stating how much tax they owe would make collecting taxes difficult. So when economists analyze corporate profits, they tend to focus on a measure derived from corporate tax returns. Unfortunately, the government publishes only aggregate data, so it is impossible to know what any particular company made, or paid, under I.R.S. rules.
 It doesn't have to be that way. Companies already have basic tax information at hand that could be released to the public without imposing significant costs. And some experts say they believe that the benefits to investors, regulators and the overall tax system could be substantial.
 A study published in 2003 concluded that the benefits of disclosing additional tax information would outweigh any costs. It was conducted by David L. Lenter, a lawyer now on the staff of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation; Joel B. Slemrod, an economist at the University of Michigan; and Douglas A. Shackelford, an accountant at the University of North Carolina. 
 In the study, published in the National Tax Journal, they quickly agreed that corporate tax returns, which can run into thousands of pages, should not be exposed in their entirety. That could reveal sensitive information that companies have a legitimate need to keep private, they said. 
 But a simple presentation of summary information -- the bottom-line numbers, for example -- would have many attractions. Even better, companies could release a simplified version of a schedule that they already prepare. The I.R.S. currently requires companies to reconcile the differences between the numbers on their financial reports and the corresponding amounts on their tax return, but so far those reconciliations have not been made public.
 Greater disclosure of tax information would allow investors and analysts to better appreciate the true economic condition of a company. More transparent tax figures would also give analysts a tool to cut through the sometimes confusing tax disclosures currently provided under S.E.C. rules. Even more significantly, investors could track a company's performance under an accounting system believed to be less susceptible to manipulation than GAAP. Together, these effects would permit investors to value securities with greater confidence. Over all, the researchers say they believe that it would help financial markets function more efficiently. 
 Another significant benefit could be to improve the transparency of the tax system to the voting public. Despite all the information embedded in accounting footnotes, some basic questions go unanswered. Under current S.E.C. rules, a public company does not have to reveal precisely what it paid in taxes for a specific year. ''Right now the tax numbers companies release can contain things like taxes on audits 20 years ago,'' Professor Shackelford said. ''What they don't tell us is how much they paid the government in taxes in 2005, for instance. You can't find that anywhere.'' 
 The study argued that if companies revealed that figure, it would help clarify how much tax a company was paying relative to its income and relative to other companies. And that would yield positive benefits. For instance, the study says, it could put pressure on legislators to improve the tax system. And it could discourage corporations from aggressive tax-reduction strategies if they feared public criticism. 
 THERE is good cause for trying to understand what is really going on with corporate taxes, company by company. The aggregate figures suggest a disturbing trend. While companies have reported rising profits in recent years, corporate tax receipts have been dwindling. In the late 1990's, corporate tax receipts hovered between 2 percent and 2.2 percent of the country's overall gross domestic product. But from 2000 to 2004, the last year for which figures are available, the ratio of corporate tax receipts to G.D.P. has dropped, ranging between 1.2 and 2 percent.
 Without reliable tax information, we can only guess at what companies are really up to. During the late 1990's, company profits based on tax return information -- the profit figure most watched by economists -- grew at a much slower rate than reported profits. The divergence between the two measures implied that either companies were finding new ways to minimize their tax bills or they were finding new ways to overstate their accounting earnings. We now know that at least some companies were indeed bolstering their earnings, through both legal and illegal maneuvers.
 After a brief reconciliation in 2001 and 2002, reported earnings and taxed earnings are again diverging. While disclosing some basic tax information won't by itself prevent the kinds of abuses that multiplied in the 1990's, it is a step in the right direction. And that's what good public policy is all about.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Divergent Paths''Corporations use different methods to calculate the profits they report to the I.R.S. and to shareholders. In recent years, the profits as reported to shareholders have grown much faster.Graph tracks profits reported to shareholders and profits reported to the I.R.S. since 1990.(Sources by Bureau of Economic Analysis, Standard & Poor's, Moody's Economy.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); ETHICS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%) Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Taxation; Accounting and Accountants

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (83%) Internal Revenue Service; Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: Anna Bernasek

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



102 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1933 words

HEADLINE: A Billion-Dollar Bet 

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: SECAUCUS 

 BODY:
TWENTY FOUR years and six governors ago, a billboard company bought a patch of rail yard next to the New Jersey Turnpike for about $5,000 an acre and began to hatch plans for a new urban center, its hub a train station linking transit lines from all over New Jersey. 
 The billboard company has not lifted a shovel since then, but the State of New Jersey has spent $1 billion to make the dream come true. It built the Secaucus Transfer station on the property, created a new turnpike interchange and plotted a transit village, right down to the permissible awning designs, for a swath of Meadowlands dotted with truck pads and aging warehouses.
The state envisions more rail lines connecting the station to other points within the Meadowlands, and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has pledged $150 million for a rail link to the sports complex. 
 But now that they have set the table, finally opening Exit 15X on the turnpike in December, state officials wonder whether anyone will show up to live and work in the south end of Secaucus, a wedge between the turnpike and the swamp cattails. Without a surge of development, skeptics say, the taxpayers will be left holding a very large bag.
 James W. Hughes, the dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers, said the Secaucus hub was among a handful of recent transportation boondoggles in the state. They include the 34-mile, $1 billion light-rail line between Camden and Trenton and the monorail linking the Newark Liberty International Airport to a new station on the Northeast corridor line. 
 If the Meadowlands investment is to pay off, Mr. Hughes said, it will require development as dense as any in New Jersey's bigger cities. ''If all of a sudden $3 or $4 gasoline becomes our threshold, lots more people are going to use public transportation, but that would not be within a decade's time,'' he said. 
 He concluded: ''It was certainly a good idea to create Secaucus Transfer. But did it have to be that grandiose?''
 There are hints of settlement to come near the lonely, hulking rail station. The property owner, the Allied Junction Corporation, says it is within weeks of an agreement with a big developer to take over the project and build office towers on top of the station.
 Across the turnpike, earth-moving equipment is churning at an old landfill where construction of a mid-rise housing development called Fraternity Meadows will begin this spring. On the edge of the transit village nearest the station, another property owner has applied to build a parking lot since the rail station has no parking lot to speak of.
 Otherwise, though, the city of the future is quiet, except for the marsh birds and trucks lumbering from the turnpike to the Secaucus warehouses.
 It could take decades to find out whether this isolated stretch becomes a thriving urban center; the transit village is expected to take 25 years to build, and no one expects the Allied Junction project to be built all at once. The pace may determine when and whether the state sinks more money into the Meadowlands.
 For now, the wisdom of the $1 billion transportation investment is being debated by familiar players: environmentalists and some transit advocates, who say that the state designed projects around developers' needs and that the money would have been much better spent in less glamorous ways; developers and planners, who applaud the effort to build infrastructure and plan development before sprawl takes its course; and state officials, who sigh and promise to make the best of things that were set in motion long before they were in their jobs.
 ''It was a terrible idea,'' said Janine Bauer, a lawyer who specializes in transportation issues and the former director of the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, an advocacy group for transit passengers. ''From the outset it was a terrible idea. When you have a terrible idea that has gone forward, then what do you do about it?''
 Ms. Bauer added: ''It's a bad idea from a land-use point of view because there's nothing around there. There are plenty of cities and brownfields that are crying out for development.'' 
 Jeff Tittel, the director of the state chapter of the Sierra Club, contends that spending on the station and the Interchange 15X -- which he said stands for ''Exit 15-Expensive'' -- has mostly benefited developers and the contractors, lawyers, engineers and consultants paid for real estate deals. 
 ''We take all this public money and invest it in the middle of nowhere so some connected developer could cash in later,'' Mr. Tittel said.

A Dream Long in the Making
 But Martin Robins, the director of the Transportation Policy Institute at the Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center at Rutgers and a former New Jersey Transit official, could hardly disagree more. Mr. Robins said a transfer station allowing passengers from Bergen and Passaic Counties to reach Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan was in the dreams of transit planners long before any developers materialized, and would have been built -- as it indeed was -- without them. 
 Development was not going to happen before the opening of 15X, he said, but now it will.
 ''It's more than just a quote, unquote, transit village that ought to be there,'' Mr. Robbins said. ''Ultimately, this location has tremendous power as an economic development site. It also has tremendous power as a residential site. It could become a new urban center in New Jersey.'' 

Rail Lines, Then Development
 Richard F. X. Johnson, the chairman of the northern New Jersey chapter of the Urban Land Institute, a national planning organization, said that whether the new center is a success or not, it only makes sense to put in rail lines before development..
 When that happens, as in the suburbs of Philadelphia and Chicago, he said, ''you get better places to live, more interesting places.'' 
 As for a commercial center, Mr. Johnson, who is himself a real estate developer, allowed that the North Jersey office market remains slow, but said that ''companies will make decisions based on adjacency to transit because that's what their workers want.'' 
 In any event, the new transit infrastructure has boosted property values in the Meadowlands. In the south end of Secaucus, the land that sold for $5,000 an acre in 1982 is now selling for $1 million or more an acre. 
 By putting so much of the marshland off limits to developers, ''we gave value to a lot of old warehouses,'' said Robert R. Ceberio, the executive director of the New Jersey Meadowlands Commission, the state agency that regulates land use throughout the 8,000-acre district. 
 One of those warehouses, on seven acres near the transfer station, brought $14.7 million last summer from Edison Properties, which applied to the commission three weeks ago to raze the warehouse, put in a parking lot and eventually build a hotel and commercial buildings. In the local speculation about nearby properties, ''there are numbers out there that are reaching telephone-book-type numbers,'' the mayor here, Dennis Elwell, said. 
 The builder of the Fraternity Meadows housing development, Atlantic Realty, got a comparative bargain, paying $17.2 million for 60 acres, or $287,000 an acre, in 2004. The mix of rental apartments and condominiums, many of them restricted to buyers older than 55, must be built in phases; if the first are successful, Atlantic can ultimately build about 1,800 units. 
 Many people wonder aloud whether the residential market, still overheated by most accounts, will draw 2,000 buyers and renters to a neighborhood of rail yards, warehouses and brackish canals. 
 The closest thing to a template for the project is Harmon Cove, also in Secaucus, a high-rise and town house complex built in the 1970's on what was an uninviting bank of the Hackensack River. 
 Mr. Elwell, who grew up in Secaucus and remembers when there was no such thing as fishing in the river, recalled that the Harmon Cove town houses ''went like wildfire,'' although the developer, Hartz Mountain Associates, had a much harder time filling the high-rises. Today, two-bedroom apartments there typically sell for $450,000 to $500,000.

The Little City That Can't Quite
 But nothing could bring to life the little city that Allied proposed at the train station. Company officials approached the state soon after buying the castoff property, knowing that ''the station was in the gleam of the eye of the transit people for a century or better,'' said Allied's president, Marc Joseph. Years later, it reached an agreement with New Jersey Transit.
 The venture became an entirely public one, however, and the company still owes the state $140 million. Under a 2001 agreement with the state, Allied agreed to repay $30 million in costs to support the towers on the station and the rest for work on roads and train tracks. But after the market for office space collapsed, the company could not attract investors. 
 As recently as 2004, one advertisement in a local Chamber of Commerce magazine called Allied Junction ''the most significant public-private venture in the United States of America'' and continued, below an architect's rendering: ''Allied Junction's the place that will make you smile when you say New Jersey.'' Nothing happened. 
 Mr. Joseph said last week that ''we are deep in discussions with a nationally prominent development office'' and expected a deal within a few weeks. 
 But in the next breath, Mr. Joseph added, ''I've said that 40 times in the last 40 years.'' 
 Mr. Joseph declined to identify the prospective developer, but state officials said it was Brookfield Properties Corporation in Manhattan, whose projects include the World Financial Center. A spokeswoman for Brookfield said the company would have no comment on its interest in Secaucus. 

In the Shadow of a Station's Glow
 For their part, backers are hoping that the transit village will take on a certain glow just by being called a transit village. It does not yet have the official state designation, which gives local officials some technical help and sometimes grants for planning around their train stations. But developers' enthusiasm for transit villages helps. 
 ''New Jersey Transit has been looking for development along their train tracks, and, once word got out, every developer under the sun has been chasing train stations,'' said Arthur Weiss, a vice president at CB Richard Ellis, a real estate broker. 
 The state is aggressively promoting transit villages, using the designation to encourage high-density development. 
 In return, developers can get expedited approvals for their projects, which otherwise involve long legal entanglements. Since the program started in 1999 -- it began slowly, but was expanded and touted by Gov. James E. McGreevey -- the state has designated 17 official transit villages.
 New housing and retail businesses at the older ones, like those in South Orange and Metuchen, are widely viewed as successful. The new ones are trickier, Mr. Weiss said.
 ''People figure, 'If I build it, they will come,' '' he said. But he added, ''I don't think the developers are stupid, so I'm pretty sure they've done their homework.'' 
 The labeling amuses Mr. Hughes at Rutgers. ''There are two buzz words, 'town center' and 'transit village,' that you hear over and over,'' he said.
 ''The names have great appeal because they conjure up images of the New Jersey of yesteryear,'' he said, ''when baby boomers used to visit Grandma and the house had a front porch and you could walk downtown and there was a train station.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: 15X marks the spot: Construction of a mid-rise housing development will begin this spring across from the Secaucus Transfer station. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Developers are hoping that housing and retail businesses, like those at the transit hub in South Orange, above, rise near the site of the Secaucus Transfer station in the swamps of the Meadowlands, top. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 8)Map of New Jersey shows the location of the Secaucus Transfer. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (74%); AIRPORTS (64%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (53%); LANDFILLS (50%); BIRDS (50%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (50%) Transportation; Stations and Terminals (Passenger); Transit Systems; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Housing; Roads and Traffic; New Jersey Turnpike; Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: allied junction corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%)

PERSON: Laura Mansnerus

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Secaucus (NJ); Meadowlands (NJ); Secaucus (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



103 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: The Courting of Gang Green

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

 BODY:
FLORHAM PARK'S mayor, Frank D. Tinari, used to think of what townspeople call ''the Exxon property,'' a former office park for the oil giant, as a perfect swatch of bucolic green for this otherwise packed suburban town in Morris County.
 These days, though, the site makes Mr. Tinari think of a different kind of green. New York Jets green --as in the team colors, and green as in the tax money that a potential Jets training facility would mean for his town.
 ''This would be an A-list development for us, and maybe we could pair it with a hotel and a conference center. Who knows?'' Mr. Tinari said. ''It's the kind of thing a community dreams of -- high recognition and low density. It's perfect.''
 The site in Florham Park is one of five in North Jersey that the Jets have put on a short list for their new headquarters and training complex, according to Jets officials. The other four sites are in East Orange in Essex County, Berkeley Heights in Union County, Jersey City in Hudson County and Wood-Ridge in Bergen County. 
 As part of the deal to build the privately financed $1 billion, 80,000-seat stadium, the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority told the Giants and Jets that it would subsidize the purchase or lease of 20 acres for new training facilities. The Giants chose to be near the stadium in the Meadowlands, but the Jets wanted to be elsewhere.
 ''We wanted to be in a community where our employees -- not just players, but everyone who works for us -- could actually live,'' said Jay Cross, the Jets' president. ''An important thing, too, was to be close to Newark Airport. I can't tell you how much of a downer it is to come home after an away game, even if you win, and then have a two-hour drive to get home. This is a chance to change that.''
 He said he was surprised by the number of towns that showed interest in playing host to the Jets. First, the Jets have just come off a dismal season, going 4-12, that ended with their head coach, Herman Edwards, going to the Kansas City Chiefs. Second, the region is mostly full of Giants fans, and the Jets had extended and acrimonious negotiations trying to build their own stadium on the West Side of Manhattan -- not quite a vote of confidence in the Garden State.
 But Bart Oates, a former Giants offensive lineman and now a lawyer and real estate adviser, who is handling negotiations for the Jets facility through Cohn Real Estate, where he is a partner, said he had looked at 30 to 40 sites, all in towns that have given him a positive reception.
 ''I haven't had one municipal group or governmental agency not want it in their area,'' Mr. Oates said. ''With the traffic what it is up here, this is a 20-acre-or-more development with only, say, 100 employees, so that will not increase traffic. They will get tax revenues, and not really have an impact on expanding schools. Every article in every paper will be coming from their town. No wonder it is so attractive.''
 Mr. Cross says he hopes to decide on where the training site will be by spring and get construction started quickly.
 For Robert L. Bowser, mayor of East Orange, it is a win-win situation. The site the Jets are looking at in East Orange is a few miles from the center of town in its watershed, which is adjacent to the Short Hills area of Millburn.
 ''It would be built in what we call the Highlands area there, so it would not impact us environmentally; the rain runoff into the aquifers would not be affected,'' said Mr. Bowser, who said Mr. Oates called him, not the other way around. ''All that money would go to property tax relief for us, and we would hope they would have recreational programs that would help not only East Orange, but Millburn and Livingston, too.''
 Though the Jets do not have exact plans for the facility, Mr. Oates said it would have at least a main indoor practice field, an adjacent office and workout building of about 130,000 square feet, three or four outdoor fields and some storage and parking areas. He said it would not be as dense as either residential or office park construction.
 ''In an era of Nimby, as in not in my backyard, or even Nope, as in not on planet Earth, this is just a yes,'' said David Listokin, co-director of the Center for Urban Policy Research at Rutgers University. ''If a corporate headquarters is on the A-list of development and a solid-waste facility is at the bottom, this is right up at the high point of the continuum. This is just a nice thing to have. It may or may not spur more economic development, but at the least it is not obtrusive, and it gives a lot of name-recognition value to the town.''
 Jim Phillips, the mayor of Old Bridge, looked at a 500-acre parcel of open land his town owns and, when he found out about the Jets' potential move, sent a letter to Mr. Cross. ''I told them I would sell them 20 or 40 acres at $1, and I would put up the dollar myself,'' he said. ''And it is surrounded by trees. Green trees, as in Jets' colors.''
 Ultimately, the Old Bridge land was too far from the Meadowlands and the airport for the Jets, Mr. Phillips said. 
 The Florham Park site is along Park Avenue and Campus Drive near the border of Madison and near the campus of Fairleigh Dickinson University there. ''Both towns would derive benefits,'' Mayor Tinari said. ''We have a town of 12,000 and would really like to see a low-density use for that property. We think everyone from players to office staff would love to live here.''
 His Madison counterpart, Elwood P. Kerkeslager, is enthusiastic about the Jets' moving to the site as well, even though Madison would not get any tax revenue from it. ''It is still adjacent to our business district,'' he said, ''so presumably people would shop in our shops, eat in our restaurants and move into our town.''
 The Jets will train at their current site at Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y., until the new facility is built, presumably by the summer of 2007.
 Meanwhile, Mayors Kerkeslager, Tinari, Bowser and Phillips all admit that they have something in common besides coveting the Jets. They are longtime Giants fans and have never really rooted for Gang Green.
 ''I've been a Giants fan for a long time,'' said Mayor Phillips of Old Bridge. ''But I told the Jets that if they had come, I would buy 25 feet of green carpet for my house and have the school marching band come over and play the team fight song.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Frank D. Tinari of Florham Park in a section of ''the Exxon property,'' one of five sites the Jets have put on a short list to consider for a training facility. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (70%); SUBURBS (57%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (82%) New York Jets; New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority

PERSON: Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (75%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (70%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%) Florham Park (NJ); East Orange (NJ); Berkeley Heights (NJ); Jersey City (NJ); Wood-Ridge (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



104 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: A New Stadium: Who Benefits?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Andrew Zimbalist's article supporting the Yankee Stadium redevelopment plan (''Fair Ball,'' Op-Ed, Jan. 22) does not mention the economic and environmental benefits of transit-oriented development. 
 As it stands, the Yankee Stadium plan is the opposite -- it calls for a 75 percent increase in parking and includes no mass transit improvements. Urban planners know that more parking encourages more driving, congesting local streets and increasing air pollution.
 The South Bronx already suffers from one of the highest asthma rates in the country, even though it has one of the city's lowest rates of car ownership. Why not take the $235 million now slated for parking garages and put it toward a long-coveted Metro-North station next to the stadium?
 Whether it be the Yankee Stadium in the Bronx, the West Side stadium in Manhattan, or IKEA in Red Hook, Brooklyn, a hallmark of the Bloomberg administration is that it promotes major development plans without any regard for transportation consequences.

Kate Slevin
Garment District

The writer is associate director, Tri-State Transportation Campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); BASEBALL (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ASTHMA (72%); AIR POLLUTION (70%) Baseball; Stadiums and Arenas; Transit Systems

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (59%) New York Yankees

PERSON: kate slevin; Andrew Zimbalist

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



105 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: A New Stadium: Who Benefits?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Andrew Zimbalist does not substantiate his claim that the new Yankee Stadium qualifies as a public investment that would yield a net economic return for New York. Moreover, he lowballs the public contributions to the project by excluding valuable tax breaks and is vague about what benefits the city and state would accrue. 
Favoring the new stadium simply because it is not as heavily subsidized as other sports facilities around the county is a poor justification for this public expenditure. In fact, a city-sponsored analysis suggests that the fiscal benefits of the stadium wouldn't cover its cost to taxpayers. Of the $210 million Mr. Zimbalist says will be spent on neighborhood ''improvements,'' $100 million would go toward uses that are hardly community amenities, such as parking garages and the demolition of the current stadium. 
 Calling this project a public investment is misleading. Subsidizing the wealthiest franchise in baseball at the height of its popularity is a loss for residents of the South Bronx and taxpayers across New York.

Dan Steinberg
Lower Manhattan

The writer is a research analyst with Good Jobs New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); BASEBALL (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); WRITERS (73%); SPORTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (52%) Baseball; Stadiums and Arenas

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (59%) New York Yankees

PERSON: dan steinberg; Andrew Zimbalist

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



106 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: An AIDS Center In East Harlem

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 As executive director of a coalition of 150 New York State H.I.V./AIDS organizations, I was shocked that your Jan. 22 article ''Strained by Needs, a Community Withdraws Its Helping Hands'' reinforced the fears and biases that drive people with AIDS out of care. 
Your article leaves unchallenged the East Harlem Chamber of Commerce's contention that Harlem United's Adult Day Health Care program will be bad for economic development. Widely disseminated facts about the program prove otherwise, both in terms of the number of high-paying jobs created (45) and the agency's positive track record on the West 125th Street business corridor. 
 Regarding the chamber's claims about over-saturation with ''special needs'' facilities, you do not say that this is the only such program in East Harlem, a community with the city's second-highest number of H.I.V./AIDS cases, and that Harlem United has screened 128 East Harlem residents to fill the program's census.
 It's worse still that Assemblyman Adam Clayton Powell IV would support the chamber in this regard. 

Joey Pressley
Executive Director
New York AIDS Coalition
Chelsea

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (54%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

PERSON: Joey B Pressley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New York City; Harlem (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



107 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; PROFILE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2689 words

HEADLINE: The Gladwell Effect

BYLINE: By Rachel Donadio. 
Rachel Donadio is a writer and editor at the Book Review.

 BODY:
''PEOPLE are experience rich and theory poor,'' the writer Malcolm Gladwell said recently. ''People who are busy doing things -- as opposed to people who are busy sitting around, like me, reading and having coffee in coffee shops -- don't have opportunities to kind of collect and organize their experiences and make sense of them.''
Slight, shoeless and sporting the large head of curly hair that's become his trademark, Gladwell, a staff writer for The New Yorker, was sitting at the kitchen table of his apartment in a West Village town house. In tones at once laid-back and precise, he was discussing his best-selling books: ''The Tipping Point'' argues that small actions can spark ''social epidemics'' -- a term he gives a positive connotation; and ''Blink,'' a paean to intuitive thinking, makes a case for ''thin-slicing,'' paring down our information intake so we can tune out the static and make fast, sound decisions. Gladwell said his goal in those two books was simple: In a culture with too much information and not enough time, he offers ''organizing structures'' for people's lives. 
 Readers seem grateful. ''Blink'' has remained on the best-seller list since it first came out in January 2005, with 1.3 million copies in print in North America. It has also been translated into more than 25 languages. That compares with 1.7 million copies of ''The Tipping Point,'' which was originally published in 2000 but returned to the paperback best-seller list when ''Blink'' first appeared.
 Their success has given Gladwell an active, and extremely lucrative, second career as a public speaker. Much in demand, he is paid in the neighborhood of $40,000 per lecture. He's also on the recommended reading list at many companies and business schools, and has spoken at West Point and the National Institutes of Health, among many other institutions. Last year, Time magazine named him one of its ''100 most influential people.'' Fast Company magazine called Gladwell ''a rock star, a spiritual leader, a stud.'' Stephen Gaghan, the screenwriter of multiple-thread narrative movies like ''Traffic'' and ''Syriana,'' is developing a movie based on ''Blink.'' That book is also the subject of a clever sendup, ''Blank: The Power of Not Actually Thinking at All,'' by the pseudonymous Noah Tall, which will be out this month.
 Gladwell has become an all-out international phenomenon -- and has helped create a highly contagious hybrid genre of nonfiction, one that takes a nonthreatening and counterintuitive look at pop culture and the mysteries of the everyday. In the past year, several other books in the Gladwell vein have appeared. They include the best-selling ''Freakonomics,'' a breezy collection of case studies by Steven Levitt, an economist at the University of Chicago, and the journalist Stephen Dubner (the pair write an occasional ''Freakonomics'' column for The Times Magazine); ''The Wisdom of Crowds,'' a business book for thinking people in which the New Yorker writer James Surowiecki argues that groups are collectively smarter and more innovative than individuals; and ''Everything Bad Is Good for You,'' Steven Johnson's case that pop culture is becoming increasingly sophisticated.
 But Gladwell has a far wider audience than these other authors. With a writerly verve and strong narrative powers, he leavens serious social science research with zany characters and pithy, easily digestible anecdotes. Gladwell selects his anecdotes from a wide range of sources -- the military, business, food, music, romance -- and diverse locales, a tactic that broadens his books' appeal. 
 In ''The Tipping Point,'' he discusses everything from the drop in crime in New York in the early 1990's to the retro return of Hush Puppies, the rise of the Aeron chair in the dot-com era, and how ''Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood'' became a best seller through its popularity in small reading groups. His point is that social epidemics can spread with the right context and the pull of certain influential people: ''connectors,'' in touch with different groups of people; ''mavens,'' experts in one area; and ''salesmen,'' who can win customers over.
 Similarly, in ''Blink,'' he introduces a range of case studies and experts, including art historians who can tell within seconds that a statue is a fake and a psychologist who can predict whether a couple will get divorced after observing them for only a few minutes. His message is that we should trust first impressions -- except when we shouldn't. Gladwell, who is multiracial, said he became interested in first impressions when he grew his hair into an Afro and then was repeatedly pulled over for speeding, and stopped once by the police looking for a rapist with similar hair. In an era of increased specialization and niche thinking, Gladwell himself is the ultimate ''connector,'' bridging disparate universes: the New York literary world and corporate America; liberal and conservative; men and women; high and low. 
 Without slackening his reporting or losing his New Yorker-writer street cred, Gladwell has risen to the top of the A-list in the vast subculture of gurus brought in to penetrate the isolation chamber of the boardroom, to speak truth to power and tell executives what it's really like in the outside world. Or at least in the West Village. 
 He's long cultivated the persona of the outsider. Gladwell, 42 though he looks younger, was born in England and grew up in rural Canada. His English father taught mathematics at the University of Waterloo, and his Jamaican mother is a psychotherapist. Gladwell studied history at the University of Toronto and wanted to go into advertising, but said he couldn't find a job and became a journalist instead. After a stint at The American Spectator, a conservative political magazine, he joined The Washington Post in 1987. He covered business and science, and spent three years as New York bureau chief before Tina Brown, then editor of The New Yorker, hired him in 1996.
 Gladwell, a self-described ''right-winger'' as a kid -- he had a poster of Ronald Reagan on his wall during college -- notes that his politics have changed over the years. When he was growing up, Canada was ''essentially a socialist country'' so ''being a conservative was the kind of fun, radical thing to do,'' he said. ''You couldn't outflank the orthodoxy on the left the way that people traditionally did when they wanted to be rebels. There was only room on the right.'' Now, he plays the flip side: ''I hate to be this reductive, but an awful lot of my ideology, it's just Canadian. Canadians like small, modest things, right? We don't believe in boasting. We think the world is basically a good place. We're pretty optimistic. We think we ought to take care of each other,'' he said. ''And it so happens that to be a Canadian in America is to seem quite radical.''
 On his Web site, Gladwell offers an apologia pro vita sua: ''If I could vote (and I can't because I'm Canadian) I would vote Democrat. I am pro-choice and in favor of gay marriage. I believe in God. I think the war in Iraq is a terrible mistake. I am a big believer in free trade. I think, on balance, taxes in America -- particularly for rich people -- ought to be higher, not lower. I think smoking is a terrible problem and that cigarette manufacturers ought to be subjected to every possible social and political sanction. But I think that filing product liability lawsuits against cigarette manufacturers is absurd. I am opposed to the death penalty. I hate S.U.V.'s. I think many C.E.O.'s are overpaid. I think there is too much sex and violence on television.''
 While his views may be conventionally liberal, Gladwell takes an unconventional tack in reporting. Omnivorous in his interests and brilliantly attuned to every level of today's conversation, Gladwell is one of the most inventive journalists now writing. In articles on everything from personality tests to ketchup, he doesn't offer a sweeping theory, but rather a counterintuitive way of looking at things. 
 When Time magazine and other media outlets declared an attention-deficit hyperactivity epidemic in America, Gladwell argued that people were no more distracted than they'd ever been, but that Ritalin had replaced nicotine as a socially acceptable focusing stimulant. While others were vilifying the pharmaceutical companies over the cost of prescription drugs, Gladwell's New Yorker article on the topic mapped out a broader codependency. ''It is only by the most spectacular feat of cynicism that our political system's moral negligence has become the fault of the pharmaceutical industry,'' he wrote. And in an article on intelligence reform published when the country was in a furor over the failings leading up to Sept. 11, 2001, Gladwell proposed that free-market-style competition between the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. might actually be good for intelligence gathering. Lately he's been investigating racial profiling. At first, ''I had a reasonably benign attitude toward it. I felt that under certain circumstances it was justifiable -- like looking for terrorists. But now I think that's wrong,'' he said. ''I think it's never justifiable. And not on ethical grounds but on pragmatic grounds. I just don't think it works.''
 For all their resonance and success, Gladwell's books have also been criticized, most often for demonstrating, or encouraging, lazy thinking. In a scathing review in The New Republic, the judge and author Richard Posner found ''Blink'' full of banalities and contradictions, ''written like a book intended for people who do not read books.'' Some social scientists have also been unimpressed. ''I think what he leaves people with is not that scientists are doing some interesting work, but that Malcolm Gladwell has a couple of good ideas,'' said Thomas Schelling, who shared last year's Nobel in economic science and did pioneering research on the ''tipping point,'' a formulation that originally referred to the point at which white families would leave a neighborhood after black families began moving in. 
 Translating academic work for a popular audience is ''very explicitly'' his mission, Gladwell said, though it might not be what readers take away from his books. He said he owed ''enormous debts'' to academia. In an endnote in ''The Tipping Point,'' Gladwell cited Schelling's ''Micromotives and Macrobehavior'' (1978). In ''Blink,'' he cited ''Strangers to Ourselves: Discovering the Adaptive Unconscious'' (2002), a lucid, readable book by the noted psychologist Timothy Wilson, which he called ''a real inspiration'' and one of his favorite books.
 Gladwell has had the most pronounced impact in corporate culture. His ''mavens'' and ''connectors'' have become a working vocabulary for marketers desperate to reach consumers though calculated word-of-mouth campaigns. In 2004, he helped Simmons Market Research create consumer surveys based on ''The Tipping Point.'' (He resigned after questions were raised about a conflict of interest with his New Yorker journalism.)
 Gladwell, who rose to prominence during the dot-com boom, when the economy became the big story, rhapsodizes about things that intellectuals often dismiss but most people living on earth have to contend with every day. Advertising, for instance. In many ways, his work is reminiscent of that of Edward Bernays, the nephew of Sigmund Freud and father of modern public relations, whose 1928 book, ''Propaganda,'' made a positive case for manipulating public opinion through advertising as the operative arm of psychology. ''I get genuine delight from ads, if they're clever,'' Gladwell said. ''The idea that you can tell a story in 30 seconds is amazing.'' He finds the business world ''rarefied and fascinating,'' and said running a company was ''just about as interesting a challenge as there is out there.'' 
 Small wonder, then, that business executives invite him to speak: he's entranced by their world, and they by his attentiveness and aura. He has spoken at Google, Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard, among many other companies. He's one of nine people invited to address the World Business Forum, a conference for executives, next fall, where he's expected to share the stage at Radio City Music Hall with Rudolph Giuliani; Jack Welch, the former chief executive of General Electric; and Colin Powell, who Gladwell believes may be a distant cousin on his mother's side.
 ''I'm simply there to explain my ideas,'' he said of his public speaking. But he also delivers what he calls ''homilies,'' drawing on his books to urge companies to provide better training and create fertile environments for innovation. Gladwell's 2002 New Yorker takedown of McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm then much in the news for its involvement with Enron, ended with a zinger: ''They were there looking for people who had the talent to think outside the box. It never occurred to them that, if everyone had to think outside the box, maybe it was the box that needed fixing.''
 Business audiences eat it up. ''Thank you for a fantastic speech,'' someone identified only as the chief executive of a health insurance company wrote in a letter reprinted on the Web site of the Leigh Bureau, which organizes Gladwell's speaking engagements. Moreover, the executive wrote, one colleague, ''not faint of heart -- indicated that you brought her to tears with the message about how valuable each and every individual is. With a polarized political situation, that's a refreshing message!''
 And that is because beneath the social science data, Gladwell is selling something for which there's always a market. ''I'm by nature an optimist. I can't remember the last time I wrote a story which could be described as despairing,'' he said. ''I don't believe in character. I believe in the effect of the immediate impact of environment and situation on people's behavior.'' 
 Thus, he concludes ''The Tipping Point'' with the hopeful assertion that ''what must underlie successful epidemics, in the end, is a bedrock belief that change is possible, that people can radically transform their behavior or beliefs in the face of the right kind of impetus.'' In ''Blink,'' Gladwell argues that we pay too much attention to ''grand themes'' and too little to ''fleeting moments.'' ''Making sense of ourselves and our behavior requires that we acknowledge there can be as much value in the blink of an eye as in months of rational analysis,'' he writes. 
 Although pitched as descriptive, Gladwell's books are essentially prescriptive. Trust your instincts! You too may be (or can become) a connector, maven or salesman! Gladwell's dazzling arguments ultimately offer reassurance. Indeed, he seems a contemporary incarnation of a recurring figure in the American experience, one who comes with encouraging news: You can make a difference, you have the capacity to change. Gladwell may be the Dale Carnegie, or perhaps the Norman Vincent Peale, of the iPod generation. But where Carnegie in his 1936 book, ''How to Win Friends and Influence People,'' instructed readers how to understand their customers and flatter people into liking them, and Peale in his 1952 ''Power of Positive Thinking'' offered watered-down Christian palliatives, Gladwell offers optimism through demystification: to understand how things work is to have control over them. 
 Or if you can't understand the complexities of today's world, you may still be able to make profitable use of them. Of all the people he's profiled for the New Yorker, Gladwell said he most identified with Nassim Taleb, who ran a hedge fund that traded on rare events, like disasters. Taleb was ''doing something about the possibility of disaster as opposed to simply turning a blind eye to it,'' Gladwell said in our conversation. And that, too, is part of the secret of Gladwell's success: pragmatism over ideology, optimism over pessimism, colorful human-interest anecdotes over gray shades of data. ''To be someone who does not believe in the power of the situation is to be a defeatist about the world,'' he said. ''And that I can't abide.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Malcolm Gladwell in 2000. (Photograph by Jerry Bauer/Little, Brown)
 Malcolm Gladwell in 2006, at home in New York City. (Photograph by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); BESTSELLERS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); MOVIE REVIEWS (66%); BOOKSTORES (57%); LITERATURE GENRES (54%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature

PERSON: Rachel Donadio; Malcolm Gladwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



108 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Have Commodities Become the New Tech Stocks?

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
RETURNING to basics has been a major theme in the markets. If investors in the late 1990's took a bold leap into the future with technology stocks -- off a high ledge, as it turned out -- they are now embracing age-old economic mainstays like copper, lumber, oil and gold.
 A widely followed benchmark of commodity prices, the Commodity Research Bureau index, reached a record high recently after nearly doubling since late 2001. Shares of companies that supply these materials -- gas pipeline operators, miners of industrial and precious metals, forest products concerns -- have followed a similar trajectory, but some analysts contend that prices have risen too far, too fast.
''There are probably some areas that offer better prospects'' for investors ''because commodity price expectations are very high,'' said Stuart Schweitzer, global markets strategist at J. P. Morgan Asset Management. ''I would be surprised if the commodity-type stocks are a top-performing group in 2006.'' 
 Commodities, especially industrial ones like copper and lumber, are a bet on economic growth. Mr. Schweitzer expects continued strength in Asian and other emerging markets -- a trend that has underpinned commodity prices -- but he expects growth elsewhere, especially in the United States, to be more subdued than it was in the last couple of years. ''I suspect the U.S. economy will slow down somewhat this year,'' mired by softness in housing, he said. ''If that's right, commodity demand will ease back along with it.''
 Some fund managers with portfolios that specialize in commodity producers are also beginning to show concern about rapid price gains. While they maintain optimistic long-range outlooks, they express reservations about the near future.
 ''We're going through a long-term recovery from stupid oversold levels,'' said Fred Sturm, who manages the Ivy Global Natural Resources fund. ''Prices of many of these commodities were unsustainably low.'' In the late 1990's and early 2000's, he pointed out, gold and oil traded at nearly 20-year lows after having fallen by more than two-thirds.
 The depressed prices helped to force commodity producers to merge -- Alcoa and Reynolds in aluminum, for example, and Exxon and Mobil in energy -- and to take other steps to improve their finances. That drove the first move in what he expects to be a three-stage rally in commodity markets.
 The last stage, he predicted, will be ''a true scarcity phase when Mother Nature slaps us in the face and grabs our attention and tells us we're running out of commodities like oil when people keep wanting more.'' 
 But that's well in the future, Mr. Sturm said. Right now, ''we're in a big fat middle phase where commodity prices are expected to remain above their average ranges but will not continue to trend higher,'' he said. ''We expect them to modify from recent levels in energy and in some of the metals, including copper.''
 He described his view of commodity stocks during this stable period as ''persistent but moderated bullishness'' and said valuations ''are still very attractive, even if earnings don't continue to grow at the same supercharged pace'' as in recent months.
 A bit more than half of Mr. Sturm's fund is invested in energy suppliers, including ChevronTexaco, Thai Oil and Massey Energy, an American coal mining company. For the last six months, he said, he has been allocating more of the fund's $2.5 billion in assets to producers of precious metals as a play on growth in developing markets.
 ''Gold remains a form of money, and in much of the emerging world where they don't trust what comes out of the A.T.M. machine, people may buy an extra gold bangle and store it as money,'' Mr. Sturm said. He said, too, that energy producers in the Middle East and elsewhere were prone to buying gold with surplus cash, of which they have plenty these days.
 His bet on precious metals is also a hedge against unforeseen negative events. ''Gold is the best form of insurance when you're not sure what you're insuring against,'' he explained. Among the miners of precious metals in his portfolios are Buenaventura in Peru and Impala Platinum in South Africa.
 John Hill, an analyst at Citigroup, says he also thinks that the rally in gold has further to go. He has told clients that prices have continued to climb against an economic backdrop often associated with weakness for the metal, including rising interest rates, controlled inflation and a stronger dollar.
 ''We continue to be positive on gold,'' he wrote, citing ''healthy underlying supply-demand fundamentals in the form of Indian fabrication, Chinese retail investment and recycled Middle Eastern petrodollar flows.''
 Citigroup's analysts have buy ratings on Newmont Mining and Barrick Gold and they are neutral on another large North American producer, Placer Dome. They also recommend buying Alcoa, United States Steel and the specialty steel maker Nucor. Other prominent components of Mr. Sturm's portfolio are Aracruz Celulose and Suzano, the Brazilian pulp and paper companies; Nalco, an American water treatment company; and Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, or CVRD, a Brazilian miner of base metals.
 Mr. Sturm highlighted one segment -- chemical making -- that benefits when prices of other commodities fall. Energy is a major cost in chemical production, and with energy prices due to moderate, in his opinion, the chemical makers could thrive.
 He is especially optimistic about suppliers of industrial gases. ''Companies may enjoy stronger profitability and an ability to pay down debt'' for the next two years as prices increase for the gases they manufacture, he said. Shares of companies like Praxair, Air Liquide and Air Products and Chemicals ''are more attractive than they may appear.'' The outlook for Praxair appears so bright that one investor who seldom buys commodity producers, Rick Drake, co-manager of the ABN Amro Growth fund, keeps it in his portfolio.
 Mr. Drake shuns commodity stocks. ''They tend to be cyclical companies,'' he said, ''and our focus is on consistent, sustainable growth through all parts of the cycle.'' 
 ''They do well when prices skyrocket,'' he added, ''then eventually someone comes along and builds up supply, the price comes down and companies get hurt.''
 Praxair's performance is not nearly as volatile, he said. It is a basic materials company producing hydrogen, and Mr. Drake expects its use to expand. ''The hydrogen business has been real strong because of oil,'' he said, ''not because oil prices are higher, but because environmental laws are such that when you get low-grade crude oil, you need more hydrogen to refine it.''
 Hydrogen also produces efficiencies in steel making, Mr. Drake noted, and is used in clean rooms for, among other things, semiconductor production. ''It is more of a play on industrial production'' than commodity price inflation, he said, describing Praxair as ''a very steady, consistent growth company.''
 STEADY growth is desirable, but investors are often willing to take a chance on companies with more volatile earnings streams if they believe they can catch the upswing. Gil Knight, a senior portfolio manager at Gartmore, contends that the rally in commodity prices is robust enough to warrant significant exposure to the sector, although he also worries that prices may have moved ahead too fast.
 Mr. Knight has long held shares of oil drilling and exploration companies, such as Halliburton, Ensco International, Southwestern Energyand Range Resources, but he warned against following his lead.
 ''I wouldn't buy any of these stocks up here,'' he said. ''They're in nosebleed territory.'' Still, he said, ''in terms of percentage gains versus other industries, I don't think they're going to do as badly as people think.''
 He finds greater opportunity in other industries. He said he added to his position in Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold in January, when the stock dipped slightly amid allegations that the company had inappropriate ties to the Indonesian military. Its shares have risen about 50 percent in the last six months.
 His other favorites include Joy Global, a manufacturer of mining equipment that he called ''a fantastic little company,'' and two suppliers of cement and other basics, Florida Rock and Vulcan Materials.
 He agreed that commodity prices would be supported by strength in emerging economies. ''If you pay attention to growth,'' Mr. Knight said, ''you have to stick with energy stocks and probably some commodity stocks this year.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Prices for metals such as aluminum, above, are recovering from a slide in the 1990's, which had led companies like Alcoa and Reynolds to merge to improve their finances. (Photo by Timothy Jacobsen/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (71%) Stocks and Bonds; Futures and Options Trading; Copper, Brass and Bronze; Wood and Wood Products; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gold; Stocks and Bonds; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (56%); ALCOA INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan, J P, Chase & Co ; Ivy Asset Management Corp

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (51%); AA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (51%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (51%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle; Stuart A Schweitzer; Fred Sturm

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



109 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ON THE CONTRARY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Where Lender Meets Borrower, Directly

BYLINE: By DANIEL AKST. 
Daniel Akst is a journalist and novelist who writes often about business. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ABOUT 10 years ago, a man named J. Richard Fredericks, who focused on commercial banking during a career in the securities business, made an interesting observation. ''Banking is essential to a modern economy,'' he said. ''But banks are not.''
 Recent events have made Mr. Fredericks look prescient. The most obvious development has been Wal-Mart's request for federal permission to enter the banking business. Although the company says it wants permission only to operate a quasibank -- known as an industrial loan company -- in order to save money on credit card processing, America's smaller banks worry that eventually the big retailer will eat their lunch. 
Less noticed, and potentially more significant, are a couple of fascinating banking developments on the Internet, the greatest strength of which may yet turn out to be in matching supply with demand, whether the arena is goods, services, information, love or money. In Britain, a site called Zopa.com has built a system of matching borrowers and lenders that eliminates the traditional middleman: the bank that accepts your deposits and then lends your money, assuming credit risks as it does so. Zopa, which started last March, has 48,000 members, a spokesman said.
 Zopa makes it possible for individual lenders and borrowers to connect without going through an old-fashioned financial institution. Presumably, lenders can earn higher rates of return -- and borrowers can get better deals -- because there is no bank overhead to pay, not to mention all those pesky reserve, accounting, community lending and other requirements. Zopa gets a 1 percent fee from borrowers, but beyond that allows lenders and borrowers to set rates themselves in its online marketplace. 
 There is risk for lenders, of course, but Zopa tries to minimize it by dividing any sum on offer into at least 50 different loans. (Zopa handles payments and administration, so this diversification imposes no headaches on lenders.) Borrowers, moreover, are divided into various markets, based on their credit scores, so lenders can charge the less creditworthy a higher rate. Zopa even provides estimated default rates, based on loan duration and the borrower's level of creditworthiness.
 Is it any surprise that a similar project is in the works on this side of the Atlantic? It's called Circleone.com, and its chief executive and co-founder, Chris Larsen, held the same positions at E-Loan, the Internet mortgage company. 
 So far, Circleone is accessible only by password; a spokesman said by e-mail that ''we're still working on enhancing the site based on feedback from our initial 'friends and family' launch,' '' and that during this period it was not talking to the press.
 But log-in information is freely available on the Internet, so I signed in and poked around a bit. My conclusion is that Circleone, like Zopa, is probably onto something. Lenders bid on loans, and borrowers, using a technique more often seen in third-world microlending, can form groups with collective ratings. Think of it as a cross between eBay and a first-world version of Grameen Bank, the pioneering lender in Bangladesh.
 Circleone borrowers are assigned letter ratings, based on their credit score on Experian, one of the major credit agencies. Those with low scores or no credit history are rated, too, offering even these risky borrowers potential access to money -- and offering adventurous creditors a chance to lend to them. 
 Historical default rates are given for each letter rating; lenders can bid on individual loans or leave standing orders to lend at a given rate and term. Circleone will charge borrowers 1 percent and assess lenders a 0.5 percent annual fee, accrued daily on outstanding loan principal.
 This could be a great business. But just as E-Loan didn't demolish the market for traditional mortgage lending, Circleone and its inevitable imitators are unlikely to drive America's banks out of business. Neither would Wal-Mart, if it gets the permission it seeks. But I do think that Wal-Mart and outfits like Circleone will eventually pose a challenge to one of the most profitable parts of banking: the credit card business.
 The new lenders will allow individuals to get relatively small personal loans conveniently, and at lower interest rates than those offered by traditional credit cards. If the idea succeeds, it should put downward pressure on persistently high credit card rates. By giving depositors a potentially lucrative alternative, it may also raise banks' cost of funds.
 It sounds like a good deal for everyone -- everyone, that is, but banks, who may yet discover that an Internet start-up can be at least as dangerous as a retail leviathan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INDUSTRIAL LOAN COMPANIES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (75%); INTERNET RETAILING (74%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); CREDIT CARDS (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); RETAILERS (69%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Banks and Banking; Computers and the Internet; Credit

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Zopa.com; Circleone.com

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

PERSON: Daniel Akst

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



110 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Fighting a Little-Known Enemy

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IF Suzanne Cohen asked you to donate money for TB research and counseling programs, you would almost certainly know what she was talking about. But if she asked you to donate money for E.B. research and counseling programs, you would probably react with a blank stare.
 Well, all right, she would not initially refer to ''E.B.'' in approaching you. She would first mention the words that the letters stand for, epidermolysis bullosa. But then she would still have some explaining to do that would be unnecessary if her job was to raise money for programs related to tuberculosis or any other well-known illness, like heart disease or cancer. 
 Her role, however, is to raise money for one of the 6,000 rare ailments that the National Organization for Rare Disorders says exist in the United States. That group defines a rare disorder in this country as one affecting fewer than 200,000 people. And epidermolysis bullosa, an incurable, often lethal condition, affects perhaps 12,000 Americans, according to the National Institutes of Health -- making Ms. Cohen's work an example of medical fund-raising at its most challenging.
 Ms. Cohen, 40, is executive director of the Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa Research Association of America, whose office is in Manhattan. It was founded in 1979 by a New York City resident, Arlene Pessar, whose son, Eric Lopez, died of the disease. The group is known as Debra of America, to distinguish it from independently founded and operated Debra groups in about 20 other countries.
 With E.B., which is usually genetic in origin, the skin is so fragile that even slight friction can cause blisters. While many cases are mild, with minor skin blistering, many others are deadly, with painful external blisters causing large permanent scars and with blisters also forming in the mouth and the linings of the esophagus and stomach, making it impossible for patients to eat solid food. 
 Malnutrition, fatal infections and metastatic skin cancer are threats in severe cases, in which the blisters may appear at birth or in infancy. The mortality rate in the severe cases is very high, with death often in childhood, the National Institutes of Health says.
 ''The first challenge that you have to get past is telling people what this disease is,'' Ms. Cohen said. ''Their first reaction is: 'I've never heard of it. How do you pronounce it?' But once you get past that stage, people are very sympathetic and say, 'How can I help?' ''
 Whether such offers translate into sustained commitments, though, is frequently a question with a rare disease, fund-raising specialists say. ''Most people tend to donate for a disease their family is threatened by,'' said Abbey Meyers, president of the National Organization for Rare Disorders.
 Given the small public awareness of E.B., Ms. Cohen said, her group's hunt for contributions has to have a narrow focus.
 ''It's not practical for an organization like us to buy a mailing list from a magazine,'' she said. Her group's list is made up of past donors and people who have called the group for information about E.B. The group also raises funds through an annual tennis and golf event at the Westchester Country Club, seeks foundation grants and receives donations from groups across the country that raise money for local people afflicted with the disease. There was a noticeable increase in donations last year, she said, after a British documentary on E.B. was shown on American television.
 Ms. Cohen said that in 2004, the latest year for which she had final figures, her group raised $525,000. In recent years, she said, the group has spent an average of 70 percent of its revenue on support services like counseling patients and their families and on raising public awareness of E.B.; 16 percent on grants to researchers seeking a cure and improved treatments; and 14 percent on fund-raising and management.
 Ms. Cohen, who took over as executive director a year ago -- she is one of four paid staff members -- said the group planned to allocate substantially more to research in the future, though ''without shortchanging anybody on services.''
 (The other leading E.B. group in the United States, the Epidermolysis Bullosa Medical Research Foundation, in Los Angeles, focuses on fund-raising for research and does not provide support services.)
 For Ms. Cohen, whose career has included public relations, marketing and executive posts with health-related companies and nonprofit groups, her current challenges are part of what she called a dream job with ''a cause that deserves more attention.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Raising awareness Suzanne Cohen raises money to battle an illness called epidermolysis bullosa. She says that her first challenge is telling people what the disease is. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC DISEASES (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TUBERCULOSIS (90%); SKIN DISORDERS (90%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CANCER (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); SKIN CANCER (75%); MALNUTRITION (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); HEART DISEASE (69%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Epidermolysis Bullosa Simplex; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR RARE DISORDERS (56%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%)

PERSON: Joseph P Fried; Suzanne Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



111 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; PT2; Column 1; Sports Desk; The Business; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 1961 words

HEADLINE: Take the Money and Stay

BYLINE: By Joseph Nocera. 
Joseph Nocera is a business columnist for The New York Times and a staff writer for The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
Last May, three and a half months before Hurricane Katrina devastated New Orleans, a San Antonio lawyer named Stanley Rosenberg told a local reporter that the New Orleans Saints might be contemplating a move to San Antonio. This was no idle chatter, as the reporter well knew. One of Rosenberg's longtime clients is Tom Benson, who has owned the team since 1985. Although a New Orleans native, Benson has deep roots in San Antonio, where his car dealerships have helped make him wealthy. Benson also owns a ranch, said to be his favorite place in the world, just north of the city.
For years, there have been rumblings that Benson, 78, might be looking to move the Saints to San Antonio. Economically, San Antonio and New Orleans have seemed for some time to be going in opposite directions. With a population of 1.2 million, San Antonio is a city on the rise, with a growing business community and a sense, in the words of the local writer Jan Jarboe Russell, ''that it has finally caught up to the rest of Texas and is getting rich.'' 
 New Orleans, meanwhile, was a small market getting smaller, with a declining urban population that had fallen below 500,000. It has been years since the Saints sold out the 137 luxury boxes in the Louisiana Superdome, and boxes are a key revenue source for most National Football League teams. Although Benson has perhaps the sweetest lease deal in all of football -- the Saints pay less than $1 million rent for the Superdome, pocket every penny from concessions and parking, and receive a stunning cash payment from the state of Louisiana that averages about $18 million a year -- he was unhappy with the 30-year-old stadium and had been trying for several years to persuade the state to build him a new one. What's more, the Saints' lease agreement with Louisiana had an ''out'' clause, allowing the team to walk away from the Superdome -- and New Orleans -- after the 2005 season, as long as Benson repaid the $81 million the state had already given him.
 For many people in San Antonio, the prospect of landing the Saints was joyous news. Like many rising Sun Belt cities, San Antonio viewed an N.F.L. franchise as more than entertainment, more than even a home team to root for. It would be a kind of validation that the city had hit the big time. ''Had there never been a hurricane,'' said Mayor Phil Hardberger of San Antonio, who had made landing the Saints a campaign issue, ''I think the Saints might have come here.''
 But there was a hurricane, one of the most destructive in this country's history. And though you might assume that New Orleans's ability to retain its football team would become even more tenuous after the disaster -- that the economic arguments in favor of San Antonio would become much stronger -- just the opposite took place. Katrina made it absolutely impossible for Benson to move the Saints, illustrating at once the power of the N.F.L., the unusual economics of professional football and the amazing hold a sports franchise can have on a city.
 For the 20 years that Benson has owned the Saints, the team has always seemed to be two different organizations. One was composed of the players and the coaches; by and large they haven't had much success. True, the Saints won their only playoff game ever during the Benson era -- that came four years ago -- but most seasons, they don't come close to making the playoffs. (This year was no exception: the team wound up with a 3-13 record, and the head coach, Jim Haslett, was fired pretty much the minute the season ended.) Nobody doubts that Benson would like to field a winning team, but he doesn't seem to have the faintest idea how to go about it. 
 What he does know how to do is make money. In this regard, the Saints' organization has performed brilliantly. To be sure, it's almost impossible to lose money in the N.F.L., thanks mainly to the league's policy of sharing equally the almost $4 billion it reaps from its TV contracts and certain other revenues. For this past season, each of the 32 teams will get $112.5 million from what's called the N.F.L.'s central fund -- an amount well in excess of the $100 million salary and benefits cap. ''The N.F.L.,'' says Red McCombs, a San Antonio native who used to own the Minnesota Vikings, ''has built the best business model in sports.''
 Even so, the Saints' financial performance has been exceptional. According to two former front-office executives, the Saints under Benson have regularly been among the most profitable teams in the league, despite operating in one of the smallest markets. Although the books are closely guarded, Forbes magazine estimates that in 2004 the Saints made almost $43 million on $175 million in revenues, making it the eighth most profitable team in the league. By contrast, the Detroit Lions, which generated $186 million in revenues, made only $15 million in profit, according to Forbes.
 One way that N.F.L. owners make money is by pleading poverty -- and threatening to leave for greener pastures -- in order to get either a new stadium or a better deal from the state or local government. And so it has been with Benson, who swears up and down that the Saints make only average profits. Three times he has gotten the state of Louisiana to sweeten his lease deal, culminating with that extraordinary lease he negotiated in 2001 with Governor Mike Foster. Before Katrina, the current governor, Kathleen Blanco, had been saying openly that the state simply could not afford to continue handing Benson a multimillion-dollar check each year. But her attempts to get the lease deal renegotiated went nowhere.
 This, then, was the state of play when the hurricane hit. Louisiana and the Saints were at a stalemate. San Antonio and Benson had begun to play footsie. The deadline for the out clause was fast approaching. Plainly, New Orleans's hold on the Saints was looking a little shaky.
 Professional sports teams aren't just cold, hard businesses, and never have been. They are public symbols in which cities take enormous pride. In New Orleans after the storm, though, the Saints assumed a symbolic importance far beyond the norm. With so many questions surrounding the city's rebuilding -- Would it inevitably have to become a smaller place? Would it be able to hold onto businesses? -- the immediate future of the Saints became a kind of proxy for the future of the city. The departure of the Saints would mean, in some deep way, defeat. Keeping the Saints would say something good about New Orleans's ability to rebuild.
 Perhaps because he has always looked at his team primarily through the prism of business, Benson never seemed to fully comprehend what the Saints meant to the city after the hurricane. The team wound up splitting its home games between Baton Rouge, where it used the 90,000-seat stadium owned by Louisiana State University, and -- shudder! -- San Antonio, which welcomed the team with open arms, selling 63,000 tickets for a game on Christmas Eve in the Alamodome. San Antonio wanted to show Benson and the N.F.L. that it was ready for a team.
 Benson, for his part, continued to talk quietly about moving the team, which infuriated the New Orleans sports media and fans when word leaked out. In no time at all, Benson was the most hated public figure this side of Michael Brown, the former boss of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. After the first game in Baton Rouge -- an ugly loss to the Miami Dolphins, coached by Nick Saban, the former coach at L.S.U. -- Benson felt threatened by fans, and then wrote an angry e-mail to PaulTagliabue, the N.F.L. commissioner, saying that he would never return to L.S.U. because he feared for his safety. Benson's e-mail was promptly leaked to the news media. 
 ''The Saints are everything to this community,'' says Michael Siegel, a New Orleans developer, ''but Tom Benson is a businessman at heart and not a sports enthusiast.'' 
 Few organizations in American life are as conscious of public relations as the N.F.L. -- ''politically correct,'' Red McCombs sneeringly calls the league. Not surprisingly, the league absolutely understood what a public relations calamity it would be if the Saints left New Orleans in the wake of the hurricane.
 The N.F.L. didn't much care that Benson was unhappy with the Superdome, or that the state was unlikely to pay him his $18 million after the hurricane, or even that he was likely to lose money, given the extraordinary extra expenses he had to cover, including, for instance, refunds for season-ticket holders. What mattered was that the Saints stay in the city. ''We had to make it clear to the people in New Orleans that the Saints were their team,'' Tagliabue says. ''We had to be part of the recovery.''
 Here, then, was the advantage of running a league that doles out over $100 million a year to each team: you get to call the shots. On the one hand, the league requires a three-quarters vote by the other owners for a team to relocate, and there was no way Benson was going to get such approval after the hurricane. But it was more than that. ''The Saints are maybe a $150 million business, whatever their revenues are,'' Tagliabue says. ''The league is a $5.5 billion to $6 billion business. And I told the owners from the beginning that we needed to view this as a league responsibility.''
 Thus did Tagliabue insert himself, and the N.F.L., into the aftermath of the hurricane. It was Tagliabue who insisted that the Saints play some games in Louisiana. Tagliabue persuaded the state and Benson to delay the out clause by a year to give everyone more time to figure out how to proceed. Tagliabue had the N.F.L. deal directly with the Superdome officials overseeing its repair. And on the last weekend of the season, after hearing that the Superdome might be ready by as early as next September, Tagliabue and Benson announced that the Saints would be in New Orleans for the 2006 season.
 Will Benson make money next season? Possibly, though the Saints will certainly drop out of the top five, given the city's hobbled condition. But beyond his powers of persuasion, Tagliabue has another tool at his disposal: he controls the bulk of the revenues that go to the 32 teams. It seems highly probable that he will see to it that a little extra revenue sharing goes to the Saints, to help salve Benson's wounds. That is the language Tom Benson understands best. It's quite likely that Benson won't even lose money for the season just ended, thanks to a combination of insurance and help from the league. It's a nice little business they've got over there at the N.F.L.
 When I spoke to Benson for this article, the main point he wanted to make was that he had been grievously misunderstood all season. ''What we went through,'' he said, ''was unbelievable.'' FEMA, he pointed out, took over the Saints' $6 million practice facility outside the city, forcing the temporary move to San Antonio. All his actions, he said, were meant to show that ''I was working real hard to do everything I could to make sure the Saints will be a viable part of New Orleans.'' He insisted that he never intended to move to San Antonio permanently and that it was his decision -- not the N.F.L.'s -- to return to New Orleans next season.
 But then I asked if he would commit to the city beyond 2006. ''I don't know if I can commit,'' he said. ''I don't know what the situation is going to be.'' He caught himself. Raising his voice a notch, he said: ''I'll commit to 2050 if New Orleans will commit to 2050. I can't commit alone. Let's commit together. That's all I want.''
 You get the implication of that statement, don't you? Hurricane or no hurricane, Tom Benson still wants his new stadium. Apparently, you really can't teach an old dog new tricks.


GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photo Montage by Stephen Kroninger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); RELOCATIONS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); CITIES (75%); WRITERS (73%); WEATHER (73%); CITY LIFE (70%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); NEW CAR DEALERS (56%); HISTORY (50%) Football; Relocation of Business; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Finances

ORGANIZATION: NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%) New Orleans Saints

PERSON: Joseph Nocera; Tom Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (95%) TEXAS, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) San Antonio (Tex); New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



112 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; PT2; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 102

LENGTH: 4348 words

HEADLINE: How Do You Say Shank in Mandarin?

BYLINE: By Charles McGrath. 
Charles McGrath is a writer-at-large for The New York Times.

 BODY:
''Hao qiu!'' your caddie is apt to murmur sweetly if you manage an even halfway decent drive after teeing off in China. Good shot! If you hit a ''bu hao'' -- a stinker -- there will be a moment of embarrassed silence.
As in the rest of Asia, caddies are mandatory everywhere in China -- nobody would dream of carrying his own bag. And in China caddies are almost always women. They wear white gloves sometimes and long-billed hard hats, designed to protect them from both the sun and errant shots, and they bring to their profession a level of devotion undreamed of in the West. They tote your bag in a hand-pulled trolley, or else, like liveried footmen, they ride on a running board welded to the back of a golf cart and scurry from cart path to fairway bearing fistfuls of clubs. At the tee box, they present your driver as if it were a ceremonial sword, and after you're done, they carefully swaddle the head back in its cover. 
 Chinese caddies do everything, in fact, except hit your shot for you. They hand you your tee; give you your yardage; fill your divots; rake your traps; mark your ball, clean it and then replace it with the logo pointing along the proper line to the hole. They also emote with you, sharing your joy, feeling your pain. When I plopped my second shot into the water on the par-5 14th hole at Sheshan Golf Club in Shanghai last fall, my caddie gave me a look of such surprise and distress it was as if I had drowned our child.
 Golf is now an international language, and people in China speak it everywhere, lining up their putts like Jack, following through like Freddie. You even spot them in airports, practicing their swings with invisible clubs. But the Chinese version of this language has a subtext. Golf and the imagery of golf, which you see all over, on TV commercials and highway billboards, are a kind of code for the new China, the one where the economy is growing at close to 10 percent a year and where, even though the average wage in the countryside is less than $100 a month, hordes of newly minted millionaires are not in the least embarrassed about flaunting their wealth. Much more than in America, golf in China stands for money, power and social exclusivity.
 For all intents and purposes, golf in China is just 20 years old. The first modern course, an Arnold Palmer design, opened in 1984. Another dozen or so were added in the decade following. But in the last 10 years the total has soared to 230, making China second in Asia in terms of golf course acreage (behind Japan), and though there is supposed to be a moratorium on constructing courses, new ones seem to spring up every month. In some ways, the most significant thing to happen to Chinese golf was the SARS epidemic of 2003, when some offices were closed for as long as six weeks and Chinese businessmen, who place great stock in personal relationships and face-to-face meetings, began making their deals outside on the fairway. Golf has now replaced karaoke as the preferred way of entertaining business clients.
 What all this means, though, is that golf hasn't evolved in China: it has arrived more or less full-blown, in its high-end and even slightly decadent form. If you think of the country as a kind of golf laboratory, it's one that skipped over all the populist experiments -- the developmental stage of public links and pitch 'n' putt and little rural nine-holers -- and went straight to the exclusive clubs and the gated golf course communities whose manicured fairways are lined with McMansions. There are no munis, just a handful of daily-fee courses, and the membership at most clubs would set you back more than it would at Winged Foot.
 Officially the Chinese government appears to be ambivalent about golf, which it eradicated, along with other vestiges of Western luxury and elitism, in 1949. In Shanghai, for example, where the British introduced golf to the Chinese in the 19th century and where the most famous club, Hung-Jao, was taken over by the municipal authorities and turned into a zoo, government officials are still discouraged from playing. Many do, anyway. They just use assumed names.
 It has been said that if Hu Jintao, the country's president, were ever photographed holding a club, a million new golfers would come leaping out of the closet. Occasionally you also hear that China is in danger of turning into Myrtle Beach, S.C., with more courses than there are players to keep them profitable. But you would never think so from visiting Chinese clubs, which teem with golfers from dawn to dusk. At Mission Hills, the country's largest golf complex, outside the city of Shenzhen, people play under the lights until two in the morning.
 ''You must be boss,'' Wang Yuhong, the vice general manager of the Shanghai Lujiazui Golf Club, said to me one sweltering Saturday morning after watching me take a few swings with a borrowed club. The Lujiazui is not, strictly speaking, a golf club at all. It's a two-story driving range -- 98 stalls -- on what must be some of the most expensive real estate in the world: five acres in the heart of Shanghai's financial district, where skyscrapers sprout like weeds. All around me young men in their 20's or early 30's were flailing and slashing at balls. They all had top-of-the-line equipment and trunk-size leather golf bags stamped with the logos of Callaway, Titleist or Mizuno. Out by the 150-yard marker, a guy was pushing a hand-operated ball retriever surrounded by a protective cage. He looked a little like a gerbil on an exercise wheel, and some golfers were trying to hit him -- without a great deal of success.
 One of the consequences of being a 20-year-old golf laboratory is that few people in the lab have grown up with the game, and most are self-taught. The average handicap at most Chinese clubs is probably 26 or 27, much higher than it would be at equivalent American clubs. And even Chinese with access to instruction sometimes resist it. ''These people are so wealthy, some of them, that they're used to getting everything they want right away,'' said Linford Jacquelin, an Australian pro who teaches at the David Leadbetter Golf Academy at Mission Hills. ''Some of them are impatient about taking lessons.''
 Wang explained that in China the bosses were the golfing pioneers. In any office, he said, the boss is always the first to take up the game, followed by the office manager and then by ambitious employees who want to emulate him. The growth of golf in Shanghai, he added, has been directly tied to the city's growth as a world financial center. ''See those buildings?'' he said, pointing to the skyscrapers out beyond the giant net stretched behind the 250-yard marker. ''They weren't here when we start.''
 That was in 2000, and there were hardly any golfers then, either. The few who did show up were mostly from Taiwan or Hong Kong, where golf has much older roots. But starting in 2002, Wang said, the skyscrapers began shooting up, and soon the stalls at Lujiazui were filled with eager hackers. One of them, a young man named Chow Wei, who now has quite a practiced swing, said: ''Golf is like social status. People play because they think they're rich, or because they want you to think it.''
 A yearly membership at Lujiazui costs about $250, which is a bargain by Chinese standards. You get to book a slot in advance, and a uniformed caddie will tote your bag to the stall, where another caddie, pushing a drinks cart, will very quickly turn up. There is also a pro shop, a restaurant and a snooker room. The place is a sort of training club, where you can park yourself while you save up the roughly $124,000 it costs to join Tomson, one of the best-known of the 15 or so clubs in the Shanghai area.
 Tomson, the site of the BMW Asian Open since 2004, is just 20 minutes from downtown, and from practically any spot on the course you can see the crowded cityscape and Shanghai's two most famous landmarks: the Oriental Pearl TV Tower, which looks like a shish kebab skewer with an onion in the middle, and the cloud-piercing Jin Mao Tower. But like many Chinese clubs, Tomson is otherworldly, a gated community enclosing hundreds of classical-style villas and condos, and the course itself is so manicured, so stylized, that it doesn't seem quite natural. It was designed by the Japanese architect Shunsuke Kato and resembles a giant Japanese rock garden or, in its hokier moments, a miniature golf course blown up to life size. The fairways, narrow and lined with ornamental trees, are gently mounded along the sides, and strewed around, just for looks, are lots of handsome white boulders. Hundreds of them are stacked across the fairway of the fourth hole, to replicate the Great Wall of China -- there is no free drop -- and in the middle of the 18th fairway there's an enormous conical pile of them, which you can hit either over or around, depending on how bold you are. This is the highest elevation by far on the golf course, and I was baffled as to its purpose. ''What is that?'' I asked Aileen Zhou, an assistant manager at Tomson. ''Mount Fuji,'' she said matter-of-factly.
 About 45 minutes away, on the city outskirts and in the shadow of a real mountain -- or what passes for a mountain in the otherwise flat, scrubby landscape of the Shanghai region -- is Sheshan Golf Club, the newest and most exclusive of the Shanghai clubs. According to David Townend, the general manager, ''We set out to be the first truly private and exclusive golf course in Shanghai.'' Sheshan is only a year old, and had you signed on at the beginning, before ground was broken in October 2002, you could have joined for $30,000 (plus the monthly dues); current memberships go for $165,000, and there are only a few left. If Premier Golf, a bimonthly magazine published by the club, is any indication, the members tend to be corporate bigwigs, and what they are looking for is not just a place to play golf but a full-service haven: in this case, a little slice of Tuscany. The hundred or so villas and equal number of town houses surrounding the course are clad in stone, with Italian archways and terra-cotta roof tiles. There are fountains, a bell tower and an arched Tuscan bridge linking the clubhouse to the fairway on 18. The clubhouse itself, big enough to contain a Tuscan village in its entirety, includes in the locker room a more than passable vision of what the Baths of Caracalla in ancient Rome might have been like.
 Thanks in part to a connection with IMG, the giant sports-management agency, Sheshan was selected as the site for last November's HSBC Champions tournament, whose $5 million in prize money, the richest purse in Asia, was sufficient to attract even the likes of Tiger Woods, on only his second visit to China. When I was there in September, the place was already quivering with anticipation. ''Tiger Woods!'' one member said after spotting me as an American. ''I will be here!''
 The Chinese revere Woods. They're fascinated by him for all the reasons we are, and also because his mother is Thai. ''Tiger Woods is Asian,'' Jim Liu, a member at Mission Hills, explained to me one morning while watching his two sons, 6-year-old Andrew and 8-year-old Michael, take a golf lesson. ''And a lot of Asians think that if he can do it, then it means they have a chance too.''
 As it happened, Tiger, who finished second, at 17 under, shot the lights out at Sheshan. So did most of the field. The course is not a pushover, though; it's just young, having had insufficient time to grow championship-quality rough. And unlike many of the courses in China, which have an unreal, theme-park quality and seem as if they were rolled out like a magic carpet on alien ground, Sheshan actually looks as if it belongs where it is. This is in part an illusion, like the look of most modern golf courses. An enormous amount of earth had to be bulldozed to give the land some contour and elevation. But the shaping was done tastefully and judiciously, and the result is a course that's both pleasing to look at and, for an amateur, challenging to play. The back nine also benefits from a 250-foot-deep natural quarry, which the finishing holes circle or cross.
 I played this nine one afternoon with Townend and the club's resident touring pro, Li Chao. Townend did a stint on the Australian tour and still has a sharp game, though like most people in the golf industry he complains about never getting out on the course. Li, who is 25 and, at 6-foot-5, unusually large for a Chinese, is thought to be China's most promising young player. He effortlessly knocked off five birdies. I fell apart, and tied him on just one hole, a par-3 that he bogeyed.
 ''Listen to that,'' Linford Jacquelin, the Mission Hills pro, said to me one morning while we were playing the Nick Faldo course, my favorite of the 10 layouts at the complex, which is the largest not just in China but in the world.
 ''What?'' I said.
 ''Birds,'' he answered. 
 Bird song is rare in parts of China because the countryside is being developed so rapidly. Like most golf courses in China, those at Mission Hills are comparatively ecofriendly. (In a country where labor is so cheap, it's just as efficient to pick weeds by hand as to nuke them with chemicals.) But Mission Hills is a world unto itself: gated and guarded by uniformed security personnel who snap off military salutes to incoming and outgoing vehicles and use dogs to patrol the landscaped grounds of the adjoining, clubhouse-size villas. Surrounding the complex are the industrial cities of Dongguan and Shenzhen, which were designated as part of a special economic zone in 1979 and are now the engine room of Chinese manufacturing. For miles in every direction, the roads are lined with low-rise apartment buildings and sprawling, fenced-in factories and their grim adjoining dormitories.
 Mission Hills -- with a lavish clubhouse, a five-star hotel, pools and spas, and a mall-size pro shop -- is a sort of factory itself, turning out rounds of golf on an industrial scale. There are 2,000 caddies on duty: a red-uniformed army, battalions of which are always standing at parade rest in a staging area where golfers assemble before deploying to the courses. The caddies, most of whom are in their late teens or early 20's, live in convent-like barracks, work six days a week and send home much of what they make (from $150 to $400 a month, depending on seniority). The majority come from remote parts of China, where work is hard to find. One of them, Linda Ren, told me that her village in Jilin Province was 35 hours away by train.
 Mission Hills is the brainchild of David Chu, a native of Hong Kong who was one of the first entrepreneurs to see opportunity in mainland China after the country opened to foreign investment in 1979, and who quickly made a fortune in the corrugated-packaging business. Chu is not much of a golfer himself, but he nevertheless guessed that the game would catch on among tycoons and executives. In 1992, he obtained a lease on some scrubland outside Shenzhen and hired Jack Nicklaus, Jumbo Ozaki, Ernie Els and Vijay Singh to design golf courses. (The Faldo course was added a little later at a separate site down the road, and though less touted than some of the others, it is actually one of the most pleasing because of its more human scale.) The Nicklaus course, the first to open, was the site of the 1995 World Cup tournament -- such a big deal at the time that Chu was able to persuade the government to build a new road that cut the driving time to Hong Kong from three hours to less than one.
 In 2002, Chu decided to build five more courses (giving him a ''Guinness''-certified world record of 180 holes altogether) on a vast spread of mountainous land in nearby Dongguan and enlisted five more celebrity designers: Greg Norman, David Leadbetter, Annika Sorenstam, Jose Maria Olazabal and David Duval. It normally takes at least two years to build a golf course; the Dongguan courses were built all at once and in just 18 months by 30,000 people working in shifts around the clock to knock the tops off mountains, fill in hollows and push dirt around to create tees, bunkers and greens. Building the pyramids was probably easier.
 The result is golf on such a scale and in such variety that it's almost unnerving. The original Mission Hills complex is a more or less traditional golf resort; the Dongguan addition, with a towering clubhouse now bulking up, is golf infused with growth hormone. The celebrity designs aren't just gimmicks. Each of the courses is worth playing, and each really does manifest something of its creator's personality. Duval's is old-fashioned and straightforward, with no blind shots or tricky doglegs; Sorenstam's, with six par-3's and six par-5's, is friendly to the short hitter; Olazabal's, in tribute to his mastery as a sand player, has a desert's worth of bunkers, including 24 on the 15th hole alone; and Norman's is long and tough, a forbidding, ball-devouring beast. (Norman probably didn't plan on this, but in addition to all the other hazards, the course is also blessed with the occasional cobra slipping through the rough or sunning itself in a bunker.)
 The courses are so different, in fact, that they don't really harmonize with one another, or even with the surrounding landscape, which looks just like the kind of Chinese mountainscape you see in scroll paintings. The place feels like a virtual landscape, or a golf fantasy -- calendar art come to life -- and when you board the shuttle bus and head down the hill, out the gate and past the factories and bleak concrete apartment buildings, dodging bicycles and flocks of pedestrians trudging along the road, it's like waking from a reverie. Starting with its name, in fact, there is very little about Mission Hills that is recognizably Chinese, except for the excellent Chinese food. The $10 million villas, for example, with their elevators, porticoes, marble floors, tiled pools and walk-in humidors, are built in what a brochure calls the ''perfect blend of Italian and Hawaiian style.''
 The most familiar thing about Chinese golf, and also the most retro, is its fledgling pro tour. In its first year in 2005, the China Tour, promoted by the World Sport Group, a Singapore firm, consisted of only four events and was intended as a training ground of sorts for golfers and fans alike. (At the 1995 World Cup at Mission Hills, many of the spectators turned up in business suits or high heels, and it was widely assumed that balls sprayed into the rough could be plucked as souvenirs.) The purses were tiny ($100,000 per tournament) and the golfers an eclectic, ragtag bunch from all over China. A few, like Li Chao, the prodigy from Sheshan, and his classmate Shang Lei, were products of Secondary School No. 77, an elite sports academy in Beijing that nurtures athletes from several sports. Some were athletes who, in their 20's or 30's, had switched over from other sports. Qi Zengfa, for example, was a former international rower; Ouyang Wen was a former national champion in wushu, the Chinese martial art. Many more were self-taught, guys who had picked up the game from hanging around golf courses as caddies or maintenance men.
 The first stop on the China Tour was Beijing's Elephant Club in August. I caught up with the second stop, at the Kunming Country Golf Club, in September. The Kunming course is hardly a championship layout: it's short, open and full of almost right-angled doglegs. On the other hand, compared with the clubs in Shanghai, it's homey and down-to-earth, and during the first two days of the tournament, when play was delayed by rain, the atmosphere in the clubhouse resembled that at a country club member-guest tournament. The golfers napped and smoked, waggled a few sample clubs provided by Mizuno, the event's sole sponsor, or else slouched on sofas and swapped yarns, their arms around one another in the companionable, unself-conscious way that Chinese men show affection.
 The coolest guy by far, and the one everybody else seemed to be aware of, was Zheng Wengen, who is said to be one of China's first professional golfers along with Zhang Lianwei, the first Chinese ever to play in the Masters. The process of becoming a pro in China is a little mysterious, and I got the sense that back in the early 1990's, when there were no pro tournaments to speak of, Zheng simply anointed himself. Handsome and fit at 39, however, he looks like a pro (unlike the younger players, he never turned his hat backward) and radiates a Seve Ballesteros-like glamour and self-confidence.
 The most ebullient player at Kunming was Zhou Xunshu, who at 32 was playing in his first professional tournament. Through an interpreter, he told me that he was a former army man who went to work as a security guard at Guangzhou Luhu Golf and Country Club, and one day, when no one was looking, he picked up a driver and on his third try hit a ball 300 yards. He practiced by himself for a year or so, using a broken shaft of a club to which he had attached a chunk of concrete, and then began sneaking out on the course in the evenings -- until he was caught. For two years after that, he didn't play at all, and then in just eight months he lowered his handicap to single digits.
 Listening to Zhou's story and to others like it, I suddenly had the realization that this must have been what our own pro tour was like in the 30's -- a bunch of self-taught caddies and hustlers, characters most of them, all newly in love with golf and trying to make a buck from it. I mentioned this idea to Johnny Liu, who is the deputy general manager of Kunming and deputy secretary general of the provincial golf association, and he said: ''Yes, golf is still in its infancy here. The other day someone from the foreign press asked one of the golfers if his father had played, and we all just looked at him. Golf! That guy's father was probably trying to find food for his family. I'm 37, and I still remember what it was like to be hungry.''
 On the first day of the tournament, Li Chao, who had won the first tour event, in Beijing, had seven birdies and jumped off to a substantial lead over the rest of the field, most of which failed to break par. But on the second day, he completed only three holes because of the rain delays, and on the third and last day, after playing 15 makeup holes, he melted down on his final round and shot an 81. Ouyang Wen, the wushu champ, got in a snit the first day, complaining that the officials had unfairly penalized him for slow play, and he never fully recovered his momentum. He was defended by his caddie, a 16-year-old named Jordan Chu, who is also Ouyang's pupil. Chu, who speaks excellent English, comes from a well-to-do family from Singapore that has resettled in Shanghai and, unusual in China, has a genuine golf pedigree. His grandfather, three uncles and two aunts all played. And with his family's encouragement he dropped out of school to pursue his own golf career full time. He had recently enrolled at the David Leadbetter Golf Academy in Orlando, Fla., he told me, but left prematurely because he didn't agree with Leadbetter's style of teaching.
 ''My goal is to become a professional golfer and get my card in two or three years,'' he said. ''My other goal is to break all the Asian beliefs that the Chinese are no good. I don't want to offend you, but frankly, there are other styles of instruction besides the Western ones. My coach understands me,'' he added, pointing to Ouyang Wen, who, as if in a martial arts movie, leapt straight up in the air and spun around twice before nailing a perfect landing.
 Zhou Xunshu, the guy who had learned from swinging concrete, turned out to have a slashing, Arnie-style swing. After a strong opening round, he hung on and finished 36th, at 10 over par, pocketing $950 -- not too shabby for a first-timer.
 The winner was the 26-year-old Richard Qiu Zhifeng, who had also gotten his start sneaking on at Guangzhou but who since 2001 had lacked the money to travel to tournaments and had been thinking of giving up and starting a pro shop. He began the final round two strokes back, but nipped the leader, Liao Guiming, with a 70. ''I want to cry, but the tears won't come,'' he said afterward, and added that he would use the prize money -- some $17,000 -- to buy a house.
 If You Go
 Teeing it Up in China
 Round-trip flights to Beijing typically cost less than $900, including taxes and fees. Last month, for example, Northwest Airlines (www.nwa.com) was offering round-trip fares from New York for $757, Chicago for $847 and Los Angeles for $730. Make sure you have a valid passport and a current visa, which is required to enter the country. The application forms can be downloaded at www.chinaembassy.org/eng.
 For trips within China, travelers can either use a travel agent or buy tickets at individual airports there. Air China is the major domestic carrier.
 In Shanghai you can practice your shot making at Shanghai Lujiazui Golf Club (501 Yin Cheng Zhong Road, Pudong; 86-21-6887-1700; www.lujiazui-golf.com). Getting a tee time at the members-only Tomson Golf Club (1 Longdong Avenue, Pudong; 86-21-5833-8888) is difficult, but not impossible. The club has arrangements with several upscale hotels -- the Grand Hyatt Shanghai (88 Century Boulevard, Pudong; 86-21-5049-1234; http://shanghai.grand.hyatt.com) and the InterContinental Pudong Shanghai (777 Zhangyang Road, Pudong; 86-21-5835-6666; http://shanghai.intercontinental.com), among others -- and will accommodate their guests. Sheshan Golf Club, unfortunately, is open only to members and their guests.
 In southern China, Kunming Country Golf Club (Anshi Highway, 14 kilometers from Kunming; 86-871-742-6658) is open to all visitors. Located near the Hong Kong border, Mission Hills Golf Club (1 Mission Hills Road, Shenzhen; 86-755-2802-0888; www.missionhillsgroup.com) is a members-only club, but guests at its five-star hotel, the Mission Hills Resort, can play any of the 10 courses. James Watson


GRAPHIC: Photos: RED ARMY: Some 2,000 caddies help Mission Hills -- China's (and the world's) largest golf complex -- turn out rounds of golf on an industrial scale. Most of the caddies in China are women.
CULTURAL REVOLUTION: Top row, at Mission Hills: a golfer, with caddie
caddies
security personnel (at a private residence). Bottom row: a player stretching during the China Tour's stop at the Kunming Country Golf Club in September
a groundskeeper at Kunming
a worker gathering balls at Lujiazui Golf Club, a driving range in Shanghai.
 NIGHT GAMES Golfers play until two o'clock in the morning at Mission Hills, which consists of 10 golf courses by designers like Jack Nicklaus, Vijay Singh, Ernie Els, Annika Sorenstam and Greg Norman. (Photographs By Lars Tunbjork For The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%) Golf

PERSON: ANNIKA SORENSTAM (52%) Charles Mcgrath

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (92%); YUNNAN, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



113 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; PT2; Column 2; Sports Desk; The Wager; Pg. 93

LENGTH: 1649 words

HEADLINE: Dissecting the Line

BYLINE: By Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt. 
Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt are the authors of ''Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything.'' For more information on the academic research behind this article, go to www.freakonomics.com.

 BODY:
If you are a bookie, legal or otherwise, today is a signal day. People who would never think of wagering on a regular National Football League game suddenly become desperate to bet the Super Bowl. People who do bet the N.F.L. every week (there are millions upon millions of them) can hardly stand by and watch the tourists have all the fun. This makes for a day in which billions of dollars change hands -- as much on this single game as is bet on a full slate of games during an entire month of the regular season. 
Which means that if a bookie loses big today, it could ruin his year. And, yes, bookies can lose. In a Las Vegas casino, games like roulette and blackjack match a player against the house in a contest whose odds are engineered in the house's favor. But in the casino's sports book, things are different. The house's bookmaker sets a price in the form of a point spread -- the Denver Broncos to win by at least 7 points, for instance. A bettor is then free to take either side. He can bet the Broncos minus 7 points (he'll win this bet if the Broncos win the game by more than 7 points), or he can bet the Broncos' opponent plus 7 points (he'll win if the Broncos lose outright or win by fewer than 7 points; if the Broncos win by 7 exactly, it's a ''push,'' or tie). For a bookie, offering these options creates risk. In financial markets, the primary role of the market maker is simply to match buyers with sellers; but in gambling, the market maker sets the price and sells the shares. To win, the bookie must consistently outsmart his customers.
 As it happens, there is one betting strategy that will routinely beat a bookie, and you don't even have to be smart to use it. One of the most undervalued N.F.L. bets is the home underdog -- a team favored to lose but playing in its home stadium. If you had bet $5,000 on the home underdog in every N.F.L. game over the past two decades, you would be up about $150,000 by now (a winning rate of roughly 53 percent). This fact has led some academics to conclude that bookmakers simply aren't very smart. If an academic researcher can find this loophole, shouldn't a professional bookie be able to?
 But the fact is most bookies are doing just fine. So could it be that bookies have a good reason to allow that loophole to dangle? Could it be that a seemingly dumb bookie is actually dumb like a fox?
 To find out, we visited Chuck Esposito, a genial, quick-witted and thoroughly sports-fixated man who runs the race and sports book at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas. Esposito, 43, is a rare breed: a legal bookmaker. The money bet on sports at Caesars and other Nevada casinos is meager compared with the wagers made through illegal bookies and quasi-legal Internet casinos. (Nevada, the only state that allows wide-scale sports betting, takes in perhaps 1 percent of the total United States sports-betting handle.) But with legality comes some measure of transparency, which makes the Caesars bookmaking operation worth studying. We saw Esposito on New Year's Day, the final Sunday of the 2005-6 regular N.F.L. season.
 The lounge where bettors congregate at Caesars is vast and thriving; six jumbo TV screens tower above the betting counter. Tucked behind all this is Esposito's windowless office, decked with sports memorabilia from his native Chicago. He is monitoring today's games on his own TV sets, seven small and aging models. Without checking his computer, Esposito knows full well which teams need to win today for Caesars to make money. How do things look so far? ''As you can see,'' he says, grinning, ''I'm not under my desk, and I haven't had to use the defibrillator today.''
 The most certain way for a bookmaker to turn a profit is to balance his book -- that is, to set a point spread that produces an equal number of dollars wagered on both sides of the line. Since only losers pay the house a 10 percent fee (known as the vigorish, or vig) on top of wagers, a balanced book guarantees the house a 5 percent gain. The conventional wisdom holds that bookmakers set point spreads to achieve this balance. ''It's a myth when they say that every game is balanced,'' Esposito says. ''If we could do that on every game, we would win every game, but it's impossible to do. The point spread is the equalizer, but you still can't talk the public into betting one side or the other.''
 The reason the public can't be talked into betting a particular side, at least not too often, is that the public has biases. For every bettor smart enough to stick to home underdogs, there are 5 or 10 bettors who systematically prefer favorites or who underestimate the impact of home-field advantage. (It isn't clear why bettors prefer favorites, but such a tendency characterizes most betting against a spread.) Then there are the bettors who disproportionately take the ''over'' in an over-under bet (in which a bettor wagers on the total number of points scored in a game), presumably because, when it's time to watch the game you've bet on, it's a lot more fun to root for points to be scored than for points to not be scored.
 So does Esposito exploit those biases to increase his winnings? ''But I don't know when the public's wrong, I really don't,'' he says. ''That's a myth, too. I hear that all the time: 'You know who's going to win.' I wish I did.''
 In determining where to set the opening line, and when to adjust it, Esposito works hard to read public sentiment. One good clue is when a team's jersey starts to spike in popularity among Caesars customers. (This season it was the Cincinnati Bengals and the Chicago Bears.) He notes which teams, despite their success, fail to become ''public'' teams. (The Seattle Seahawks and the Carolina Panthers.) But the most valuable tool is what Esposito calls ''booking to faces'' -- that is, monitoring the betting counter to note which bettors are placing which bets. ''If someone comes in, his rich uncle died and left a gazillion dollars, and he wants to bet $100,000 on the line, we probably won't change the line,'' he says. ''But if we get a $5,000 bet from a handicapper we know to be really smart, we may well move it.''
 By Esposito's estimate, about 20 percent of the money bet on football comes from sophisticated bettors -- the ''sharp guys'' -- with the remainder 
 coming from a group known industrywide as the squares. The trick is to set a line that will satisfy both constituencies and make the casino lots of money.
 Unfortunately, Esposito couldn't open up his books to show us just how this plays out at Caesars. (Transparency has its limits.) But a different set of data, taken from a handicapping contest run by the online casino CaribSports.com, can address the same issue. In these data, 285 bettors made more than 20,000 wagers on N.F.L. games. What do these data show?
 The 285 bettors exhibited the typical preferences mentioned above -- a strong bias toward favorites and a weaker one toward visiting teams. The bookmaker, meanwhile, didn't merely acknowledge these biases and balance the book down the middle; it appears that the bookmaker strategically set point spreads to exploit these biases.
 How does this work? Let's say that a bookmaker is handicapping a game between the Broncos and the Pittsburgh Steelers. He first studies every conceivable element of the game: strengths and weaknesses, momentum, injuries, tendencies, weather forecast, etc. He then decides that the true line -- that is, a line that he figures will give each team a 50 percent chance of winning the bet -- happens to be Denver minus 7 points. But because of bettor bias, perhaps as much as 80 percent of the money will inevitably flow to the favorite. So what if the bookie sets the line a little higher, at 9 points? Denver is still likely to draw the majority of the wagering, but its chances of winning the bet are now slightly less than 50 percent. The bookie has thus managed to tempt the majority of the wagering toward an outcome that is unlikely, even if only slightly, to happen. Over time, this pattern will yield the bookie a gross profit margin 20 to 30 percent higher than if he had simply balanced the wagering. In other words, why should a bookie play for the safe 10 percent vig when he can play it only slightly less safe and make much more money?
 Chuck Esposito, though he is too smart to come out and say so, seems to be doing precisely the same thing at Caesars. What he will admit is that he doesn't mind if the wagering on a given game comes in at 80-20 instead of 50-50, as long as he thinks that Caesars is on the right side of the imbalance. 
 the super bowl, meanwhile, is an entirely different beast. A look at the past reveals this interesting anomaly: whereas only one-tenth of regular-season N.F.L. games have a final point spread in the double digits, fully one-third of the past Super Bowls (13 out of 39) had double-digit point spreads. This is especially surprising since the Super Bowl matches the best team from each conference, whereas regular games often pit a good team against a poor one.
 What does this yawning gap mean? It suggests that faced with the risk of wiping out a season's profits, bookmakers play it safe on Super Bowl Sunday. Unlike a typical N.F.L. game, the Super Bowl gives a bookie incentive to balance his books and simply pocket the vig. To do so, he needs to inflate the spread against the favorite even more than usual, bringing in more underdog money and making the odds of the favorite's covering the bet even lower than usual.
 A strategy of consistently betting the underdog has not done so well in past Super Bowls, paying off only 17 times in 39 years (the favorite covered the spread 19 times, and there were three pushes). But a small sample set should not get in the way of a larger truth: the economics of bookmaking suggest that betting the underdog today remains the single best bet of the year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: XL spread: Ford Field in Detroit, the site of the big game. One-third of past Super Bowls had double-digit point spreads, compared with one-tenth of regular-season games. (Photograph By Lane Coder)
 Chart: Team versus Team versus the Spread, from Super Bowl I Through Super Bowl XXXIX: The point spreads for Super Bowls tend to be much larger than those for regular-season National Football League games. Over 39 Super Bowls, 19 favorites covered the spread, another 8 favorites won but failed to cover the spread (including pushes on three occasions), and 12 underdogs won. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); GAMING (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); CARD GAMES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%) Football; Gambling; Super Bowl

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%); DENVER BRONCOS (83%)

PERSON: Steven D Levitt; Stephen J Dubner

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (77%); DENVER, CO, USA (55%) MICHIGAN, USA (77%); COLORADO, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



114 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Greener Pastures

BYLINE: By Steve Israel. 
Steve Israel, a Democrat, is a United States congressman from New York.

DATELINE: Hauppauge 

 BODY:
LAST Tuesday's State of the Union message offered intriguing rhetoric but little substance on how to actually reduce our addiction to foreign oil. Long Island should position itself to fill this void in our national and economic security concerns. We can do it, because we have in the past. 
 Drive almost anywhere on Long Island and you will see the reminders of a premier defense and aerospace industry. But that wasn't always the case. 
Going into World War II, Long Island adapted its economy to meet urgent national needs. Long Island built the famous aircraft of World War II -- the Avenger, Hellcat and Wildcat. We built the F9F Cougar airplane used during the Korean War, the A-6 Intruder from Vietnam and the F-14 Tomcat used in the Persian Gulf war. And when Neil Armstrong took a giant leap for mankind, it was Long Island's lunar module that landed him on the moon. Now it's time to transform our economy again -- this time in the area of new energy technologies. 
 The same motivators -- national and economic security -- will drive the next great industry: clean energy jobs. And just as Long Island rose to the challenges presented in the 20th century to become the defense capital of America, we should rise to 21st century challenges by embarking on a strategy of innovation and production in the area of clean energy technologies, including plug-in hybrid and fuel-flexible vehicles, hydrogen fuel cells, wind, water, solar power and biodiesel. We should also be designing and developing ''green building'' technologies including photovoltaic panels, solar hot water systems and more. 
 Already we have the building blocks: the Clean Energy Leadership Task Force, an organization created to educate Long Island's municipal governments about clean energy technologies, is doing important work. The Long Island Power Authority is spearheading several clean energy initiatives like the proposed wind farm off the South Shore and a tax-rebate program for homeowners who purchase solar photovoltaic systems for their houses. 
 Farmingdale State University of New York is conducting research on hydrogen and solar energy. Already the university has converted a gas-powered car to run on a combination of battery and hydrogen power, and it is working on a model house that will be powered by an integrated hydrogen fuel cell and solar energy system. Suffolk is converting significant portions of its fleet of county cars to biodiesel. A prototype hydrogen fuel cell is providing power in Babylon's town hall. 
 These are all important elements of a regional clean energy strategy. The next step is an effort that more fully integrates Long Island's public and private sectors. We need venture capitalists, universities and researchers, defense contractors and all levels of government to encourage a new generation of clean energy jobs on Long Island.
 We can take the first step by persuading towns to pass clean energy bond acts, allowing them to borrow money to finance projects that increase demand for and reduce costs associated with converting municipal buildings and cars to accommodate alternative energy technology. Local research institutions should focus on partnerships with private companies to develop biofuel and solar technologies, and make them commercially viable. Public-private partnerships should create groups that provide assistance and expertise to clean energy businesses on Long Island, spur investment and attract venture capital.
 High schools, colleges and business should team up on similar efforts. This summer, Farmingdale State, in conjunction with local high schools, converted an electric television set into one powered by a hydrogen fuel cell. 
 Meanwhile, Congress should pass legislation that would generate clean energy jobs and eliminate our dependence on foreign oil. For instance, the proposed New Apollo Energy Act, of which I am a co-sponsor, establishes, among other things, tax credits for retooling and building plants that produce energy efficient or alternative fuel-powered vehicles. Will these things guarantee that Long Island becomes the clean energy industry capital of America, as we once considered ourselves the defense capital of America? No. But who would have thought, 60 years ago, that Long Island's economy would help land a man on the moon?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (87%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (87%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (86%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (86%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (76%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (76%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); DESERT STORM (75%); GREEN BUILDING (75%); WIND ENERGY (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (71%); WIND POWER PLANTS (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); KOREAN WAR (70%); BIOFUELS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (62%) Energy and Power; Labor; Venture Capital; Research; Defense Contracts; Energy and Power

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (53%)

PERSON: Steve (Repr) Israel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); EARTH'S MOON (71%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



115 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; LONG ISLAND JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: The Mensch Who Didn't Get Away

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER. 
E-mail: lijournal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ROBIN GORMAN NEWMAN describes a mensch as ''a decent, responsible person even your mother would love.'' Ms. Gorman Newman, 45, of Great Neck, has been married to her husband, Marc, for 13 years and likes to think of herself as a ''Mrs. Mensch.'' 
 Before she met Mr. Newman, an accountant, on a singles vacation when she was 30, Ms. Gorman Newman said, she felt as if she had been on the dating warpath forever. Fix-ups rarely worked. In her quest to find her soul mate, she tried personal ads, happy hours, volunteer work, golf camp and singles dances.
 Tennis lessons improved her backhand, she said. A love match proved more elusive. She didn't want to meet just any man, but a trophy, her Mr. Right Mensch. 
 After she snagged a husband, Ms. Gorman Newman, a publicist and relentless marketer, wrote a guidebook, ''How to Meet a Mensch in New York'' (City & Company, 1994). During subsequent speaking engagements, she began doling out advice. Though neither a therapist nor a matchmaker, she began to tout her skills as the Love Coach, a social strategist and personal trainer for lonely hearts. 
 Ms. Gorman Newman said that she didn't like to use the word ''desperate'' but that her typical clients were wallflowers in their 30's, socially and dating-challenged. 
 ''I get the person who has been through the mill, who feels like they have been there, done that -- the person who is a little burnt-out, potentially,'' Ms. Gorman Newman said. Having advised about 500 clients, she recently decided to package her spiel in a sequel, ''How to Marry a Mensch: The Love Coach's Guide to Finding Your Mate'' (Fair Winds Press, $14.95). 
 ''It has really become cool to be a mensch,'' Ms. Gorman Newman said, noting that she uses the word in a gender-neutral way. ''A mensch is prime marriage material and a mensch could be hot stuff, too.''
 Her experiences, and those of her single friends and clients, provided fodder for her theory that the key to finding a mensch is acting as if you want to get married, not just thinking it. It also helps to be in the right place at the right time with the right attitude. 
 ''To find a mate, you must be open-minded, get out of the house, not judge someone in the first five minutes, and maintain a positive attitude,'' Ms. Gorman Newman wrote. 
 In an e-mail survey, she asked 30 married women to share their wisdom. Were mensches really the best route to sealing the deal with a diamond ring and living happily ever after? 
 Ginny Ehrlich-Greenberg, the director of public relations at Hofstra University, replied that a woman shouldn't have to mother her mate. ''Someone who is not a mensch is still a little boy, and a woman should only have her own children to raise and worry about, not her husband,'' she wrote. 
 When she met Glenn Greenberg at a party, Ms. Ehrlich-Greenberg said in a telephone interview, she wasn't long out of a relationship where she was ''both the girlfriend and the boyfriend, paying for things all the time, trying to be supportive 100 percent of the time.'' She realized that a relationship needed to be a give and take. 
 ''Marriage is enough work when you are married,'' Ms. Ehrlich-Greenberg said. 
 Ms. Ehrlich-Greenberg, who has now been married for almost seven years, said she advises single friends that there are worse things than being alone. ''One of them certainly is being with the wrong person,'' she said. ''You can be just as depressed and lonely with somebody as you can be by yourself.''
 Lois W. Stern, a retired reading teacher and writer from Huntington, met her husband, Kenneth, in college and married at 21. They have been married 47 years. 
 She said that love goes through many stages. It helps if a mensch has been raised by a mensch. ''It's also a bonus to marry someone who occasionally washes a pot or puts out the baked potatoes,'' Ms. Stern says in ''How to Marry a Mensch.'' 
 Nine years ago, Mary Ellen Walsh married Tom Friedmann, a friend of the family. Consideration and respect were key, she said, as was the ability to be a good father. 
 ''You have that little voice that tells you there is a potential here or that's a red flag,'' said Ms. Walsh, a freelance writer from Syosset and the mother of three children. ''If you don't marry a mensch and all these struggles of life come up like unemployment, sickness, children, then you are in big trouble.''
 On the other hand, a relationship with a mensch continues to grow, Ms. Walsh said. 
 June Ross Zeger, a piano teacher who lives in East Meadow, said that being married to a mensch for 38 years was ''a rewarding life experience.''
 ''Don't settle for superficiality,'' she advises. ''If you're out there looking for Mr. Everything, including looks, brawn, intelligence and sweetness, you need to weigh which qualities would make someone a better soul mate, and those outwardly appearing traits are far less important in the scheme of things.''
 Ms. Zeger, whose husband, Lloyd Zeger, is a retired police lieutenant, said that by observing friends who stuck it out and those who divorced showed that you need to give in sometimes. ''When someone cares about you and you care about that person, it is not a power struggle,'' Ms. Zeger said. 
 To be a mensch magnet, Ms. Gorman Newman suggested acting like a babe, not a buddy, leaving room for old-fashioned courtship. Still, she could offer no guarantees.
 ''Just because someone is nice doesn't mean he's ready, and it doesn't mean that she's the one,'' Ms. Gorman Newman said. ''Even though someone can be a mensch, it doesn't mean that they are your mensch.''
 She compared finding love with sifting through the popcorn and nuts in a box of Cracker Jack to get to the prize. Opportunities to find a mensch abound: at jury duty, doing volunteer work, walking the dog, at the supermarket or the cellphone store. 
 But marrying a mensch, she said, is a two-sided endeavor. 
 ''Are you a mensch to yourself?'' Ms. Gorman Newman said. ''Could you be a mensch to somebody else?'' 

A Stage for Art
 Concertgoers usually head to the Tilles Center for the Performing Arts in Brookville to hear music and watch performances in the North Fork Hall. Before the show and during intermission, they mingle in the stark glass, steel and stone atrium that was added to the lobby in 2004.
 Now the atrium has become a stage for public art. 
 ''It's really a big empty canvas in a three-dimensional sort of way,'' said Elliott Sroka, the executive director of the Tilles Center, on the C. W. Post Campus of Long Island University. ''The space was designed to be big and open and to be fairly clear and simple in design. It really calls out, we think, for art.''
 These days, the art calls out, too. A thousand telephone lines hang like a massive chandelier from the 30-foot-high ceiling, hooked into translucent plastic pods embedded with computer chips and minuscule flashing blue lights. The robotic sculpture, called ''Bion,'' was installed on Jan. 27 by Adam Brown, a digital artist and an assistant professor of digital media and video at the University of Oklahoma School of Art. The sculpture will be on display through April 22, perhaps longer. 
 The pods emit an electronic hum when visitors approach. 
 ''They are playing chords together so that it is harmony,'' said Mr. Brown, though on a recent morning the work droned more like a swarm of drowsy bees than an orchestra warming up. 
 The interactive sculpture is part of ''Archival to Contemporary: Six Decades of the Sculptors Guild,'' a Hillwood Art Museum show that extends beyond the walls of the museum's 4,500-square-foot curved gallery on the C. W. Post Campus.
 Barry Stern, the Hillwood's director, said that bringing art to the Tilles Center was part of having ''the whole campus anointed by having art everywhere.'' 
 ''It's a great test of the space,'' Mr. Stern said. 
 Mr. Sroka was already convinced. He said that the Tilles Center had begun reviewing work by local artists with the idea of moving pieces in and out for the relatively short term. 
 ''We are trying as much as we can to focus on Long Island artists,'' Mr. Sroka said. 
 In the upper lobby, a larger-than-life bronze sculpture called ''Woman on a Stool,'' by Leonda Finke of Roslyn, sits by the elevator like a female version of ''The Thinker'' by Rodin.
 ''When you walk by, it creates a whole different human scale about the place,'' Mr. Sroka said. 
 While the Hillwood museum has 15,000 to 18,000 visitors a year, more than 200,000 go to the Tilles Center. ''In the long run, it is going to be a great way to get more art seen,'' Mr. Sroka said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robin Gorman Newman, who calls herself the Love Coach, is the author of ''How to Marry a Mensch.'' (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); TENNIS (76%); SPORTS (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); LITERATURE (74%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (70%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); GOLF (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); SALES & SELLING (50%) Dating and Courtship; Books and Literature; Art ; Public Art

ORGANIZATION: Tilles Center for the Performing Arts (Brookville, NY)

PERSON: robin gorman newman; elliott sroka; Adam Brown; Marcelle S Fischler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



116 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: State Tells Wineries to Lay Off the Soft Stuff

BYLINE: By R. B. STUART

 BODY:
WHAT do you mean, we can't sell watercolors, or even water?
 That was the reaction at East End wineries in November, when inspectors from the New York State Liquor Authority showed up unexpectedly and started enforcing a strict interpretation of a 70-year-old licensing law that sharply limits what wineries may sell to the public.
Over the last three decades, Long Island's 38 wineries have become important economic engines for the East End, selling wines and other products to affluent, sophisticated consumers who flock to visit them. 
 Some of the wineries have also become cultural conduits, staging concerts and poetry readings and showcasing another of the East End's signature products, original art. 
 For years, state authorities raised no objection, and last year Albany even encouraged an alliance between the wineries' trade group, the Long Island Wine Council, and the East End Arts Council. The two groups received state grants to help finance the 2006 Winter Wine Festival, which is intended to promote off-season cultural tourism on the East End. 
 Then came the November crackdown, when liquor authority inspectors ''swooped down on the vineyards,'' said Kenneth P. LaValle, who represents the East End in the State Senate. The inspectors found products on sale that they said were not permitted under a 1933 law that limits what are known as licensed farm wineries to selling wine, certain wine-related products and souvenirs only. Art is out, they said, and so are food, water and soft drinks. 
 The tasting room of one winery, Bedell Cellars in Cutchogue, was briefly shut down by the inspectors for selling bottled water to visitors. 
 The new enforcement effort followed a change of leadership at the liquor authority. Its longtime chairman, Edward Kelly, resigned last fall after an investigation by the state attorney general's office found anticompetitive practices in the wine and liquor business, and the authority was accused in Assembly hearings of being too cozy with the industry. 
 Joshua Toas, a longtime aide to Governor Pataki who once held a senior post in the State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse, was brought in as chief executive of the authority, a new position.
 Eager not to get into a public fight with the liquor authority, representatives of the East End wineries met with Mr. Toas and other state officials in December to discuss the crackdown and ask for a more flexible approach to enforcing the law. ''The industry kept the meeting quiet, as we're working for some interpretation of what you can and cannot do,'' said Joseph M. Gergela III, the executive director of the Long Island Farm Bureau. 
 Steve Bates, the executive director of the Long Island Wine Council, which includes all but 4 of the Island's 38 wineries, questioned the wisdom of a law that blocks wineries from selling art. ''I'm sure this isn't occurring at any other wineries around the world, where wine and art are natural partners, and wine is culture,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bates noted that when Mr. Kelly was chairman of the authority, he gave the wineries permission for the February wine festival. ''Art and cultural activities are a big part of it,'' Mr. Bates said. ''We've had very constructive dialogue with the S.L.A., and we'd like to make it work so it is acceptable to everyone.''
 Michael Lynne, the chief executive of New Line Cinema and owner of Bedell Cellars, said that while his winery would comply with the law, he favored changing it to allow sales of food, soft drinks and other products in winery tasting rooms. ''That is not a terrible thing, as I see it,'' he said. 
 Jim Trezise, the president of the New York Wine and Grape Foundation, a statewide trade group, called the sales restrictions in the state alcoholic beverage control laws ''complex, archaic and economically counterproductive.'' Saying that there could be a difference of opinion about how the authority should interpret the law, Mr. Trezise argued that new legislation was needed to ''clarify what's allowable, so they don't have to be in position to interpret something that's in a gray area.'' 
 For its part, the liquor authority said it doesn't see much gray in the current law, though it is trying not to be harsh about enforcing it. ''We want to be helpful to the wineries,'' said Mark Anderson, the authority's deputy commissioner, ''so we're trying to help them understand the requirements of the various license types and indicate the areas that may require legislative changes to foster their business practices.'' 
 ''The liquor authority is working with the wineries to get them in compliance, so there aren't any violations, he added. ''We're very confident this matter will be resolved soon.''
 Depending on the circumstances, violations of the law may result only in a warning letter, or the authority may impose a fine and suspend or revoke the winery's license. 
 No fines or penalties were imposed as a result of the November inspections, and the authority has told the wineries and Senator LaValle's office that no enforcement actions will be taken during February, so that Winter Wine Festival events can go ahead as planned.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 19, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about state limits on what wineries may sell misspelled the surname of the executive director of the Long Island Wine Council, a trade group. He is Steven Bate, not Bates.
An article Feb. 5 about a state effort to enforce restrictions on the kinds of products sold by wineries referred imprecisely to the law being enforced. The relevant provisions were added to the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law in 1976; they do not date from 1933, when that law was first enacted.
An article last Sunday about state limits on what wineries may sell misspelled the surname of the executive director of the Long Island Wine Council, a trade group. He is Steven Bate, not Bates.
An article Feb. 5 about a state effort to enforce restrictions on the kinds of products sold by wineries referred imprecisely to the law being enforced. The relevant provisions were added to the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law in 1976; they do not date from 1933, when that law was first enacted.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A tasting at Bedell Cellars in Cutchogue. The tasting room was briefly shut down for selling bottled water. (Photo by Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINERIES (93%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); BOTTLED WATER (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (77%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (72%); FESTIVALS (70%); SOFT DRINKS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); POETRY (55%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines; Bottled Water; Soft Drinks; Law and Legislation; Alcoholic Beverages

ORGANIZATION: New York State Liquor Authority

PERSON: joshua toas; Robert B Stuart

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Long Island (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



117 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Iran the Great Unifier? The Arab World Is Wary

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar and Abeer Allam contributed reporting from Cairo for this article.

DATELINE: TEHRAN 

 BODY:
THE streets of Tehran are decorated with black banners and black flags. Children parade through the Martyr's Cemetery with headbands that read ''Hussein'' and stores sell metal chains that some people will use to beat themselves, all part of a period of public mourning that commemorates the killing of Imam Hussein, the Prophet Muhammad's grandson, during a battle 1,300 years ago in Karbala, Iraq. That military defeat solidified a split between what became the two main branches of Islam, the Shiite and the Sunni.
 Now Iran, the world's only Shiite Islamic government, is reaching across the divide, hoping to unite Arab Muslims, the vast majority of whom are Sunni, and draw them beneath an overarching banner of Islam to fight common enemies in Israel and the West.
It is a difficult sell, though, after centuries of distrust between the two sects. Moreover, a wide gap separates the Arab and Persian cultures, and a general sense of distrust lingers among Arab leaders who saw post-revolutionary Iran try to instigate unrest within their own borders. 
 ''As a gulf area, we don't want to see Iran as the major power in the area,'' said Muhammad Abdullah al-Zulfa, a member of the Shura Council of Saudi Arabia. ''And we don't want to see Iran having this nuclear weapon where it will be a major threat to the stability of the gulf area and even to the Arab world altogether.''
 As Iran's leadership pursues an aggressive, confrontational foreign policy, it is effectively trying to become a regional superpower seeking to fill the void left by the collapse of Arab nationalism and by the absence of any one dominant nation. While the United States and Europe hope that the United Nations Security Council will help tame Iran, officials here see such outside pressure as adding to their bona fides among Arab Muslims.
 ''The Islamic Republic of Iran is currently the axis of a tireless international identity, which relies on religious faith and challenges the global arrogances,'' said the Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, during a recent awards ceremony.
 But many Arabs do not see Iran's overture that way. 
 While Iran has been using its drive for nuclear power to realign the balance of power in the Middle East, and trying to reinsert itself into issues of regional security that took a back seat after the Islamic revolution of 1979, Sunni Muslim leaders fear that their neighbor is trying to hem them in with a sphere of influence stretching from Iraq to Syria, Lebanon and Gaza. Their view was echoed in a comment by King Abdullah II of Jordan who said he was concerned Iran was trying to impose a ''crescent'' of influence on the region.
 ''If Iran developed a nuclear power, then it is a big disaster because it already supports Hezbollah in Lebanon, Hamas in Palestine, Syria and Iraq, then what is left?'' said Essam el-Erian, a spokesman for the Muslim Brotherhood of Egypt. ''We would have the Shiite crescent that the Jordanian king warned against.'' 
 On the question of confronting the West and Israel, Iran's oratory has, in the past, resonated with many average Arabs -- and Iran has financed non-Shiite religious movements like Hamas, a Palestinian offshoot of the Muslim Brotherhood that wants to restore Jerusalem to Islamic control. Indeed, when Iran's Islamic Revolution succeeded in 1979, it lit a fire under other Muslim movements in the region, Sunni and Shiite. 
 Now, with President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad bashing the United States and Europe, calling for Israel to be wiped off the map and claiming that the Holocaust is a myth, many people from taxi drivers in Morocco to street sweepers in Cairo are saying that they like the man and his vision. 
 But once they get past that emotional response of the public, Arab leaders may well be just as disturbed by Iran's regional ambitions as any of their counterparts in the West. They also see a threat to their faith.
 ''If Iran acted like an Islamic power, just Islam without Shiism, then Arabs would accept it as a regional Islamic power,'' said Sheik Adel al-Mawada, a deputy speaker and member of the Sunni fundamentalist Salafi bloc in the parliament of Bahrain. ''But if it came to us with the Shia agenda as a Shiite power, then it will not succeed and it will be powerful, but despised and hated.'' Bahrain has a restive Shiite population. 
 The concept of a unified Arab world is often called into question when leaders gather for Arab League meetings, which seem to highlight their differences. Stepping back, the suggestion that one Islamic Middle East could unite behind a set of social, political and economic goals becomes even more far-fetched -- especially when the net includes the Iranians. 
 For example, Iran would like to join the Gulf Cooperation Council, a group of gulf states that try to coordinate economic policy. But the council's leadership is not eager to let Iran in, because Iran's economic clout would dwarf that of most other members.
 The Arab countries know what Iran covets ''in the region in terms of oil and in terms of the sacred places,'' said Anwar Majid Eshki, head of the Middle East Center for Strategic and Legal Studies, an independent institute in Saudi Arabia. 
 At the moment, Iran is finding that its best chance for spreading its influence is in areas where groups actively oppose the United States. Its influence in Iraq has grown considerably with the emergence of religious Shiite movements that have done well in elections and are likely to dominate Iraq's government. 
 In Lebanon, Iran still has close ties to Hezbollah, the militia group turned political party that takes credit for driving Israel out of southern Lebanon.
 Iran also has a strong ally in Syria. Hamas and other groups sworn to fight Israel have offices in Damascus, while Iran remains a strong supporter of Hamas, which recently won a majority of seats in the Palestinian Parliament. 
 The West is wrestling with whether to continue pumping millions of dollars into the Palestinian governing authority if Hamas does not renounce its commitment to destroy Israel. Some diplomats and political analysts here say the Iranians hope the West will abandon the Palestinians, because Tehran would be happy to fill the void.
 In reaching for such opportunities, there also is a chance for Iran to stumble, at least in terms of its relations with its Arab neighbors. Iraq is the prime example. 
 While a vicious insurgency takes aim at American forces there, a battle has also begun between Iraq's Sunni minority and the Shiite majority. It has cost many Iraqi lives, and now Sunnis are watching carefully to see how Iran's influence affects their own lives.
 ''Iraq is the test case for Iran -- it either chooses to prove that it is an Islamic power, or a Shiite Persian power that deepens strife,'' said Sheik Mawada of Bahrain. ''Though Iran has the upper hand in Iraq, the Sunni did not just accept and keep quiet.'' 
 Iran will have to face other challenges too, as it tries to extend its reach. If it goes too far and builds a bomb, some Iranians worry that it could set off a regional arms race and push states like Saudi Arabia to make their own bombs. Saudi Arabia has its own restive Shiite population -- living primarily in the area of its oil fields -- and does not want to see that minority empowered. 
 Finally, there is the matter of religion itself, and its influence on regional politics. While the initial split between Sunni and Shiite Islam occurred because of a disagreement over who would lead Muslims after the Prophet Muhammad's death, both groups have developed distinct political and social ideologies. And neither side is looking to cede any ground.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Power Play -- Ayatollah Ali Khamenei may have regional ambitions, but the Mideast's Sunni leaders are not enthusiastic. (Photo by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (87%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); POLITICS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%) Islam; Shiite Muslims; Sunni Muslims; Politics and Government

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (55%) Michael Slackman

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%) INDIAN OCEAN (75%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); IRAN (93%); IRAQ (93%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%) Iran; Israel; Persian Gulf; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



118 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Will Your Money Last?

 BODY:
Americans spent more than they made in 2005, sending the personal savings rate into negative territory for the first time since 1933.
 Government and business should be alarmed. Many Americans do not seem to believe they are living beyond their means, as long as the value of their houses are rising. But spending freely while the house appreciates is not saving for the future. It is betting that boom-time gains will last indefinitely. They will not. 
 Meanwhile, traditional corporate pension plans are disappearing; half of the people with 401(k)'s have saved less than $20,000; and about one-third of households have saved nothing for retirement. 
 Policy makers must act quickly to avert a crisis. To start, they should strengthen 401(k)'s, now the main retirement plan for 42 million Americans, about half of the work force. 
 By removing various legal obstacles facing employers, a pension reform bill moving through Congress would help employers who offer 401(k)'s to enroll more employees and to encourage higher contributions. Those are good first steps, but they're the easy part. More needs to be done to help those who are trying to save for retirement, including: 

INVESTMENT ADVICE -- Employers are reluctant to provide 401(k) investment advice for fear of being held responsible if the investments go south. The Senate has passed a sensible measure to shield employers if they hire advisers who are independent, qualified and properly supervised. The House should follow suit. A proposal from John Boehner, the new majority leader, to allow mutual funds to offer advice should be rejected. It allows for a clear conflict of interest, since the fund companies that would be advising employees are among the employees' 401(k) choices.

AUTOMATIC ROLLOVER -- Employees who cash out their 401(k) plans when changing jobs -- about half do -- cheat themselves because it is very difficult to make up the lost savings later. Rules that require an automatic rollover -- to a new employer's 401(k) or an individual retirement account -- would stanch much of the bleeding.

MAKING IT LAST -- Government must help ensure that retirees do not outlive their money. For many retirees, it would be prudent to convert savings into an annuity that would guarantee a stream of income for life. But the average 401(k) balance for people in their 60's is about $140,000, and financial companies cannot profitably offer annuities for such relatively small sums. Research suggests that the government could provide annuities for 401(k) savers who have $50,000 to $200,000 at modest cost.
 It simply makes no sense, socially or economically, for each person to increasingly bear the risks of financing old age when that risk is more efficiently borne on the much broader shoulders of Washington and corporate America. What America needs are leaders who understand that asking ordinary citizens to assume ever-greater risks is not the path to greater security.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 401K PLANS (92%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); SAVINGS RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); LABOR FORCE (68%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Editorials; Law and Legislation

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



119 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Declare War on Diabetes

 BODY:
The recent four-part series in The Times offered grim insights into the incurable disease diabetes. Ignore it, and it can lead to heart disease, strokes, amputations and shortened lives. It is the leading cause of blindness. Most of those who have diabetes have Type 2, in which obesity and poverty are key contributors, especially among blacks and Hispanics, who are disproportionately stricken. It is not uncommon in poor and minority communities, the worst hit, to see amputees in wheelchairs. 
 The neighborhoods where diabetes runs rampant are almost always short on parks for exercise and have schools that rarely conduct gym classes. Fast food restaurants abound; healthy food is often expensive or unavailable and bad diet choices -- laden with sugar, fat and calories -- are readily at hand. Diabetes is a disease defined by economic disparity. In heavily Hispanic East Harlem in Manhattan, the illness plagues 14 percent of the population; just to the south, across 96th Street on the more affluent Upper East Side, the rate is under 2 percent.
 The sheer cost of caring for diabetics, who often do not get help until they are in catastrophic need, will keep going up. The financial burden of attending to diabetes' many uninsured victims eventually lands on state and local governments. In New York City -- where one in eight adults has diabetes, almost 150 percent more than just 10 years ago -- that cost is about $200 million annually and growing.
 It would be better for everyone if more diabetics took care of their disease through diet, exercise, medication and regular blood testing. But many diabetics, about one-fourth, simply don't know they have the disease, which can be without symptoms for years. Others don't know what is required to treat it. Even if they did, blood testing strips cost about 75 cents per use, an expense that can run into thousands of dollars annually. It should be no mystery that the United States, the only leading economic power without national health care, also leads the world in the per capita rate of diabetes. Care as basic as regular visits to a nutritionist are not typically covered by insurance. Reimbursement is easier when the disease is far along, and the patient needs dialysis or amputation of toes or limbs.
 Waiting for this epidemic's fuller toll is foolhardy. Now is the time to develop a coordinated plan with a long view to take control of diabetes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIABETES (96%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); NUTRITION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); STROKES (78%); BLINDNESS (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (78%); DIALYSIS (78%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (75%); OBESITY (73%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); FAST FOOD (70%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (65%) Diabetes; Editorials; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Diet and Nutrition; Dialysis; Amputation; Diabetes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



120 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; HOME ECONOMICS: Personal Accounts; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Chicago, Upside Down

BYLINE: By Luis Alberto Urrea. 
Luis Alberto Urrea, the author of ''The Hummingbird's Daughter,'' is a professor of English at the University of Illinois-Chicago.

DATELINE: Naperville, Ill. 

 BODY:
CHICAGO is once more hunched against the winter, though this winter feels strange. It's cold, but it's not Chicago cold: we keep tottering back into the 40's and 50's. Rain storms in January in place of snow. As happy as we are to escape a deep freeze, strange things are happening. A mysterious rust-colored powder, for example, sifted out of the sky one night and covered parked cars on the street. Chicago police officials on the late news couldn't explain it. They had other things to worry about, like the peculiar shift in the murder patterns in Chicagoland.
 The murder rate in the inner city has dropped. The rate of killings has increased, however, in the suburbs. This is attributed to the movement of poverty. Whereas ''white flight'' was a pattern in the city for decades, Chicago is reaping the benefits of the sly social engineering that has taken place in areas like the South Loop around the University of Illinois. Upscale communities tied to the university have systematically replaced tenements. Farther south, stalwart symbols of urban decay like the Cabrini Green housing project are giving way to brighter, shinier developments. As one of my students noted, ''It's awful white up in here, and I don't mean snow.'' 
Displaced members of blighted urban communities (what is a housing project but a vertical village, after all) have been shuffled off to the west and south. Never to return. Once the barrio and 'hood have established colonies in country-club land, aunties and nephews and homies follow. The center of the city ''reclaims'' itself, and the untidy wave of need moves elsewhere. Gangs? Drugs? Homelessness? It's Joliet's problem now. 
 The Chicago Tribune faithfully reports more weirdness. In 2005, 65,000 jobs came into Illinois; unemployment held steady at 5.5 percent. This news seems to be good. Why, then, did 24,500 applicants lay siege to a new Wal-Mart last month, looking for 325 jobs?
 Could it be that these job-seekers are the same people rendered invisible until events like Hurricane Katrina force them onto rooftops?
 The 24,500 formerly invisible applicants formed the largest job-seeking force in the company's history. Some local politicians suggested that Wal-Mart was faking the numbers. Wal-Mart countered by displaying 22 boxes of applications. A public theater of the absurd rules. 
 Curiouser, perhaps, is the news that the vast majority of those applicants came from inside city limits -- even though local officials kept this new Wal-Mart just outside of Chicago proper, refusing the expected $1 million annual tax revenue for the eternally struggling South Side. Too much competition for local business, they say. Though there should be plenty more competition for jobs in June, when Wal-Mart finally opens its first store in Chicago, this one on the West Side. In that neighborhood, the applicant line will probably look like the hundreds of teenagers waiting to audition for ''American Idol.''
 Perhaps the suburban Wal-Mart will draw crime and murder to it. My police officer friends are still working out the patterns of the homicide migration. Of course, they have their own problems in this healthy economy. Jake, an officer who served in Iraq and is now back on the Chi-town streets, points out that he and his colleagues pay for their own equipment. Just like policemen in Tijuana. And the salaries are tight -- tight enough that many younger officers work two or three jobs to make ends meet. Our guardians shovel snow, do yard work and landscape when they're not fielding the effects of the urban mutations that seem, as ever, driven by money.
 Well, it's February now. They're saying we'll be back down to five degrees within the week. Maybe things will settle back down. We can hunch our shoulders and feel normal again. Don't count on it.

HOME ECONOMICS
 For all of today's up-to-the-second economic analysis, how are Americans actually doing? Last fall, the Op-Ed page asked writers to provide snapshots of their local economies over the course of the year. Here is their second round of dispatches.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Sunday, about Chicago's economy, misstated the location of the Cabrini Green housing project. It is on Chicago's Near North Side, not the South Side.
An Op-Ed article on Sunday, about Chicago's economy, misstated the location of the Cabrini Green housing project. It is on Chicago's Near North Side, not the South Side.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by George Bates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (88%); MURDER (74%); SLUM DWELLINGS (74%); RETAILERS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (72%); POLICE FORCES (70%); TRENDS (70%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (69%); SUBURBS (69%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); EMPLOYMENT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Unemployment; Retail Stores and Trade ; Suburbs

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

PERSON: Luis Alberto Urrea

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Chicago (Ill); Illinois

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



121 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: A Fairer Election System

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''A Cry of Concern by Republicans at Voter Unease on Corruption and Excesses'' (news analysis, Feb. 3):
Let's face it. Whatever Congress does will have no effect unless this country first establishes a more rational, more economical, and dare I say it, fairer federal electoral system, one that will not require our elected leaders to devote so much of their time and energy as fund-raisers. 
 We would also benefit from shorter elections. Federal elections have barely ended when we start discussing the next election and prospective candidates.

Gerard Tavernier
Fort Lauderdale, Fla., Feb. 3, 2006 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (87%); FUNDRAISING (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) 

PERSON: Gerard Tavernier

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



122 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; HOME ECONOMICS: Personal Accounts; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Nebraska's Nostalgia Trap

BYLINE: By Richard Dooling. 
Richard Dooling is a screenwriter and the author, most recently, of ''Bet Your Life.''

DATELINE: Omaha 

 BODY:
ON average, Nebraska's economy is doing just fine. But a man whose head is in the oven and whose feet are in the freezer takes no comfort in knowing that his average body temperature is perfectly normal. In the same vein, a casual glance at a graph of Nebraska's population growth shows slow, steady increases, going all the way back to 1900, and conceals the fact that 74 of Nebraska's 93 counties are in extremis, with lower populations today than they had in 1920.
 Over a third of the state's 1.7 million residents live in greater Omaha, which is booming by many measures, including population growth. According to Ernie Goss, an economist at Creighton University here, Omaha is growing faster than Des Moines, Kansas City and St. Louis. 
What about the rest of Nebraska? Well, it's big: over 77,000 square miles (about 10 percent bigger than the six New England states combined) and 450 miles wide, roughly the distance from Boston to the District of Columbia. Most of the economic growth occurs along the thoroughfares that form what local economists call ''the fishhook'': Highway 275 from Omaha to Norfolk being the hook, and Interstate 80 from Omaha to Colorado being the stem.
 Outside of Omaha and the fishhook, large parts of Nebraska are arguably in trouble. The dismal statistic that trends lower, year after year, for many of these struggling counties, is population.
 Farms double in size with a regularity that rivals the seasons, while, almost in tandem, the number of farming families falls by half. The costs for schools, roads and police and fire departments remain relatively constant, but the bodies paying taxes, buying goods and developing land keep disappearing. County officials call it rural flight, brain drain or even mass migration, but despite the alarums, nobody has found a way to stop the excursions.
 States like Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, North Dakota, Oklahoma and Wisconsin have tried to fight the trend by restricting the corporate consolidation of farms: Keep the farmers on their land by stopping vast corporations from buying 10 farms and consolidating them into one, which is basically what keeps happening. 
 In 1982, Nebraska went even farther and embedded a ban on corporations owning and operating farms -- Initiative 300 -- in its Constitution. Last December, a federal judge in Omaha ruled that the ban violates the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution and the Americans with Disabilities Act (because the ban also requires that the person owning most of the farmland also supply most of the daily labor). Some Nebraskans hope the ruling will be overturned, but that seems unlikely.
 Opponents of these laws, which purport to protect family farmers, view them as economic nostalgia -- like trying to protect the local paper by banning Internet news sites and mandating that the newspaper be delivered by a towheaded kid on a bicycle. If rank protectionism is not the solution, then what is?
 Doug German, executive director of Legal Aid of Nebraska, who lives in the central part of the state, just off the fishhook, in Eustis (pop. 425), and provides legal services to the casualties of the state's poorer counties, agrees that rural Nebraska is at a ''tipping point.'' The antidote to its economic depopulation, he believes, does not lie in bringing Intel or Toyota factories to the heartland, but in Nebraskans resolutely blooming where they are planted and developing micro industries capable of flourishing anywhere, with the help of computer and Internet technologies.
 I hope Mr. German is right, but I wonder what kind of micro industry will save the likes of Arthur County (half the size of Rhode Island), where the population peaked at 1,412 in 1920, was 442 in 2000, and 402 in 2004? In these parts, during election season, the signs along the road say ''Vote for Helen, County Assessor,'' because there's only one Helen, and she's running unopposed.
 Instead of micro industries, a cynical futurist might see mega-farms, owned by global corporations, and farmed by armies of robot combines, controlled by global positioning satellite technology from offices in Omaha.

HOME ECONOMICS
 For all of today's up-to-the-second economic analysis, how are Americans actually doing? Last fall, the Op-Ed page asked writers to provide snapshots of their local economies over the course of the year. Here is their second round of dispatches.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION GROWTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (89%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); COUNTIES (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (68%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (60%) Farmers ; Education and Schools; Roads and Traffic; Police; Fires and Firefighters; Population

ORGANIZATION: CREIGHTON UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: Richard Dooling

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (94%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (77%) NEBRASKA, USA (97%); MISSOURI, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Nebraska; Omaha (Neb) ; Nebraska

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



123 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; HOME ECONOMICS: Personal Accounts; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Kentucky's Underground Economy

BYLINE: By Bobbie Ann Mason. 
Bobbie Ann Mason is writer in residence at the University of Kentucky and an editor of ''Missing Mountains,'' an anthology about mountaintop removal.

DATELINE: Lexington, Ky. 

 BODY:
WHEN you fly over the Appalachians of eastern Kentucky, you can see the gray scars on the mountains, pockmarks reaching far to the north and east that are the results of a kind of strip-mining called mountaintop removal. Most Kentuckians never see that part of the state because it is so isolated, and most people across the nation (which burns the premium coal from these mountains) don't know how costly their cheap electricity really is. It could break your heart to know. 
 It takes just a dozen guys with giant D-9 bulldozers about a year to wreck a mountain. They dynamite it, then shove the shattered vegetation and topsoil (called spoil or overburden) down into the valleys, followed by chunks of bedrock. 
Everything in this horrific pile dies. Even the streams are buried. Every rain is a flood. Slurry ponds spill black sludge. People living near mine sites hear the cacophony of dynamite, dozers and coal trucks 24-7. Their houses flood and crack. Their children come home from school sick, covered with coal dust. The well water is black. 
 There is a long history here of struggle against exploitation by coal companies. Now, in ever more dramatic circumstances, people are fighting to preserve their land, their homes, their communities, their cemeteries and their lives. 
 Appalachians love the mountains fiercely, yet mining is a way of life. Many don't want to protest the destruction of their mountains for fear the region will lose jobs. But nearly two-thirds of the mining jobs in Kentucky have been lost in the past 25 years because mountaintop mining is more efficient than deep mining. 
 The United States gets half its electricity from coal, and about a seventh of that comes from Kentucky. But coal money has not lifted eastern Kentucky out of poverty. In fact, the strip-mined counties have the highest poverty rates in the state, not much improved from when President Johnson visited about 40 years ago and declared war on poverty. Eighty percent of the coal, more than $2 billion worth, leaves the state, much of the profit going to distant corporations. 
 The coal industry brags about reclaiming the land. It envisions factories and golf courses on flat land, and it will repeat this sunny song to anyone who will listen. But the true wealth of these flattened mountains can't be replaced. 
 It's a loss not only to Appalachia but to the entire nation. According to Erik Reece, in ''Lost Mountain,'' a new book about mountaintop mining, the Appalachians are one of a kind -- there has never been a forest as diverse as this ancient mesophytic ecosystem. When the glaciers retreated, leaving a sort of strip-mined landscape, the unscathed Appalachian forests reseeded the continent. They remain the continent's seedbed, Mr. Reece says. 
 With mountaintop removal, the ancient forests won't come back in a hurry. The fertile topsoil, which took thousands of years to form, can't be recreated. The timber that might offer economically profitable, self-sustaining industry is flung aside, along with other valuable plants, animal species and minerals. Any miracle medicines the forests might yield will be gone. It's our Brazilian rainforest.
 The 2006 economic outlook is bleak for the Kentucky mountains, where people's lives are secondary to coal profits, as they have been for more than a century. Eastern Kentuckians are forced to trade their heritage and their children's future for jobs now. And this ecological disaster promises to seriously harm us all if it continues at this pace.

HOME ECONOMICS
 For all of today's up-to-the-second economic analysis, how are Americans actually doing? Last fall, the Op-Ed page asked writers to provide snapshots of their local economies over the course of the year. Here is their second round of dispatches.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); SURFACE MINING (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); COAL MINING (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (79%); MINE WORKERS (77%); UNDERGROUND MINING (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); COAL INDUSTRY (76%); TRENDS (74%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (74%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); POVERTY RATES (67%) Coal; Strip Mining; Economic Conditions and Trends; Mines and Mining

PERSON: Bobbie Ann Mason

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (78%) KENTUCKY, USA (98%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%) UNITED STATES (98%) Appalachian Mountains; Kentucky

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



124 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; HOME ECONOMICS: Personal Accounts; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Above It All in Colorado

BYLINE: By Pam Houston. 
Pam Houston is the author, most recently, of ''Sight Hound.''

DATELINE: Creede, Colo. 

 BODY:
MAYBE it's growing up under a bowl of bluebird-colored sky, or among groves of quaking aspens, or surrounded by snow that falls and falls and never turns black. Maybe it's learning to ski double black diamond slopes at the age of 3, or the possibility inherent in 53 peaks that rise 14,000 feet above sea level. Maybe it's because the median household income in Colorado is well above the national median, and the people per square mile average is well below it, but Coloradans consistently tend toward the optimistic, rarely confuse cynicism with intelligence and are willing to articulate their hopes for the future without fear. 
 ''Most of us came out here with little more than the shirts on our backpacks,'' says Stephen Cunningham, an entrepreneur. ''We always expect this year to be better than last year, and would be shocked if that did not turn out to be the case.'' I asked Stephen, and a cross section of other Coloradoans, how hopeful they were feeling in this new year, and what they were hoping for. 
Tory Read, a photographer and writer who came out West in 1980, is hoping to laugh a little more and work a little less, she's hoping that her mother doesn't have another stroke before she's accepted into a retirement community and she's hoping to deepen her friendships, old and new. She identifies herself as a Westerner because she believes she can continue to invent herself even though she's in her mid-40's, but admits to having that ''edgy, cynical Northeastern thing'' lodged somewhere in her soul. 
 A newcomer to Colorado, Kae Penner-Howell is hoping to find good neighbors, friends and a feeling of community. Creative director at an ad agency, she also hopes that her two college-age daughters will find fulfilling paths to work, and that the opportunities open to them will match their education's huge cost.
 Brian Lee Poe quietly confesses that his life is hard. Ten years ago he got tired of ''working himself to death'' and began cobbling together a life that alternates between house-sitting and living in his car. Brian hopes that Colorado's next governor will make art, music and writing classes mandatory for all 12 years of public schooling.
 ''I've had every kind of job you can think of -- shipping clerk, Air Force, post office,'' he said. ''If I'd had the chance to study music and writing, I'd be making good money now. That's what every kid in school should have, a shot at figuring out what they love.''
 Pam Kafir, a massage therapist, dancer and mom, says she doesn't like the word hope because it suggests that the outcome is out of our control. Her goal this year is to live within her values, to find a peaceful balance between work and life. John Howard, a veterinarian in Mineral County, wants to serve his rural community honorably, and hopes the community will continue to grow enough to support him. 
 Stephen Cunningham's hope -- to provide for his family with less anxiety and more stability -- was echoed by many. Stephen came to Colorado for the crystalline night skies and impenetrable granite faces but has come to value long nights around the table with friends even more than the landscape. Like many people who live within a few steps or a few miles of all the personal space they desire, Coloradans value the spirit of community and cooperation -- whether in a village of a hundred or a city of a million -- most of all.

HOME ECONOMICS
 For all of today's up-to-the-second economic analysis, how are Americans actually doing? Last fall, the Op-Ed page asked writers to provide snapshots of their local economies over the course of the year. Here is their second round of dispatches.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (77%); SKIING (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); WRITERS (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); MUSIC (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Population; Income; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Pam Houston

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Colorado; Colorado

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



125 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: 100-M.P.G. Cars: It's a Start

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
Imagine if we could develop a passenger car that averaged more than 100 miles per gallon -- or, if used only for short trips, 1,000 miles per gallon. What if it could cost the equivalent of only 75 cents a gallon to operate and needed to go to a filling station only every other month? 
 Surprise -- we have all that technology today! We even have a handful of demonstration vehicles to prove it. All we lack is bold political and corporate leadership to put this technology in play immediately. 
These vehicles underscore that if President Bush is serious about curbing our addiction to oil, there's plenty more that he could do -- right now. There's no need for vague, long-term initiatives that are welcome but smack of procrastination.
 The cars I'm talking about are known as ''plug-in hybrids.'' They are similar to hybrids like the Toyota Prius, but they have bigger batteries and at night would be plugged into a standard 120-volt outlet to charge the batteries.
 They can be built to have a 30- to 50-mile range before the gasoline engine needs to be used at all. So for someone who commutes 15 miles each way to work and rarely takes long drives, a plug-in hybrid usually functions as an electric vehicle and relies on gas only on rare occasions.
 ''If you used it only locally, you would go to a gas station only a couple of times a year,'' said Felix Kramer, founder of CalCars.org, a nonprofit in Palo Alto, Calif., that converted a regular Prius to a plug-in hybrid. ''This can be done right now. That's why people are so excited.''
 Estimates of gas mileage with a plug-in tend to be 100 miles per gallon and up, but these estimates depend on how the vehicle is used. People who only putter around their neighborhood could go thousands of miles on a gallon of gas -- and a supply of household current. 
 Eventually, instead, maybe we'll be driving hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. A few years ago, I drove a General Motors hydrogen prototype on an Arizona test track, and it was capable of speeds of up to 100 miles per hour, handled well, was whisper-quiet and emitted only water vapor for exhaust. On the other hand, it also cost $5 million to make.
 In contrast, plug-in hybrids are economically and technically feasible today. While the batteries still aren't perfect, supporters say that plug-in hybrids can be mass-produced today for only about $3,000 more than a conventional hybrid (which already costs $3,000 more than a regular auto). Skeptics say that the additional cost might be greater, up to $15,000 more than a regular gas car -- but even that might find a market among car buyers seeking the Hot New Thing.
 The higher sticker price is compensated for by lower operating costs, with power from the electrical grid. Indeed, if it recharged at night when rates drop, a plug-in hybrid could be run for the equivalent of 75 cents a gallon or less.
 Another advantage is that plug-ins fit easily into the existing infrastructure, unlike cars fueled by hydrogen. At least at home, the infrastructure is as simple as an extension cord.
 ''None of this requires a Manhattan Project,'' notes James Woolsey, the former C.I.A. director, an ardent fan of plug-in hybrids to achieve greater energy autonomy and stop subsidizing extremism and dictatorships in the Middle East. Now, he says, government incentives are needed so that auto companies take the financial risk of producing plug-in hybrids.
 Mr. Woolsey has a vision that starts with plug-in hybrids averaging, say, 125 miles per gallon. Then he would like to see them made of lightweight carbon (like Formula One racers), which would save enough weight to double mileage -- taking the vehicle up to 250 miles per gallon. 
 Then make that plug-in a flex-fuel vehicle that burns E85 (which is 85 percent ethanol and only 15 percent petroleum), and it will go four times as far for each gallon of petroleum. That's 1,000 miles per gallon with existing (albeit not always very economical) technology.
 Will everything work so smoothly? No, of course not. But even if only one-fifth of this dream were achievable, the result would still be 200 m.p.g. cars -- and more energy security and less global warming. 
 The Bush administration is backing the technologies that go into plug-in hybrids, but languorously. Instead, the U.S. should promise to order 50,000 fleet vehicles of the first viable plug-in hybrid -- that would be just the stimulus the carmakers need.
 Mr. Bush was forthright in acknowledging America's oil addiction, but he sometimes sounded like an addict who declares he's going to quit ''tomorrow.'' Let's start now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); GAS STATIONS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (76%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (73%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (70%) Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



126 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1724 words

HEADLINE: OIL GRAFT FUELS THE INSURGENCY, IRAQ AND U.S. SAY

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH and JAMES GLANZ; Robert F. Worth reported from Baghdad for this article, and James Glanz from New York.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Feb. 4 

 BODY:
Iraqi and American officials say they are seeing a troubling pattern of government corruption enabling the flow of oil money and other funds to the insurgency and threatening to undermine Iraq's struggling economy. 
 In Iraq, which depends almost exclusively on oil for its revenues, the officials say that any diversion of money to an insurgency that is killing its citizens and tearing apart its infrastructure adds a new and menacing element to the challenge of holding the country together.
In one example, a sitting member of the Iraqi National Assembly has been indicted in the theft of millions of dollars meant for protecting a critical oil pipeline against attacks and is suspected of funneling some of that money to the insurgency, said Radhi Hamza al-Radhi, the chairman of Iraq's Commission on Public Integrity. The indictment has not been made public.
 The charges against the Sunni lawmaker, Meshaan al-Juburi, lend credence to the suspicions of Iraqi officials that the insurgency is profiting from Iraq's oil riches. 
 In another incident, the director of a major oil storage plant near Kirkuk was arrested Saturday, with other employees and several local police officials, and charged with helping to orchestrate a mortar attack on the plant on Thursday, a Northern Oil Company employee said. The attack resulted in devastating pipeline fires and a shutdown of all oil operations in the area, said the employee, who was granted anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the matter.
 Ali Allawi, Iraq's finance minister, estimated that insurgents reap 40 percent to 50 percent of all oil-smuggling profits in the country. Offering an example of how illicit oil products are kept flowing on the black market, he said that the insurgency had infiltrated senior management positions at the major northern refinery in Baiji and routinely terrorized truck drivers there. This allows the insurgents and their confederates to tap the pipeline, empty the trucks and sell the oil or gas themselves. 
 ''It's gone beyond Nigeria levels now where it really threatens national security,'' Mr. Allawi said of the oil industry. ''The insurgents are involved at all levels.''
 American officials here echo that view. ''It's clear that corruption funds the insurgency, so there you have a very real threat to the new state,'' said an American official who is involved in anticorruption efforts but refused to be identified to preserve his ability to work with Iraqi officials. ''Corruption really has the potential of undercutting the growth potential here.'' 
 An example of how the insurgents terrorize oil truck drivers occurred last month, as a 60-truck convoy of fuel tankers from Baiji that was intended to alleviate fuel shortages in Baghdad was attacked by insurgents with grenades and machine guns despite the heavy presence of Iraqi security forces. In some cases Iraqi guards on the Syrian border have been paid off to let stolen shipments through, and the oil is then sold on the black market, Mr. Radhi said. 
 Senior officials in Iraq's Oil Ministry have been repeatedly cited in the Iraqi press as complaining about what they call an ''oil smuggling mafia'' that not only siphons profits from the oil industry but also is said to control the allocation of administrative posts in the ministry. 
 The former oil minister, Ibrahim Bahr al-Ulum, told the London-based newspaper Al Hayat late last year that ''oil and fuel smuggling networks have grown into a dangerous mafia threatening the lives of those in charge of fighting corruption,'' according to a translation by the BBC. 
 Mr. Ulum said in an interview with the television network Iraqiya that raids on ''smuggling dens'' in Baghdad had netted forged documents and tanker trucks.
 The indictment charges that Mr. Juburi, who is now believed to be hiding in Syria, stole money intended to hire and equip thousands of guards in 2004 and 2005 to protect an oil pipeline running between Baiji and the northern city of Kirkuk, Mr. Radhi said. Iraqi officials also suspect, but have not proved, that Mr. Juburi funneled some of the money he was given to protect the pipeline to the insurgents who were attacking it.
 An Iraqi Army battalion commander Mr. Juburi hired was arrested recently and accused of organizing insurgent attacks on the pipeline, said a high-ranking Iraqi official who is close to the investigation. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak about the indictment. It is not clear whether Mr. Juburi knew that the commander was helping plan the attacks, the official said. 
 Frequent insurgent attacks on the pipeline have been one reason Iraqi oil exports have plummeted over the past year. The mortar attack on Thursday that led to the arrests of oil company officials and police officials was described by Northern Oil company employees as one of the most damaging in years.
 The battalion commander hired by Mr. Juburi was identified as Ali Ahmed al-Wazir, commander of the second battalion of the first brigade of the Special Infrastructure Brigades, based in the Wadi Zareitoun district, said the high-ranking Iraqi official close to the investigation. Mr. Juburi fled Iraq just before a warrant was issued for his arrest in late December, Mr. Radhi said. Mr. Juburi's son, Yazen Meshaan al-Juburi, has also been charged in the case and is believed to have fled with him.
 Mr. Juburi's party, the Conciliation and Liberation Bloc, won three seats in December's elections. But the charges against him are not likely to affect the current negotiations over forming a new Iraqi government, Mr. Radhi said, because the party Mr. Juburi formed can nominate someone to replace him in the new National Assembly. 
 Mr. Juburi has long been a controversial figure in Iraq. He was once intimate with the family of Saddam Hussein, but joined other Iraqi exiles in calling for Mr. Hussein's overthrow after fleeing Iraq in 1989.
 He claimed that he worked with American Special Forces in the weeks before the war in a covert attempt to undermine the Iraqi military, broadcasting calls to military commanders to lay down their arms from a television station in Kurdistan. He claimed to have taken control of Mosul by the outbreak of the war, but he was later ousted by American commanders. 
 Mr. Juburi's tribe, the Juburis, is powerful in Salahuddin Province, through which the oil pipeline from Baiji runs. Partly for that reason, Mr. Juburi was asked in 2004 to organize 17 battalions of soldiers to protect the pipeline. In January 2005, Mr. Juburi was elected to the National Assembly, becoming one of a few Sunni Arab members and a hard-line critic of the government, led by Ibrahim al-Jaafari. Iraqi and American officials say they believe that some members of the Juburi tribe are involved in the insurgency. 
 After attacks on the pipeline grew worse in 2005, a three-month investigation found that Mr. Juburi had hired only a small number of commanders, paying them to appoint hundreds of ghost soldiers on paper and funnel the salaries back to him, Mr. Radhi said. 
 Mr. Juburi's son, Yazen, was responsible for supplying food for the soldiers, and he appears to have pocketed much of the money allocated for that purpose, the Iraqi official said. 
 Oil smuggling is only one part of a broader corruption problem that ranges from small-scale kickbacks to major fraud of the kind that took place in Iraq's Defense Ministry, where investigators last August said they had identified more than $1.3 billion in misspent military contracts. Hazem Shaalan, who was defense minister under former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi and gave Mr. Juburi the job of protecting the Baiji pipeline, was charged with public corruption last year and is now living in London.
 Not all the corruption is related to the insurgency. But American and Iraqi officials say its scale is so broad as to be a serious threat to Iraq's economic rebirth. 
 The Commission on Public Integrity has referred about 450 cases for prosecution, and it has more than 1,000 other cases under investigation, Mr. Radhi said.
 The reports of corruption have set off a major reform effort in recent months, with American advisers assisting internal investigations and promoting new rules like requiring financial disclosure forms for government officials.
 But the changes have often been stymied by intimidation and violence. Iraq set up a new post in each government ministry to do internal monitoring, the inspector general, but two of the officials were assassinated last year just as they were about to publicize the results of investigations. Six other employees of the Commission on Public Integrity have been killed, and the rest live in constant fear of retaliatory violence.
 ''When the corruption is large, people incline to terror,'' Mr. Radhi said.
 The officials in charge of fighting corruption are vulnerable. The Iraqi inspector general program has suffered from ''significant missteps and lapses in progress,'' and several inspector generals have been relieved of their jobs pending indictments, according to a State Department report on Iraq's reconstruction efforts. 
 The threat of violence has also deterred many Iraqi journalists from reporting on corruption, despite a campaign by American officials, who have optimistically declared the week starting Feb. 19 to be Anti-corruption Week.
 ''We have talked to three editors in the past week about anticorruption stories,'' said an American official in Baghdad who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''They are afraid of getting whacked if they print them.''
 In other cases, anticorruption officials have helped to hide illegal behavior, joining what Mr. Radhi called ''Mafia type'' organizations within the government ministries.
 The Iraqi government has begun requiring all employees to sign a code of conduct, and all high-level officials must fill out complete financial disclosure forms. But 40 percent of them have refused to do so, saying they fear that filling out such forms will be equivalent to telling kidnappers what ransom to charge, Mr. Radhi said.
 There have been some successes, he said: eight government officials have been convicted on corruption charges and sentenced, though many more have escaped prosecution by fleeing to other countries.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Insurgents have infiltrated the management of the Baiji refinery and have routinely terrorized truck drivers and stolen oil, an Iraqi official said. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)
 Meshaan al-Juburi, a legislator, has been indicted on corruption charges. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson/Aurora)(pg. 16)Map of Iraq highlighting Baiji: Money intended to be used to protect the Baiji pipeline was stolen. (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SMUGGLING (88%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); TERRORISM (76%); INDICTMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); ARRESTS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); TRUCK DRIVERS (67%); BULK SHIPPING (58%) Terrorism; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Smuggling; Pipelines; Finances; Trucks and Trucking; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: Robert F Worth; James Glanz; Ali (Min) Allawi

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



127 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2345 words

PERSON: Bettye Naomi Goldstein

HEADLINE: Betty Friedan, Who Ignited Cause In 'Feminine Mystique,' Dies at 85

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Betty Friedan, the feminist crusader and author whose searing first book, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' ignited the contemporary women's movement in 1963 and as a result permanently transformed the social fabric of the United States and countries around the world, died yesterday, her 85th birthday, at her home in Washington.
 The cause was congestive heart failure, said Emily Bazelon, a family spokeswoman.
With its impassioned yet clear-eyed analysis of the issues that affected women's lives in the decades after World War II -- including enforced domesticity, limited career prospects and, as chronicled in later editions, the campaign for legalized abortion -- ''The Feminine Mystique'' is widely regarded as one of the most influential nonfiction books of the 20th century. Published by W. W. Norton & Company, the book had sold more than three million copies by the year 2000 and has been translated into many languages. 
 ''The Feminine Mystique'' made Ms. Friedan world famous. It also made her one of the chief architects of the women's liberation movement of the late 1960's and afterward, a sweeping social upheaval that harked back to the suffrage campaigns of the turn of the century and would be called feminism's second wave.
 In 1966, Ms. Friedan helped found the National Organization for Women, serving as its first president. In 1969, she was a founder of the National Association for the Repeal of Abortion Laws, now known as Naral Pro-Choice America. With Gloria Steinem, Bella Abzug and others, she founded the National Women's Political Caucus in 1971.
 Though in later years, some feminists dismissed Ms. Friedan's work as outmoded, a great many aspects of modern life that seem routine today -- from unisex Help Wanted ads to women in politics, medicine, the clergy and the military -- are the direct result of the hard-won advances she helped women attain.
 For decades a familiar presence on television and the lecture circuit, Ms. Friedan, with her short stature and deeply hooded eyes, looked for much of her adult life like a ''combination of Hermione Gingold and Bette Davis,'' as Judy Klemesrud wrote in The New York Times Magazine in 1970.
 A brilliant student who graduated summa cum laude from Smith College in 1942, Ms. Friedan trained as a psychologist but never pursued a career in the field. When she wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' she was a suburban housewife and mother who supplemented her husband's income by writing freelance articles for women's magazines.
 Though Ms. Friedan was not generally considered a lyrical stylist, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' read today, is as mesmerizing as it was more than four decades ago:
 ''Gradually, without seeing it clearly for quite a while, I came to realize that something is very wrong with the way American women are trying to live their lives today,'' Ms. Friedan wrote in the opening line of the preface. ''I sensed it first as a question mark in my own life, as a wife and mother of three small children, half-guiltily, and therefore half-heartedly, almost in spite of myself, using my abilities and education in work that took me away from home.''
 The words have the hypnotic pull of a fairy tale, and for the next 400 pages, Ms. Friedan identifies, dissects and damningly indicts one of the most pervasive folk beliefs of postwar American life: the myth of suburban women's domestic fulfillment she came to call the feminine mystique.
 Drawing on history, psychology, sociology and economics, as well as on interviews she conducted with women across the country, Ms. Friedan charted a gradual metamorphosis of the American woman from the independent, career-minded New Woman of the 1920's and 30's into the vacant, aproned housewife of the postwar years.
 The portrait she painted was chilling. For a typical woman of the 1950's, even a college-educated one, life centered almost exclusively on chores and children. She cooked and baked and bandaged and chauffeured and laundered and sewed. She did the mopping and the marketing and took her husband's gray flannel suit to the cleaners. She was happy to keep his dinner warm till he came wearily home from downtown.
 The life she led, if educators, psychologists and the mass media were to be believed, was the fulfillment of every women's most ardent dream. Yet she was unaccountably tired, impatient with the children, craving something that neither marital sex nor extramarital affairs could satisfy. Her thoughts sometimes turned to suicide. She consulted a spate of doctors and psychiatrists, who prescribed charity work, bowling and bridge. If those failed, there were always tranquilizers to get her through her busy day.
 A Nebraska housewife with a Ph.D. in anthropology whom Ms. Friedan interviewed told her:
 ''A film made of any typical morning in my house would look like an old Marx Brothers comedy. I wash the dishes, rush the older children off to school, dash out in the yard to cultivate the chrysanthemums, run back in to make a phone call about a committee meeting, help the youngest child build a blockhouse, spend fifteen minutes skimming the newspapers so I can be well-informed, then scamper down to the washing machines where my thrice-weekly laundry includes enough clothes to keep a primitive village going for an entire year. By noon I'm ready for a padded cell. Very little of what I've done has been really necessary or important. Outside pressures lash me though the day. Yet I look upon myself as one of the more relaxed housewives in the neighborhood.''
 ''The Feminine Mystique'' began as a survey Ms. Friedan conducted in 1957 for the 15th reunion of her graduating class at Smith. It was intended to refute a prevailing postwar myth: that higher education kept women from adapting to their roles as wives and mothers. Judging from her own capable life, Ms. Friedan expected her classmates to describe theirs as similarly well adjusted. But what she discovered in the women's responses was something far more complex, and more troubling -- a ''nameless, aching dissatisfaction'' that she would famously call ''the problem that has no name.''
 When Ms. Friedan sent the same questionnaire to graduates of Radcliffe and other colleges, and later interviewed scores of women personally, the results were the same. The women's answers gave her the seeds of her book. They also forced her to confront the painful limitations of her own suburban idyll.
 Bettye Naomi Goldstein was born on Feb. 4, 1921, in Peoria, Ill. Her father, Harry, was an immigrant from Russia who parlayed a street-corner collar-button business into a prosperous downtown jewelry store. Her gifted, imperious mother, Miriam, had been the editor of the women's page of the local newspaper before giving up her job for marriage and children. Only years later, when she was writing ''The Feminine Mystique,'' did Ms. Friedan come to see her mother's cold, critical demeanor as masking a deep bitterness at giving up the work she loved.
 Growing up brainy, Jewish, outspoken and, by the standards of the time, unlovely, Bettye was ostracized. She was barred from the fashionable sororities at her Peoria high school and rarely asked on dates. It was an experience, she would later say, that made her identify with people on the margins of society.
 At Smith, she blossomed. For the first time, she could be as smart as she wanted, as impassioned as she wanted and as loud as she wanted, and for four happy years she was all those things. Betty received her bachelor's degree in 1942 -- by that timeshe had dropped the final ''e,'' which she considered an affectation of her mother's -- and accepted a fellowship to the University of California, Berkeley, for graduate work in psychology.
 At Berkeley, she studied with the renowned psychologist Erik Erikson, among others. She won a second fellowship, even more prestigious than the first, that would allow her to continue for a doctorate. But she was dating a young physicist who felt threatened by her success. He pressured her to turn down the fellowship, and she did, an experience she would later recount frequently in interviews. She also turned down the physicist, returning home to Peoria before moving to Greenwich Village in New York.
 There, Ms. Friedan worked as an editor at The Federated Press, a small news service that provided stories to labor newspapers nationwide. In 1946, she took a job as a reporter with U. E. News, the weekly publication of the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America.
 In 1947, she married Carl Friedan, a theater director who later became an advertising executive. They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.
 Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.
 ''The Feminine Mystique'' had the misfortune to appear during a newspaper printers' strike. The reviews that appeared afterward ran the gamut from bewildered to outraged to cautiously laudatory. Some critics also felt that Ms. Friedan had insufficiently acknowledged her debt to Simone de Beauvoir, whose 1949 book, ''The Second Sex,'' dealt with many of the same issues.
 Writing in The New York Times Book Review in April 1963, Lucy Freeman called ''The Feminine Mystique'' a ''highly readable, provocative book,'' but went on to question its basic premise, writing, of Ms. Friedan:
 ''Sweeping generalities, in which this book necessarily abounds, may hold a certain amount of truth but often obscure the deeper issues. It is superficial to blame the 'culture' and its handmaidens, the women's magazines, as she does. What is to stop a woman who is interested in national and international affairs from reading magazines that deal with those subjects? To paraphrase a famous line, 'The fault, dear Mrs. Friedan, is not in our culture, but in ourselves.' ''
 Among readers, however, the response to the book was so overwhelming that Ms. Friedan realized she needed more than words to address the condition of women's lives. After moving back to Manhattan with her family, she determined to start a progressive organization that would be the equivalent, as she often said, of an N.A.A.C.P. for women.
 In 1966, Ms. Friedan and a group of colleagues founded the National Organization for Women. She was its president until 1970.
 One of NOW's most visible public actions was the Women's Strike for Equality, held on Aug. 26, 1970, in New York and in cities around the country. In New York, tens of thousands of woman marched down Fifth Avenue, with Ms. Friedan in the lead. (Before the march, she made a point of lunching at Whyte's, a downtown restaurant formerly open to men only.)
 Carrying signs and banners (''Don't Cook Dinner -- Starve a Rat Tonight!'' ''Don't Iron While the Strike Is Hot''), women of all ages, along with a number of sympathetic men, marched joyfully down the street to cheering crowds. The march ended with a rally in Bryant Park, behind the New York Public Library, with passionate speeches by Ms. Friedan, Ms. Steinem, Ms. Abzug and Kate Millett.
 Not all of Ms. Friedan's ventures were as successful. The First Women's Bank and Trust Company, which she helped found in 1973, is no longer in business. Nor were even her indomitable presence and relentless energy enough to secure passage of the Equal Rights Amendment.
 Though widely respected as a modern-day heroine, Ms. Friedan was by no means universally beloved, even -- or perhaps especially -- by members of the women's movement. She was famously abrasive. She could be thin-skinned and imperious, subject to screaming fits of temperament.
 In the 1970's and afterward, some feminists criticized Ms. Friedan for focusing almost exclusively on the concerns of middle-class married white women and ignoring those of minorities, lesbians and the poor. Some called her retrograde for insisting that women could, and should, live in collaborative partnership with men.
 Ms. Friedan's private life was also famously stormy. In her recent memoir, ''Life So Far'' (Simon & Schuster, 2000), she accused her husband of being physically abusive during their marriage, writing that he sometimes gave her black eyes, which she concealed with make-up at public events and on television.
 Mr. Friedan, who died in December, repeatedly denied the accusations. In an interview with Time magazine in 2000, shortly after the memoir's publication, he called Ms. Friedan's account a ''complete fabrication.'' He added: ''I am the innocent victim of a drive-by shooting by a reckless driver savagely aiming at the whole male gender.''
 Ms. Friedan's other books include ''It Changed My Life: Writings on the Women's Movement'' (Random House, 1976); ''The Second Stage'' (Summit, 1981); and ''The Fountain of Age'' (Simon & Schuster, 1993).
 The recipient of many awards and honorary degrees, she was a visiting professor at universities around the country, among them Columbia, Temple and the University of Southern California. In recent years, Ms. Friedan was associated with the Institute for Women and Work at Cornell University.
 Despite all of her later achievements, Ms. Friedan would be forever known as the suburban housewife who started a revolution with ''The Feminine Mystique.'' Rarely has a single book been responsible for such sweeping, tumultuous and continuing social transformation.
 The new society Ms. Friedan proposed, founded on the notion that men and women were created equal, represented such a drastic upending of the prevailing social norms that over the years to come, she would be forced to explain her position again and again.
 ''Some people think I'm saying, 'Women of the world unite -- you have nothing to lose but your men,' '' she told Life magazine in 1963. ''It's not true. You have nothing to lose but your vacuum cleaners.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Monday and in some copies on Sunday about Betty Friedan, the pioneering feminist who wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' misstated the residence of her sister, Amy Adams. It is Chapel Hill, N.C., not New York City.
An obituary on Monday and in some copies on Sunday about Betty Friedan, the pioneering feminist who wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' misstated the residence of her sister, Amy Adams. It is Chapel Hill, N.C., not New York City.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Betty Friedan, a founder of the National Organization for Women, led a march in Manhattan in 1970 for the Women's Strike for Equality. (Photo by J. P. Laffont/Corbis Sygma)
A young Betty Friedan from her 2000 memoir, ''Life So Far.'' (Photo by Schlesinger Library, Radcliffe Institute, Harvard University)(pg. 33)
 Betty Friedan in 1995. (Photo by Sophie Bassouls/Corbis Sygma)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (93%); WRITERS (90%); WOMEN (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICS (86%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (75%); CAUCUSES (74%); ABORTION (74%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (62%); HEART DISEASE (56%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (56%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (50%); RELIGION (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Books and Literature; Women; Feminist Movement; Biographical Information

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (54%) National Organization for Women

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (69%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (69%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

Margalit Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



128 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: For a General, a Tough Mission: Building the Army

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: FORT KNOX, Ky., Feb. 1 

 BODY:
From his office in the command center here, where dozens of recruiters answer questions about military life via e-mail and chat rooms, Maj. Gen. Thomas P. Bostick is trying to retool the Army's strategy for fighting a war within a war: persuading young people and their families that the military is a good choice, even when combat duty is almost certain.
 The general has plans to attract teenagers with video games, Web sites, cellphone text messages and helicopter simulators in the back of 18-wheelers. He wants to win over parents through commercials on the Food Network, visits to rodeos and Nascar races, and recruiters who have recently returned from Iraq and Afghanistan and can address concerns about war.
And if that fails, General Bostick also has cash: $40,000 in bonuses for some recruits who take dangerous jobs; $1,000 for soldiers who persuade friends to sign up. 
 ''We have a responsibility to tell the Army story,'' General Bostick said. ''Recruiting is in the limelight, so we have to work harder.''
 General Bostick described the Army's strategy in his first extensive interview since taking control of reserve and active-duty recruiting in October. A former assistant division commander in Iraq, he now manages roughly 8,000 military recruiters nationwide, hundreds of civilians at Fort Knox, an advertising budget of about $200 million, and a horde of marketing tools, including a fleet of 13 tractor-trailers retrofitted to show off the Army's latest technology. 
 But General Bostick, 49, an engineer with a master's degree from Stanford who is known for his calm demeanor, still faces a daunting challenge. Last May, the Army retrained its recruiters on ethics after several were found to have cut corners to enlist unqualified soldiers. And for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, the Army, the Army Reserve and the National Guard all fell short of their recruiting goals. The active-duty Army missed its target of 80,000 recruits by about 8 percent, its biggest shortfall since 1979.
 Since then, the results have been more mixed. The Army reached its monthly targets for October, November and December. But in at least one of those months, General Bostick said, more than 10 percent of the recruits had scores on the military's aptitude test that were near the bottom of the scale -- more than double the annual 4 percent limit set by the Department of Defense. 
 The Army's monthly goals were smaller, too. Recruiters sent 2,697 fewer active-duty recruits to basic training from October to December than they did during that period in 2004. Its goals for summer have been increased to make up the difference. 
 David Segal, a military sociologist at the University of Maryland, said the Army was struggling to compete with colleges and with private-sector companies. Parents, too, are pushing their children away from a military career, fearing that they will be assigned to combat. 
 ''Recruiters are having a tougher and tougher time,'' Professor Segal said. ''The economy is growing, and there is more and more opposition being voiced by parents and at high schools.''
 General Bostick, who described his new job as ''very tough,'' said he was optimistic about the Army's ability to find, recruit and enlist the 105,500 soldiers it needs this year for the Army and Reserve.
 He said recruiters had already signed up half of the 10,450 active-duty soldiers the Army hoped to send to basic training in July, the month with the largest quota. Though at least 20 percent will drop out before boot camp, he said, it is a sign of ''steady improvement'' nationwide.
 Most other branches of the military, including the Marines and the National Guard, have met or exceeded their recruiting targets. 
 General Bostick attributed the Army's progress primarily to 1,200 recruiters added last year. The Army accounts for 70 percent of the troops serving in Iraq, and about a third of its recruiters are now combat veterans, he said. 
 ''There is valid concern by the parents and those that are being recruited about the war,'' he said in the hourlong interview. ''So these veterans who are coming back and able to tell their story and talk about how well trained they were and how well led -- their experience in Iraq is really helping the environment.''
 General Bostick said he planned to give recruiters better leads and guidance. All new recruiters, for example, now receive a nine-page document offering suggested responses to thorny questions, like ''Is the Army all about killing?'' (Answer: ''The Army is not about killing anyone, it is about supporting the United States, and when necessary, defending it at home and abroad.'') 
 Fort Knox is the hub of these efforts. In the brick buildings that have been the recruiting command's headquarters since the mid-1990's, hundreds of soldiers and civilians try to figure out ways to inspire people to volunteer. 
 GoArmy.com, the Army's recruiting Web site, went live in February 1996 and is run from the main building here. General Bostick said chat rooms had become one of the command's most promising tools. 
 Each month, about 20,000 people read or post messages in the forums, according to Army figures. Nearly 50 civilian contractors at Fort Knox respond to their queries. 
 They work as late as 2 a.m. in a lecture hall stocked with new computers and telephone headsets. On a recent afternoon, several answered online questions about what to take to boot camp and which jobs were eligible for bonuses. A recruiter speaking Arabic tried to persuade someone on the telephone to become an Army linguist. 
 General Bostick said that the online recruiters identified about 1,700 people last year who were thinking about enlisting. Of these, 405 signed up, a percentage he said was far better than what recruiters could do making cold calls.
 To help draw people to the Web site, General Bostick said, the Army must raise awareness of what it has to offer, both among teenagers and the people who influence their lives. According to the Army's advertising and media division, about 20 percent of the media budget now pays for appeals to parents on Home & Garden Television and the Food Network and through other outlets. Appeals via text message could start soon, possibly with a new Army slogan. 
 General Bostick said the Army was also expanding its relationship with Nascar, the National Hot Rod Association and the Professional Bull Riders Association. According to the plan, recruiters will visit schools and malls a few days before an event, offering free tickets and the chance to meet famous drivers or bull riders. 
 And there are other toys meant to attract, including the customized vehicles. The Army used to rely on simulated rock walls to spur interest, said Lt. Col. Mark V. Lathem, commander of the battalion that manages the fleet. ''Now it's more like an Army version of 'Pimp My Ride.' '' 
 At the building where the vehicles are designed and loaded, a black Hummer H2 with an Army logo had a high-end audiovisual system and three flat-screen monitors. Two of them showed Army footage from Iraq, accompanied by the Toby Keith song ''American Soldier,'' and the third displayed images from an Xbox video game. A few feet away, an empty truck trailer was about to be transformed into an exhibit of the 21st-century soldier, with displays on the latest in underwear and night-vision goggles.
 On the road, Colonel Lathem said, were the ''aviation van,'' with the chassis of a helicopter attached to a computerized simulator, and the new Special Forces vehicle, which includes a simulated parachute drop. The trailers, Colonel Lathem said, cost about $1 million each. 
 The payoff for all of this is one piece of paper --a ''lead card.'' At a busy event, about 50,000 people fill them out, giving names, addresses and phone numbers to the Army, Colonel Lathem said. 
 Gary M. Bishop, chief of the advertising and media division, said the Army also mailed about 10 million to 15 million lead cards to teenagers each year, their addresses pulled from Selective Service registrations and private databases bought by the Defense Department. 
 The cards are usually funneled to local recruiters. But last year, the Army began centralized screening at Fort Knox, with 35 civilians poring through 135,000 lead cards from April to September. About 86,000 were discarded because of errors or phony names or because the sender was not qualified to serve. 
 Still, the process yielded 273 new recruits. And the Army plans to expand the program. 
 But some of the officers who helped build the Army's sophisticated recruiting system say its influence may be limited. Col. David Slotwinksi, a former chief of staff for Army recruiting who retired in 2004, said the numbers and the quality of recruits were cause for concern.
 ''You're in a protracted conflict, and the only way to succeed is to build inside the nation a willingness to fight and sustain the course,'' Colonel Slotwinksi said. 
 General Bostick acknowledged the problems. ''We have a tough mission,'' he said.
 But, he added, ''This is our job, and we're going to do it the best we can.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Army recruiting command has an advertising budget of roughly $200 million and about 8,000 active-duty and reserve recruiters. Left, Tonya Bashem of the graphic production department. Center, marketing images. Right, Zuber Arif, a contractor and online recruiter who speaks Arabic.
Maj. Gen. Thomas P. Bostick became head of Army recruiting in October. ''Recruiting is in the limelight,'' he said, ''so we have to work harder.''
 Sgt. James Hanlin taking aim at an Xbox video game, which the Army uses at various events to help draw the interest of teenagers. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (93%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); CHAT ROOMS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY RECRUITING (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); HELICOPTERS (75%); FLIGHT SIMULATORS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (65%); NASCAR RACING (55%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%) United States Armament and Defense; Draft and Recruitment (Military); Ethics; Children and Youth; Computers and the Internet; Military Aircraft; Helicopters; Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones; United States Armament and Defense; Reserves (Military)

PERSON: Damien Cave; Thomas P (Maj Gen) Bostick

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



129 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Hones Its Strategy on Terrorism 

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 4 

 BODY:
The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has completed a new, classified counterterrorism strategy that for the first time orders the military to focus on nine areas identified as necessary for any terrorist network to operate, senior Pentagon officials say, and warns that ill-conceived military operations could add to terrorists' ranks. 
 Dated Feb. 1, signed by Gen. Peter Pace, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and endorsed by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, the strategy document orders the Defense Department to undertake a broad campaign to find and attack or neutralize terrorist leaders, their havens, financial networks, methods of communication and ability to move around the globe. It also orders the military to focus on terrorist information-gathering systems, personnel and ideology. 
The document orders the military to defeat terrorists, specifying that doing so requires ''continuous military operations to develop the situation and generate the intelligence that allows us to attack global terrorist organizations.''
 The complete strategy will be distributed across the military in coming days, Pentagon officials said. An unclassified version, from which a series of top-secret appendices detailing intelligence activities and military operations had been removed, was provided to The New York Times by a senior Pentagon official. Military officials would speak about the document only on condition of anonymity. 
 A military officer said that among the classified parts were the specific terrorist networks and leadership to be targets, and projected timelines for those missions. Success will be achieved, the document states, when ''violent extremist ideology and terrorist attacks'' are ''eliminated as a threat to the way of life of free and open societies,'' and with the establishment of ''a global environment that is inhospitable to violent extremism, wherein countries have the capacity to govern their own territories'' and ''have in place laws, information sharing and other arrangements that allow them to defeat terrorists as they emerge.''
 The new document takes the place of a classified counterterrorism strategy written two years ago by the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff but never released for public review. It establishes a system for measuring the military's counterterrorism efforts, with a review of progress on the nine target areas every six months. The reviews are intended to determine whether more terrorists are being captured, killed or persuaded to give up their violent struggle than are being created.
 One senior Pentagon official involved in writing the strategy said the Defense Department had identified more than 30 new terrorist organizations affiliated with Al Qaeda that had sprung to life since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
 The document's unusual admission of the negative impact military actions can have cited no examples, but said: ''The way we conduct operations -- choosing whether, when, where and how -- can affect ideological support for terrorism. Knowledge of indigenous population's cultural and religious sensitivities and understanding of how the enemy uses the U.S. military's actions against us should inform the way the U.S. military operates.'' 
 That has been clear in the situations ranging from disgrace suffered by the United States after revelations of detainee abuse at Abu Ghraib to instances when Arab media emphasized pictures of crosses or rosaries hung from artillery tubes by American soldiers. Such photographs were used to argue that the counterterrorism effort was a war on Islam. Pentagon officials involved in writing the strategy point out that the American military's efforts to aid tsunami victims in southeast Asia and to assist victims of Pakistan's earthquake did more to counter terrorist ideology than any attack mission.
 The senior Pentagon official said a major challenge the military faced was finding ways to fight terrorist networks operating in nations with which the United States was not at war. That job, the document states, requires the American military to help other nations improve their own counterterrorism abilities.
 The document also orders the military to halt proliferation of unconventional weapons and to recover or eliminate uncontrolled chemical, biological or nuclear materials, which includes efforts to detect and monitor the acquisition and development of unconventional weapons. 
 A central piece of the plan, the document says, is the concept of ''supporting mainstream efforts to reject violent extremism.'' The effort requires encouraging those segments of the Islamic world that support inclusion, moderation and tolerance.
 It also calls on all members of the military ''to be aware of the culture, customs, language and philosophy of affected populations and the enemy, to more effectively counter extremism, and encourage democracy, freedom and economic prosperity abroad.'' Among other classified parts of the plan are descriptions of current intelligence operations, as well as specific tasks and tactics. The classified version also includes goals, or ''termination objectives.''
 The senior Pentagon official said the guidance was issued ''to integrate a number of conflicting opinions and views about what the military strategy should be.'' The job of writing the specifics of the military's counterterrorism effort falls to the Special Operations Command, based in Tampa, Fla. 
 The more detailed ''global campaign plan for the war on terror'' is expected from Gen. Bryan D. Brown, the commander of the Special Operations Command, in coming weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); ARMED FORCES (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AL-QAEDA (73%) Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Finances; Intelligence Services; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (91%)

PERSON: Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



130 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; IRAN'S NUCLEAR CHALLENGE: REACTION; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Dispute Arouses Patriotism Among Iranians

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Nazila Fathi contributed reporting from Tehran for this article.

DATELINE: ISFAHAN, Iran, Feb. 4 

 BODY:
Iran's nuclear program will not help Ali Shafiei pay his bills, or Muhammad Soheili Pour sell appliances or Yussefi Janali sell rugs, but they all said that they support Iran's right to nuclear energy and do not much care how other nations of the world react.
 News that the International Atomic Energy Agency had voted by an overwhelming margin to refer Iran to the United Nation's Security Council was very slow to get out in Iran, where people have for the most part focused their concerns on domestic economic conditions and their own day-to-day challenges. 
But in interviews in this ancient central Iranian city, and in the hills of northern Tehran, people expressed similar ideas -- trepidation over what awaits them, especially the prospect of penalties, but an almost universal commitment to support their government's drive for nuclear energy. 
 ''I do not know what will happen now, but we are worried if sanctions are imposed,'' said Arash Shahroussian, 26, a government employee in Tehran. ''My father is a transit driver and he might not be able to work anymore.''
 The nuclear case has become a matter of national pride, but it also has tapped into broader sense of victimization and a glorification of martyrdom that many people here describe as a part of their national and religious identities.
 Muhammad Jaavad Molkoti was seated behind a cash register in a small appliance store here when he compared this struggle, against the west, to a struggle faced by the Prophet Muhammad in the early days of his prophecy. In the story that Mr. Molkoti offered, the prophet and a small band of his followers were surrounded by enemies in the desert with little to eat, and still they stood strong.
 ''Eight people would have to share one single date, and still they resisted,'' Mr. Molkoti said. ''They did not give in, and we are inspired by them.''
 The men standing around nodded in agreement, and even shrugged off the prospect, no matter how distant, of international penalties and isolation. ''It's not going to be any worse than wartime for us, and we had eight years of that,'' Muhammad Soheili-Pour said.
 ''Whether they refer us or not, we are ready for anything,'' said Rasoul Soheili, standing nearby.
 Of course, it is possible Iranians choose to show a face of solidarity and defiance because that is the position their government has asked them to take. But the feelings expressed are often raw, angry and consistent across social, economic and geographic lines. If there is a divide, it seems that those with more to lose economically tend to be a bit more anxious about a showdown.
 ''The first thing any one thinks of is his own job,'' said Behzad Moussavi, who works as a driver for a private company. ''I heard the news on the radio today, and I told myself I would not be able to work anymore if there are sanctions.''
 But for those on the lower end of the economic ladder -- the vast majority of the population -- the prospect of penalties poses little more than a distant threat.
 ''Even if they did impose sanctions, what difference will it make?'' asked Ali Shafiei, who sold nuts inside the old bazaar. ''I don't care. It won't make it any worse than today.''
 Just outside the catacomblike corridors of the bazaar, Javad Reekhtehgaran stood chatting with a friend who was selling small rugs off a cart. Neither had heard the news about the referral, but when informed, both grew angry.
 ''We have all signed off on our will to say we want atomic energy.'' Mr. Reekhtehgaran said. ''Everybody agrees.''
 ''They should stop everybody,'' shouted Yussefi Janali, a wool hat pulled tight over his head. ''Does France have permission to have it? Does Israel have a permit? How about Pakistan? Who do these countries talk to get authorization? America should disarm itself.''
 The conversation grew more heated, and hands were flying. Mr. Janali leaned over his cart to make his point. ''Even if they want to put pressure on Iran, Iranians will never give up their rights.''
 But there is at least one person who has expressed anxiety over his country appearing before the Security Council: former President Muhammad Khatami. In comments reported Friday by the Iranian Student News Agency, the former president was quoted as saying that confrontation threatened to hurt Iran's chances and developing a nuclear program as well as the economy.
 He called on the government to return to the strategy that had been pursued by his government, which hoped to convince the West that Iran was only looking to develop an energy program, not build weapons. The present administration has been far more aggressive, taking unilateral action to restart its nuclear program.
 ''It is necessary to act wisely and with tolerance so that our right to nuclear energy will not be abolished,'' Mr. Khatami said. ''We cannot defend anything if we do not have a developed country, not our country and sovereignty but not even our religion.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Javad Reekhtehgaran, center, and Yussefi Janali, left, outside the old market in Isfahan, in central Iran, said they were angry at international efforts to limit their government's development of nuclear energy. (Photo by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RELIGION (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TERRORISM (59%) Atomic Weapons; Public Opinion; Terrorism; United States International Relations; Islam; Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: Michael Slackman

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); ESFAHAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); IRAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



131 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: A Hot Thing on Campus: Study in Health Professions

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
Eighteen months after the University of Colorado created a department to prepare undergraduates for a broad range of careers in health care, from medicine to physical therapy to physician assistant, that department already has 1,200 students, making it the second most popular on campus.
 A similar program at Stony Brook University, on Long Island, has grown to 370 graduating students last year from 35 four years ago. And at Marquette University, which in 1997 became among the first to offer a basic science degree in human health, the course of study has become more popular than any other.
''It's the fastest-growing major that this campus has ever seen,'' said William E. Cullinan, associate chairman of the department of biomedical sciences at Marquette, in Milwaukee. ''It just exploded beyond anyone's imagination.''
 Flagship state universities, and private institutions other than the elite, have long drawn large numbers of working- and middle-class students with a pragmatic bent. But university officials say the current generation is particularly attuned to selecting majors with strong career possibilities. 
 Add to that the plentiful supply of jobs in the growing health care industry, and a result is that health science programs have been taking off not only at Colorado, Stony Brook and Marquette but also at more than a half-dozen other universities across the country, even as disciplines like philosophy, religious studies, humanities and Spanish stagnate or decline on the same campuses. 
 Whether called biomedical sciences, as at Marquette, or integrative physiology, at Colorado, the majors are devised to give undergraduates a fundamental education in science and health that can lead to a vast array of careers, as optometrists, pharmacists, physical and occupational therapists, radiological technicians and many others, even as doctors.
 ''At a state university you have kids who are often economically challenged, and this is the stepping stone to a professional life,'' said Debbie Zelizer, the director of Stony Brook's health science program. 
 About 70 percent of that program's students are members of racial or ethnic minorities, Ms. Zelizer said, and many are the first generation of their families to go to college.
 Beyond job possibilities, students are enthusiastic about these majors because of the appeal of helping people and the excitement of scientific advances in diagnosing and treating disease, experts say.
 ''My best guess is that the interest we are seeing now is because of the ability of science to address questions we have never been able to face before,'' said Dr. Paul G. Ramsey, dean of the School of Medicine at the University of Washington. ''There is an attraction to help people in a way we've never been able to before.''
 Some universities developed a health science program after reconsideration of what kind of undergraduate training they should offer students interested in clinical fields like physical therapy, occupational therapy and physician assistant. These once required only a bachelor's degree but now generally call for graduate degrees as well.
 Many students find appeal in the new programs because the specialties to which they can lead are various.
 Leighton Williams, a 21-year-old senior at Stony Brook, said he had not heard of health science before arriving there. But he gravitated to the major, Mr. Williams said, because of the array of career opportunities it offered.
 ''It gave me the opportunity to have more than one option as a health care professional,'' he said. 
 He is still unsure which specialty he will select, although he may become an anesthesiology technician. He hopes to go to medical school someday, but first he wants to work after graduation.
 ''Having a skill, that's what attracted me the most to the major,'' he said. ''For me to be able to work and help out at home, that was very important.''
 Vanessa Fernandez, 22, who graduated from Stony Brook last spring, is spending a postgraduate year in health science there to gain certification as a nuclear medicine technician. Ms. Fernandez plans to work for a few years in nuclear medicine, which involves injecting patients with radiological substances for diagnostic imaging. After that, she says, she may want to go to medical school.
 Or, given her options, maybe not. She said her experience in health science had ''made me doubt my plans of going on to medical school.''
 ''It's really challenged me, and it's shown me that you can get very far without going to medical school,'' she said. ''It's very respectable.''
 Whatever the university, the programs generally require basic courses in biology, chemistry and math. But unlike students with majors in conventional biology, for example, those in health science do not take many advanced courses in botany or invertebrate biology, concentrating instead on human biology.
 While the various programs tend to share goals and offer comparable courses, however, they do differ in some ways. 
 At Stony Brook, which was recently awarded a foundation grant to prepare a manual and a formal presentation to explain its program to other universities, health science students spend their first three years taking liberal arts and basic science courses, and then devote their senior year entirely to courses within the major. At Colorado, in contrast, students can take the introductory course in integrative physiology as early as their freshman year.
 So new are the programs as a whole that the Association of Schools of Allied Health Professions does not yet collect data on the number of students they have attracted. But evidence of their growth is hardly scarce.
 At Ohio State University, the School of Allied Medical Professions introduced a health science major four years ago. It drew 34 students the first year and now has 250.
 ''We had an expectation just in talking to students that it might be a popular program, but we've been surprised at just how popular it has become,'' said Deborah S. Larsen, the school's interim director.
 At Quinnipiac University in Hamden, Conn., where only 10 students majored in health science five years ago, the number is now about 100, said Edward R. O'Connor, dean of the university's School of Health Sciences.
 At the University of South Alabama in Mobile, which claims to have been one of the first to create an undergraduate major in biomedical sciences, more than two decades ago, about 40 percent of the 40 or so students who graduate from the program each year quickly go on to medical school, said Julio F. Turrens, associate dean of the university's College of Allied Health Professions. (That appears to be a much higher proportion than in most health science programs. Only 4 of last year's 370 graduates in health science at Stony Brook, for instance, went to medical school, said Craig Lehmann, dean of the university's School of Health Technology and Management.)
 To be sure, not every university is ready to adopt the model. Emanuel D. Pollack, senior associate dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at the University of Illinois at Chicago, said the university had not introduced a health science major, out of concern that it would be too broad and unfocused.
 ''We've largely avoided the generic approach,'' Dr. Pollack said.
 But the programs' students say the breadth is an asset.
 Stephanie M. Bohlen, a 19-year-old freshman at the University of Colorado, was so taken by the introductory course in integrative physiology -- a study of human systems from cells to circulation -- that she decided to major in it.
 Ms. Bohlen, a middle-distance runner on Colorado's track team, thinks she may go to medical school or become a specialist in exercise physiology. 
 ''That's one of the reasons I thought it would be a great major to pick,'' she said. ''There are so many different directions you could go with it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Vanessa Fernandez, a graduate of Stony Brook University's health science program, now sees many alternatives to applying for medical school. (Photo by Seth Wenig for The New York Times)
Stephanie M. Bohlen, a freshman in the University of Colorado's integrative physiology program. (Photo by Carmel Zucker for The New York Times)
 Leighton Williams, a senior at Stony Brook, says he never heard of health science before arriving there. Now he is due to graduate in that major, attracted by career opportunities. (Photo by Seth Wenig for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BIOMEDICINE (89%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PHYSICIANS ASSISTANTS (78%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (70%); OPTOMETRY (63%); ETHNIC GROUPS (61%); ETHNICITY (61%); RELIGION (50%) Colleges and Universities; Medicine and Health; Labor

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (91%); MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: Alan Finder

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



132 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1745 words

HEADLINE: Finding the Bottom of a Polluted Field

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
Just past the old municipal incinerator, near the car lots, strip malls and fast-food joints heaped on this city's far west side, a long fence juts into the shoulder of busy Route 440. Most drivers whiz by without knowing that on the other side of the fence lies one of the nation's biggest hazardous waste sites, one that spurred an environmental battle so contentious that it has dragged on for a generation. 
 The forlorn stretch of fallow land -- an area the size of 34 football fields -- is a casualty of Jersey City's industrial past, poisoned by a half-century's worth of residues from the processing of chromium, the versatile substance used in paints, stainless steel and automobile bumpers. In its most dangerous form -- called hexavalent chromium -- the wastes can cause cancer and other health problems.
No one is allowed on the site now, but before the dangers of chromium were known, the Roosevelt Drive-In operated here, and later there was a Valley Fair department store. Built on top of the crumbly gray, green and yellow cinders of the chromium slag -- more than 25 feet deep in spots -- the buildings had to be abandoned long ago because the ground beneath them buckled and heaved so badly that they broke apart. 
 If ever there was unloved land, this was it, and for years the city was willing to just let it lie there. But Jersey City's recent revival as a less expensive alternative to Manhattan has brought town house developments practically up to the edge of the chromium field. City officials are impatient for the site to be cleaned up, redeveloped, and put back on the tax rolls. 
 But there also is a broader question at stake, one that old industrial cities across the country have grappled with: Must every last bit of contamination be removed, at great expense, before land can be reused? Or can pollution just be covered over so blighted neighborhoods can be redeveloped more quickly? 
 Most cities and states, including New York and New Jersey, have adopted what are called brownfield laws, which allow certain types of pollution to be left in place and capped. Developers, protected from future liability by these laws, have opened up vast stretches of urban wasteland to new construction. 
 For their part, environmentalists say they have a ''preference for permanence,'' meaning that they would rather see pollution completely removed, especially if housing is going to be built there.
 The cleanup question is particularly important in Jersey City, which for years was one of the world's biggest processors of chromium ore. Millions of tons of residue from three plants were used to fill in wetlands and construction sites all over the city and in nearby towns. Besides forming the former drive-in's foundation, the hazardous material lies beneath stores, houses, schools, even the municipal incinerator. 
 Honeywell Corporation, the high-tech giant with headquarters in Morristown, is responsible for the drive-in site even though it never produced chromium in Jersey City. In 1954, its corporate predecessor, Allied Signal, bought the stock of the Mutual Chemical Company -- which operated one of the world's largest chromium processing plants on land across Route 440 from the drive-in. 
 For every pound of chromium ore Mutual processed, it created two pounds of slag, which it just dumped on the banks of the Hackensack River, eventually creating a chromium waste field covering more than 30 acres. The slag also became fill in other parts of Jersey City.
 Honeywell has cleaned some of the smaller sites, but until recently it was slow to do anything about the former drive-in, in part because it insists that capping is appropriate. Honeywell argues that chromium's main danger is through inhalation, and capping with clean fill eliminates the chance of any chromium dust becoming airborne. However, some scientists also believe that ingesting chromium-contaminated water could be dangerous if it somehow leaked into weakened underground water pipes. 
 Honeywell probably would have capped the drive-in site and moved on long ago had it not been for a coalition of residents, church groups and environmental advocates who thought capping was inadequate, especially if the land was to be used for housing. They sued in 1995 under the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act to force the company to haul off everything. 
 ''I very much believe in economic development, but I want it done in a way that's safe,'' said the Rev. Willard Ashley, pastor of the Abundant Joy Community Church in Jersey City and a co-chairman of the Interfaith Community Organization, the group that sued Honeywell. Mr. Ashley says that allowing developers to cap a site, build housing on it, and then take off -- what environmentalists call ''pave and wave'' -- does not solve problems; it just postpones them. He wants all the hazardous waste removed.
 Nothing has changed Honeywell's position that capping would take care of the contamination and the instability problem, not even a landmark federal court decision in the Interfaith case in 2003. In the ruling, the judge found that the way the chromium wastes heaved made capping impossible, because any cap would eventually be breached, exposing the contamination. The only way to make the site safe for redevelopment, the judge ruled, was to get rid of all one and a half million tons of the wastes, an undertaking expected to cost more than over $400 million. 
 Honeywell estimates that there are 110,000 truckloads of the yellow chromium wastes in the ground. It would take four years to haul it all to a licensed disposal site in Grand View, Idaho.
 Honeywell appealed, arguing that the court should not have taken the case because the company had already reached an agreement with the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection. But the appeals court determined that the state agency was incapable of dealing with ''Honeywell and its tactics,'' and upheld the earlier court's finding.
 Late last year, Honeywell was back in court, asking the judge to modify his removal order because the circumstances of the case had substantially changed. 
 For one thing, Honeywell, which had always accepted legal responsibility for the pollution, never owned the site of the former drive-in. But in an attempt to gain legal leverage, in 2004 it bought most of the land from its previous owner, W. R. Grace, which had planned to build housing there and had insisted that the chromium be removed. As the new owner, Honeywell has no specific plans to develop the land, but is willing to let it be capped.
 More important, Honeywell claimed in the court filing that it had finally figured out why chromium residues at the drive-in buckle. It said groundwater caused some of the chromium wastes to bond together, forming a hard layer that pushes upward, causing the surface to heave.
 In unlocking the secret of heaving, the company said it had to remove only the hardened layer, which is about 10 feet below the surface. Then what is left would be encapsulated, preventing groundwater from entering, and covered with 7 to 12 feet of clean fill. Honeywell says developers could then build stores, offices or high-rise housing on the land.
 Katherine L. Adams, vice president and general counsel of Honeywell, said that since the federal judge had found that heaving made capping impossible, solving the issue had fundamentally changed the circumstances of the case. Complete removal was no longer necessary, the company argued. Capping would cut the time needed to prepare the site for development to a little more than two years -- half the time needed for complete removal -- and cut costs by $100 million.
 ''I want to be clear about this,'' Ms. Adams said. ''One hundred million dollars is a factor. But legally, our obligation, and we take it seriously, is to implement a remedy that is protective of human health and environment. But we're not obligated to implement more than that.''
 Armed with the new scientific explanation for heaving, Honeywell got a nationally recognized expert who had testified against the company in the first trial, Dr. Kirk W. Brown, to review the plan and design a multilayered cap. 
 The Interfaith Community Organization, which is connected to the Industrial Areas Foundation, a national grassroots organization, took exception to Dr. Brown's testimony, arguing that he had switched sides. The group also objected when Honeywell hired two lawyers who had been aligned with the organization in the earlier proceedings. The organization also had doubts about Honeywell's new capping plan.
 Joe Morris, an organizer, said he worried that if Honeywell was allowed to cap the drive-in site, the owners of several other large chromium sites in Jersey City would do the same thing. ''This ought to be the last generation that cleans up the industrial legacy of New Jersey,'' Mr. Morris said. 
 On Jan. 3, federal Judge Dennis M. Cavanaugh disqualified Dr. Brown and the two Honeywell lawyers. He ordered the company to move forward with the full excavation, scheduled to begin on April 3. The company has appealed the disqualifications. 
 But any delay pushes Honeywell closer to the point where it will have spent so much time and money preparing for full excavation that capping it no longer makes sense. Honeywell has already spent more than $60 million on the cleanup. Two huge boring machines have pounded in nearly 1,000 steel beams for a huge retaining wall to encapsulate the contamination.
 The former drive-in is not the company's only chromium problem. Last year, the state of New Jersey sued Honeywell and two other corporations to force them to clean up more than 100 chromium sites in Jersey City and surrounding towns. And the company was sued earlier this month by the Hackensack River Riverkeeper, William Sheehan, and several Jersey City residents. 
 They say that chromium-contaminated properties near the drive-in that were capped and developed years ago -- including the Home Depot store on the Route 440 site of the Mutual Chemical Company chromium processing plant -- continue to pollute groundwater, which eventually makes its way to the Hackensack River.
 ''Protecting public health and the environment also means making sure that chromium does not get into fish, crabs or the human food chain,'' Mr. Sheehan said. ''I take exception to the idea that they think they shouldn't be expected to also clean up these sites to a gold standard.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A pilot excavation site in Jersey City that exposes chromium residue
Honeywell Corporation is responsible for cleaning up the site. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 27)
 At left, the Rev. Winston M. Clarke, a member of a coalition that says the Society Hill community in Jersey City was built on land in which some contamination remained, and, above, an area examined for chromium residues. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 32)Map of Jersey City highlighting hazardous waste site. (Satellite image by Google Earth)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION (90%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (77%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); BROWNFIELD SITES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); WETLANDS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (70%); CHEMICALS (61%); WATER QUALITY (60%); CANCER (53%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Chromium; Water Pollution ; Waste Materials and Disposal

ORGANIZATION: Honeywell Inc; Allied Signal Corp; Mutual Chemical Co

PERSON: Anthony Depalma

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Hackensack River; Jersey City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



133 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: Super Bowl a Temporary Lift

 BODY:

To the Sports Editor:
 Re ''While the Super Bowl Dazzles, Auto Jobs Disappear'' (Feb. 1): I was immensely pleased that Dave Anderson looked beyond the XL banners and football frenzy in Detroit to examine just how great (or minute) an effect playing host to the Super Bowl is having. 
 The event is surely a boon for the city's economy, but it will only be temporary. The supposed economic boost from the game is exaggerated. A short while after today, the unemployed will still be looking for jobs and the employed will be fighting to keep theirs.
 A look at the other side of this commercial-cultural event has been missing, and is necessary in the news media, and I was elated to see it make the front page of the Sports section.

William Couch
Ann Arbor, Mich.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Spirit of Detroit monument, one of the city's best-known sculptures, wearing a jersey. (Photo by Carlos Osorio/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) Football; Super Bowl; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: William Couch

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



134 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Detroit's 'Organic Energy'

 BODY:

To the Sports Editor:
 Enough about poor Detroit already. I'm tired of reading (''Detroit Polishes and Demolishes for Super Bowl,'' Jan. 22) how it is this desperate city, struggling to revitalize or reinvent itself especially for the Super Bowl. 
The truth is: We are not glitz or glimmer, and most of us living here don't pretend to be. Detroit is gritty and old. It is stricken by abundant ruins, high unemployment, struggling schools and budget crises. But, in part because of all of these things, Detroit has an organic energy that is compelling and inspirational. Since moving into the city eight years ago, I have discovered Detroit is the world's largest small town. In the cultural community, everyone knows everyone, and for the most part, supports one another. Over the years, this has led to enthralling art and, especially, remarkable music. 
 Detroit has something unique to offer, and that is a gritty soul. It is something to be explored and appreciated, not pitied.

Mary Trybus
Detroit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (88%) Football; Super Bowl

PERSON: Mary Trybus

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



135 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 4; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Stable and Steady Has Won Race For Steelers

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 4 

 BODY:
The National Football League was engaged in one of its periodic discussions about ways to increase marketing opportunities when a custom-designed team jersey arrived. Adorned with sponsorship decals, it resembled a Nascar driver's uniform. Dan Rooney, chairman of the Pittsburgh Steelers and one of the league's patriarchs, used the jersey to send a message to the league. His point? 
 ''Our business is the game; we're not in this thing to make all the money in the world,'' Rooney said Tuesday. ''I think some other teams still do things our way. But on this, we might be the last guy on the mountain.''
Perhaps they are, but the Steelers are close to the top of the N.F.L.'s mountain. They will face the Seattle Seahawks in Super Bowl XL on Sunday with a chance to win the franchise's fifth championship. 
 Win or lose, the Steelers may also serve as an example to N.F.L. team executives, whose win-now mentality has caused an avalanche of coaching changes in recent weeks and who will soon engage in a fevered pursuit of high-priced free agents in the off-season. 
 While other teams go through periodic overhauls, plummeting to the bottom of the standings as they scramble to rebuild franchises and generate revenue, the Steelers have stressed building their roster through the draft, keeping their key players off the free-agent market, pursuing free agents from other teams only occasionally and sticking with a coach through troubled times. 
 The strategy is rarely headline-making. It places a premium on patience, a quality in short supply in many quarters of professional sports. But it has kept the Steelers competitive, even as the N.F.L. has embraced free agency and a salary cap, for all but a handful of 35 years. 
 ''The Steelers have done better than most teams at avoiding the temptation of 'We're just one player away,' '' said Michael MacCambridge, the author of ''America's Game,'' which chronicles the history of the N.F.L. ''That will kill you quicker than anything in pro football. If you mark it back to the last 12 years since free agency started, what teams have had more success than you'd expect, the Steelers would be in that column. They are a team that has understood and adapted to free agency and the salary cap as well as anybody else.''
 Part of the Steelers' philosophy is driven by economics. According to a ranking of franchises published last fall by Forbes magazine, the Steelers are 16th -- right in the middle of the 32-team league -- in overall franchise value, at $820 million. Their annual revenue -- a better barometer of how much money the Steelers have to spend each year on players and coaches -- is $182 million, about $100 million less than the Washington Redskins, the most valuable franchise in the league, according to Forbes. 
 The salary cap has brought competitive balance to the N.F.L. because it places some limits on how much money can be spent on players. But teams with more cash have more flexibility to manipulate the cap to acquire players who demand big contracts and also to write off personnel mistakes. 
 But that only partly explains how the Steelers came to value stability over volatility. It was a lesson learned the hard way, during the abysmal early years of the franchise. 
 One coach, Buddy Parker, believed in getting rid of all young players and using only more experienced ones, Rooney remembers, so the Steelers routinely traded draft picks for veteran players. In the biggest gaffe in team history, the Steelers of 1955 cut the rookie quarterback Johnny Unitas without letting him into a preseason game. 
 That changed after 1969, when the Steelers hired Chuck Noll as coach. The next year, the Steelers had the first choice in the draft. Art Rooney, Dan's father and the Steelers' founder, kept the choice and selected quarterback Terry Bradshaw, who would lead the Steelers to four Super Bowls in six years during the 1970's. 
 ''They went from a team probably without a plan, depending on who the head coach was, to a team with a plan,'' said Gil Brandt, one of the architects of the Dallas Cowboys from 1960 to 1989. ''They were going to build their team through the draft. They realized you're better off developing your own than buying somebody else's troubles.''
 They still believe it. Just minutes after the 2004 draft, the Steelers signed an undrafted running back named Willie Parker, who had first been spotted in high school by Dan Rooney Jr., the chairman's son, who lives in North Carolina. Parker played sparingly at the University of North Carolina. Now he is the Steelers' starting running back. 
 Before the 2005 season, the Steelers chose to give a rich new contract to receiver Hines Ward, who was holding out. Ward, whom the Steelers drafted in 1998, will almost certainly finish his career in Pittsburgh. 
 That same off-season, the Steelers declined to re-sign receiver Plaxico Burress, who was perceived to be at odds with the team. He landed with the Giants, joining a long list of marquee free agents the Steelers have let walk away. Pittsburgh did not want to match the big money other teams offered. Many of those free agents -- receiver Yancey Thigpen, quarterback Neil O'Donnell, safety Carnell Lake -- were not as good after they left. 
 The Steelers pursued only one free agent from another team before the 2005 season, receiver Cedrick Wilson. Of the Steelers' expected starters Sunday, only four, including the punter, were signed as free agents from other teams. Seventeen starters were drafted by the Steelers. Of the Seahawks' starters, eight were free agents from other teams. 
 ''Guys that are jumping around, you wonder what they're looking for,'' Rooney said. ''And they have to learn all over again.''
 The Steelers are the antithesis of teams that go for broke to win in a single year, then dismantle the roster when it becomes too expensive to maintain. The Baltimore Ravens, who won the Super Bowl after the 2000 season, were one such team. 
 Giants General Manager Ernie Accorsi said of the Steelers: ''They never mortgage anything to try to win it all, and maybe that comes from the security of having four trophies already. They're happy just being at the doorstep and they know, sooner or later, the way this league is, they'll break through.''
 That has helped them avoid the coaching upheaval so common in the league.
 Since 1969, the Steelers have had two head coaches -- Noll and Bill Cowher. In Cowher's 14 seasons, the other 31 franchises have had 121 coaches. 
 In 2003, with the Steelers coming off a 6-10 season in which they failed to make the playoffs for the fourth time in six years, Rooney gave Cowher a contract extension instead of firing him. Since then, the Steelers have gone 30-7. 
 ''People who are making a run at it feel, 'We'll do everything we can, we'll shoot the moon this year,' '' Rooney said. ''Our philosophy is, 'If you do that and it doesn't work, then where are you?' Changing coaches, all that does is make you an expansion team.''
 The Steelers have taken on the ethos of the city in which Art Rooney -- the Chief -- founded them in 1933: not flashy, but built to last for generations. They do not make the most money. But since 1970, only the Cowboys have been to the playoffs more often than the Steelers, who are making their 22nd appearance this season. 
 ''The Chief told me once that a monsignor told him something one day,'' Accorsi said. '' 'After all these years of futility, when your luck changes, it's going to change for a long time.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dan Rooney, left, the Steelers' chairman, gave Coach Bill Cowher a new contract after a 6-10 season in 2003. (Photo by Jason Cohn/Reuters)(pg. 1)
 For years, the Steelers squandered their draft picks. They cut the rookie quarterback Johnny Unitas, below left, in 1955. After hiring Chuck Noll, above right, as their head coach in 1969, they used the No. 1 pick over all in 1970 to take quarterback Terry Bradshaw, left. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); MEN (78%); NASCAR RACING (77%); MOUNTAINS (74%); RANKINGS (74%); WRITERS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%) Football; Super Bowl

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (83%) Pittsburgh Steelers; Seattle Seahawks

PERSON: Judy Battista

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



136 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Rising Prices Lift All Bonuses

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
EXXON MOBIL announced record earnings last week: $36.13 billion for 2005, a 43 percent increase over the previous year. That was the highest annual profit any American company has ever earned. Shareholders of energy companies are surely delighting in the gains that sky-high oil prices bring. But their windfalls pale next to the bonanzas received by the executives running these companies, proving again how imperfect the current state of pay-for-performance can be.
 Linking executive compensation to a company's results was supposed to align managements' interests with those of shareholders and to bring fairness to pay practices. But when a company does well mostly because of a rising commodity price rather than managerial genius, pay-for-performance becomes an unfunny joke.
Analysts estimate that every $1 increase in the per-barrel price of oil translates into a 1.5 percent increase in Exxon Mobil's earnings. Because a significant portion of executive pay at Exxon Mobil is related to earnings growth (as is the case at many companies), rising oil prices mean bigger paychecks. 
 ''It's such a sharp and vivid example of windfalls at work,'' said Lucian A. Bebchuk, professor of law, economics and finance at Harvard, ''because obviously the rise had to do with the Iraq war and the Chinese demand, but certainly did not have to do with the managers' own performance. 
 ''If you took the top five or nine major oil companies and looked at their returns and chose the one that performed the worst,'' he added, ''you could still find that their executives probably made very large gains from their options even though they performed as badly as one could do.''
 With proxy season not yet in full swing, it is too early to tell just how fat oil-company executives' paychecks were in 2005. But all signs point to bloat. 
 In 2004, when Exxon Mobil's earnings rose at less than half of last year's rate, Lee R. Raymond, its chief executive at the time, received $7.5 million in salary and bonus, $28 million worth of restricted stock awards and $2.16 million in long-term incentive pay. Mr. Raymond retired from Exxon Mobil in December. 
 Regulatory filings show that Exxon Mobil's compensation committee typically establishes a bonus pool that is shared by about 1,300 top employees. The pool's size is determined by the annual performance of the company. 
 The 2004 pool had a ceiling of $184 million and was a result of the company's record-setting financial results -- an 18 percent increase in net income over 2003 -- as well as ''record levels of operating performance in all segments of our business; strengthening of our worldwide competitive position; and progress toward long-range strategic goals, which include objectives in the areas of safety, health and environment,'' according to the proxy.
 That $184 million pool was 10 percent larger than in the previous year. Exxon Mobil's top five executives received almost 7 percent of it, or $12.85 million in total.
 Proxies indicate that Exxon Mobil has raised its bonus pool ceiling in recent years at roughly half the rate of its earnings growth for each period. So if the past is prologue, Exxon Mobil's bonus pool ceiling may have risen by at least 20 percent in 2005, putting it at $220 million. 
 If the top five executives get their typical share of this pie -- say, around 6.5 percent -- that translates into $14.3 million in bonuses alone. Salaries, restricted stock grants and other goodies would be additional. 
 Executives receiving bonuses at Exxon Mobil can get cash payments and something called an earnings bonus unit, which does not pay out until the company's earnings have reached a specified level. Cumulative earnings of $3.25 a share were required for each unit granted in 2004 to pay out, for example, up from $3 in 2003. It is not clear what hurdle Exxon Mobil's earnings had to clear last year to pay out on the units, but the company made $5.35 a share, so it is highly likely that bonus units paid out.
 Professor Bebchuk, co-author with Jesse M. Fried of ''Pay Without Performance'' (Harvard University Press, 2004), suggests that executives should not be paid based on their company's absolute performance but rather in comparison to others in the industry. Pay formulas, Mr. Bebchuk argues, should take into account any rising tides that are industrywide and unrelated to management prowess. Alas, existing plans ''do nothing to neutralize this general industry movement,'' he said.
 Did Exxon Mobil's compensation committee adjust the terms of its executive pay packages to reflect the role that rising oil prices played in the company's extraordinary earnings last year? William R. Howell, chairman emeritus of J.C. Penney and chairman of Exxon Mobil's compensation committee, did not return a phone call seeking comment. Russ Roberts, a company spokesman, could not be reached. 
 Executives at XTO Energy Inc., a natural gas producer in Fort Worth, are also looking at a banner year. The company has turned in a stellar performance recently -- earnings more than doubled in the first three quarters of 2005 from the same period a year earlier -- and its shareholders have prospered. Shares of XTO closed last week at $46.45, giving it a market capitalization of almost $17 billion. 
 Proxy materials disclosing last year's pay at XTO have not been filed. But in November, the company said Bob R. Simpson, its chief executive and co-founder, would receive $17 million in bonuses as well as a new salary of $1.2 million, up from $1 million. The company did not disclose what Mr. Simpson received in options or restricted shares.
 Using previous years as a guide, those grants may be substantial. In 2004, Mr. Simpson received restricted stock awards worth $24.3 million and four million options exercisable at just under $25 each. His bonuses totaled $15.5 million in 2004 in recognition of ''the performance in negotiating during the first two quarters of 2004 the exceptional acquisitions of approximately $1.3 billion in producing properties,'' the filings said. 
 Officials at XTO did not return phone calls seeking comment. But XTO's filings say its executive pay is justified by the company's top performance. 
 Still, tying executives' bonuses to acquisitions is not in shareholders' interests, Professor Bebchuk said. Managers already have incentives to make their companies larger, he explained: bigger companies usually mean larger pay and perquisites for those at the top. And if their acquisitions truly create value, executives holding a significant amount of the company's stock will profit from higher share prices. 
 ''From the point of view of the shareholder, an acquisition is beneficial only if the shares go up,'' Professor Bebchuk said. ''If executives already have incentives that reward them for increasing the stock price, having an extra increase for doing an acquisition can have the perverse effect of encouraging an acquisition that may not be value-increasing.''
 OF course, if the overall market for an industry declines, managers stand to lose when their pay is tied to their company's earnings or stock price. But the risks of this are far outweighed by potential rewards, Professor Bebchuk said. 
 For starters, the stock market tends to rise over time, producing positive returns more often than negative. And even if up and down moves are equally likely, Professor Bebchuk argued, executives with stock options are more likely to win. As he noted in his book: ''At worst, negative shocks would make the managers' options worthless. On the other hand, positive shocks can boost the value of options by an unlimited amount.'' 
 Shareholders who are enjoying their gains on energy stocks might think it chintzy to complain about executive pay. But compensation committees who pay managers because an exogenous event or trend propels their results into the stratosphere are breaching their duty to shareholders. Pay should be adjusted to account for right-place-right-time windfalls -- especially since executive pay never seems to decline, even in rocky times. 
 It has long been a stock market axiom that a rising tide lifts all boats. But today's sea, alas, has become two-tiered. While a rising tide does lift shareowners' boats, those of the me-first managers float far higher.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lee R. Raymond was Exxon Mobil's chief executive in 2005, the year of soaring oil prices and record earnings. Now, how big will his bonus be? (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); MERIT PAY (89%); BONUS PAY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Bonuses; Executives and Management; Wages and Salaries; United States Armament and Defense; International Trade and World Market; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Exxon Mobil

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%)

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson; Lucian (Prof) Bebchuk

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (90%) Iraq; China

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



137 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2306 words

HEADLINE: Carmakers' Big Idea: Think Small

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: Dundee, Mich. 

 BODY:
THE writer E. F. Schumacher would be proud. Across the automobile market in America, there is an evolving realization that small is beautiful.
 No longer do the industry's two biggest companies, General Motors and Ford Motor, dominate the industry -- not in profits, sales or buzz. The hottest action is now taking place among the next four companies: Chrysler, a unit of DaimlerChrysler of Germany, and the Japanese automakers Toyota, Honda and Nissan.
As G.M. and Ford cut jobs, close plants and pledge yet again to introduce cars and trucks that Americans want to buy, their smaller rivals are in their strongest shape ever. The Next Four are adding jobs, opening plants, filling showrooms with new models -- and, most importantly, earning billions of dollars in profits that can contribute to even more growth.
 Although all the Next Four are part of big global companies, they have kept their size, costs and dealers in United States relatively small and limited their brands and lineups, even as they explore new niches where they can pick up sales. For them, being small has added up to being almost as big as the two Detroit players. 
 Last year, the four held nearly 42 percent of the American car market, while G.M. and Ford clung to 43 percent. That is a sharp contrast to 15 years ago, when G.M. and Ford combined outsold the Next Four by two to one.
 ''It's good to be small, because you can move quickly,'' said Ron Pinelli, president of the Autodata Corporation, an industry statistics firm in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. He said that ''the whole large-company culture is a burden'' -- one that both G.M. and Ford have vowed to shed.
 For inspiration, they can look to Chrysler, which once stood with them as one of the Big Three but is fast breaking away from the Detroit pack. Chrysler is already getting rid of its large-company mind-set -- along with 46,000 jobs over the last five years. The latest example of its drive to do less with more is at a factory here in Dundee, Mich., 60 miles south of Detroit, where it is using a small number of workers to build four-cylinder engines for its small cars.
 The plant is run by the Global Engine Manufacturing Alliance, a partnership of Chrysler, Mitsubishi of Japan and Hyundai of South Korea. The companies will be able to share the half-million engines the plant can build each year, allowing them all to invest smaller amounts, meet their needs for engines and enjoy economies of scale that they couldn't have achieved individually. 
 To get there, the three have negotiated a relatively small labor burden from the United Automobile Workers union: a contract as thin as a pocket calendar that does not call for dozens of narrowly defined jobs, as is common in many unionized auto plants, but has only one category, called team member, for hourly workers. Everyone learns every job -- and a result is a work force that is self-starting and flexible. 
 Chrysler's efforts, as well as those of the others in the Next Four, show a new way of thinking in an industry that seemed paralyzed by its gargantuan roots.
 ''What you've witnessed is a globalization -- the process of the global economy,'' said James E. Press, chief operating officer at Toyota Motor Sales and the highest-ranking Toyota executive in the United States.
 Toyota itself takes an important step forward this week, when it wades deeper into a market long dominated by Detroit's Big Two: big pickups. Its Tundra, to be introduced on Thursday at the Chicago auto show, is a result of 14 years of preparation for the big-pickup market that began when Toyota introduced its smaller T-100 pickup.
 Big pickups are the last market segment in which Toyota does not fully compete. And if G.M. and Ford cannot stop their market-share slide, the big Toyota pickup could push the Next Four ahead of them, said James P. Womack, founder and president of the Lean Enterprise Institute, a nonprofit educational and research organization focused on manufacturing policy. 
 But even as the Next Four have grown, their collections of divisions have remained small, avoiding the brand expansion that has bogged down their bigger rivals. ''Toyota has really got it right in thinking that a modern motor company only needs three brands,'' Mr. Womack said, the same number as at Chrysler. Honda and Nissan have only two apiece.
 By contrast, G.M. and Ford ''have destroyed more valuable brands than any two business organizations in history,'' Mr. Womack said. G.M. had to retire the venerable Oldsmobile name after letting it become hopelessly old-fashioned, and both G.M. and Ford have spent billions buying foreign nameplates like Saab and Jaguar that have failed to live up to their expectations. And now that the companies' market-share decline is accelerating, he said, multiple brands only make it harder for them to pick up sales, because their message is so diffuse.
 But the growth of the Next Four is not merely a matter of selling more cars and trucks. The secret also lies in the way they approach manufacturing. 
 The Dundee engine plant run by the alliance and managed by Chrysler was the brainchild of Chrysler's chief executive, Thomas W. LaSorda, when he was still in charge of Chrysler's engine and transmission division in 2001. On a scouting trip to Mitsubishi and Hyundai, in which DaimlerChrysler then held financial stakes, he learned that Mitsubishi and Hyundai, like Chrysler, had plans to develop small engines; Mr. LaSorda suggested that they pool their resources. That resulted in the $803 million Dundee factory, which opened last year.
 At the plant, the first thing a visitor notices is that it is hospital-clean, nothing like the greasy, smelly engine plants of old. The second thing is that it is largely empty -- of people, at least. Although the partnership is intended to produce 840,000 engines a year that could be shared by the three companies, the plant, set to be expanded next year, will have only 250 hourly workers when it reaches peak production. 
 By contrast, Chrysler employs 750 workers who build 350,000 engines a year at its Mack Avenue plant in Detroit. And in the 1990's, Chrysler employed 2,500 workers at its big engine plant in Kenosha, Wis., said Bruce Coventry, the president of the new joint venture.
 THE contrast between old and new is even clearer in the way jobs are assigned to workers at the Dundee plant. During their shifts -- 10 hours a day, four days a week -- workers might be responsible for 18 to 20 spots on the assembly line, rather than be rigidly limited to one narrowly defined task. Indeed, each worker learns every job on the line, reflecting the plant's philosophy of ''anyone, anywhere, anything, anytime.''
 The workers, who are U.A.W. members, had to go through a rigorous application and training process, and had to be accepted by plant managers rather than just being assigned by the union. Because they are using an entirely new approach, the managers accepted only two workers from other Chrysler factories. Others came from parts makers or other companies with U.A.W. workers. Despite the intensity, Jimmie Pierce, 36, says the job is a godsend to him. He recently lost his previous job when the Lear Corporation, a parts supplier, closed its plant in Romulus, Mich. In his 12 years there, he said, he stuck to his assigned tasks, even if a problem popped up. ''At Lear, someone else fixes it,'' said Mr. Pierce, a second-generation autoworker. At his new job, where he supervises a team of workers, he said that ''you think of yourself more as part of a business.''
 His father, Richard Schubert, has spent 38 years at Ford's Rouge complex in Dearborn, Mich., and is now one of just 5,200 workers left there; it once employed 100,000. But Mr. Pierce says he knows he has no guarantee of a similar career. ''Another company might be doing it cheaper or faster,'' he said. ''You have to keep up.''
 The four-cylinder engines built here in Dundee will help Chrysler keep up with other members of the Next Four, which were developing small cars while G.M. and Ford continued to focus on S.U.V.'s and pickups. The engines made here will be sent to an assembly plant in Belvedere, Ill., where Chrysler is building the new Dodge Caliber, a small car that will replace the aging Dodge Neon. (Mitsubishi and Hyundai have not yet said how many engines they will get from the plant or which vehicles will use them.)
 Each member of the Next Four sees an opportunity to capture a piece of a small-car market that analysts predict will grow in the face of high gasoline prices -- Toyota with a model called the Yaris, Honda with the Fit and Nissan with its Versa. 
 That market sensibility sets them apart from Detroit's two big players, said Mr. Pinelli, the Autodata analyst. Last month, Frederick A. Henderson, G.M.'s new chief financial officer, acknowledged as much when he said that a slump in sales of big S.U.V.'s was a major reason for the company's $8.6 billion loss last year.
 The smaller players believe that they ''can't just develop one killer car line or a new truck line,'' Mr. Pinelli said. ''You have to develop one hit after another.'' Whether large or small, automakers agree that future success depends not only on megahits, but also on a constellation of smaller stars that is continually culled and refreshed.
 That is what Nissan has tried to do since 1999, when Carlos Ghosn took charge after Renault assumed management control. In that time, Nissan has produced a steady stream of new models, each aiming at a specific market niche, whether the Murano crossover for families looking for lower fuel bills but plenty of room, or the latest 350Z sports car for young adults and empty nesters. The popularity of these cars has increased Nissan's global sales by one million vehicles (to more than 3.5 million) and lifted Nissan's sales in the United States to one million in 2005, both goals of Mr. Ghosn's turnaround plan.
 STILL, not all of Nissan's vehicles have sold well, particularly the Quest, which tried to be a sexy minivan for soccer moms. That proved too narrow a niche, so Nissan has moved swiftly to restyle the vehicle; the new version will be shown in Chicago this week. The results of that effort will help Mr. Ghosn decide whether to expand Nissan's plant in Canton, Miss. -- and in turn, may determine whether Nissan will contribute to further growth by the Next Four.
 Such a quick restyling is something that a smaller company, particularly a profitable one, can accomplish more easily than a bigger competitor, Mr. Pinelli said. Unlike G.M. and Ford, which have to supply large numbers of dealers and must pay workers whether or not their plants are operating, Japanese companies do not have to feed as big a network, and their union-free factories mean that they can more easily adjust their production as circumstances warrant.
 As G.M. and Ford have learned the hard way over the last few years, sales are one thing but profits are another. Here is where small becomes big. Collectively, analysts have estimated that the Next Four earned $22 billion in profits worldwide for 2005. By contrast, G.M. and Ford together reported losses of $6.6 billion worldwide. 
 One member of the Next Four, Honda, forecast last week that it would earn $5 billion worldwide for its fiscal year, which ends in March. Much of that will come from the United States, Honda's largest market. In an interview at the Detroit auto show last month, Honda's chief executive, Takeo Fukui, said the company eventually would like to increase production in North America, where it already builds 80 percent of the cars that it sells on the continent.
 For now, however, Honda is importing the new small Fit model from Japan, where it has been sold for the past several years. Mr. Fukui says he is banking on renewed interest in fuel economy on the part of American consumers, who began buying Honda's cars during the energy crises of the 1970's.
 Mr. Womack, the manufacturing expert, said Honda's clear identity as a maker of fuel-efficient vehicles helped it to grow faster than G.M. and Ford, which have to produce multiple versions of many of their vehicles in order to supply each of their nameplates. ''As the cost pressures mount, the easy way out is platform-sharing,'' Mr. Womack said, referring to the practice of using the same basic design and many components in several different models.
 But unlike the Next Four, G.M. and Ford have trouble making each vehicle seem different when they share a platform. ''Customers respond, of course, by keeping their wallets shut,'' he said.
 Despite the difficulties they face, G.M. and Ford have noted the small-is-beautiful approach of the Next Four and are trying to adjust. Ford, for example, said last month that it intended to build a plant in North America that will operate with sharply lower costs -- although it is not saying whether the factory will hire U.A.W. members. And Ford's chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr., has vowed that the company, helped by new products like the Edge crossover vehicle, will end its market-share slide in 2006.
 The Big Two are still a step behind the Next Four, though, and that gives hope to workers at the plant here. On the factory floor, the operations manager, Garrett Francis, said he saw the Dundee facility as a chance to secure Chrysler's place in the new auto industry and to break free of its Detroit past. 
 Mr. Francis, 31, the son of a mechanic, helped to start a Chrysler-BMW engine venture in Brazil that has served as a model for this plant. Having transferred the approach here, he said, proves that ''it can be done, and it can be done in Southeastern Michigan.''
 His colleague Mr. Pierce, meanwhile, is eager to show his father, the Ford worker, how it is being done. ''I can't wait to bring him down here,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 19, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 5 about changes in the American auto market contrasted its two biggest companies, General Motors and Ford, with the next four -- Chrysler, Toyota, Honda and Nissan. It said that while those four were expected to have a combined worldwide profit of $22 billion for 2005, G.M. and Ford together had a loss of $6.6 billion worldwide.
 The article should have noted that G.M. reported a loss of $8.6 billion while Ford reported an overall profit of $2 billion, although Ford lost $1.6 billion from its North American auto operations.
An article on Feb. 5 about changes in the American auto market contrasted its two biggest companies, General Motors and Ford, with the next four -- Chrysler, Toyota, Honda and Nissan. It said that while those four were expected to have a combined worldwide profit of $22 billion for 2005, G.M. and Ford together had a loss of $6.6 billion worldwide.
 The article should have noted that G.M. reported a loss of $8.6 billion while Ford reported an overall profit of $2 billion, although Ford lost $1.6 billion from its North American auto operations.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chrysler, Hyundai and Mitsubishi share investment in the plant above. Automakers have a new strategy that involves small cars, but also smaller work forces and heavily edited lineups of vehicles. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Bruce Coventry, the president of a new partnership of Chrysler, Hyundai and Mitsubishi, said the venture would allow the companies to build more engines with fewer workers. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)(pg. 6)
The market for small cars, including, clockwise from top left, the Dodge Caliber, Nissan Versa, Honda Fit and Toyota Yaris, is predicted to grow in the face of high gas prices. (pg. 7)Chart: ''The Big Two vs. the Next Four''The combined American market share of General Motors and Ford has eroded steadily since 1995. As a group, Chrysler, Toyota, Honda and Nissan have almost matched them.1995COMBINED MARKET SHARE*: 58.5%Ford: 25.7General Motors: 32.8COMBINED MARKET SHARE*: 32.6%Nissan: 5.2Honda: 5.4Toyota: 7.3Chrysler Group: 14.72000COMBINED MARKET SHARE*: 51.1%Ford: 23.0General Motors: 28.0COMBINED MARKET SHARE*: 34.8%Nissan: 4.3Honda: 6.7Toyota: 9.3Chrysler Group: 14.52005COMBINED MARKET SHARE*: 43.4%Ford: 17.4General Motors: 26.0COMBINED MARKET SHARE*: 41.8%Nissan: 6.3Honda: 8.6Toyota: 13.3Chrysler Group: 13.6* G.M. sales do not include Saab
Ford sales do not include Jaguar, Land Rover and Volvo
 Chrysler sales do not include Mercedes. Figures are rounded.(Source by Autodata Corporation)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (76%); PLANT CLOSINGS (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); LAYOFFS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); STATISTICS (66%); CORPORATE CULTURE (64%); LABOR UNIONS (60%) Automobiles; Labor; Factories and Industrial Plants; Automobiles; Engines; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Daimlerchrysler Ag; Toyota Motor Corp; Honda Motor Co; Nissan Motor Co; Autodata; Mitsubishi Corp ; Hyundai Motor Co; Global Engine Alliance

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard; Ron Pinelli

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (79%) Dundee (Mich); Japan

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



138 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Will Other Insurers Follow Allstate's Move? 

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

 BODY:
ALLSTATE, one of the country's largest providers of homeowners' insurance, reported $4.7 billion in losses during the third quarter of last year from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Dennis and Ophelia. Calling that a tenfold increase over any previous quarter, Allstate announced that it would reduce the financial risks it would face in a future catastrophe.
 It decided that the greatest risk lies in downstate New York, including Long Island.
Allstate which holds a 26 percent share of the homeowners' insurance market in eight downstate counties -- Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester and the five boroughs of New York City -- stopped writing new policies for single-family homes here last month. Its current market share translates to about 450,000 homes, said Krista Conte, the spokeswoman for the company's New York regional office. 
 ''What we've learned in the aftermath of the 2004 and 2005 hurricane season, combined with the expectation of similarly destructive storms in coming years, has forced us to explore options to better manage our exposure,'' Ms. Conte said.
 No other insurers have pulled out yet, but just in case, two members of Long Island's Congressional delegation are helping to sponsor the creation of a $200 billion federal catastrophe insurance fund. A similar state fund has also been proposed.
 Meteorological models, which show that 2005 was the 11th year in a cycle of unusually numerous and powerful hurricanes in the Atlantic, predict that heightened activity will continue for at least another decade. Experts at the Tropical Meteorology Project at Colorado State University calculated that the East Coast has an 81 percent chance of being hit by a major hurricane this year -- a Category 3, 4 or 5 storm. The average over the last century was 52 percent.
 Given that downstate New York is densely populated, its homes are expensive and its topography low-lying, a powerful hurricane could prove very expensive for major insurers, like Allstate, that are already reeling from last year's losses, Ms. Conte said. 
 Katrina and Rita caused the bulk of Allstate's losses last year, mostly in the Gulf Coast states. These areas are not as densely populated as downstate New York and houses are generally not as expensive.
 ''If a weaker storm were to hit us here on Long Island, we'd be faced with something significantly worse,'' Ms. Conte said. ''But by managing our exposure, we can preserve the promise we've made to our current customers.''
 Several Allstate brokers on Long Island either did not return calls or declined to be interviewed about the impact on consumers. ''Sorry, we're not permitted to comment,'' said Ken Pagano, a broker in Hampton Bays. 
 Superintendent Howard Mills of the State Insurance Department will conduct a public hearing Feb. 27 in Manhattan to explore Allstate's decision and its impact for consumers. 
 Mr. Mills said that by calling attention to Allstate's pullout, the hearing could help encourage other insurers to fill the resulting gap. He said he hoped additional topics would be the proposed federal and state funds. ''That discussion certainly has some merit,'' he said.
 MS. CONTE said that Allstate was not tracking how many customers were turned away since the start of the year but stressed that it would continue to insure current customers and would write new policies for condominiums, co-ops and rented apartments. Home buyers seeking a new policy will be directed to an insurance wholesaler, she said.
 Real estate lawyers on Long Island said Allstate's decision had not yet created a catastrophe. 
 ''Unless other companies follow suit, most people should be able to find insurance from other carriers,'' said Peter R. Acocella, a partner in DeCarlo & Acocella, a firm with offices in Babylon, Queens and Manhattan.
 Just to be safe, though, Mr. Acocella is advising clients to line up coverage once they sign a contract, rather than right before closing. ''Some have tried using the seller's carrier, to see if that company is willing to keep insuring the property, and they've had some success,'' he said.
 Eric S. Rosenblum, the chairman of the Nassau Bar Association's real property committee, said he had seen no impact from Allstate's pullout but attributes it to the fact that State Farm, Nationwide and other insurers are providing coverage. ''And I haven't seen any increase in premiums, but of course, there could be one down the road because Allstate's decision is fairly recent,'' he said.
 Allstate's move is not unusual when viewed in a national context, said Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist at the Insurance Information Institute, a trade organization in Manhattan. ''It's just a microcosm of what's happening in many states along the Gulf Coast and the Eastern Seaboard,'' he said. ''And the move to pare back exposure predates even Katrina and the four storms that hit Florida in 2004.''
 Additional losses could jeopardize a company's financial integrity and credit rating, further exacerbated by credit-rating companies' effectively penalizing an insurer for maintaining high exposure in coastal areas, Mr. Hartwig said.
 He said that insurers had retreated elsewhere -- on Cape Cod, for example. ''It can't be ruled out in the future'' on Long Island, he said.
 If other insurers do stop writing policies, the Homeowners Insurance Protection Act, sponsored in part by Representatives Steven Israel and Carolyn McCarthy, would reduce the rates that primary insurers like Allstate pay for reinsurance by spreading those costs and the potential risks among the states.
 If a natural disaster were to strike, the act would permit states to tap into that fund, Mr. Israel and Ms. McCarthy said.
 The bill is sitting in the House Financial Services Committee. Moving it to the House floor for a vote will be an uphill climb, but not the sort usually defined by a partisan division.
 ''This is one of those rare issues that won't separate Republicans from Democrats, but coastal states from the rest of the country,'' said Mr. Israel, a Democrat whose district spans Huntington and parts of Islip, Babylon and Oyster Bay. ''However, I have one word for my colleagues from rural areas that don't have to worry about hurricanes: tornadoes. This bill covers them, too.''
 State Senator Michael A. L. Balboni, a Republican from East Williston and the chairman of the Senate's Homeland Security Committee, and Assemblyman Robert Sweeney, a Democrat from Lindenhurst, have proposed legislation that would create a similar state fund.
 Predicting that Allstate's move was the first step in an industry trend, Mr. Israel said that it was only a matter of time before homeowners' insurance becomes hard to find.
 ''Allstate just opened the door,'' he said. ''Soon its competitors are very likely to follow its lead in other areas. In Kansas, an insurance company would have the same concerns about tornadoes.''
 But as problems for consumers spread, so may lawmakers' support for his bill, Mr. Israel said.
 The sponsors said that the fear of another Katrina could do for their bill what the fear of a follow-up to the Sept. 11 attacks did for the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, a model for their bill. The catastrophic economic losses from 9/11 and fears that they could happen again persuaded lawmakers to help the insurance industry by creating a backstop.
 So they supported the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, creating a federal reinsurance fund. It lessens insurers' risk and reduces property owners' premiums, essentially insuring insurers against a terrorist attack.
 Mr. Israel said he became convinced the bill was needed after Richard M. Kessel, the Long Island Power Authority chairman, showed him a model of a Category 3 hurricane's projected impact on his district.
 ''I would essentially lose the top and the bottom of my district -- half of it would be under water,'' Mr. Israel said. ''Common sense suggests that we should hope for the best and plan for the worst.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenneth Herman lost the roof of his house in Oak Beach to Hurricane Gloria, which did extensive damage on Long Island in September 1985. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); HURRICANES (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); WEATHER (90%); POPULATION DENSITY (89%); CATASTROPHE REINSURANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); METEOROLOGY (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (65%) Insurance; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Rita (Storm); Dennis (Storm); Ophelia (Storm); Insurance

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Allstate Insurance Co

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%)

PERSON: Howard Mills; Julia C Mead

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Long Island (NY); Nassau County (NY); Suffolk County (NY); Westchester County (NY); New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



139 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-05-06: QUESTIONS FOR DENNIS ROSS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Handling Hamas

BYLINE: By Deborah Solomon

 BODY:
Q: You were this country's chief peace negotiator in the Middle East for 12 years, until 2001, when the talks broke down and never resumed. Do you think the U.S. is at all responsible for the ascent of Hamas in the Palestinian territories and its landslide election victory last month? I find it incredibly depressing. We had so many opportunities to stop this.
How? Some people see the Israeli pullout from Gaza last summer as the turning point in all this, because the local economy collapsed and left Palestinians feeling as if no one was in charge. The expectations were that life would get better. Well, it got worse. It became completely lawless, and the jobs disintegrated as well. You needed someone to spearhead the pledging of assistance and the delivery of assistance. The U.S. could have done that. But we didn't have a point person. 
 Are you saying that we could have saved Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, from his incompetence in Gaza, which Hamas exploited for political ends? From the beginning, it was clear that Abbas had a limited time to show that his way, the way of nonviolence, worked. And to do that, he had to show that life got better. What didn't happen is a major effort on the part of the outside, which had to be led by us, to help Abbas make decisions and become responsive to the Palestinian public. 
 Why do you think President Bush decided to eliminate the position of Mideast peace negotiator, after you had served his father and President Clinton and helped broker so many agreements? The Bush administration, in the first term, made a basic decision to disengage.They took the words ''peace process'' out of the lexicon. They literally would not use the words ''peace process'' for the first few months. In the second term, Condoleezza Rice has been more involved.
 When she visited Gaza after the Israeli evacuation, it was announced with great fanfare that she pulled an all-nighter to finesse an agreement between the Israelis and the Palestinians. She was there two days. She has never had a long trip there. And the pullout took place in August. This understanding took place in November. It was good she did it, but it would have been better if this had been done before. Had it betokened a consistent, visible involvement through the person of an envoy, it might have made some difference. 
 Do you think the members of Hamas will desist in calling for the destruction of Israel now that they have acquired political clout? No. I think they will not. 
 In that case, what is the proper course of action for us? The international community needs to cut them off unless they transform themselves. There can be no dealing with Hamas and no financial assistance to the Palestinians if they don't give up violence and recognize the right of Israel to exist. 
 Why would an extremist like Ismail Haniyeh and the other leaders of Hamas care what we think anyhow? Think about this: The Palestinians get about a billion dollars a year from the outside. This year the U.S. was giving them about $350 million, a certain percentage of which was for the Palestinian Authority, but most of it for nongovernmental organizations. 
 Can't Palestinians get the same support from their fellow Arab nations? Well, the Arabs give them very little money. The Saudis, who give them the most, have been giving them about $84 million a year. The Egyptians give them no money. There is a genuine sense of grievance throughout the Arab world on the Palestinian issue. But Arab leaders are more prepared to talk about doing something than to actually do it. 
 What countries do you think are crucial if we are to form an anti-Hamas front that has any influence? I think right now the U.S. focus has to be on lining up a common front with the Europeans, the Russians, the Chinese, the Japanese and, if possible, Arab leaders.
 Are we actually capable of doing that? The current administration has not shown great interest in group projects. That's true, but sometimes necessity creates reality. There's an imperative here. Deborah Solomon


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Karen Ballard)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); HAMAS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%) Palestinians; Foreign Aid; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%) Hamas

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (78%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Dennis Ross

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%) Israel; Gaza Strip

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



140 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BRIEFS: ECONOMY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC CHIEF NAMED 

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Gov. Jon S. Corzine tapped a former colleague from Goldman Sachs last Tuesday to be chairman of the new Office of Economic Growth. The new chairman, Gary D. Rose, 60, a retired partner from the firm's investment banking division, has experience in mergers, acquisitions and finance, and will be asked to come up with a strategic plan to create jobs and expand business opportunities. He joins Bradley I. Abelow, Mr. Corzine's nominee for state treasurer, as former Goldman executives who have been recruited by Mr. Corzine, a former co-chairman. 
 Mr. Corzine also announced two other cabinet positions: Steven M. Goldman will become commissioner of banking and insurance and Kris Kolluri will become commissioner of transportation. DAVID W. CHEN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); COMPANY STRATEGY (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); INVESTMENT BANKING (86%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (86%); JOB CREATION (85%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (82%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (55%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Politics and Government; Biographical Information

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%) Jon S (Gov) Corzine; gary d rose; Steven Goldman; Kris Kolluri; David W Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



141 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: A Cuban Revolution, Only It's in New Jersey

BYLINE: By Jeffrey Gettleman. 
Jeffrey Gettleman reports from New Jersey for The New York Times.

 BODY:
Call it the cafe con leche revolution. 
 Or think of the Jersey Shore as the Bay of Pigs. 
 Because the Cubans have arrived. Big time.
With Robert Menendez as United States senator, Zulima V. Farber as state attorney general and the former Assembly speaker, Albio Sires, considered a shoo-in for Congress, along with other Cuban-Americans prospering in law, business and the judiciary, this moment seems to be a high-water mark for the Cuban community in New Jersey.
 True, Cuban-Americans have been here a long time, transforming Union City from a factory town into a vibrant little Little Havana. 
 But the curious thing is, although Cubans make up the most politically successful Latino group in New Jersey, they're hardly the biggest, dwarfed by Puerto Ricans, Mexican-Americans and Dominicans.
 And largely they're Democrats, which defies the national stereotype of the Cuban-American voter as the little old guy in the sherbet-colored guayabera, sitting in a plastic chair with a shot of espresso in his hand, in front of a picture of Ronald Reagan.
 Why have Cubans done better here than anywhere but Florida? 
 The answer begins with lace.
 In the 1940's and 50's, Cuban immigrants, like Mr. Menendez's parents, began to trickle into Union City, drawn by cheap apartments, proximity to New York and jobs in lace and garment factories.
 After Fidel Castro took over, that trickle turned into a fire hose, with thousands of Cubans fleeing to America. Many settled in Hudson County, which became the nucleus of the state's Cuban community, today around 100,000 people. 
 Cubans tend to be loyal voters, whether for Democrats in New Jersey or Republicans in Florida. Thanks to the wet-foot, dry-foot immigration policy, which essentially says any Cuban refugee who's able to set foot on American soil becomes a legal immigrant on the road to citizenship, Cubans don't confront the obstacles that keep many other immigrants from the polls.
 And they're fired up about democracy.
 ''You have to remember it was the middle class and upper class who came here for political reasons, and they've remained politically involved,'' said Ms. Farber, who came to West New York in 1961 at age 16 and lived with eight relatives in one apartment.
 Because of the shared experience of struggle and exile, Cuban immigrants tend to stick together, whether in Little Havana in Miami or along Bergenline Avenue in Hudson County, nicknamed La Avenida.
 ''There's greater cohesion in political migrations than in economic ones,'' said Ileana Fuentes, an author and head of a nonprofit organization in Miami. 
 And that unity doesn't seem to fade with prosperity. It's constantly refreshed by events like the Elian Gonzalez saga in 2000 that drove scores of protesters into Union City's streets, even though by that point many Cuban-Americans had graduated from Union City to white-collar jobs and homes with yards.
 In politics, concentration equals power, which helps explain why Cuban-Americans wield such influence in New Jersey without the huge numbers. If most of the state's 400,000 Puerto Ricans lived in the same area, they'd probably have a congressional seat, too.
 The Cuban concentration in Hudson County also explains why Jersey Cubans are hard-core Democrats, while their cousins in Florida are hard-core Republicans.
 Basically, they didn't have a choice. Hudson County has one of the most powerful Democratic machines ever built, and if you don't run as a Democrat or vote as a Democrat, you may as well be in Cuba.
 Mr. Menendez led the way. As a young man, he found the best role model he could, William V. Musto, the imperious mayor of Union City, who gave Mr. Menendez a break because he needed that gold mine of Cuban-American votes.
 Mr. Musto was eventually convicted of corruption charges and shipped off to prison, after Mr. Menendez turned on him. That left Mr. Menendez on his own, free to make his own mold. He did just that, casting himself as progressive on social issues yet remaining as hard-line as the most conservative Republicans when it came to dealing with Mr. Castro.
 The formula worked. And it became a template for the Cuban-American mover and shaker in New Jersey, flinging open doors for Ms. Farber and Mr. Sires, who arrived in America in 1962 at age 10.
 Mr. Sires couldn't speak English and his family was broke, but he used his height (he's 6 feet 4 inches ) and his basketball skills to get him out of the ghetto. Mr. Sires is now the heir apparent for the congressional seat Mr. Menendez vacated when Gov. Jon S. Corzine appointed Mr. Menendez to the Senate.
 Mr. Corzine, by the way, appointed Ms. Farber attorney general, and is backing Mr. Sires, so if anyone has given the Cuban-American community an extra boost for Cuban-Americans, it must be him.
 Silvio Acosta, a building inspector in West New York who left Cuba during the Mariel boatlift in 1980, said these are good days.
 ''You see peoples' faces and they are happy,'' Mr. Acosta said. ''They are happy about Albio, they are happy about Menendez, and this new lady, she may have a little problem with the driving,'' he said, referring to Ms. Farber and her notorious driving record, ''but they like her, too.''
 ''She's against Castro,'' Mr. Acosta said, with a laugh, ''and that's all that matters.''


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); POLITICS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); APPAREL MFG (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (57%) Politics and Government; Cuban-Americans; Immigration and Refugees; Hispanic-Americans

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (78%); RONALD REAGAN (77%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%); ALBIO SIRES (57%) Jeffrey Gettleman

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (94%) New Jersey; Union City (NJ); Hudson County (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



142 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: Yes, Towns Can Seize Land, But Aren't There Limits?

BYLINE: By DAVID SCHARFENBERG

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE 

 BODY:
ROBERT AND GLORIA CONNER have run their Royal Child Care Center in a squat commercial building in this city's downtown for nearly a decade. But their time here may be running out.
 The Valhalla developer Louis R. Cappelli, who over the last decade or so has remade downtown White Plains with a mix of residential and commercial development, is moving forward with plans for a $350 million retail and residential complex that would replace the Royal Child Care building, the Casanova Gold Gentlemen's Club, a Planned Parenthood clinic, an apartment building and a post office.
The Conners' landlord and the owners of Casanova Gold, partial to their location, have complicated matters by refusing to sell, which has made it increasingly likely that the city will have to use its power of eminent domain to seize the properties so the project can proceed.
 New Rochelle officials, eager to revive this sagging city of dollar stores and vacant lots, seem prepared to do just that to accommodate the developer, who built the sprawling New Roc City entertainment complex across the street and is busy erecting another retail and residential skyscraper nearby in partnership with Donald J. Trump. 
 The Conners, like their landlords, object to the idea of a condemnation. 
 ''I don't buy it,'' said Mr. Conner, sitting at the front desk of his child care center on a recent afternoon. ''If they were doing it to build roads, schools or hospitals or things meant for eminent domain, but for private business to build, well '' 
 The United States Supreme Court, ruling 5-4 last June, reaffirmed the government's right to condemn property in the name of job creation and fatter tax rolls. The decision freed officials in New London, Conn., to seize 15 homes to make way for an office, hotel and residential development along the Thames River.
 But it also suggested that limits could in some cases be imposed on governments. And because complaints like Mr. Conner's have multiplied locally and across the nation since the ruling, lawmakers have begun to test those limits. 
 Legislatures in Alabama, Delaware and Texas last year placed limits on the use of eminent domain for economic development purposes. Ohio lawmakers approved a 14-month moratorium and created a task force to study the issue. And the Michigan Legislature signed off on a constitutional amendment that will go before voters in November; if approved, it will prohibit governments from seizing land for economic development or to generate increased tax revenues.
 At least 27 other state legislatures, including those in New York and New Jersey, are considering new restrictions on eminent domain, and more states are expected to follow, said Larry Morandi, director of the environment, energy and transportation program for the National Conference of State Legislatures in Denver.
 In Westchester, property owners from New Rochelle to Port Chester are fighting in the courts to stave off condemnations. The County Legislature is considering a bill that would prevent the county government from condemning private property for use by another private entity. The measure would also cut off county financing for municipal projects involving eminent domain that are intended to spark economic development. Some have welcomed those actions as much-needed checks on government power. 
 But others say the proposed county legislation, and the most restrictive measures under consideration in Albany, would deal an ill-considered blow to the revival efforts of struggling cities in Westchester and elsewhere in the state.
 ''As far as I'm concerned, that's pure politics, that's grandstanding,'' said Edward C. Steinberg, former commissioner of planning for the City of White Plains, discussing the county measure. ''Acquisition of property is a very important tool for any municipality to have in its box,'' he said.
 Mr. Steinberg served in various capacities in the city's planning agency in the 1970's and 1980's, a period when White Plains was in the midst of one of the nation's most ambitious urban renewal efforts. City officials used eminent domain and the threat of eminent domain to acquire and bulldoze some 130 acres of fading downtown property.
 But results in White Plains and other cities were mixed. Crumbling overcrowded buildings came down. But hundreds of families -- often poor, often black -- were displaced. In New Rochelle, a mall hailed as the catalyst for a local renaissance withered and closed by 1995. And in Ossining some still mourn the loss of old haunts like B & J's Restaurant, a greasy spoon, and the Victoria Theater, a vaudeville house turned movie theater, which were replaced in an effort to refurbish the downtown.
 But those initiatives, whatever their failings, laid the groundwork for the recent resurgence of some of Westchester's most downtrodden cities, said John R. Nolon, counsel to the Land Use Law Center at Pace University,
 ''They've gone through a tipping point in certain neighborhoods,'' said Mr. Nolon, who serves on a New York State Bar Association panel convened to study eminent domain. ''They've made the transformation -- in part through urban renewal and in part through condemnation.''
 Local lawyers and city officials who defend the use of eminent domain cautioned against overly broad restrictions on the use of eminent domain, noting that the normal back-and-forth of politics can block an unpopular condemnation. Public outcry over a planned Ikea store in New Rochelle's City Park, a neighborhood of modest homes and businesses, killed the project in 2001, they note. And in White Plains, Mr. Cappelli is building Renaissance Square, a $500-million retail-residential-hotel development, around an old office building after the city balked at his request to seize it through eminent domain in the face of public opposition.
 Richard L. Brodsky, a state assemblyman from Greenburgh who is running for attorney general, has sought to impose some restrictions on the use of eminent domain while still preserving that power for local governments. In 2004, in the wake of a controversial seizure in Port Chester, Mr. Brodsky pushed through a bill that requires government officials to notify property owners of a planned condemnation by mail. Previously, the law required only a notice in the newspaper.
 Now Mr. Brodsky is pushing for more protections, including the appointment of an eminent domain ombudsman, compensation for displaced homeowners at 150 percent of fair market value and a requirement that any condemnation for economic development purposes be conducted in the context of a comprehensive plan.
 But Mr. Brodsky, a Democrat, says it is vital that municipalities retain the ability to make responsible use of eminent domain. And he is urging business interests to join with city officials in defending against what he calls a furious assault on eminent domain from property-rights advocates and extreme elements of the Republican Party.
 ''We're at a point where the business community has not really gotten its act together,'' Mr. Brodksy said in a recent telephone interview. ''The Republican Party has decided to abandon its business base and cater to its right-wing reactive base.''
 But Dana Berliner, senior attorney with the Institute for Justice, a libertarian public interest law firm in Alexandria, Va., that represented the New London, Conn., homeowners in the Supreme Court case, says the fight to curb eminent domain is not a rightist crusade, but a popular one. The public, she said, simply objects to the idea of government seizing property from one private interest and giving it to another.
 ''The decision, the reaction to it, revealed this enormous disconnect betweenwhat the vast majority of people believe and what the law allowed,'' said Ms. Berliner, who also represents Bill Brody, the Port Chester property owner whose property was seized to allow for construction of a Stop & Shop. 
 Thomas J. Abinanti, a Democrat who represents Greenburgh in the County Legislature, said it was a basic sense of fairness that led him and James Maisano, Republican of New Rochelle, to propose the legislation that would bar the county from condemning private property for another private use. But the bill is, in some ways, a symbolic measure. The county has little say in municipal land-use matters, except in affordable housing developments, where it plays a key role.
 The legislation provides an exemption for affordable housing projects. But granting an exemption would require a two-thirds vote by the County Legislature. Mr. Abinanti, who is running for Mr. Brodsky's vacated Assembly seat, is quick to point out that the County Legislature already has to muster a two-thirds vote to approve the bonds it would use to finance an affordable housing project. But critics say that approving bonds is one thing, while backing a controversial property seizure is another.
 Indeed, in a county increasingly preoccupied by the impacts of development, many of the battles over eminent domain have morphed into broader debates over the character and direction of a changing slice of suburbia.
 In Ossining, that debate has focused, of late, on four and a half acres on the Hudson River. The land, once the site of a home-heating oil company, a bus depot and a flavor manufacturing company seized by eminent domain in 1999, is now littered with oil drums, burned wooden pallets and an overturned children's wagon.
 There Mr. Cappelli and his rival-turned-partner, Martin Ginsburg, a developer, are preparing to break ground on Harbor Square, a 150-unit luxury condominium complex that will include a high-end restaurant, waterfront park and kayak launch open to the public. Eugene T. Napolitano, the new mayor, says the development will fuel the growth of a long-moribund downtown that is just beginning to awaken. ''There comes a point and time when the village needs to move forward,'' he said in a recent telephone interview.
 But Bill Cowan, who is retired and is a longtime advocate of affordable housing, said something troubles him about a push to cover the region's industrial past with luxury housing. In a rapidly gentrifying county, he said, the village stands to lose something important with these projects.
 ''I wanted my kids to grow up in the real world,'' said Mr. Cowan, 79, sitting in the den of his modest, handsome home overlooking the river on a recent evening. ''That's why I moved to Ossining.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gloria and Robert Conner, below, fear they may have to move their New Rochelle business if the property is seized through eminent domain. Part of the area in Ossining, to the right of the ferry dock, that would be affected by development. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Mayor Eugene T. Napolitano of Ossining says a complex planned for the waterfront will spur growth downtown. In White Plains, construction starts around the 10-story 1926 Bar Building. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); JOB CREATION (63%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Eminent Domain; States (US); Law and Legislation; Eminent Domain

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (57%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%) gloria conner; robert conner; Louis Cappelli; David Scharfenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (68%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New Rochelle (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



143 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Once Just an Aide, Now a King of K Street

BYLINE: By ANNE E. KORNBLUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
ONCE, the archetype of the Capitol Hill aide was a humble policy wonk fresh from graduate school who moved to Washington to pursue a gratifying but mostly anonymous life in public service.
 In recent years, a more high-flying path for the Congressional aide has emerged: lobbyist-in-training.
The pay in Congressional offices still stinks. The hours are still grueling. But the job, once an end in itself, is increasingly seen as a ticket to be punched -- and sometimes comes with the almost explicit promise of hitting pay dirt after a reasonably short stint. ''It's the new business school,'' said Chris Lehane, a Democratic consultant who formed his own public relations business after serving in the Clinton White House.
 Nothing has pulled the curtain back on this trend more than the story surrounding the disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff. With his help, several young Hill staff members jumped into the private sector after just a few years in public service, tripling their salaries overnight. In return, they used their ties to those still ''on the inside'' to maneuver on behalf of his business clients. 
 The spotlight on the case has turned attention to the widespread phenomenon of the aide-turned-lobbyist. Last week, after House Republicans elected John Boehner of Ohio as majority leader, government watchdog groups were quick to note that at least 14 former aides had turned their connections to Mr. Boehner, chairman of the Education Committee, into K Street lobbying jobs. 
 Democrats pounced on this figure as evidence that he was as inextricably linked to lobbyists as was his predecessor, Tom DeLay, who was forced to resign as majority leader in part because of his connections to Mr. Abramoff. (A former press secretary to Mr. DeLay, Michael Scanlon, pleaded guilty to conspiring to bribe public officials, and is cooperating in the Abramoff case after earning tens of millions of dollars through his public affairs firm.)
 When did the dutiful Hill staffer become a wheeler-dealer with such amazing clout? Members of Congress have long used the revolving door to cycle out into the private sector and make big salaries. But a legislative director? Or a chief of staff? 
 Paradoxically, new lobbying restrictions being considered in the wake of the Abramoff scandal may only tip the scales further, making a long career on the Hill too onerous for all but the most earnest public servants.
 ''The first question you get whenever you move on is, 'Are you going to stay on the Hill or go off?' '' said Kevin Madden, who left his job as press secretary to Representative DeLay last week and has not yet decided whether to move into the private sector or remain on Capitol Hill. 
 ''I think everybody does recognize it's a timing game,'' said Mr. Madden, who also worked for another Republican congressman, the Bush campaign and Justice Department before working for Mr. DeLay. ''The question is, when is all the experience you're getting on Capitol Hill enough?''
 Some of the biggest names in lobbying in recent years have been former aides who emerged from Congress or the White House with extensive contacts and a deep understanding of how legislation moves.
 Ed Gillespie, the former head of the Republican National Committee who started out as a top aide to Dick Armey, the former House majority leader, is perhaps the most visible. Mr. Gillespie's firm, Quinn Gillespie & Associates, is routinely ranked in the top 10 among lobbying powerhouses; in 2004, the firm had $13.9 million in revenue, according to the magazine Influence, which covers the lobbying industry.
 Superlobbyists might earn up to $1 million a year. Newer recruits earn at least six figures, sometimes starting as high as $200,000 a year, a great leap from the Hill, where salaries vary from office to office but where aides are lucky to break $50,000 a year. Only a small percentage of the more than 16,000 Capitol Hill staff members make more than $100,000.
 ''What's happened is that the disparity in salaries -- between what members and staff make versus what lobbyists make downtown -- it's gotten so enormous that you could be a medium-high-level Congressional staffer, and you go downtown and the first day be making more money than your boss, the senator, made,'' said Charlie Cook, editor of the nonpartisan Cook Political Report. ''And I think that's sort of distorted the pecking order.''
 Democrats say that this disparity worsened with the so-called K Street Project, a moniker for several different Republican lobbying efforts, but generally synonymous with Mr. DeLay's insistence, after his party took control of the House in 1996, that K Street firms hire Republicans. Aides to the party's legislators had more and more access to those high-paying jobs. 
 But another factor promoting the revolving door was, paradoxically, the effort to reform the campaign finance system. By making it harder for candidates to raise contributions, senators and representatives of both parties relied on others -- including lobbying firms that double as fund-raisers -- for this purpose. What could make a representative happier than having a former staff member jump to K Street and help raise money? 
 The revolving door of aides and lobbyists has changed Congress itself, according to John Engler, the former Republican governor of Michigan who is president and chief executive of the National Association of Manufacturers. 
 There are now many aides, he said, who don't have much of a background in anything. Yet, ''the complexity of the issues they're handling has only increased,'' said Mr. Engler. ''You don't walk in in January and become an expert in Medicaid by February. It takes years to understand the intricacies.''
 Some aides argue that Congressional jobs will lose more luster as lobbying rules continue to tighten, shrinking the number of perks, like travel junkets, that Hill aides can take. Several staff members said that as rules have tightened, the work has become less enjoyable. 
 Another contributing factor in recent decades is the pension plan: In 1984, Congress went from giving workers a traditional civil service pension, which paid out an inflation-adjusted benefit after retirement, to a savings plan that works more like a 401(k). Congress is also considering a requirement that former aides wait two years before they lobby their old offices. 
 ''For some, the Hill experience is really a ticket to a more lucrative job, so I think there really could be an exodus to beat the new restrictions,'' Senator Susan M. Collins, Republican of Maine, said.
 It was not always thus. Ms. Collins began her career more than three decades ago as a Hill staffer, working for former Representative William Cohen of Maine. 
 ''I ended up staying nearly 12 years, and it never occurred to me, toward the end of those 12 years, to think of becoming a lobbyist,'' Senator Collins said. Now, she said, she has several longtime staff members as devoted to public service as she was. 
 But, she said: ''What I do notice is for some of the younger staff, the Hill is a place to make a contribution, get some experience, do a bit of public service, but with the ultimate goal of working as a lobbyist. And some of them glamorize what a lobbyist job is going to be like.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: You Can Get There From Here: Many Congressional aides have made the lucrative leap from the offices of senators and representatives to Washington lobbying firms. K Street is shorthand for the industry that is largely headquartered in a district along K, which passes three blocks north of the White House (another productive source of lobbyists). A look at five top lobbyists and how they arrived at their firms. Page 14. (Photo by Jim Pickerell/cgstock)(pg. 1)
(Photo by Jim Pickerell/cgstock)
(Photo by Bill Marsh/The New York Times)(pg. 14)Chart/Photos: ''Wing-Tipped Migration''Five Prominent Men and How They Got From Congress to K StreetTERRY ALLEN -- Former chief of staff for Representative Steve Largent, Republican of Oklahoma, who served until 2002
policy analyst for House G.O.P. Study Committee.LOBBYIST for Alexander Strategy Group (closed after revelations of ties to convicted lobbyist Jack Abramoff). Clients included Segway, the maker of electric scooters.EDWARD J. NEWBERRYFormerly chief appropriations staff member and press secretary for Representative Frank R. Wolf, Republican of Virginia
associate staff member for House Appropriations Committee.NOW EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBER at Patton Boggs. Clients include the American-Kuwaiti Alliance and Vornado Realty Trust.JAMES E. HYLAND -- Formerly legislative director for Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas
legislative director for former Senator Lauch Faircloth, Republican of North Carolina
staff director of Financial Institutions Subcommittee of the Senate Banking Committee
assistant to Sen. John Warner, Republican of Virginia.NOW PARTNER at Greenberg Traurig, where Mr. Abramoff once worked. Clients include Continental Tire, Viacom and the Texas Land Title Association.JEFFREY J. CONNAUGHTONFormerly on staff of Senator Joseph R. Biden, Democrat of Delaware, and Senate Judiciary Committee
 special assistant to the counsel of President Bill Clinton.NOW VICE CHAIRMAN of Quinn Gillespie & Associates. Clients include Verizon, Bristol Myers Squibb and the National Hockey League.JACK HOWARD has had particularly wide-ranging experience, having served in the House, the Senate and the White House (twice). His positions are keyed to the numbers above.Red arrows trace Mr. Howard's career path.1. Member of the House Republican leadership staff2. Aide to former Representative Robert S. Walker, chairman of Wexler & Walker3. Aide to Trent Lott when he was House minority whip4. Special assistant for legislative affairs for President George H. W. Bush5. Senior staff member for House Speaker Newt Gingrich6. Deputy chief of staff for Trent Lott, when Senate majority leader7. Deputy chief of staff for House Speaker Dennis Hastert8. Deputy assistant for legislative affairs for President George W. Bush9. NOW PRESIDENT of Wexler & Walker Public Policy Associates. Clients include Comcast, American Cancer Society, American Airlines and the National Marine Manufacturing Association.(Sources by Center for Public Integrity, United States Senate Office of Public Records, lobbying firms)(pg. 14)Chart: ''Lobbyist Ties Of New Leader''On Thursday, Representative John A. Boehner was elected House majority leader. According to the Center for Public Integrity, a nonprofit group that tracks money in politics, at least 14 people who worked on House committees and in the G.O.P. conference under Mr. Boehner became lobbyists.GEORGE H. CONANT -- Lobbyist for California State University.DAVID A. CONNOLLY JR. -- Lobbyist with Capitol Associates Inc.ALLISON L. DEMBECK -- Lobbyist for Ceridian, which advises companies on personnel.CHRISTY CARSON EVANS -- Lobbyist with Cassidy & Associates.TERRY HOLT -- Started his own consulting company, Holt Strategies. Previously a lobbyist for Quinn Gillespie & Associates and Dutko Worldwide.KRISTIN WOLGEMUTH FITZGERALD -- Started her own company, Fitzgerald Consulting.MARC LAMPKIN -- Lobbyist with Quinn Gillespie.PATRICK LYDEN -- Lobbyist for National Federation of Independent Business.JOSH MATHIS -- Lobbyist with Washington Advocates.ALANNA MILLER -- Lobbyist with Venn Strategies.TYSON R. REDPATH -- Lobbyist with Lesher & Russell Inc.BRENDA B. REESE -- Lobbyist with Bergner, Bockorny, Castagnetti, Hawkins & Brain.BENJAMIN T. PELTIER -- Lobbyist with Arent Fox.HEATHER VALENTINE -- Vice president for policy for the Council for Opportunity in Education. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ETHICS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); POLITICS (69%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (68%); CONSPIRACY (64%); BRIBERY (62%); GUILTY PLEAS (50%) Lobbying and Lobbyists; Ethics; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (59%); DALLAS STARS (59%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (59%); EDMONTON OILERS (59%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (89%); JOHN WARNER (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TRENT LOTT (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); FRANK R WOLF (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%); JOE BIDEN (57%); GEORGE H W BUSH (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) Anne E Kornblut; Jack Abramoff; John (Rep) Boehner

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



144 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; IRAN'S NUCLEAR CHALLENGE: THE RESOLUTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1791 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Panel Votes to Report Tehran to U.N.

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; David E. Sanger and Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting from Washington for this article, and Nazila Fathi from Tehran.

DATELINE: VIENNA, Feb. 4 

 BODY:
The 35-nation board of the United Nations atomic energy agency voted here on Saturday to report Iran to the Security Council, a move that reflects increasing suspicion around the world that Iran is determined to develop nuclear weapons.
 The resolution, which passed by a vote of 27 to 3, could change the course of diplomacy toward Iran and open the door to international punishment of the country.
Only Cuba, Syria and Venezuela voted against the European-drafted resolution. Five countries -- Algeria, Belarus, Indonesia, Libya and South Africa -- abstained.
 After the vote, Iran announced that it would immediately end its voluntary nuclear cooperation with the agency and that it would begin full-scale production of enriched uranium, which can be used to produce electricity or to help build nuclear bombs. 
 In a letter ordering the country's nuclear commission to take those actions, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad wrote that after Iranian demonstrations of compliance and good will, ''the nuclear agency has voted under pressure by few countries and has ignored our extensive cooperation and negated our legal right,'' the official IRNA news agency reported.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad said that although the country would no longer observe the Additional Protocol that allows intrusive nuclear inspections, ''all the country's peaceful activities will remain within the framework of the Nonproliferation Treaty.'' 
 The vote in Vienna was the climax of a two-and-a-half year campaign by the Bush administration to convince the world that suspicions about Iran's nuclear program are so serious that the issue must come before the Security Council for judgment.
 It also signals the failure, at least for now, of the two-and-a-half year strategy of France, Britain and Germany that was based on the premise that Iran could be coaxed into freezing crucial nuclear activities if the political, technological, economic and security rewards from the West were enticing enough.
 In recent months, the three countries have moved much closer to the position of the Bush administration, which has branded Iran part of an ''axis of evil'' and never held out much hope for the European negotiating track.
 The resolution is a compromise between the Americans, who wanted immediate action, and the Russians and Chinese, who wanted a delay, and it will allow concrete Security Council action against Iran only after a delay of at least a month.
 If that happens, the focus on Iran will begin to shift away from the largely technical atmosphere at the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna to the diplomatic arena of the Security Council in New York, which has responsibility for keeping peace and security in the world.
 ''The authorities in Tehran, rather than threatening the world, should listen to the world and take the steps necessary to start regaining its confidence,'' Gregory Schulte, the American ambassador to the I.A.E.A., told reporters after the vote.
 Peter Jenkins, the British ambassador, told reporters that Iran should take the monthlong grace period to change its behavior and ''begin rebuilding international confidence'' as the only way to restart negotiations.
 The month coincides with the schedule for the atomic agency's next formal, comprehensive assessment of the country's nuclear program.
 It is conceivable, although highly unlikely, that by then Iran will take the bold steps necessary to convince both the team of nuclear inspectors at the I.A.E.A. as well as the international community that it is a negotiating partner that can be trusted.
 But if Iran carries out its threat to end cooperation, it would severely limit the work of the agency's expert inspectors, who will no longer be allowed to do voluntary spot inspections in Iran and would lose access to important sites, including Iran's research centers and factories that make parts for the centrifuges that enrich uranium.
 The vote in Vienna was promoted as a significant victory for the Bush administration, which spent months briefing members of the agency's board on intelligence that it said strongly suggested but did not prove that Iran's intent was to develop a weapon.
 But suddenly the United States will have to decide what comes next. So far, the Bush administration has signaled only that it favors a go-slow approach based on diplomacy, not military force, and ruling out immediate sanctions or other punitive measures. 
 The White House issued a statement on Saturday from President Bush's ranch in Crawford, Tex., describing the agency's vote as ''a clear message'' to Iran. The statement ended with words directed to the Iranian people, saying, ''Iran's true interests lie in working with the international community to enjoy the benefits of peaceful nuclear energy, not in isolating Iran by continuing to develop the capability to build nuclear weapons.'' 
 In Washington, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Iran would have to suspend its enrichment-related uranium activities, cooperate fully on inspections and return to negotiations in order to avert its case being taken up at the Security Council.
 R. Nicholas Burns, under secretary for political affairs, and Robert Joseph, under secretary for arms control and international security, said in a telephone briefing that although Iran had been making small concessions over recent months even as it moved forward on suspicious uranium activities, no such incremental steps, like simply keeping the talks going, would be enough to avoid a Security Council debate.
 They did not specify what actions the United States would seek at the Security Council, but in the past, administration officials have said that no move will be made to impose heavy economic penalties on Iran, like an oil embargo. Instead, the United States would likely seek punitive diplomatic or political steps, like suspending travel or freezing assets for top Iranian officials and business leaders in nuclear-related industries.
 Some administration officials have publicly taken more hawkish public line in recent days, repeating that President Bush was keeping open all of his options -- the code words for reserving the right to take military action if diplomacy fails as part of the campaign to get the Iranian government to back down.
 Reporting a country to the Security Council is deeply humiliating and singles out a country as an unreliable actor on the global stage. Until recently, a pillar of Iran's foreign policy had been to avoid being judged in the world organization and to seek alignments with the Europeans, Russia and China against the United States and Israel.
 But that changed last August, after Iran resumed converting uranium yellowcake into a gas that can be further purified for use in nuclear reactors as well as weapons. It was the first breach of its voluntary agreement with the Europeans and essentially broke off negotiations.
 That was followed by the reopening last month of part of its nuclear enrichment plant at Natanz for what Iran called ''research purposes.'' Even though Iran has yet to operate any of the machinery or process any uranium material there, its reopening was the second and much more serious violation of the agreement with the Europeans.
 The resolution at the I.A.E.A. came at the end of a three-day emergency session of the agency board that was prompted by Iran's refusal to heed calls to close down the uranium enrichment facility again.
 It calls for the immediate suspension of all activities related to the enrichment of uranium. It also recalls Iran's ''many failures and breaches of its obligations'' under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and ''the absence of confidence that Iran's nuclear program is exclusively for peaceful purposes resulting from the history of concealment of Iran's nuclear activities.''
 Iran insists that its nuclear program is solely for peaceful purposes like generating electricity. But it kept its program hidden for 18 years from the I.A.E.A., fueling suspicions that it may have secret plans to become a nuclear weapons power.
 The resolution was passed after the United States reversed itself and agreed late Friday to include a clause expressing support for a nuclear-free Middle East that indirectly criticized Israel's secret nuclear weapons status.
 Even the United States' closest European allies favored the clause, which had been demanded by Egypt and also had the support of Russia and China. Isolated, the United States backed down.
 The final resolution included a clause stating that ''a solution to the Iranian issue would contribute to global nonproliferation efforts and to realizing the objective of a Middle East free of weapons of mass destruction, including their means of delivery.''
 The vote on Saturday was particularly important because it had the backing of Russia and China, which had abstained in the last resolution on Iran last September.
 Both Russia and China made clear in separate statements that although they supported the resolution, they did not agree with the two American arguments for reporting Iran to the world body: that Iran had to be reported both because of ''noncompliance'' with its treaty obligations and in the interest of peace and security.
 Grigory Berdennikov, the Russian ambassador to the atomic agency, said in a statement, ''This problem will be solved within the framework of the I.A.E.A. without additional interference.'' 
 In a veiled message to the United States, the Europeans and Iran, Wu Hailongon, the Chinese ambassador to the I.A.E.A., called on ''all relevant parties to exercise restraint and patience'' and ''refrain from taking any action that might further complicate or deteriorate the situation.''
 Among others backing the resolution was India, which had been pressured by the United States to vote yes if it expected to finalize a sweeping deal on nuclear energy cooperation with the United States, but will face intense domestic political opposition because of the decision.
 The countries that voted for the resolution were Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Belgium, Britain, Canada, China, Colombia, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, India, Japan, Norway, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Sweden, the United States and Yemen.
 In recent years, the agency's board has reported Iraq, North Korea, Libya and Romania to the Security Council for possible censure because of their nuclear programs. But such action does not necessarily translate into action.
 North Korea, which secretly built nuclear weapons and withdrew from the Nonproliferation Treaty three years ago, has been reported twice. Although the Security Council has denounced North Korea, it has never voted to punish it.


GRAPHIC: Photo: News of the vote by the International Atomic Energy Agency slowly reached Iranians yesterday, including a man in his real estate office in Isfahan. (Photo by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times)(pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (73%); INSPECTIONS (73%); TERRORISM (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Atomic Weapons; Terrorism; Uranium; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%) United Nations; International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (73%) Elaine Sciolino

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ESFAHAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (93%); SYRIA (90%); FRANCE (90%); BELARUS (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%) Iran; Great Britain; France; Germany; China; Russia; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



145 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; IRAN'S NUCLEAR CHALLENGE: THE WEST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Germany's Chancellor Emphasizes Urgent Need for Action to Quash Nuclear Program in Iran

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: MUNICH, Feb. 4 

 BODY:
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said Saturday that the world must act now to stop Iran from developing a nuclear bomb, evoking her nation's own history as a cautionary tale of what can happen when threats to peace remain unchecked. 
 ''We want, we must prevent Iran from developing its nuclear program further,'' Mrs. Merkel told an audience of top security officials and policy makers during a speech to the annual Munich Conference on Security Policy. 
Mrs. Merkel, whose speech came on the same day that the International Atomic Energy Agency voted to report Iran's case to the United Nations Security Council, said Germany's own experiences during the 1930's should be a warning over how to deal with Iran.
 ''Now we see that there were times when we could have acted differently,'' she said. ''For that reason Germany is obliged to make clear what is permissible and what isn't.'' 
 The annual Munich conference was first established in the height of the cold war, when Germany was divided and more than 350,000 American troops were stationed in Western Europe to protect it against communist Warsaw Pact forces.
 At the conference, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld urged the world to work for a ''diplomatic solution'' to halt the nuclear program of Iran, saying that the United States stands ''with the Iranian people, who want a peaceful, democratic future.'' 
 ''The Iranian regime is today the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism,'' he added. ''The world does not want, and must work together to prevent, a nuclear Iran.'' 
 Mrs. Merkel, discarding any diplomatic niceties and raising her voice in a tone of frustration, said Iran had ''blatantly crossed the red line'' -- and not only with regard to respecting its international obligations as a signatory of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
 She said it was also ''unacceptable'' for President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran to deny the Holocaust and say that Israel should be ''wiped off the map.'' 
 ''A president that questions Israel's right to exist, a president that denies the Holocaust, cannot expect to receive any tolerance from Germany,'' Mrs. Merkel said to applause. ''We have learned our history.''
 Germany is one of the three European Union countries that has negotiated with Iran over the past two and a half years to try to persuade it to stop its uranium enrichment program, which can ultimately be used to produce either electricity or nuclear weapons. Iran has always insisted the enrichment program is for peaceful purposes only.
 Mrs. Merkel, 51, said Iran was a threat to both Europe and Israel. But she insisted that diplomacy rather than military action was the way to deal with the threat. 
 ''Diplomatic avenues need to be exhausted,'' she said. ''We need to keep our nerves, go step by step.'' 
 Abbas Araghchi, deputy foreign minister of Iran, challenged Mrs. Merkel, saying Iran had not crossed any lines. 
 If Iran was referred to the United Nations Security Council, he said, it is obliged by its own laws to stop all cooperation with the atomic energy agency, a position Iran reiterated after the agency's vote. 
 Mrs. Merkel said Iran should ''change the law.''
 She then urged China, Russia and others to join the United States, Germany and European nations to pressure Iran to return to the negotiating table. ''The broader this is, the more significant it will be for Iran,'' she said.
 Mr. Rumsfeld, who spoke after Mrs. Merkel, gave a short speech painting a grim picture about the campaign against terrorism, warning that it would it would be a long, though winnable, one. ''Our situation today resembles that of free nations in the early days of the cold war,'' he said.
 Mr. Rumsfeld did not comment on the decision to refer Iran to the Security Council.
 Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said at the conference that he was ''very pleased'' that Iran would be referred to the Security Council. ''With a nuclear deterrent, Iran would feel unconstrained to threaten anyone,'' he told the participants. ''It would induce Turkey, Israel, Saudi Arabia and others to reassess their defense postures.'' 
 ''Every option must remain on the table,'' he added. ''There is only one thing worse than military action. That is a nuclear armed Iran. The regime must understand it can't win a showdown with the world.'' 
 Mr. McCain called for a travel ban and an asset freeze for some Iranian officials and nuclear scientists, saying, ''it is in the interests of Russia and China to support these moves, regardless of their economic interests.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GENOCIDE (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); HOLOCAUST (85%); TERRORISM (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); ARMED FORCES (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%) Terrorism; United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Nazi Policies Toward Jews and Minorities

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%) European Union

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (91%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (78%) Judy Dempsey; Angela (Chancellor) Merkel; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%) Iran; Germany ; Israel; Europe; Iran; China; Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



146 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Sweden and U.S. Agree About the Oil Dependency Problem, but for Different Reasons

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM, Feb. 4 

 BODY:
After he heard President Bush tell Americans they were ''addicted to oil,'' Prime Minister Goran Persson of Sweden said he was relieved that ''at last there's one more who understands the problem.'' 
 Indeed, in a conversation, he seemed to suggest that Sweden's example might offer what could be termed an American detox. 
 As the leader of a country that has thrust itself to the fore of environmental protection, and that has promised to greatly reduce its remaining dependence on oil by 2020, Mr. Persson has sought to persuade Sweden's motorists to use less gasoline, fill their tanks with ethanol and promote ways of heating homes without polluting the atmosphere.
 Like Mr. Bush, Mr. Persson is worried about his country's dependence on vulnerable foreign oil supplies. He is troubled that reliance on oil is itself perilous because of the economic impact of ever-higher petroleum prices.
 ''So something of what we are doing could also be solutions for the United States,'' Mr. Persson said Friday in an interview as he paced his high-ceilinged office, which has broad picture windows that scan the spires of Stockholm's old city. 
 But there are differences, Mr. Persson acknowledged, and this land of nine million people with its vast empty spaces reaching far to the Arctic north is scarcely a perfect exemplar for America. Unlike the United States, it has been blessed with two major sources of energy owing to its geography and recent history: rivers and nuclear power stations, each of which produces nearly half of Sweden's electric power without greenhouse gases.
 And, Mr. Persson said, his vision of using the country's farms to produce the raw materials for alternative fuels from wheat, trees and other agricultural products is dependent on a resource that parts of the United States cannot always rely on.
 ''In the end it's about water,'' he said. With its abundant rains, Sweden ''is one of those countries that produces a crop that doesn't need an artificial supply of water,'' unlike big energy consumers like the United States, India and China.
 For all that, though, this country offers itself as a model of energy use.
 Last October, for instance, Mona Sahlin, the minister for sustainable development, raised eyebrows with the ambitious forecast that ''Sweden has the chance to be an international model and a successful actor in export markets for alternative solutions.''
 ''The aim is to break dependence on fossil fuels by 2020,'' she said. ''By then, no home will need oil for heating. By then, no motorist will be obliged to use gasoline as the sole option available. By then, there will always be better alternatives to oil.''
 Mr. Persson, admitting the date his minister cited was more a goal than a deadline, said: ''It is a bold target -- five years ahead of the U.S. If we end up being independent of oil in 2023, no one will accuse us of anything.''
 Unlike Mr. Bush, Mr. Persson, along with many Europeans, is propelled by fears that climate change will wreak havoc unless nations and industries cut emissions of greenhouse gases. And, equally, he says he is convinced that renewable energy will make good business sense for those who take the lead in developing it.
 ''I have an emphasis on climate change; he doesn't,'' Mr. Persson said, comparing his policies with those of Mr. Bush. ''I have an emphasis on business opportunities; he doesn't. But otherwise, it's the same argument.''
 Across Europe, many nations are seeking to reduce their production of greenhouse gases: Denmark now derives nearly 20 percent of its power from windmills. Britain and Germany are reconsidering plans to phase out nuclear power. In Finland, where Europe's first new reactor in 15 years is already under construction, nuclear power seems to be back in favor, as it always has been in France, which relies on nuclear generators for most of its electricity.
 But Sweden has adopted a more conscious drive to sponsor alternate fuels for homes and cars. In many neighborhoods, for instance, a central furnace using biological fuels provides hot water for all the homes in the area. Tens of thousands of homeowners have replaced oil-fired central heating with boilers using wood-based pellets, significantly reducing Sweden's dependence on oil for home heating.
 Heating oil sales have fallen by 85 percent in recent years, according to the Swedish Petroleum Institute.
 Saab and Volvo, Swedish automakers that are owned by General Motors and Ford, respectively, have introduced models using renewable fuels.
 Around 450 of Sweden's 4,000 gas stations offer fuels made from renewable energy sources like ethanol and the number is expected to rise to 2,400 by 2010. In 2005, Sweden produced about 23 percent of its ethanol, using wheat as the raw material, and most of the rest was imported from Brazil, said Ulf Svahn, managing director of the Swedish Petroleum Institute.
 Of the 4.2 million cars already on Sweden's roads, he said, fewer than 100,000 have been converted to use alternate fuels. Yet the incentives to trade in that old gasoline-powered Saab or Volvo for a new bio-car are considerable.
 Tax breaks mean ethanol-based fuel costs about one-third less at the pump than ordinary gasoline, even though ethanol costs about 40 percent more to produce, Mr. Svahn said. Moreover, motorists driving cars powered by renewable energy sources are exempt from certain tolls and from public parking fees.
 Oil companies have already agreed to mix 5 percent ethanol into their gasoline, he said, to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, and want to double that. But, he said, the consequences of the move toward renewable fuel sources were still unclear. ''We are in a learning curve here,'' he said.
 Mr. Persson's political foes made a similar point. ''The Swedish government is very fond of setting targets,'' said Lars Lindblad, the environment spokesman of the opposition Moderate Party. ''But it has problems with delivery.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); FUEL MARKETS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); ALCOHOLS (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (69%); AIR POLLUTION (69%); ETHANOL (69%); AGRICULTURE (68%); POWER PLANTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Weather; Global Warming; Electric Light and Power; Atomic Energy; Hydroelectric Power; International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Alan Cowell; Goran (Prime Min) Persson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); SWEDEN (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ARCTIC (73%) Sweden

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



147 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: In Bush's Budget Plan, Shifting Priorities

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 4 

 BODY:
President Bush wants to spend more on bird flu and the physical sciences next year, but would freeze the budget of the National Institutes of Health and would slightly cut federal support for research on cancer and heart disease, two of the leading killers of Americans, budget documents show.
 The president's budget, to be unveiled on Monday, shows the hard choices facing Congress and the nation as the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan continue and Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security take up a growing share of the federal dollar. 
Mr. Bush is requesting a second installment of money to protect the nation against the threat of pandemic influenza: $2.65 billion in 2007, on top of the $3.3 billion that Congress provided for this year. 
 Budget documents from the Department of Health and Human Services say Mr. Bush would use the new money to buy flu vaccine for every person in the United States and to provide antiviral drugs to one-fourth of the population in an emergency. Health officials see the disease, first reported in Asia, as a serious threat. The World Health Organization says that 161 people have been infected and that 86 of them have died.
 Mr. Bush's budget follows up a commitment in his State of the Union address to double spending on basic research in the physical sciences over 10 years as a way to ''keep America competitive.''
 The president will request $6 billion for the National Science Foundation in 2007, an increase of 7.8 percent over this year's level, and is seeking $4.1 billion for the science office at the Energy Department, an increase of 14 percent, according to budget documents.
 The science foundation, an engine of high-tech innovation, supports the work of many mathematicians, physicists, chemists, engineers, computer scientists and biologists. 
 Patrick White, director of federal relations for the Association of American Universities, which represents 60 large research universities, said, ''We are very pleased to see what the Bush administration is doing for the physical sciences.''
 Congress doubled the budget of the National Institutes of Health over five years, from 1998 to 2003, and Mr. Bush often takes credit for completing that increase. But Mr. White said the administration ''now seems to be neglecting the N.I.H.''
 Under the president's budget for 2007, the institutes would get $28.6 billion, the same as this year. Mr. Bush proposes small cuts for 18 of the 19 institutes -- all but the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, which is leading research on bird flu and biological terrorism. 
 In his 2007 budget, Mr. Bush is seeking $4.75 billion for the National Cancer Institute, which is $40 million less than its current budget and $71 million less than it got in 2005. He is requesting $2.9 billion for the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, which is $21 million less than the current budget and $40 million less than in 2005.
 The budget says, ''Chronic diseases such as heart disease, cancer and diabetes are the leading causes of death and disability in the United States, accounting for 70 percent of all deaths.'' 
 But the president's budget would cut spending for programs that seek to prevent chronic disease and promote healthy behaviors. Congress provided $900 million for those programs in 2005. Mr. Bush requested $840 million for 2006; Congress provided $839 million. Mr. Bush is now requesting $819 million for 2007.
 Kim A. Elliott, deputy director of the Trust for America's Health, a nonprofit advocacy group, praised the president's commitment to bird flu preparations. ''The president and his political appointees listened to the professional judgment of scientists and medical and public health experts,'' Ms. Elliott said. 
 But in response to a question about the budget, she said, ''We are not spending enough on efforts to prevent chronic diseases and to find cures.''
 Mr. Bush is requesting $8.2 billion for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in 2007, which is $179 million below this year's level. 
 Under the president's budget, the centers would spend $824 million to help state and local health departments prepare for a terrorist attack or an outbreak of infectious disease. That is the same amount provided this year and 10 percent less than in 2005.
 Over all, the president's budget for 2007 is expected to total $2.7 trillion. In his first term, federal spending rose 33 percent -- in part because of the Iraq war and domestic security costs -- while federal revenues grew 8 percent. Revenues declined from 2000 to 2003, but surged last year, as the government collected more individual and corporate income taxes and payroll taxes in a growing economy.
 Administration officials, Congressional aides and lobbyists offered this preview of likely budget proposals at other agencies:
 Mr. Bush is expected to request $16.8 billion for the space agency, an increase of 1 percent. Cost overruns on the shuttle have squeezed the money available for other space programs.
 In place of various federal job programs, Mr. Bush will ask Congress to establish ''career advancement accounts.'' The White House said that 800,000 people a year -- workers and people looking for work -- could use these accounts to pay for training or tuition costs if they went back to school to gain new skills.
 For the fourth year in a row, Mr. Bush will ask Congress to require some veterans to pay more for medical care. Middle-income veterans with no service-connected disability would face higher co-payments for prescription drugs and a new fee for the privilege of using government health care.
 ''These people are already paying substantial annual deductibles and fees and co-payments for medical services and prescription drugs,'' said Richard B. Fuller, legislative director of the Paralyzed Veterans of America. ''The new charges would force some veterans out of the V.A. system because they can't pay or choose not to pay the new costs.''
 At the Department of Health and Human Services, officials have sought savings in many popular programs. Budget documents show that the administration wants to cut spending for the Office of Minority Health and the training of health care professionals.
 Moreover, the documents say, Mr. Bush will propose eliminating programs to treat people with traumatic brain injuries and to improve emergency medical services for children. 
 The administration said it had found no evidence that these programs improved ''the health or well-being'' of the intended beneficiaries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); INFLUENZA (92%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (90%); ONCOLOGY (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); CANCER (90%); MEDICARE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEART DISEASE (77%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); BIOLOGY (73%); MEDICAID (73%); POULTRY (73%); VACCINES (72%); PHYSICS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); TERRORISM (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (60%) Research; Influenza; Poultry; Birds; Cancer; Heart; Research; Medicine and Health; Medicare; Medicaid; Health Insurance and Managed Care; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Avian Influenza

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); ASIA (79%) United States; Iraq; United States; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



148 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Begins at Home

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Nicholas D. Kristof's column about Gov. Mike Huckabee's wellness program for Arkansas (''Mike Huckabee Lost 110 Pounds. Ask Him How,'' Jan. 29) should serve as a basic policy model to demonstrate a common-sense approach by government to raise awareness and send a message that good health is more than good government fiscal policy: if anything, it is a long-range program to get individuals, industry and public institutions involved in promoting the benefits of prevention, leading the way to a more productive society. 
 Shouldn't we somehow find a way to reward those who improve their lifestyle and thus their health? This might motivate those who are a costly liability to everyone else because of their unhealthy lifestyles.

Milton Chaikin
Delray Beach, Fla., Jan. 29, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Caroline Hwang)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%) Weight

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (91%) Milton Chaikin; Nicholas D Kristof; Mike (Gov) Huckabee

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Arkansas

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006



149 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA TALK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: More Broadband for Bravo

BYLINE: By LIA MILLER

 BODY:
Having already moved some of its struggling cable programming to the Web, Bravo has decided to forgo conventional television altogether for its next project.
 The Bravo network is expected to announced today that it is joining with PlanetOut Inc., the largest gay media company in the country, to start a new broadband channel on the Web aimed specifically at gays and lesbians. 
The site, called OutZonetv.com, will include streaming video content in the form of shows of up to half an hour. Bravo will produce some original reality-type programming for the site and rekindle some of its popular gay-themed shows, such as the documentary series ''Gay Weddings.'' 
 Late last year, Bravo, which is owned by the NBC Universal division of General Electric, made waves when it announced that Trio, an arts channel on digital cable, would cease broadcasting Jan. 1 and move exclusively to triotv.com. Bravo also created a second offshoot channel, brilliantbutcancelled.com, dedicated to shows that were canceled after getting positive reviews. 
 Lauren Zalaznick, president of Bravo, said that trying out alternative channels on the Web was a low-cost alternative to cable. She likened the newness of the format to the Wild West.
 ''The evolution of great shows is going to happen, I hope more, against this backdrop of a shifting business model,'' she said. 
 Josh Bernoff, a media analyst at Forrester Research, called the PlanetOut alliance a low-risk venture that would allow Bravo to sell niche advertising in a way that could not be done on television. ''The group that they are targeting index higher on gadgets and electronics,'' he said. ''If I were Sony or H.-P. or Apple, I'd be real interested in reaching these people. This ought to be a fairly attractive advertising environment.'' 
 The broadband channels also have a wider potential audience. Mr. Bernoff said that in the United States, there were 38 million broadband subscribers (plus many people who used it at work), but fewer than 30 million digital cable subscribers and only about 25 million satellite subscribers.
 Still, Ms. Zalaznick said Bravo would not sever its old-medium ties completely. ''We weren't willing to give up the letters TV,'' she said. ''That was a conscious branded decision, that we do TV.'' LIA MILLER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE TELEVISION (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); BROADBAND (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); STREAMING MEDIA (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (78%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (72%) Computers and the Internet; Homosexuality; Television

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (90%); HERE MEDIA INC (85%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Bravo (Cable Channel); Planetout; OutZonetv.com

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: Lia Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006



150 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Trade Ruling Is Expected To Favor Biotech Food

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
The battle over agricultural biotechnology could reach a tipping point this week, when the World Trade Organization is expected to render its verdict on charges by the United States that Europe is illegally restricting imports of genetically modified crops. 
 Even if the United States wins -- that is the prevailing rumor -- genetically modified foods would not flood Europe because citizens there remain wary of them. But the American government and the biotechnology industry hope a ruling in their favor would sound a warning to other nations not to follow Europe's lead in restricting farm biotechnology.
''It's pretty clear the U.S. had to draw the line so it didn't get worse around the world,'' said Craig Thorn, an agricultural trade consultant in Washington whose clients have included the biotechnology industry. 
 An American victory could help developers of genetically modified crops, including Monsanto, DuPont and Dow Chemical, as well as the European companies Syngenta and Bayer. American farmers growing genetically modified crops might also benefit from increased exports. Trade officials in Washington say they expect a preliminary decision from the three-person panel tomorrow. But the decision has been put off numerous times since the complaint was first filed in 2003, so another delay is possible. 
 In its complaint, the United States, joined by Canada and Argentina, said that European officials placed a moratorium on approving new biotech varieties in 1998. That violated a global treaty on standards for food, which requires governments to act without ''undue delay'' and to base decisions on scientific risk assessments, not political expediency. 
 Europe counters that there was no moratorium. Decisions just took time, it said, because it needed data from the biotech companies and because it was revising its regulations. 
 Europe said the crops posed legitimate risks to health and the environment that had to be weighed with ''a prudent and precautionary approach.'' 
 Since biotech crops were first planted widely 10 years ago, their use has increased steadily. Last year, 8.5 million farmers in 21 countries grew the crops on 222 million acres, although the United States accounted for more than half the total acreage, according to the International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-Biotech Applications. The crops are mainly soybeans, corn or cotton containing bacterial genes that provide resistance to either herbicides or insects. 
 But consumer opposition and restrictions by various governments have clearly slowed the adoption of the technology and its application to other crops like wheat, rice and potatoes. In the United States, where most soy and half the corn crop is genetically engineered, most processed food, from corn flakes to salad dressing, has an ingredient in it from a biotech crop. But in Europe, genetically engineered foods are hardly found. 
 The direct economic impact of the halt in approvals has been fairly small. American farm interests say that about $300 million a year in corn exports to Europe have dried up since 1998. In contrast, W.T.O. cases involving American steel tariffs and tax subsidies to exporters, both of which the United States lost, involved billions of dollars a year. 
 Even before approvals stopped, Europe accounted for only 4 percent of American corn exports. Soybeans are still exported to Europe because the only genetically engineered bean was approved before 1998. 
 Even if Europe loses, it will argue that the findings are moot because it resumed approving biotech crops in 2004. 
 American officials say those recent approvals are a grudging response to the trade complaint and that decisions are still not coming fast enough. Even if approvals do accelerate, specialists do not expect large exports to Europe of either genetically modified corn or food containing biotech ingredients. 
 Europe approved new rules in 2003 that require foods with genetically modified ingredients to be labeled and the ingredients to be traceable to the farm on which they were grown. Food companies in Europe and America, worried that such a label will turn away consumers, avoid biotech ingredients. 
 ''The traceability and labeling scheme puts a black mark on any biotech product,'' said Stephanie Childs, spokeswoman for the Grocery Manufacturers of America, which represents big food companies like Kraft and Kellogg. The grocery manufacturers and other American industry groups are urging the government to file a new W.T.O. complaint against the labeling and traceability rules. United States officials say that is under consideration. 
 Opponents of biotech food say that a ruling in favor of the United States need not dissuade other countries from regulating genetically modified crops, because the American complaint was not against Europe's regulations per se, but rather about delays in applying the regulations. 
 Still, Jean Halloran, director of food policy initiatives at the Consumers Union, based in Yonkers, said such a ruling would set a bad precedent. ''Safety and health regulations should not be second-guessed by trade officials,'' she said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the World Trade Organization decision on genetically modified crops included an outdated reference to an industry group that opposes Europe's requirements for labeling products that contain ingredients derived from such crops. It is the Grocery Manufacturers Association, not the Grocery Manufacturers of America.
An article in Business Day yesterday about the World Trade Organization decision on genetically modified crops included an outdated reference to an industry group that opposes Europe's requirements for labeling products that contain ingredients derived from such crops. It is the Grocery Manufacturers Association, not the Grocery Manufacturers of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (93%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (92%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (92%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); HERBICIDES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); VERDICTS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (77%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Agriculture; Genetics and Heredity

COMPANY: SYNGENTA AG (90%); E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (84%); MONSANTO CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) World Trade Organization; Monsanto Co; Du Pont De Nemours, E I, & Co; Dow Chemical Co

TICKER: SYT (NYSE) (90%); SYNN (SWX) (90%); DUPP (PAR) (84%); DD (NYSE) (84%); MON (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (90%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (84%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (84%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (84%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (56%)

PERSON: Andrew Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006



151 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Free-Trade Backer Favored in Costa Rica

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Costa Rica, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
A Nobel Peace Prize winner who supports a free-trade agreement with the United States was favored in pre-election polls as Costa Ricans chose a new president on Sunday. He faced a rival who said the pact would hurt farmers. 
 Turnout was low nationwide, officials and analysts said, with the indifference stemming from scandals involving three former presidents.
 ''This is a cold election, because people are disillusioned with our politicians,'' said Elena Hidalgo, a 52-year-old lawyer who waited in an upper-middle-class San Jose suburb.
 Oscar Arias, who won the 1987 peace prize for working to end Central American civil wars during an earlier term as president, was expected to win easily.
 The president of the Citizens Action Party, Otton Solis, who lost the presidential election four years ago, was a distant second in the polls.
 The scion of a wealthy coffee farming family, Mr. Arias, 65, has pushed for Costa Rica to join the Central American Free Trade Agreement with the United States, saying it would help revitalize the economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); FAMILY FARMS (88%); COFFEE FARMING (71%); LAWYERS (68%) Elections; Election Issues; Public Opinion; Politics and Government

PERSON: Oscar Arias

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (72%) COSTA RICA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%) Costa Rica

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006



152 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Israel Makes Payment to Palestinians, but Says It Could Be the Last

BYLINE: By GREG MYRE

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
Israel agreed on Sunday to pass on to the Palestinian Authority $54 million in taxes collected on its behalf, but a cabinet minister said the monthly transfer would stop once the Islamic faction Hamas formed the next Palestinian government.
 The Palestinian attorney general, Ahmed al-Meghani, also announced on Sunday that a corruption investigation found that at least $700 million in Palestinian public funds had been stolen in recent years, though the actual total may be much higher.
Both developments were linked to the pressing question of how the Palestinian Authority planned to deal with chronic financial problems that could grow even more severe when Hamas takes over after its election victory last month. 
 There were also three episodes of violence on Sunday. Israel killed a total of five Palestinian militants in two separate airstrikes in the Gaza Strip, while a Palestinian man stabbed to death an Israeli woman on a minibus taxi near Tel Aviv.
 Under existing agreements, Israel collects about $50 million a month in tax and customs revenues on behalf of the Palestinian Authority. 
 Speaking to Israel radio before the cabinet meeting on Sunday at which the transfer payment was approved, Zeev Boim, the Israeli housing minister, said the transfer would take place this time because Hamas had not yet entered the government. But, he said, ''if and when Hamas takes over the leadership and begins ruling according to the jihad principles dictating the elimination of Israel, not even one shekel will be transferred.''
 The Palestinian parliament plans to convene Feb. 16 for talks on the new government, and Hamas leaders say they hope to have it in place before the end of the month. The next Israeli transfer payment is due at the beginning of March.
 ''This is our money -- this is not a favor,'' the Palestinian economy minister, Mazen Sinokrot, was quoted as saying by Reuters. ''I hope that such payments will continue in the future.''
 The Palestinian Authority has more than 130,000 employees, and it did not have the money to issue paychecks to its employees last week.
 The United States and the European Union have also said they may reduce or halt financial aid to a Palestinian Authority led by Hamas, which they regard as a terrorist group.
 Hamas says it will seek new or increased financing from Arab and Muslim countries to cover any reduction from Israel or the West.
 The Palestinians have been receiving about $1 billion in annual overall assistance in recent years. The figure includes money for the Palestinian Authority budget, as well as funds channeled through the United Nations agency for Palestinian refugees and private, nongovernmental groups.
 In discussing the Palestinian corruption investigation on Sunday, Mr. Meghani said at a news conference in Gaza City that the corruption was so widespread that he was not able to put a firm number on how much had been lost. ''It might be billions of dollars,'' he said. 
 Mr. Meghani said the Palestinian leader, Mahmoud Abbas, had given his full backing to the investigation even though much of the inquiry had focused on people linked to his Fatah movement. 
 In violence on Sunday, a Palestinian man boarded an Israeli minibus and immediately began stabbing the passengers, killing a woman in her 50's and wounding four more people before he was subdued and arrested in the town of Petah Tikva, outside Tel Aviv, the police said.
 In Gaza City, Israeli aircraft fired missiles on Sunday night that struck two cars traveling a short distance apart, killing two members of Islamic Jihad who were involved in making and firing rockets from Gaza, Palestinian security officials said.
 Also, a predawn Israeli airstrike killed three members of Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades and wounded five more group members. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); TERRORISM (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); RELIGION (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICS (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); REFUGEES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%) Palestinians; Finances; Politics and Government ; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%) Palestinian Authority; Hamas

PERSON: Greg Myre; Ahmed (Atty Gen) al-Meghani

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%) Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006



153 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Now for Sale Online, The Art of the Vacation

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
DONALD J. TRUMP, bargain hunter?
 That's the idea behind the latest venture from the real estate mogul, reality series star and failed airline executive, who recently re-entered the travel industry with GoTrump.com, an agency that promises bargains on airfares and hotels, and includes vacation tips from (of course) the Donald himself.
Aside from providing a high-profile experiment on the possible limits of celebrities in e-commerce, the site points to the state of the online travel agency industry, which despite its best efforts remains the place where people click around endlessly to save $10 on a $300 ticket. 
 GoTrump offers, among other things, ''affordable luxury'' vacation deals, like a nine-day South African trip for $2,000 per person, that are listed as being exclusive to the site. 
 ''It doesn't matter how rich you are,'' said Mr. Trump as he sat in his Fifth Avenue office, accompanied by five highly attentive staff members and public relations representatives. ''You don't want to be a fool and you want to get the best deal. But people who aren't rich want to associate with rich, and that's why this thing has become so crazy.''
 Mr. Trump contends that the site has already attracted many customers -- a claim that independent research firms were unable to support, given how new the site is and the fact that its traffic is not yet heavy enough to measure on the scale of its competitors.
 Not all of the offerings on the site are priced at rock bottom. GoTrump offers ''Trump Picks'' for hotels he personally recommends, like the Fairmont San Francisco, the Mirage Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas and, naturally, the Trump International Hotel and Tower in New York.
 Mr. Trump said he would offer the site's users exclusive access to deals at his hotels, although no such offerings were yet available. He also predicted that private jet operators would offer ''huge discounts'' on his site so they could avoid returning empty to their originating airports.
 Too much future tense, analysts argue. 
 ''Right now, it's a bunch of promises,'' said Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel industry analyst with Forrester Research and the former marketing director for the ill-fated Trump Shuttle, an airline Mr. Trump owned between 1989 and 1992. ''There's a lot between the conception of an idea and the long-term execution of this,'' Mr. Harteveldt said. ''But that said, I don't think he's expecting much. This won't generate more than a few million in revenue every year.''
 One thing GoTrump has going for it, Mr. Harteveldt said, is good technology. But for that, the site can thank another online travel company, the Sabre Group site Travelocity.com. Like other major online travel agencies, Travelocity licenses its search and booking technology to thousands of smaller sites, who receive a undisclosed commission for each booking they make on Travelocity's behalf.
 Sites like GoTrump.com customize the look of the site and add other flourishes to distinguish themselves and generate more revenue, while avoiding the cost and inconvenience of a huge customer service operation, which Travelocity mostly handles. (The telephone agents identify themselves as GoTrump.com representatives.)
 But Mr. Trump dismissed the idea that the site was just another vanity plate meant to pump up the Trump brand. ''I didn't do it for that,'' he said. ''It's going to be a very successful company.''
 Among other things, Mr. Trump argues that the combination of his technology (mainly the presentation of the site) and that of Travelocity moves it ahead of competitors. ''When Priceline came out, the technology wasn't what it is now, and I don't think they've kept up,'' he said. ''We will keep ahead of it.''
 In this low-stakes poker match, Priceline's chief executive, Jeffery H. Boyd, saw Mr. Trump, and raised. ''Our products have changed and grown more than any other business in this space over the last couple of years,'' he said. ''Just 30 days ago we launched a completely new look and navigation.''
 Meanwhile, Mr. Boyd said, GoTrump.com ''offers functionality from companies that have been in business for a long time, so I haven't seen anything there I'd identify as new technology.''
 Nor does Travelocity see GoTrump as much of a competitor, said Dan Toporek, a Sabre Group spokesman. Rather, he said, GoTrump could bring Travelocity thousands of customers who might otherwise stray to competitors.
 Ever the multitasker, Mr. Trump said he would use his other media assets and activities to promote the GoTrump brand. The fifth season of ''The Apprentice'' is nearly complete, he said, but he expects to weave GoTrump.com into season No. 6. Likewise, Mr. Trump has already promoted the Web site on his daily radio program, a series of minute-long monologues heard on about 400 Clear Channel stations.
 ''I really believe in traditional advertising, and we'll start doing that, but right now, it's almost like there's not that much need for it,'' Mr. Trump said.
 GoTrump.com represents something rare for the Web these days: novelty. Other celebrities have promoted Web services, but until now, no stars have put their names on commercial Web sites of this scale, selling items they recommend, said Heidi Messer, president of LinkShare, a New York-based company that helps Web site publishers market goods. This so-called affiliate-selling approach is popular among lesser-known experts in categories like cooking, who will suggest cookbooks to buy on Amazon or other sites and receive commissions of between 5 percent and 15 percent on the ensuing sale. But Ms. Messer said: ''It's shocking to me that there aren't more celebrities doing this.''
 Ms. Messer says that celebrities frequently have many loyal followers who visit their Web sites, and who are happy enough to buy products that the stars endorse on television commercials, magazine ads or billboards. 
 ''On the Web, you can say 'These are the products I like and I'll get a commission on the sale if you buy them,' '' Ms. Messer said. ''If you've got the brand and are driving people to your site, why not monetize that?''
 Part of the reason celebrities have not tried this yet is that ''people haven't thought there's money in it,'' Ms. Messer said. ''But these people have access to offline media and can drive lots of people online. It's precisely what puts AOL in such a terrific position.''
 Mr. Trump seems to follow the calculus. ''When you get millions of people using your service, and you get X dollars per person,'' he said, ''it adds up to be a lot of money.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald Trump at the inaugural party for GoTrump.com, a travel Web site, in New York last month. It will compete against Priceline.com. (Photo by Bennett Raglin/WireImage.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); AIR FARES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%) Travel and Vacations; Airlines and Airplanes; Hotels and Motels; Computers and the Internet; Travel Agencies and Agents

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: GoTrump.com 

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (90%) Donald J Trump; Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006



154 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Next Steps on Energy

 BODY:
The early reaction to President Bush's promise to wean the United States from foreign oil was, in some cases, oddly off-key. The Saudi ambassador, for instance, seemed to wonder whether Mr. Bush had some sort of personal grudge against Mideast oil. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, found it odd that someone would subsidize fuels other than oil. Yet there are some people in Congress who are prepared to take the president at his word, while giving his undernourished proposals the budgetary and regulatory heft they sorely need. 
 The real question is not whether Mr. Bush's proposals are going to make life difficult for some people but whether they are tough and adventurous enough. The answer is plainly no. All the president has done is to give prominence to ideas about alternative fuels and new technologies that were mere afterthoughts in the 2001 Cheney energy report. This is progress of a sort; at least we are no longer talking about drilling our way out of dependency.
 Yet his actual budget proposals were pitiful. The $150 million the White House said it would commit to making biofuels more competitive, for instance, turns out to be $50 million less than the amount authorized by last year's energy bill. And while the president talks about a new generation of vehicles, he offers virtually nothing meaningful to help Detroit get there.
 These little gaps have been widely noted. But the biggest shortcoming is the total absence of a program that would deliver any of these dandy new technologies to the marketplace. By program we mean a uniform set of incentives -- what the economists call market signals -- that would drive American industry to build the more fuel-efficient vehicles and the cleaner power plants that we need.
 For vehicles, there are two ways to get there. One, favored by most research groups specializing in energy, is to greatly strengthen the fuel-economy standards for cars and trucks. The other, favored by many economists, is to enact a substantial gas tax. We like both. One way or another, through regulatory or market mechanisms, the country would soon be driving cars that were far more fuel-efficient. 
 And how big a difference would this make? Mr. Bush described his dream of replacing 75 percent of Mideast oil as if it were some monster challenge, like the Marshall Plan or a mission to Mars. It's not. An increase in fuel-efficiency standards to 40 miles per gallon in 10 years -- a reasonable expectation, with no new technology -- would save about 2.5 millions barrels a day, which is just about what we import from the Middle East now.
 The same sort of broadly administered medicine is needed to clean up our power plants to combat global warming. Just saying ''technology will do it'' will not, in fact, do anything. The big utilities are simply not going to make the necessary investments unless a nationwide program of emissions targets compels them to do so.
 But Mr. Bush hates stuff like this, which means that it is now up to Congress to put something together. Right now there are several serious-minded proposals on Capitol Hill that would require, in one way or another, substantial reductions in oil consumption and generous production incentives for more-efficient cars and alternative fuels. This is the right direction, whether the administration wants to go there or not. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POWER PLANTS (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BIOMASS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); ALCOHOLS (71%); ETHANOL (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); FUEL TAX (58%); SPACE EXPLORATION (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Editorials; International Trade and World Market; Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency; Ethanol; Diesel Power

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN CORNYN (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MARS (51%) MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006



155 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Wrong Fix for Foreign Aid

 BODY:
Ever since Washington began giving foreign aid, administrations have been coming up with plans to reform it. Now it's Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's turn. She has put a single official, reporting directly to her, in charge of coordinating the State Department's multiple foreign aid programs. Duplicate efforts are a problem, but they are not the main problem, and Ms. Rice's proposed solution could easily end up cutting programs that fight disease, send children to school or provide clean water. 
 Such basic antipoverty work is what most Americans would like our foreign aid to do. We know how to do it, and success is easy to measure. Yet the vast majority of overseas aid goes elsewhere. Economic aid for strategic allies and military aid make up more than half of the foreign aid budget. About 30 countries on the front line of the war on terror receive aid, mainly to buy their governments' support. Development assistance is only 30 percent of the budget, and a lot of that goes into projects undertaken in the name of promoting economic reform, democracy and good government. These are worthy causes -- but not ones that Washington is very good at doing. Nor is it easy to know what works.
 Secretary Rice's reforms are likely to take even more money away from real development. An Agency for International Development director inside the State Department will be under tremendous political pressure to take money away from effective antipoverty programs, which have very small political constituencies, and divert it to the State Department's geopolitical goals, which have little to do with development. 
 The risk is particularly high because Secretary Rice has chosen the wrong man -- Randall Tobias, now the head of President Bush's overseas anti-AIDS initiative -- to be her new foreign-aid coordinator. Mr. Tobias, a former chief executive of a pharmaceutical company, had no development experience before taking the job as AIDS czar. He is a good manager, which is important. But he has also proved himself unable to resist pressure to abandon proven AIDS prevention strategies in favor of the abstinence programs supported by the religious right. Congress should pass a law mandating that a decent percentage of the foreign aid budget go to basic antipoverty efforts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (95%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AIDS POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (50%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%); RELIGION (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Editorials; Foreign Aid ; Third World and Developing Countries; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%) Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Randall L Tobias; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006



156 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Piracy and the Economy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 David Brooks (''The Nation of the Future,'' column, Feb. 2) presents a compelling case for America's future economic prosperity, with one caveat: intellectual property theft. 
An analysis commissioned by NBC Universal indicated that more than half of America's economic growth is fueled by industries wholly or significantly dependent upon intellectual property. These industries have wages 40 percent above the national median and represent our best hope for increasing United States exports and reducing our trade imbalance. Unfortunately, these same industries are being hit hard by global piracy and counterfeiting.
 In some countries, more than 90 percent of the software deployed is pirated. Other industries have similar issues. The cost of such activity is in the hundreds of billions. 
 We urgently need stronger criminal enforcement of intellectual property laws around the world and support, both private and public, for technological solutions to intellectual property theft. Business leaders and governments need to mobilize the resources necessary to protect our most precious economic assets, so that the United States economy does in fact thrive in the future the way Mr. Brooks and every other American hope.

BOB WRIGHT
New York, Feb. 3, 2006

The writer, vice chairman of G.E. and chairman and chief executive of NBC Universal, is a founding member of Business Action to Stop Counterfeiting and Piracy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (91%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (91%); COUNTERFEITING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROPERTY CRIMES (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%) United States Economy; Counterfeit Merchandise; Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Copyrights; Inventions and Patents

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Nbc Universal

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%)

PERSON: Bob Wright; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006



157 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: New Helicopter Service Promises Wall St. to J.F.K., in 9 Minutes

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
As soon as next month, travelers could be boarding helicopters at the foot of Wall Street and flying straight to Kennedy International Airport, zipping past city traffic -- and also past other passengers waiting to clear security at the airport.
 That service, which will cost more than $140 each way, is being arranged by a start-up company and the federal government. The Transportation Security Administration, a division of the Department of Homeland Security, is setting up screening equipment for passengers and luggage at the Downtown Manhattan Heliport, making it the first heliport in the country to be ''federalized,'' said Ann Davis, a spokeswoman for the administration. 
 Within a few months, the security administration plans to install a similar checkpoint at the heliport at the east end of 34th Street, Ms. Davis said. Each heliport will have at least eight screeners and the full complement of scanning and bomb-detection equipment used at airports, all provided by the federal government, she said.
 The checkpoints will allow customers of the U.S. Helicopter Corporation to check themselves and their bags through to their final destination, be it Chicago or Shanghai, said Jerry Murphy, chief executive of the company. In eight or nine minutes, the helicopters will whisk passengers straight to a gate at the airport, where they can walk right onto their planes, he said. Their bags will be loaded directly onto the aircraft.
 The service's appeal will be ''selective,'' said Charles A. Gargano, the vice chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the downtown heliport. He said the customers would be executives ''in the financial community and downtown'' who want to save the time it can take to ride to the airport and go through security.
 U.S. Helicopter plans to begin operating in mid-March with 12 hourly flights from downtown to the American Airlines terminal at J.F.K., Mr. Murphy said. It hopes to reach agreements soon to deliver passengers to other airlines. Its Sikorsky helicopters can carry as many as 12 passengers, and it expects to have three of them initially, Mr. Murphy said, giving it a capacity of fewer than 500 outbound passengers a day.
 By contrast, about 50,000 travelers pass through security screening each day at Kennedy, according to the Port Authority. The security administration plans to spend $560,000 this year to set up and operate the checkpoint at the Wall Street heliport, on Pier 6 in the East River, Ms. Davis said. 
 Creating a checkpoint at the East 34th Street Heliport will cost about the same, she said. Ms. Davis added, ''It was our decision that based on U.S. Helicopter's business model, it would be of benefit to us to provide resources to these two heliports.''
 To supply the screeners at the heliports, the administration will have to reduce staffing at airports because Congress has limited their number nationwide to 45,000 since 2002. Some Congressional Democrats have argued for a lifting of that cap, calling it arbitrary and counterproductive, but it remains in place.
 To stay within the limit, the security administration reassigns positions as it federalizes additional airports. The administration manages security at about 450 airports but, so far, no heliports, Ms. Davis said.
 In July, it decided to reduce the maximum number of screeners at the region's three largest airports, Kennedy, La Guardia and Newark Liberty International, to 3,542 from 3,791, a decrease of 6.5 percent. That drew protests from officials at the Port Authority, which operates the three airports. They argued that more screeners were needed because in recent years passenger traffic at the airports has been rising.
 Though some of the 16 employees the administration expects to place at the Manhattan heliports might otherwise be screening passengers at one of the three airports, Mr. Gargano said he approved of the plan.
 ''Well, why not? It's not costing the Port Authority anything,'' he said. ''Adding another mode of transportation to the airports is a good thing.''
 He said the service could help reinvigorate the economy of Lower Manhattan and was in keeping with the ultimate plan of providing a faster trip from downtown to Kennedy. Mr. Gargano, like his political patron, Gov. George E. Pataki, has been an advocate of a rail link from the Wall Street area to the airport. Having helicopter service, he said, would not obviate the need for the train.
 ''You're talking about different levels of riders,'' he said. ''The number of people moving this way is not going to be great.''
 Still, U.S. Helicopter does have big dreams. The company hopes to have scheduled service between all three public heliports in Manhattan -- the third is at the west end of 30th Street -- and the three big airports within a year. Then, according to documents the company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, it hopes to add service in other cities.
 Doing so would require a lot more capital, agreements with more airlines and federal security checkpoints at several more heliports. Mr. Murphy of U.S. Helicopter said the company had raised $19 million, $6 million of it from investors in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. In New York City, there has been no scheduled helicopter shuttle service to the airports in almost 20 years, aviation officials said. The concept had its heyday in the 1970's and 1980's, when Pan American and New York Airways provided service from heliports, including one atop the Pan Am building, now the MetLife Building.
 The rooftop helipad was closed in 1977 after a spinning rotor broke loose on a New York Airways helicopter and killed five people, including a woman on the street below. Helicopter service to Kennedy from the East Side and downtown heliports continued until Pan Am ran into financial trouble in the mid-1980's.
 Mr. Murphy, who was chief executive of Kiwi Airlines, which is now defunct, said he expected U.S. Helicopter to carry as many as 160,000 passengers in its first year. Initially, the one-way fare will be $139, plus taxes and fees, but it will rise to $159 within weeks, he said. He said the company planned to start selling tickets this week at its Web site, www.flyush.com. 
 ''We believe that the majority of our customers will be the people that fly airplanes on a very high-frequency basis,'' Mr. Murphy said. Most of those people already travel to the airports by livery cars that charge $85 or more but can take 45 minutes, compared with 8 or 9 minutes in a helicopter, he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A helicopter lifting off from the Downtown Manhattan Heliport, where a new service plans to enable travelers to fly to their planes without passing through airport security. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (94%); AIRPORTS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (86%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (77%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); STARTUPS (56%) Airlines and Airplanes; Helicopters ; Kennedy International Airport (NYC); Security and Warning Systems; Luggage

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006



158 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; FASHION DIARY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: The Next Great Look Is Written in the Stars

BYLINE: By Guy Trebay

 BODY:
You know the prospects for the coming fashion season are dicey when the body-mind-spirit people seem to be calling the shots. Reliance on psychics, soothsayers, palmists and astrologers is nothing new in fashion, of course, a business with a tradition of giving wide latitude to what constitutes sound business practice. 
 Designers from Dior on have used the occult to tap into inspiration, to market consciousness and the past. Dior maintained a virtual psychic hot line to his adored late mother. At one point in Yves Saint Laurent's career he was an astrology paralytic, unable to move without consulting his stellar adviser. 
Even by Day 1 of the twice yearly sideshow in Bryant Park a certain overall tentativeness had begun to assert itself, a kind of style wobble suggesting that no one was quite sure which way the season might go. With the exception of Francisco Costa's showing at Calvin Klein last season, a critical if not yet a proven commercial success, New York has been left aching for a breakout. 
 The wunderkinder of recent note continue to bat their eyelashes and ply their considerable charms. But as Jack McCullough of Proenza Schouler pointed out to me last fall in Paris, Vogue pages don't automatically equate with black ink in the ledger, and the commercial future of the talented pair of designers behind that label is hardly secure. 
 This may help explain the sudden rush to consult fortunetellers, people like the psychic Justine Kenzer, who has taken her prognostications to The Daily, a fashion-focused giveaway distributed in the tents. As Ms. Kenzer sees it, Donna Karan is in for the career moment she's been waiting for all of her lives, plural intentional. 
 Ms. Kenzer (www.psychicgirl.com) also divines inspiration arriving for Michael Kors from faraway places (perhaps from Phuket, where he traditionally spends Christmas on the beach) and a banner show season for Diane von Furstenberg, who will need one to erase the memory of last year's debacle at her Greenwich Village studio, where a light bank tipped over and conked a bunch of fashion people on the head. 
 The designer Vivienne Tam was tapped by The Daily to deliver a Daily Zodiaction, her pronouncement on the portents to watch for in the Chinese Year of the Dog. (Trouble ahead for people born in the Year of the Dragon, Ms. Tam says. Good news coming for Year of the Monkey people, who -- what do you know? -- compose her entire design team.)
 Similarly, a woman with the vaudevillian moniker of the Astounding Velma was recruited by The Daily to attest to a powerful career-line grooving Amy Sacco's palm (one can hardly call that interpretation a challenge); a sketchy grid of love lines in the palm of the model and heiress Lydia Hearst-Shaw; and a plump Mount of Venus on the designer Alice Temperley, which should keep her busy in the boudoir for quite a long time. Velma foresees a life span for Ms. Temperley of 100 years. 
 ''People are hungry right now for meaning, for symbols and archetypes,'' explained Stella Starsky, an author of ''Sextrology'' (HarperCollins, 2004) a loopy tome of stargazing, Jungian theory, grab-bag postmodern interpretations of classical mythology and the kind of arcane cross-diagrams one can achieve easily now that a birth date plugged into a computer program instantly reveals what house Uranus was in at the moment of one's nativity. 
 Ms. Starsky (Libra) met Quinn Cox (Capricorn), the book's other author, during a Boston University junior year abroad program in Grenoble, France, in 1983. Back then they were headed for careers in French and economics and were still known as Lynne Corbett and William Leone. 
 Now, several career incarnations later (Mr. Cox has worked as an actor and journalist and Ms. Starsky as a fashion director for labels like Dries van Noten), they have rejiggered themselves, invented modish pseudonyms and dress in vintage Azzedine Alaia (hers) and gold boots from the French cobbler Pierre Hardy (his) to promote their unexpected best seller (100,000 copies to date, in eight languages) ceaselessly, although often in stores not known for stocking books. 
 ''We're the bible du jour at Colette,'' Mr. Cox said, referring to the Right Bank shop that practically outdraws the Louvre. Both Sarah and Colette Lerfel, the mother and daughter owners of Colette, keep ''Sextrology'' by their beds, Mr. Cox asserted. 
 So do Marc Jacobs and his business partner, Robert Duffy, which helps explain why it is that the two authors will spend the rest of Fashion Week ensconced against a red velvet heart background in the window of Mr. Jacobs's Bleecker Street store, where anyone who wants to can walk in and get a reading from them. 
 It will probably be a fashion reading. ''Something wrong has happened here,'' Mr. Cox said, referring to New York, where safety is now the fashion watchword and where people like a certain influential and inflexibly chic magazine editor whom Mr. Cox calls ''cellblock lady'' stand guard over ever-narrowing boundaries of taste. ''On a physical and on a sociological level the culture is becoming fear-based,'' Mr. Cox said. ''That includes fashion.''
 What Ms. Starsky referred to as ''a sea of sameness'' unquestionably describes how stylishness is constituted in this town. It can barely be remembered that there was a time when Edie Sedgwick was cutting her bleached hair with nail scissors and wore three pairs of fake eyelashes at once; when Viva, the gorgeously angular (and unstoppably garrulous) Factory muse, went around town in Indian cotton bedspreads and a mass of pre-Raphaelite hair; or when the poet Marianne Moore could be seen walking around the Village in a tricorn hat; or when the homeless soul Moondog, whose mournful image formed the core of ''After Moondog,'' an underrated 1992 novel by Jane Shapiro, stood for decades outside the CBS building pining nobly in Viking cloak and a helmet with authentic horns. 
 ''We're just sort of telling people to use astrology to embrace their archetypes,'' Mr. Cox said. ''Use it as a window into your individualism. We want to deprogram people so they can lose the pretty pretty dresses and stop looking like terrified escapees from the pages of last month's Vogue.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Monday with a review of men's fashion misspelled the name of a clothing line. It is Generra, as the article said, not Genarra. The Fashion Diary article on the same page misspelled the name of a designer. He is Jack McCollough, not McCullough.
A picture caption on Monday with a review of men's fashion misspelled the name of a clothing line. It is Generra, as the article said, not Genarra. The Fashion Diary article on the same page misspelled the name of a designer. He is Jack McCollough, not McCullough.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ASK STARSKY AND COX -- The authors of ''Sextrology'' are spending Fashion Week giving astrology readings in the window of a Marc Jacobs store. (Photo by Christopher Smith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (97%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); CHRISTMAS (72%); BEACHES (68%) Apparel; Psychics and Psychic Phenomena

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (58%); DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (58%) Guy Trebay

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006



159 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Chipping at Bedrock for 50 Years to Keep the City's Faucets Working 

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
About 600 feet deep in the bedrock that supports Midtown Manhattan, a little plastic Budweiser bottle keychain dangles from the ignition key to a 450-ton tunnel-boring machine known as the Mole.
 One recent morning, Vinnie Crimeni, 39, turned that key and started up the tunneling machine. As 13,800 volts of electricity coursed through its circuitry, it came roaring and trembling to life.
''They call me Vinnie the Mole,'' said Mr. Crimeni, an operating engineer in the driver's seat of the machine digging City Tunnel No. 3 far beneath Manhattan's street level, part of a 50-year, $6 billion project to upgrade New York City's water system. 
 ''Whenever you're ready, Vinnie,'' yelled a co-worker over the roar. Mr. Crimeni eased up on the throttle, released the clutch and sent the machine's huge rotating head tearing into granite formed a half-billion years ago.
 ''You want to see me do some doughnuts?'' he joked, and feigned whipping the machine into a skid. This machine is a bit too slow for doughnuts. It cuts through bedrock at a rate of about 100 feet per day, depending on the hardness of the rock. The Mole leaves behind a tunnel 12 feet in diameter. Last week, Mr. Crimeni was still boring under the James A. Farley Post Office east toward Pennsylvania Station.
 ''It's still faster than crosstown traffic,'' he deadpanned. ''Which is good. I don't need any more speeding tickets.''
 Vinnie the Mole is digging the massive second phase of City Tunnel No. 3, a 60-mile tunnel that began in the Bronx in 1970 and is scheduled for completion in 2020. By then, the tunnel will be able to handle the roughly one billion gallons of water a day used in New York City that originates from rural watersheds to points throughout the city. 
 The portion running through the Bronx and down the West Side of Manhattan is complete, and Mr. Crimeni and many other workers are working on a section that heads downtown and hooks back up to East 59th Street, with a crosstown spur in Midtown.
 Most of the workers are sandhogs, the tunnel workers who have mined New York's vast underground infrastructure, including the subway and traffic tunnels. The water tunnel has taken its toll in human life, with 24 construction-related deaths. A man a mile, the saying goes among the workers.
 Although the tunnel is one of the largest urban projects in history, few people will ever see it. But beginning next week, many New Yorkers will certainly feel and hear the construction, said Michael Abbaszadeh, an engineer who is overseeing the project. Next Monday, workers will embark on a yearlong regimen of dynamite blasting throughout Midtown and Lower Manhattan to create nine water supply shafts designed to connect the water tunnel to mains under city streets and to provide workers access to the tunnels.
 Operating engineers receive less attention than sandhogs but are vital to digging tunnels because they run much of the machinery, including the Mole and a small railroad, complete with switches and sidings, for transporting workers and mined rock. On this subway system, the sandhogs are the brakemen and the operating engineers drive small diesel locomotives. There are muck cars for mined rock, and man cars: narrow open boxcars with long benches where the workers sit while they are carried through the tunnels.
 The Mole machine also runs on the track, pulling itself along with hydraulic pistons. Sitting in the operator's cab of the Mole, Mr. Crimeni set the cutter-head pressure for solid granite: 3,000 pounds per square inch. He activated the conveyor belt taking the pulverized rock being drilled to the muck cars of a small waiting train.
 Clyde Beatty, 48, an operating engineer, sat on the locomotive for the muck train as it was filled with soggy rock powder that poured like cake batter into a muck car.
 ''Every five feet you drill, you fill about five cars on a train, which is about 35 tons,'' he said. His load is carried to a conveyor belt that lifted it out up through a shaft to be loaded onto large trucks and carted away.
 The new tunnel will help relieve two much older tunnels in Manhattan that are deteriorating and have not been serviced in more than 70 years.
 A walk in the tunnel is almost surreal. Groundwater seeps in through cracks in the bedrock and the dim glare of a string of bare light bulbs gives the dusty haze a sepia tone.
 With their round, rimmed helmets, weathered faces and dangling cigarettes, the muddy workers have the look of World War I doughboys. They tramp in their rubber boots through gray, muddy water flooding the tunnel floors and shovel blasted rock onto conveyor belts. At lunchtime, they open their dusty coolers and squeeze into the sandhogs' lunch room, an oblong box shaped like a miniature baseball dugout. On the outside, someone has scrawled in orange spray paint: ''Le Cirque Fine Dining.''
 The task of determining what type of rock lies in the machine's path falls to Eric Jordan, a geologist hired by the city. By drilling down and hand-picking rocks from the tunnels, Mr. Jordan has created a precise map of the type of rock under Manhattan.
 His involvement in the tunnel project makes his geologist friends jealous.
 ''For a geologist,'' he said, ''this is like going to Disneyland.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lori Moran, second from left, is an elevator operator on the water tunnel project under Midtown Manhattan. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (60%) Water; Bridges and Tunnels

PERSON: Corey Kilgannon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006



160 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2799 words

PERSON: Betty Friedan

HEADLINE: Betty Friedan, Who Ignited a Movement With 'The Feminine Mystique,' Dies at 85

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Betty Friedan, the feminist crusader and author whose searing first book, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' ignited the contemporary women's movement in 1963 and as a result permanently transformed the social fabric of the United States and countries around the world, died Saturday, her 85th birthday, at her home in Washington.
 The cause was congestive heart failure, said Emily Bazelon, a family spokeswoman.
With its impassioned yet clear-eyed analysis of the issues that affected women's lives in the decades after World War II -- including enforced domesticity, limited career prospects and, as chronicled in later editions, the campaign for legalized abortion -- ''The Feminine Mystique'' is widely regarded as one of the most influential nonfiction books of the 20th century. Published by W. W. Norton & Company, the book had sold more than three million copies by the year 2000 and has been translated into many languages. 
 ''The Feminine Mystique'' made Ms. Friedan world famous. It also made her one of the chief architects of the women's liberation movement of the late 1960's and afterward, a sweeping social upheaval that harked back to the suffrage campaigns of the turn of the century and would be called feminism's second wave.
 In 1966, Ms. Friedan helped found the National Organization for Women, serving as its first president. In 1969, she was a founder of the National Association for the Repeal of Abortion Laws, now known as Naral Pro-Choice America. With Gloria Steinem, Bella Abzug and others, she founded the National Women's Political Caucus in 1971.
 Though in later years, some feminists dismissed Ms. Friedan's work as outmoded, a great many aspects of modern life that seem routine today -- from unisex Help Wanted ads to women in politics, medicine, the clergy and the military -- are the direct result of the hard-won advances she helped women attain.
 For decades a familiar presence on television and the lecture circuit, Ms. Friedan, with her short stature and deeply hooded eyes, looked for much of her adult life like a ''combination of Hermione Gingold and Bette Davis,'' as Judy Klemesrud wrote in The New York Times Magazine in 1970.
 A brilliant student who graduated summa cum laude from Smith College in 1942, Ms. Friedan trained as a psychologist but never pursued a career in the field. When she wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' she was a suburban housewife and mother who supplemented her husband's income by writing freelance articles for women's magazines.
 Though Ms. Friedan was not generally considered a lyrical stylist, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' read today, is as mesmerizing as it was more than four decades ago:
 ''Gradually, without seeing it clearly for quite a while, I came to realize that something is very wrong with the way American women are trying to live their lives today,'' Ms. Friedan wrote in the opening line of the preface. ''I sensed it first as a question mark in my own life, as a wife and mother of three small children, half-guiltily, and therefore half-heartedly, almost in spite of myself, using my abilities and education in work that took me away from home.''
 The words have the hypnotic pull of a fairy tale, and for the next 400 pages, Ms. Friedan identifies, dissects and damningly indicts one of the most pervasive folk beliefs of postwar American life: the myth of suburban women's domestic fulfillment she came to call the feminine mystique.
 Drawing on history, psychology, sociology and economics, as well as on interviews she conducted with women across the country, Ms. Friedan charted a gradual metamorphosis of the American woman from the independent, career-minded New Woman of the 1920's and 30's into the vacant, aproned housewife of the postwar years.
 The portrait she painted was chilling. For a typical woman of the 1950's, even a college-educated one, life centered almost exclusively on chores and children. She cooked and baked and bandaged and chauffeured and laundered and sewed. She did the mopping and the marketing and took her husband's gray flannel suit to the cleaners. She was happy to keep his dinner warm till he came wearily home from downtown.
 The life she led, if educators, psychologists and the mass media were to be believed, was the fulfillment of every women's most ardent dream. Yet she was unaccountably tired, impatient with the children, craving something that neither marital sex nor extramarital affairs could satisfy. Her thoughts sometimes turned to suicide. She consulted a spate of doctors and psychiatrists, who prescribed charity work, bowling and bridge. If those failed, there were always tranquilizers to get her through her busy day.
 A Nebraska housewife with a Ph.D. in anthropology whom Ms. Friedan interviewed told her:
 ''A film made of any typical morning in my house would look like an old Marx Brothers comedy. I wash the dishes, rush the older children off to school, dash out in the yard to cultivate the chrysanthemums, run back in to make a phone call about a committee meeting, help the youngest child build a blockhouse, spend fifteen minutes skimming the newspapers so I can be well-informed, then scamper down to the washing machines where my thrice-weekly laundry includes enough clothes to keep a primitive village going for an entire year. By noon I'm ready for a padded cell. Very little of what I've done has been really necessary or important. Outside pressures lash me though the day. Yet I look upon myself as one of the more relaxed housewives in the neighborhood.''
 ''The Feminine Mystique'' began as a survey Ms. Friedan conducted in 1957 for the 15th reunion of her graduating class at Smith. It was intended to refute a prevailing postwar myth: that higher education kept women from adapting to their roles as wives and mothers. Judging from her own capable life, Ms. Friedan expected her classmates to describe theirs as similarly well adjusted. But what she discovered in the women's responses was something far more complex, and more troubling -- a ''nameless, aching dissatisfaction'' that she would famously call ''the problem that has no name.''
 When Ms. Friedan sent the same questionnaire to graduates of Radcliffe and other colleges, and later interviewed scores of women personally, the results were the same. The women's answers gave her the seeds of her book. They also forced her to confront the painful limitations of her own suburban idyll.
 Bettye Naomi Goldstein was born on Feb. 4, 1921, in Peoria, Ill. Her father, Harry, was an immigrant from Russia who parlayed a street-corner collar-button business into a prosperous downtown jewelry store. Her gifted, imperious mother, Miriam, had been the editor of the women's page of the local newspaper before giving up her job for marriage and children. Only years later, when she was writing ''The Feminine Mystique,'' did Ms. Friedan come to see her mother's cold, critical demeanor as masking a deep bitterness at giving up the work she loved.
 Growing up brainy, Jewish, outspoken and, by the standards of the time, unlovely, Bettye was ostracized. She was barred from the fashionable sororities at her Peoria high school and rarely asked on dates. It was an experience, she would later say, that made her identify with people on the margins of society.
 At Smith, she blossomed. For the first time, she could be as smart as she wanted, as impassioned as she wanted and as loud as she wanted, and for four happy years she was all those things. Betty received her bachelor's degree in 1942 -- by that time she had dropped the final ''e,'' which she considered an affectation of her mother's -- and accepted a fellowship to the University of California, Berkeley, for graduate work in psychology.
 At Berkeley, she studied with the renowned psychologist Erik Erikson, among others. She won a second fellowship, even more prestigious than the first, that would allow her to continue for a doctorate. But she was dating a young physicist who felt threatened by her success. He pressed her to turn down the fellowship, and she did, an experience she would later recount frequently in interviews. She also turned down the physicist, returning home to Peoria before moving to Greenwich Village in New York.
 There, Ms. Friedan worked as an editor at The Federated Press, a small news service that provided stories to labor newspapers nationwide. In 1946, she took a job as a reporter with U. E. News, the weekly publication of the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America.
 In 1947, she married Carl Friedan, a theater director who later became an advertising executive. They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.
 Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.
 ''The Feminine Mystique'' had the misfortune to appear during a newspaper printers' strike. The reviews that appeared afterward ran the gamut from bewildered to outraged to cautiously laudatory. Some critics also felt that Ms. Friedan had insufficiently acknowledged her debt to Simone de Beauvoir, whose 1949 book, ''The Second Sex,'' dealt with many of the same issues.
 Writing in The New York Times Book Review in April 1963, Lucy Freeman called ''The Feminine Mystique'' a ''highly readable, provocative book,'' but went on to question its basic premise, writing, of Ms. Friedan:
 ''Sweeping generalities, in which this book necessarily abounds, may hold a certain amount of truth but often obscure the deeper issues. It is superficial to blame the 'culture' and its handmaidens, the women's magazines, as she does. What is to stop a woman who is interested in national and international affairs from reading magazines that deal with those subjects? To paraphrase a famous line, 'The fault, dear Mrs. Friedan, is not in our culture, but in ourselves.' ''
 Among readers, however, the response to the book was so overwhelming that Ms. Friedan realized she needed more than words to address the condition of women's lives. After moving back to Manhattan with her family, she determined to start a progressive organization that would be the equivalent, as she often said, of an N.A.A.C.P. for women.
 In 1966, Ms. Friedan and a group of colleagues founded the National Organization for Women. She was its president until 1970.
 One of NOW's most visible public actions was the Women's Strike for Equality, held on Aug. 26, 1970, in New York and in cities around the country. In New York, tens of thousands of woman marched down Fifth Avenue, with Ms. Friedan in the lead. (Before the march, she made a point of lunching at Whyte's, a downtown restaurant formerly open to men only.)
 Carrying signs and banners (''Don't Cook Dinner -- Starve a Rat Tonight!'' ''Don't Iron While the Strike Is Hot''), women of all ages, along with a number of sympathetic men, marched joyfully down the street to cheering crowds. The march ended with a rally in Bryant Park, behind the New York Public Library, with passionate speeches by Ms. Friedan, Ms. Steinem, Ms. Abzug and Kate Millett.
 Not all of Ms. Friedan's ventures were as successful. The First Women's Bank and Trust Company, which she helped found in 1973, is no longer in business. Nor were even her indomitable presence and relentless energy enough to secure passage of the Equal Rights Amendment.
 Though widely respected as a modern-day heroine, Ms. Friedan was by no means universally beloved, even -- or perhaps especially -- by members of the women's movement. She was famously abrasive. She could be thin-skinned and imperious, subject to screaming fits of temperament.
 In the 1970's and afterward, some feminists criticized Ms. Friedan for focusing almost exclusively on the concerns of middle-class married white women and ignoring those of minorities, lesbians and the poor. Some called her retrograde for insisting that women could, and should, live in collaborative partnership with men.
 Ms. Friedan's private life was also famously stormy. In her recent memoir, ''Life So Far'' (Simon & Schuster, 2000), she accused her husband of being physically abusive during their marriage, writing that he sometimes gave her black eyes, which she concealed with make-up at public events and on television.
 Mr. Friedan, who died in December, repeatedly denied the accusations. In an interview with Time magazine in 2000, shortly after the memoir's publication, he called Ms. Friedan's account a ''complete fabrication.'' He added: ''I am the innocent victim of a drive-by shooting by a reckless driver savagely aiming at the whole male gender.''
 Ms. Friedan's other books include ''It Changed My Life: Writings on the Women's Movement'' (Random House, 1976); ''The Second Stage'' (Summit, 1981); and ''The Fountain of Age'' (Simon & Schuster, 1993).
 The recipient of many awards and honorary degrees, she was a visiting professor at universities around the country, among them Columbia, Temple and the University of Southern California. In recent years, Ms. Friedan was associated with the Institute for Women and Work at Cornell University.
 Despite all of her later achievements, Ms. Friedan would be forever known as the suburban housewife who started a revolution with ''The Feminine Mystique.'' Rarely has a single book been responsible for such sweeping, tumultuous and continuing social transformation.
 The new society Ms. Friedan proposed, founded on the notion that men and women were created equal, represented such a drastic upending of the prevailing social norms that over the years to come, she would be forced to explain her position again and again.
 ''Some people think I'm saying, 'Women of the world unite -- you have nothing to lose but your men,' '' she told Life magazine in 1963. ''It's not true. You have nothing to lose but your vacuum cleaners.''

'The Problem That Has No Name'
 Following is an excerpt from ''The Feminine Mystique,'' by Betty Friedan.
 The problem lay buried, unspoken, for many years in the minds of American women. It was a strange stirring, a sense of dissatisfaction, a yearning that women suffered in the middle of the twentieth century in the United States. Each suburban wife struggled with it alone. As she made the beds, shopped for groceries, matched slipcover material, ate peanut butter sandwiches with her children, chauffeured Cub Scouts and Brownies, lay beside her husband at night -- she was afraid to ask even of herself the silent question -- ''Is this all?''
 For over fifteen years there was no word of this yearning in the millions of words written about women, for women, in all the columns, books and articles by experts telling women their role was to seek fulfillment as wives and mothers. Over and over women heard in voices of tradition and of Freudian sophistication that they could desire no greater destiny than to glory in their own femininity. Experts told them how to catch a man and keep him, how to breastfeed children and handle their toilet training, how to cope with sibling rivalry and adolescent rebellion; how to buy a dishwasher, bake bread, cook gourmet snails, and build a swimming pool with their own hands; how to dress, look, and act more feminineand make marriage more exciting; how to keep their husbands from dying young and their sons from growing into delinquents. 
 In the fifteen years after World War II, this mystique of feminine fulfillment became the cherished and self-perpetuating core of contemporary American culture. Millions of women lived their lives in the image of those pretty pictures of the American suburban housewife, kissing their husbands goodbye in front of the picture window, depositing their stationwagonsful of children at school, and smiling as they ran the new electric waxer over the spotless kitchen floor. They baked their own bread, sewed their own and their children's clothes, kept their new washing machines and dryers running all day. They changed the sheets on the beds twice a week instead of once, took the rug-hooking class in adult education, and pitied their poor frustrated mothers, who had dreamed of having a career. Their only dream was to be perfect wives and mothers; their highest ambition to have five children and a beautiful house, their only fight to get and keep their husbands. They had no thought for the unfeminine problems of the world outside the home; they wanted the men to make the major decisions. They gloried in their role as women, and wrote proudly on the census blank: ''Occupation: housewife.''

Reprinted from yesterday's late editions.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Monday and in some copies on Sunday about Betty Friedan, the pioneering feminist who wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' misstated the residence of her sister, Amy Adams. It is Chapel Hill, N.C., not New York City.
An obituary on Monday and in some copies on Sunday about Betty Friedan, the pioneering feminist who wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' misstated the residence of her sister, Amy Adams. It is Chapel Hill, N.C., not New York City.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A young Betty Friedan from her 2000 memoir, ''Life So Far.'' (Photo by Schlesinger Library, Radcliffe Institute, Harvard University)
 Betty Friedan, a founder of the National Organization for Women, led a march in Manhattan in 1970 for the Women's Strike for Equality. (Photo by J. P. Laffont/Corbis Sygma)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (93%); WRITERS (90%); WOMEN (90%); POLITICS (86%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (75%); CAUCUSES (74%); ABORTION (74%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (62%); HEART DISEASE (56%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (56%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (50%); RELIGION (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Women; Feminist Movement; Books and Literature; Biographical Information

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (69%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (69%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

Margalit Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006



161 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Automobiles; AUTOS ON MONDAY/Collecting; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Sticker Shock on the Auction Block

BYLINE: By KEITH MARTIN. 
Keith Martin, the editor and publisher of Sports Car Market magazine, is an auction commentator for the Speed channel.

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. 

 BODY:
LIKE the values of Van Gogh paintings and beachfront houses in the Hamptons, prices for collector cars have escalated beyond what almost anyone would have thought possible not so long ago. 
 Results from several prominent auctions held here last month suggest that the record-breaking increases are not only continuing, but extending beyond rare classics and American muscle cars to include even vehicles that were once considered little more than quirky conversation pieces. While specialists were surprised at the $1.2 million paid for a '70 Chevrolet Chevelle SS454 convertible, a car with a history of racetrack successes, they were shocked by the $124,200 price of a 1964 Amphicar, a vehicle that performs poorly both on the road and in the water.
The star of the January auctions was not a car at all, but a bus. Part of the General Motors' country-crossing ''Parade of Progress'' tour in the 1940's and 50's, the Futurliner, which carried exhibits, brought $4,320,000, including the buyer's premium. 
 Design studies -- the concept cars that highlight auto-show displays -- are also continuing their record-breaking climb, dispelling doubts about recent sales that may have seemed too good to be true.
 While earlier price spirals could be attributed to economic conditions like a real estate boom in Japan, the current situation seems more closely tied to demographics and auction dynamics. 
 As baby boomers approach 60, some have decided it is time to have the cars they craved when they were 16. The boys who wanted to burn rubber in high school do not covet red cars from Italy or green ones from Britain, but Plymouth 'Cudas from Detroit wearing Plum Crazy paint. By now, the thirst for big-engine GTO's and Road Runners is so strongly rooted in the collector world that it may no longer be appropriate to call it a muscle car craze.
 The new wave of collectors has largely bypassed the old guard, an established network of dealers, auction companies and private owners that effectively controlled prices by selling mostly to those already in the fold. In that structure, the prices of classics and European sports cars were easily tracked, with a few well known auctions serving as barometers of value.
 The principle of supply and demand played a role at the Arizona auctions, too. At the Barrett-Jackson sale, held inside a quarter-mile-long tent, 4,852 bidders competed for 1,084 cars, so about 80 percent of the potential buyers went home without new purchases. The bidders, who must provide proof of available funds when they register, had a combined purchasing limit of more than $1 billion. 
 For some, coming to the Barrett-Jackson event is like a trip to a collector-car shopping mall -- one where the cars' histories have been diligently researched. ''I was looking for a 427-cubic-inch, 435-horsepower Corvette, and there were a bunch of them all lined up together,'' said Roger Williams, of New Canaan, Conn. ''I decided I would buy one on Friday, when prices were at least $30,000 less than the craziness of Saturday. I paid $189,000.'' 
 Mr. Williams, a television producer, said that by coming to the auction he saved months of travel, looking at one car at a time and trying to make a decision. ''I was able to compare them head-to-head, make a decision and just buy it,'' he said.
 For the past five years, the Barrett-Jackson auction has been a leader in defining the collector car market in the United States. Craig Jackson, president of the company, has a keen sense of what new buyers are looking for, and the bright lights of live television coverage on the Speed channel (33 hours worth this year) has added to the excitement, and perhaps some exuberance to the bidding. 
 Another factor is the success of the auctions in drawing new and first-time buyers, whose sense of value is established by recent transactions and their own financial standings, not the memories of long-ago selling prices. 
 This resetting of the base values has helped make it possible for a 1969 Camaro Z28 that once brought $50,000 to now sell for $100,000; a 1965 Shelby GT350 Mustang that drew $35,000 five years ago today brings $200,000 or more. 
 The buyer of the Futurliner bus, Ron Pratte of Chandler, Ariz., also bought two concept cars, the 1954 Pontiac Bonneville Special at $3,024,000 and the 1952 Chrysler D'Elegance designed by Virgil Exner, a relative bargain at $1,188,000. Daniel Noiseux of Montreal, who restored and sold the bus, drove it the day after the auction to Chandler -- with a police helicopter escort -- where it joined Mr. Pratte's 200-car collection.
 Over all, the Barrett-Jackson auction brought in $100.8 million, up from $61.7 million in 2005. Three other companies -- RM Auctions, Russo and Steele and Silver Auctions -- held events in the Phoenix area, all with results that were better than last year's. 
 At its one-day sale at the Arizona Biltmore, RM sold 108 of 112 cars offered, registering $31.3 million in total sales, up significantly from last year's $18.7 million. The top sale was a handsome 1934 Packard Twelve Runabout Speedster that sold for $3,190,000. 
 Russo and Steele sold about 75 percent of its 400 consignments during its three-day sale. The $20 million total represented an increase of almost $9 million compared with last year. 
 Silver Auctions sold 350 cars in the course of three days, with estimate total sales of about $5.5 million, up from last year's $4.5 million. The top price was brought by a 1954 Buick Skylark, at $184,000.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A bus designed for a G.M. touring exhibit sold for $4.2 million. (Photo by Barrett-Jackson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (89%); PAINTING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONCEPT CARS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); SPORTS CARS (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); TRADE SHOWS (67%); RETAILERS (66%); RUNNING (55%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Automobiles; Auctions; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: Keith Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006



162 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: 5 Weeks Left For Decisions On Rebuilding 

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
After four years of public debates, political infighting, posturing and stalled momentum in the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan, the next five weeks promise to be among the most critical since the towers fell.
 Gov. George E. Pataki set the stage for a March 14 showdown at ground zero shortly before Christmas when he gave the developer Larry A. Silverstein 90 days to work out his longstanding differences with the Port Authority over the rebuilding process.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg upped the ante recently in language certain to incite the developer, when he called on him to set aside his financial interests and ''do the right thing'': cede two proposed buildings and a major portion of the site to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey so that rebuilding can go more quickly. 
 The mayor's blunt remarks were backed by a city financial analysis indicating that Mr. Silverstein could exhaust his money for the project and default on his lease at the World Trade Center site in 2009, yet still walk away with half a billion dollars. Talks between the authority, which owns the land, and Mr. Silverstein, who leased the property six weeks before the 9/11 attack, are at an awkward standstill, according to authority officials. 
 The authority contends that to speed up the process, Mr. Silverstein should build the Freedom Tower, the largest and most symbolic building at ground zero, and relinquish control of a major portion of the site so that work can proceed simultaneously on two buildings and a mall along Church Street.
 ''This is not about Silverstein Properties; this is not about the Port Authority,'' said Anthony R. Coscia, chairman of the Port Authority. ''It's about choosing the most viable way to fulfill the economic restoration of Lower Manhattan and build a memorial that fully signifies the site.''
 Mr. Silverstein, however, has said he has the legal right, the will and, most important, the insurance money to do the entire project on a schedule that extends until 2017. The Real Estate Board of New York, the industry's powerful lobbying arm, has rallied to the developer's defense.
 The two sides could still come to a resolution in time for the planned April groundbreaking ceremony for the 1,776-foot Freedom Tower. On the other hand, the dispute could also result in a court battle keeping much of ground zero a hole in the ground for a long time. Some downtown executives say the resulting delay would leave a cloud of uncertainty over Lower Manhattan, feeding fears among potential corporate tenants about the future.
 A standoff could also tarnish Governor Pataki's record as he considers a run for the presidency. State officials, who favor a new arrangement at ground zero, declined to discuss the negotiations.
 Although the governor, not the mayor, sits at the negotiating table, Mr. Bloomberg joined the fray in his State of the City speech on Jan. 26 when he essentially aligned himself with the Port Authority, an institution the city is often at war with. 
 His decision came after the city financial analysis indicated that Mr. Silverstein could run out of money after building the Freedom Tower, and possibly the second of five skyscrapers planned for the site, unless a new financial arrangement is negotiated at ground zero.
 Noting that the demand for office space is sluggish, the report predicted that once billions of dollars in insurance money is exhausted, the Port Authority would be unable to complete construction without putting up enormous cash subsidies it does not have now. 
 But Mr. Silverstein could ''walk away from the project'' with $565 million in profits, fees and equity, according to the analysis, compiled by a dozen officials at the city's Economic Development Corporation, the Law Department and City Hall. The report notes that Mr. Silverstein has already regained most if not all of the $137 million he and his investors put up when they bought the lease.
 The Port Authority commissioned its own report by Jones Lang LaSalle, a real estate firm, that came to a similar conclusion, according to an official at the authority.
 Mr. Silverstein and his supporters say the city report is dead wrong. They argue that he is eager to build and that any delays are the result of government inaction. They note that Mr. Silverstein has nearly finished rebuilding 7 World Trade Center, a skyscraper at Vesey and Greenwich Streets, while the planning continues at ground zero.
 ''It's time to stop planning and start building,'' said John N. Lieber, senior vice president at Silverstein Properties. ''We have the money to accomplish this quickly, providing government gives us access to the physical sites.'' 
 The Silverstein camp brandishes its own report, compiled by the developer's advisers at Morgan Stanley, saying the developer could build the first four towers at ground zero using a combination of nearly $3 billion in insurance money and more than $3 billion in Liberty Bonds.
 ''I'm not convinced that the Port Authority is better equipped to build an office tower than my members are,'' said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board. ''And I'm not sure there is a deal to be made if the Port wants Larry to drop what may be the best two office sites.'' 
 City officials say that Mr. Silverstein is operating on some overly optimistic assumptions, and that the conditions downtown have changed drastically since he signed a 99-year lease for the trade center in a deal worth an estimated $3.2 billion. At that time, the twin towers were nearly full for the first time since the trade center opened in the mid-1970's. 
 Today, 14 percent of the office space downtown is vacant, and major tenants like Lehman Brothers have moved to Midtown. Only three tenants have signed up for about 15 percent of the space at 7 World Trade Center, and no one is in line for the Freedom Tower, which will take years to build and lease. The city's report estimates that Mr. Silverstein will run out of money to pay the rent and default on his lease unless rents for prime space rise to $70 a square foot by 2011, from an average of $33.33 today.
 The developer also assumes that he will use all of the remaining $2.9 billion in insurance proceeds to build four towers. But Mr. Silverstein is obligated under his lease to rebuild all five towers, at an estimated cost of $7 billion. The authority contends that about $350 million from the insurance money should go toward rebuilding the shopping mall, far more than the $116 million Mr. Silverstein has offered. The two sides are also far apart on Mr. Silverstein's share of the cost of common infrastructure at ground zero.
 The authority has offered to ''dramatically'' reduce his annual rent, which rises to $140 million this year, if he cedes the land for what are known as Towers 3 and 4, on Church Street. Mr. Silverstein would still build the Freedom Tower and a second building at Vesey and Church Streets.
 Both sides acknowledge that the Freedom Tower would be difficult to lease to corporations who fear it could be a terrorist target. To entice Mr. Silverstein to make a deal, the state and city have informally offered to rent about 40 percent of the tower.
 The authority, in turn, would be the anchor tenant for Tower 3. The fourth site would be sold to a developer for a hotel, office space and, according to the mayor's vision, apartments. Much of the shopping mall would be built on the first and second floors of those buildings.
 ''The build-out of the site, based on the current plan, is extremely questionable in terms of Silverstein's ability to go beyond the Freedom Tower,'' said Mr. Coscia, chairman of the authority. ''We are unconvinced it is a viable plan.''
 Mr. Coscia said that the new deal would be worth $2.2 billion to the authority, a billion dollars less than four years ago. Any extra money, he said, would go into the memorial.
 The Silverstein camp and some real estate developers say it does not make sense to move the authority to one of the best corporate office sites, next door to the site where a multibillion-dollar transit hub is under construction. Better to put them in the Freedom Tower.
 They also question whether the mayor's desire to build apartments at ground zero reflects a pessimistic view of the future of Lower Manhattan as a business district.
 City officials contend that their most important objective is to rebuild ground zero quickly.
 Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, favors opening up the trade center site to multiple developers and different concepts.
 ''It's long overdue, but very welcome,'' Mr. Yaro said. ''Ending up with a see-through Freedom Tower and the rest of the site vacant, while the developer gets a half billion in his pocket and the public is stuck with billions in obligations, doesn't sound like a particularly attractive outcome.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); CHRISTMAS (72%); PROPERTY LEASES (72%); TERRORISM (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); LOBBYING (65%) Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Area Planning and Renewal; Finances; Freedom Tower (NYC)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (70%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%) Charles V Bagli; George E (Gov) Pataki; Larry A Silverstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006



163 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: Record Sales Of Sleep Pills Cause Worry 

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL

 BODY:
Americans are taking sleeping pills like never before, fueled by frenetic workdays that do not go gently into a great night's sleep, and lulled by a surge of consumer advertising that promises safe slumber with minimal side effects. 
 About 42 million sleeping pill prescriptions were filled last year, according to the research company IMS Health, up nearly 60 percent since 2000.
But some experts worry that the drugs are being oversubscribed without enough regard to known, if rare, side effects or the implications of long-term use. And they fear doctors may be ignoring other conditions, like depression, that might be the cause of sleeplessness. 
 Although the newer drugs are not believed to carry the same risk of dependence as older ones like barbiturates, some researchers have reported what is called the ''next day'' effect, a continued sleepiness hours after awakening from a drug-induced slumber. 
 Ten percent of Americans report that they regularly struggle to fall asleep or to stay asleep throughout the night. And more and more are turning to a new generation of sleep aids like Ambien, the best seller, and its competitor, Lunesta. Experts acknowledge that insomnia has become a cultural benchmark -- a side effect of an overworked, overwrought society. 
 ''Clearly, there's a significant increase in people who report insomnia and, from my perspective, that is the result of our modern-day lifestyle,'' said Dr. Gregg D. Jacobs, a psychologist and assistant professor of psychiatry at Harvard. Or at least that is an impression that drug makers are clearly trying to capitalize on, he said. 
 And that concerns him and some other researchers who warn that despite their advertised safety, the new generation of sleep aids can sometimes cause strange side effects.
 The reported problems include sleepwalking and short-term amnesia. Steven Wells, a lawyer in Buffalo, said he started using Ambien last year because his racing mind kept him awake at night. But he quit after only one month, concerned about several episodes in which he woke up to find he had messily raided the refrigerator and, finally, an incident in which he tore a towel rack out of a wall.
 ''The weird thing was that I had no recollection of it the next day,'' said Mr. Wells, who added that he found the episodes frightening.
 Ambien's maker, Sanofi-Aventis, said the drug had been used for 12 billion nights of patient therapy. ''When Ambien is taken as prescribed, it's a safe and effective treatment,'' said Emmy Tsui, a company spokeswoman. 
 A Food and Drug Administration spokeswoman, Susan Cruzan, said she was not aware of an unusual number of complaints with the drugs. 
 Drug makers spent $298 million in the first 11 months of 2005 to convince consumers that the sleep aids are safe and effective. That was more than four times such ad spending in all of 2004. 
 In the last year, much of the advertising surge has been a result of competition from Lunesta, which the drug maker Sepracor introduced last April to compete with Ambien. Through November, Sepracor led the sleeping pill advertising field, spending more than $185 million, according to figures from TNS Media Intelligence, which did not have final figures for December. 
 In response, Sanofi-Aventis, marketing both Ambien and its controlled-release version, Ambien CR, spent $107 million from last January through November, according to TNS. That was nearly double its ad spending on Ambien in 2004. 
 Even the most infrequent television viewers would have trouble missing the Lunesta ads, which feature a luna moth fluttering around the bed of a peaceful sleeper. Dr. Jacobs said that in one hour of prime-time television recently, he saw three ads for sleeping pills: two for Lunesta and another for Ambien. 
 ''You've got the patient population being bombarded with advertising on TV,'' Dr. Jacobs said. ''You've got increased advertising to physicians. You've got a formula for sales going up dramatically.'' 
 One financial analyst, Jon LeCroy of Natexis Bleichroeder, said Lunesta's ad campaign last fall was tied to the new season of ''Desperate Housewives,'' whose audience is about 55 percent female. Studies have shown that women have insomnia more frequently than men. 
 Last week, Sepracor's stock jumped $8.53 in one day, after Sepracor reported a profit and remarkably strong use of Lunesta in its first year on the market, with sales of $329 million. More than 213,000 doctors wrote 3.3 million prescriptions for it last year, the company says. 
 Sepracor announced the addition of 450 people to its current sales force of 1,500 to increase marketing of the drug to physicians. 
 Sanofi-Aventis, with a sales force of 3,000, is working to shift patients from Ambien, which loses its patent protection in October, to the newer version, Ambien CR. The newer pill has a quickly dissolving outer layer meant to immediately induce sleep, with a slower-dissolving inner layer to sustain sleep. 
 Another drug in the class is Sonata, marketed by King Pharmaceuticals. Because it is short acting, Sonata is recommended for people who have trouble falling asleep but no trouble staying asleep. 
 Drugs in the class are frequently referred to as ''Z'' drugs, a play on both their effect and the Z's in their generic names, like zolpidem (Ambien) and eszopiclone (Lunesta). All aim at a brain neurotransmitter that is believed to reduce neural activity. 
 Another new entrant to the market, Rozerem, by the Japanese company Takeda Pharmaceuticals, has been available in drugstores since September but has not yet been heavily advertised. The drug works by a different mechanism from the others, acting on the brain's melatonin receptors, which are believed to play a role in sleep-wake cycles. 
 Mr. LeCroy, the analyst, who is also a medical doctor, predicts the advertising will intensify if Neurocrine Biosciences and its partner Pfizer are permitted to introduce their new sleeping pill, Indiplon; an F.D.A. decision on that is expected in May. 
 ''That's going to make the competition get more cutthroat,'' Mr. LeCroy said, predicting that the market for branded sleeping pills, currently about $2 billion a year, could grow to $3.8 billion, even with Ambien set to go generic. ''This is only going to get crazier.'' 
 The Carlat Psychiatry Report, a newsletter by Dr. Daniel J. Carlat, a psychiatrist in Newburyport, Mass., reviewed the Z drugs recently and concluded that their differences were merely subtle. But Dr. Carlat warned that Lunesta, because it was longer acting, was more likely to cause next-day sleepiness problems ''in comparison with some of its cousins.'' 
 Dr. Carlat cited a 1998 study in Britain, published in The Lancet, which found that taking zopiclone, the compound known as the ''mother'' of Lunesta and marketed in Europe, was linked to an increased risk of automobile accidents. 
 But Sepracor's chief financial officer, David P. Southwell, said that Lunesta, while a chemical variant of zopiclone, was a totally different drug. He referred a reporter to the F.D.A.-approved label, which lists clinical studies of next-day effects showing there was no consistent pattern of impaired mental functioning the day after Lunesta use.
 The possible role of Ambien was investigated in connection with well-chronicled transportation disasters in 2003 -- the crash of the Staten Island Ferry, which killed 11 passengers, and an accident involving a Texas church bus in Tallulah, La., which killed 8 passengers. The assistant captain who was piloting the ferry, like the bus driver, had a prescription for Ambien, but there was no evidence either had taken it before the crashes.
 Dr. David G. Fassler, a clinical professor of psychiatryat the University of Vermont College of Medicine, said he was concerned that the heavy marketing and prescribing of the sleep medications would lead to use in patients who have underlying conditions that are left untreated. 
 ''I'm concerned that difficulty sleeping can be a sign of multiple disorders, including problems with anxiety and depression,'' he said, expressing worry that patients who are not thoroughly evaluated might be treated for their insomnia while other problems, like anxiety or decreased appetite, are not addressed.
 In clinical trials, the most common side effect of the drugs, however, is that people wake up feeling sleepy the next day. 
 Dr. Daniel J. Buysse, a University of Pittsburgh psychiatrist who has consulted for the industry on sleeping pills, said they were a rare example of drugs in which the desired effect and the major side effect were the same thing. ''One occurs when you want it, and the other occurs when you don't,'' he said. 
 Another problem associated with using sleeping pills is a condition commonly called traveler's amnesia, in reference to the frequent use by people who travel across time zones. Such amnesia can occur when people return to daytime activities too quickly after taking the drugs. 
 The labels carry warnings that the drugs should be used only when people can devote a full night to sleeping. In some cases, however, users have reported that they awakened during the middle of the night in sleepwalking states, but -- like Mr. Wells, the lawyer in Buffalo -- had no recollection of their activities. 
 The amnesiac effects of Ambien were a factor in the acquittal last week of a United States Air Force linguist who had been charged with raping a colleague while the two were stationed in Qatar. The woman who said she was the victim, also a linguist, testified that she was not sure whether the incident was a dream because she had taken Ambien, according to the Stars and Stripes report on the military trial, which occurred in Britain. 
 Dr. Buysse said such bouts of nocturnal uncertainty occur occasionally with various Z drugs.
 ''There have been some case reports of people who have been sleepwalking only when taking the drug,'' Dr. Buysse said. ''I think it's rare, and it's the kind of thing that no one is going to have a very good estimate of. But if it happens to you, who cares if you're the only person of many?''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Courting Sleep''In the growing market for prescription sleep aids, advertising spending is up as is the use of sleep products by harried consumers.PRESCRIPTIONS ISSUED, 2000-5*Graph tracks number of prescriptions issued since 2000.GROWTH IN USE OF SLEEP AIDS, 2000-4+Graph tracks percent growth in use of sleep aids for people 10-65 +.Age 20-4495%: Men103%: Women*Jan.- Sept.+Based on an analysis of 2.4 million prescription drug claims(Sources by TNS Media Intelligence
 Medco Health Solutions Inc.)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SLEEP DISORDERS (90%); SLEEP (90%); DRUG SAFETY (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); PSYCHIATRY (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); MEMORY DISORDERS (74%) Sleep; Insomnia; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Advertising and Marketing; Consumer Protection; Consumer Behavior; Ambien (Drug); Lunesta (Drug); Depression (Mental); Sleep; Sleep

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (83%); IMS HEALTH INC (58%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (83%); SANF (BIT) (83%); SAN (PAR) (83%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: Gregg D (Dr) Jacobs; Stephanie Saul

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



164 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Canada to Shield 5 Million Forest Acres 

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: HARTLEY BAY, British Columbia, Feb. 4 

 BODY:
In this sodden land of glacier-cut fjords and giant moss-draped cedars, a myth is told by the Gitga'at people to explain the presence of black bears with a rare recessive gene that makes them white as snow. 
 The Raven deity swooped down on the land at the end of an ice age and decided that one out of every 10 black bears born from that moment on would be bleached as ''spirit bears.'' It was to be a reminder to future generations that the world must be kept pristine.
 On Tuesday, an improbable assemblage of officials from the provincial government, coastal Native Canadian nations, logging companies and environmental groups will announce an agreement that they say will accomplish that mission in the home of the spirit bear, an area that is also the world's largest remaining intact temperate coastal rain forest. 
 A wilderness of close to five million acres, almost the size of New Jersey, in what is commonly called the Great Bear Rain Forest or the Amazon of the North will be kept off limits to loggers in an agreement that the disparate parties describe as a crossroads in their relations. 
 The agreement comes after more than a decade of talks, international boycott campaigns against Great Bear wood products and sit-ins in the forests by Native Canadians and environmentalists, who chained themselves to logging equipment.
 The process has already inspired similar efforts to save the Canadian boreal forest, to the north, and suggestions that the agreement could be a model for preservation in the Amazon and other threatened forests.
 Scientists say the agreement should preserve not only the few hundred spirit bears and other black bears, but also one of the highest concentrations of grizzly bears in North America as well as unique subspecies of goshawks, coastal wolves, Sitka blacktail deer and mountain goats.
 ''It's like a revolution,'' said Merran Smith, director of the British Columbia Coastal Program of Forest Ethics, an environmental group. ''It's a new way of thinking about how you do forestry. It's about approaching business with a conservation motive up front, instead of an industrial approach to the forest.''
 Under the agreement, the loggers will be guaranteed a right to work in 10 million acres of the forest, which some environmentalists criticize. But they will be obliged to cut selectively: away from critical watersheds, bear dens and fish spawning grounds, negotiators said.
 ''There's a new era dawning in British Columbia,'' said Gordon Campbell, the province's premier. ''You have to establish what you value, and work together. This collaboration is something we have to take into the future, and it is something the world can learn from.'' 
 As a sign of new Native power gained in recent court cases, many areas that will be preserved or selectively logged have been chosen based on the oral tradition of Native groups and the opinions of their elders. These include areas with cultural significance like ancient cemeteries, or those with medicinal herbs and cedars big enough to make totem poles, canoes and long houses.
 If the federal government agrees, more than $100 million will also be raised by governments and foundations to start ecotourism lodges, shellfish aquaculture and other environmentally sustainable economic activities for the 25,000 people who live in the region.
 ''Now we can manage our destiny,'' said Ross Wilson, chairman of the tribal council of the Heiltsuk, one of the Native nations involved. ''Without this agreement, we would be going to court forever and we would have to put our children and old ladies dressed in button blankets in the way of the chainsaws,'' he added, referring to the ceremonial dress worn in past protests.
 Among the supporters of the agreement are some of the biggest players in Canadian lumber and paper, including Western Forest Products, Interfor and Canfor.
 ''It's a cultural shift,'' said Shawn Kenmuir, an area manager for Triumph Timber, which has already forsaken old clear-cut practices and begun consulting with the Gitga'at before cutting on their traditional lands. ''We've started the transition from entitlement to collaboration.''
 The forest represents a quarter of what remains of coastal temperate rain forests in the world.
 Because 15 feet of rain can fall in a year, the Great Bear has never suffered a major forest fire. That has allowed some of the tallest and oldest trees on earth to thrive, including cedars more than a thousand years old.
 An estimated 20 percent of the world's remaining wild salmon swim through the forest's fjords, including coho and sockeye, whose spawning grounds were threatened by erosion caused by past logging. Largely intact because of its remoteness, the forest contains an abundance of wolverines, bats, peregrine falcons, marbled murrelet sea birds and coastal tailed frogs.
 The ecological richness is immediately apparent to the few people who visit. Within minutes of a recent helicopter visit to Princess Royal Island, in the heart of the rain forest, a group of visitors saw a pack of six gray and black wolves, a seal and numerous bald eagles and swans.
 ''Look at the forest move,'' said Marven Robinson, 36, a Gitga'at guide, as eagles glided through the moist air and the wolf pack played hide-and-seek with the visitors along a channel of diaphanous water. ''As long as there is a spirit bear, we're going the right way.''
 The efforts to save the rain forest began a decade ago, as lumber companies that had already cut most of the old-growth forest around British Columbia, by far Canada's richest forestry province, began moving into the Great Bear.
 A deluge of postcards and demonstrations by groups like the Sierra Club and Greenpeace at shareholders meetings and retail outlets pressed American, Japanese and European hardware chains to shun products from the area.
 By 1999, when the Home Depot announced it would phase out sales of wood from the Great Bear and other endangered old forests, some lumber companies were shifting their approach, agreeing to work with the environmentalists.
 MacMillan Bloedel, before it was acquired by Weyerhaeuser, broke ranks with the industry and promised in 1998 to phase out clear-cutting on the British Columbia coast. Other companies gradually fell into line.
 ''The customer doesn't want products with protesters chained to it,'' said Patrick Armstrong, a consultant who served as a negotiator for the lumber companies. ''We're dealing with old-growth forests with charismatic wildlife.''
 Once Mr. Armstrong sat at the opposite side of the bargaining table from the environmentalists, but now he works closely with them. ''This needs to be celebrated -- it's a big, big deal,'' he said. ''Everyone had a greater interest in resolving the problems than continuing the conflict.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Shawn Kenmuir, area manager for Triumph Timber, which already avoids clear-cut logging, a practice that has sometimes led to boycotts.
 Princess Royal Island, in British Columbia, is part of the Great Bear Rain Forest, the largest remaining temperate coastal rain forest. The area, more than 15 million acres, has only about 25,000 residents. (Photographs by Bayne Stanley for The New York Times) Map of Canda highlighting Great Bear Rain Forest: Sacred sites in the Great Bear Rain Forest are to be protected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIN FORESTS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (88%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); WILDERNESS (75%); BOYCOTTS (65%); FISHES (62%); ETHICS (61%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%) Forests and Forestry; Logging Industry; Conservation of Resources; Bears; Indians, American; Wilderness Areas; Forests and Forestry

PERSON: Clifford Krauss

GEOGRAPHIC: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (91%) CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) British Columbia (Canada); Great Bear Rain Forest (British Columbia); Canada

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



165 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET: THE MILITARY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Broad Ripples Of Iraq War In Budgets Of 2 Agencies

BYLINE: By DAVID S. CLOUD and JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
The costs of stabilizing and rebuilding Iraq will continue to ripple through the Pentagon and State Department budgets in 2007, under the proposal submitted to Congress on Monday.
 The Pentagon, while seeking about $70 billion for additional war costs from now until Sept. 30, did not include the full cost of the war in its request for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. But in many ways, like seeking more of the combat vehicles that are heavily armored against improvised bombs and seeking money to attract new recruits and retain those already in uniform, the military's budget reflects continuing costs from the war.
The State Department is asking for continuing development support for Iraq, for a total of $479 million next year. While that is an eightfold increase in the department's development aid, it is relatively little compared with the $20.9 billion that Congress has already approved for reconstruction. Much of that money, which was managed by the Pentagon rather than the State Department, has yet to be spent, or was diverted to security costs. 
 The State Department explained that the additional money for Iraq would be used to ''sustain key Iraqi infrastructure.'' A senior department official said, ''The money is for projects that are already up and running, not brand new programs.'' But given that many Iraqi reconstruction projects are incomplete or damaged because of sabotage, officials acknowledged that the definition was subjective.
 A government audit last month found that millions of dollars in reconstruction aid to Iraq was lost, stolen or misspent.
 The development financing for Iraq was the second highest proposed. Only Afghanistan would get more: $610 million. The administration said that money would used to pay salaries, build roads -- essentially to pay for all manner of government services.
 The money for Iraq and Afghanistan is part of a $33.65 billion State Department budget request, a 12 percent increase over the current year's budget.
 With hidden bombs the leading cause of American casualties in Iraq, the Pentagon said it wanted $581 million to buy 3,000 more armored Humvees in the 2007 fiscal year's budget.
 There are currently more than 26,000 Humvees in Iraq, of which more than 25,000 have some form of armor. But many of those have armor that was installed after the vehicles left the factory and is considered less effective. Army officials said they could not supply a separate breakdown on the number of factory-armored Humvees.
 Over all, the Pentagon budget comes to $439.3 billion, a 7 percent increase over the $410.8 billion enacted by Congress last year. That request does not include the cost of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which has been financed in periodic stand-alone appropriations bills.
 Tina Jonas, the Pentagon's top budget official, said the Pentagon budget included $1.9 billion in bonuses and incentives intended to retain senior enlisted personnel and warrant officers. Although re-enlistment numbers have been high, Pentagon officials are worried that they could lag, especially among midcareer enlisted personnel, as deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan continue.
 The administration is requesting $5.1 billion, around $1 billion more than provided this year, to expand the number of special operations troops by around 4,000. Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld considers such forces vital for defeating terror groups and working with foreign militaries. By 2011, the Pentagon wants to increase the number of special operations troops by 14,000.
 In foreign aid, the State Department is proposing a 13 percent drop in traditional foreign health, development and recovery aid, from an estimated $1.644 billion this year to $1.433 billion requested next year. Some Eastern European and Central Asian states accounted for part of the drop. They will get sharply reduced aid, or none at all. The way the department put it, these states had ''graduated'' and did not need aid any longer. Bulgaria, Croatia and Romania would for the first time in recent years get no economic assistance next year. 
 But department officials noted that additional aid was delivered in many other ways, including democracy-promotion programs and H.I.V. and AIDS initiatives.
 Foreign military assistance increased by just over 2 percent, to $4.84 billion, from $4.72 billion. While Romania, as an example, would get no economic aid, the administration proposes spending $1.6 million on military assistance there.
 The weapons budget at the Pentagon provides both for the immediate needs of forces in combat and for costly long-term projects that have little bearing on the war.
 The request allocates $1.6 billion on 132 unmanned aircraft, which Pentagon officials say are needed to provide better surveillance of suspected terror groups and other unconventional enemies. Last year, the Pentagon spent virtually the same amount and built 125 of this type of aircraft.
 Among the bigger ticket items are requests for $3.7 billion for the Army Future Combat Systems, a combination of 18 digitally connected combat vehicles and other equipment. The program is expected to cost $22 billion by 2011.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld speaking Sunday at a briefing at the Pentagon about the 2007 fiscal year budget, released yesterday. (Photo by David Y. Lee for The New York Times)Graph: ''Military Spending''The military budget proposed yesterday does not include money for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which have been financed by supplemental appropriations in the past few years.Spending as a percentage of gross domestic productGraph tracks spending as a percentage of gross domestic product since 1980.Supplemental appropriations after 2007 not yet estimated.(Source by Office of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ARMIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); AUDITS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); WEATHER (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) United States Armament and Defense; Special Forces; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Military Vehicles; Draft and Recruitment (Military); United States Armament and Defense; Security and Warning Systems; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%) State Department

PERSON: Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; David S Cloud; Joel Brinkley

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%) United States; Iraq; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



166 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Burn, Baby, Burn

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
Before I unveil my plan for energy independence, let me explain what's wrong with everyone else's.
 The problem with Americans is not that we're addicted to oil. As soon as oil becomes more trouble than it's worth, we will sensibly stop putting it in our cars. Until then, our problem is that we're addicted to politicians with plans for energy independence, like the Advanced Energy Initiative introduced by President Bush in his budget yesterday.
What exactly is so wrong with burning oil? The best argument is that it contributes to global warming. But so does burning coal and other fossil fuels. The fairest and most efficient way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions would be with a carbon tax on all fossil fuels. 
 But the advocates for energy independence want to do more than just regulate emissions. Since Jimmy Carter put on his cardigan sweater and declared saving energy ''the moral equivalent of war,'' politicians determined to wean us from imported oil have been hectoring us with bogus arguments:
 The well is running dry. Government planners have a long history of overestimating the future cost of oil and underestimating the cost of their pet alternatives -- which is why we keep burning oil. The government should finance basic research, not pick winners and losers. If there's a better alternative to oil in the near future, don't expect it to be glimpsed by the politicians now doling out subsidies to energy corporations and the corn farmers who vote in the Iowa caucuses. 
 America needs insurance against ''oil shocks.'' Insurance doesn't make sense if the premiums cost more than the disaster. Mandating fuel-economy standards saved gasoline and made Americans a little less vulnerable to a spike in oil prices, but the rules led to smaller cars and an additional 2,000 deaths per year in highway accidents from the mid-1970's to the mid-1990's, according to the National Research Council.
 Storing oil in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve was supposed to moderate the economic damage of price spikes, but there's little evidence that it's ever made any appreciable difference, according to a Cato Institute study by Jerry Taylor and Peter Van Doren. They calculate that the reserve has cost taxpayers more per barrel than the oil itself has ever been worth -- even in years when the average price of oil was high, as in 1991 or last year. 
 We must take away the Middle East's ''oil weapon.'' The only real oil weapon is the one that American politicians use to justify energy plans and Middle East adventures. It doesn't matter if our enemies in the Persian Gulf refuse to sell us oil directly. Once they sell it to anyone, it's in the global market and effectively available to us. 
 The only way to hurt us would be to refuse to sell to anyone, but Middle Eastern countries are far more dependent on oil than we are: their oil revenues constitute a much bigger percentage of their income than their oil represents as a fraction of our imports. 
 If Osama bin Laden took over Saudi Arabia, why would he want to risk a popular uprising from citizens suddenly cut off from their accustomed cut of the national income? Selling oil makes sense, as bin Laden himself acknowledged when he said in an interview in 1996, ''We are not going to drink it.''
 The United States spent decades propping up the shah of Iran only to see the country fall into the hands of our archenemies, but Iran is still exporting oil -- and it is a lot more reliable producer than Iraq, despite all the money and lives we've spent there. The best guarantee of future oil supplies is the sellers' greed, not our diplomatic and military efforts.
 When something finally comes along that's cheaper and more reliable than oil, no national energy plan will be necessary. Capitalists will be ready to sell it to eager American drivers. For now, the best strategy is to buy gasoline and stop worrying that it's sinful or dangerous.
 When you hear politicians calling you an addict and warning that you'll be cut off, try my plan for energy independence. It's modeled on the Daily Affirmation of Stuart Smalley, that recovering addict and devotee of 12-step programs (whose creator on ''Saturday Night Live,'' Al Franken, will probably be horrified). 
 After you fill up your tank, twist the rear-view mirror so you can gaze at yourself. Repeat these words: ''I'm good enough, I'm rich enough, and doggone it, people in the Middle East like my money.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (62%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Energy and Power; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (65%); JIMMY CARTER (56%); JOHN F TIERNEY (56%) John Tierney; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Middle East

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



167 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Haiti's Orphan Democracy

BYLINE: By Amy Wilentz. 
Amy Wilentz, who is writing a book about California, is the author of ''The Rainy Season: Haiti Since Duvalier.''

DATELINE: Los Angeles 

 BODY:
TWENTY years ago today, in the elegant but down-at-the-heels central square of Port-au-Prince, the Haitian people celebrated the departure of a dictator and the end of nearly three decades of a nightmare dynasty. In the smallest hours of Feb. 7, 1986, Jean-Claude Duvalier, his chain-smoking wife at his side, drove his Mercedes sedan right up to the open door of a United States Air Force jet and fled the country for the South of France. Along with about 50 members of the foreign press corps, I was there at Francois Duvalier International Airport, named for the fleeing man's father, who had visited disaster after disaster on his native land.
 Now it was morning, and it seemed all of Haiti had descended into the square, each person waving fanlike branches cut from street-side trees. It was as if a forest had come to town to cover up the traces of the hated regime.
A brighter day was dawning, so most people thought, and so I thought, although it was clear that there would be difficult moments ahead. Mobs surged through the city and countryside, hunting down supporters of the ancien regime. Yet Haitians in general were ecstatic. Surely democracy, with that joyous popular will behind it, would triumph. 
 Soon after that brilliant day, I became acquainted with a bunch of boys. They were young and homeless, and every day dozens of them would gather at the school where Jean-Bertrand Aristide, a Catholic priest known for his broadside sermons against the Duvalier regime, lived and worked. The boys spent a lot of time kicking a dead ball around the dusty courtyard in noisy games of soccer. Waldeck was one, another was nicknamed Ayiti (which means Haiti in Creole), another was Ti Johnny. One I did not know so well was Wilmer. There were so many; they all wanted money, and sneakers.
 Democracy, it turned out, was not within easy grasp. Having suffered through almost 30 years of the Duvaliers' kleptocracy, Haiti had no economy to speak of, hardly any infrastructure, no workable education system and no viable democratic institutions. The little boys were typical. Under Father Aristide's auspices, they eked out a living at the edge of this dysfunctional non-system, sleeping at night in a shantytown warehouse, with a single light bulb, and straw mats for beds.
 In the wake of Mr. Duvalier's ouster, democratic steps were taken: an electoral council established, a Constitution written, candidates announced. In 1990, Haiti held a free and fair election under international supervision, and -- to my amazement -- my boys' Father Aristide, the priest who spoke for Haiti's disenfranchised millions, became the country's first honestly elected president. 
 But beneath the veneer of progress, Haiti hadn't really changed. The same ruinous division continued between the tiny upper class, which had long run the country, and the poor. The rich went on living in mansions amid boutiques and restaurants at the literal top of the hill in Port-au-Prince, and the impoverished, unemployed, illiterate and starving majority of the people endured in the mud, sewage, garbage and pig slop in shantytowns at the bottom, or in the remote countryside, unelectrified and dark. Worse yet, the country was essentially bankrupt, relying almost entirely on funds from donor nations and on money sent back to relatives by Haitians abroad. 
 President Aristide had little effect on all this, for all his orphan boys and his dedication to popular empowerment. Many of his immediate projects revolved around himself, though he always bore the people's future in mind. As far as he was concerned, he was the people, and the people were President Aristide. Thus a new house for him, with an echoing living room, was a new sanctuary where the people could come to hear his message. A new swimming pool in his yard was a place where the little boys could come to swim without fear or embarrassment -- and they did. Meanwhile, conditions in the shantytowns worsened.
 None of this was surprising in a Haitian president. But Jean-Bertrand Aristide was supposed to be different. And he really was different. No matter how big his house, how nice his swimming pool, he never lost the respect of a wide swath of the population for whom he remained a commanding symbol of liberation. A powerful sector of Haiti's elite could not stomach that -- nor did they like this outsider's control over the country's purse strings.
 Once in power, President Aristide was damned if he did and damned if he didn't. If he didn't make slum dwellers and heads of popular movements his closest advisers, for example, he would be shunning the Haitian people, the very ones who gave him his legitimacy. But if he did accept the common people into his circle or reject his handful of upper-class advisers, he would be seen as encouraging naive, unlettered toughs who were likely to be sycophantic and turn to violence when thwarted. 
 Haitian society was so polarized between haves and have-nots that every decision was potentially destructive and only moderation might have saved the day. Yet President Aristide was not a natural moderate, and neither were his most implacable enemies -- members of a powerful elite that wielded remarkable influence in Washington. 
 And so President Aristide was overthrown before he had served a year of his term. Reinstated by President Bill Clinton in 1994, Mr. Aristide rightly feared that the same forces -- a cabal of elite families, members of the military and American powerbrokers -- would conspire to take him down again. He disbanded the army. In 2000, he was again elected president. This time he made stabs at moderation, but his enemies would not budge, and in the end, he believed he needed the militant support of his power base in the shantytowns to stave off another attempt to oust him. 
 Those boys whom I'd met in 1986 were big now -- those who had survived. Waldeck had a baby and was helping with security at the presidential palace. Ti Johnny had been shot and killed in a drug-related incident. Ayiti had died, too -- of AIDS, it was said. I didn't hear anything about Wilmer for a long time.
 As he had feared, President Aristide was overthrown again in February 2004, with the support of the right-wing elite and a nod from Washington. Soon after, Wilmer surfaced as an armed street organizer in the giant slum of Cite Soleil, on the outskirts of the capital. A skinny boy not so long ago, he had become a legendary outlaw Aristide supporter known as Dread Wilmer -- to some a bandit hero, a Haitian Robin Hood, to others a drug trafficker, gangster and killer. With President Aristide gone, he was vulnerable. Last July, Wilmer and four others, including a woman and her two small children, were killed in a gun battle with the United Nations forces that had been sent to keep the peace in Haiti.
 Since Mr. Aristide's most recent ouster, things have fallen apart in Haiti in a dramatic way, with kidnappings and street shootouts commonplace. This is not a propitious atmosphere for today's planned presidential vote, in which Rene Preval, a former elected president and a former close Aristide associate, is the front-runner, according to polls. If Mr. Preval wins by a wide margin (less likely since electoral authorities decided not to allow voting inside the restive Cite Soleil), he might be able to take some small steps forward for the country.
 President Aristide's example, however flawed, makes it hard for any future Haitian leader to rule without a popular mandate. The trouble lies in getting both Haitian elites and American policy makers to accept fair elections and whatever leadership, unpredictable as it might be, that emerges from them. This may not happen today, or even tomorrow. But the new generation of Haiti's elite needs to recognize that regime change in Haiti must come from the electorate. And in the same spirit, Washington -- for so long insincere on the question of Haitian democracy -- has to put its backing once and for all truly behind the Haitian people.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Matt Rota)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ORPHANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); AIR FORCES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); POLITICS (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); SOCCER (63%); SMOKING (56%) Elections; Politics and Government; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (57%)

PERSON: Amy Wilentz; Jean-Bertrand Aristide

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%) Haiti; Haiti

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



168 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Israel to Cooperate With Palestinian Authority for Now

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
Israel will continue to cooperate with the Palestinian Authority and its interim government so long as Hamas is not represented there, the acting prime minister, Ehud Olmert, said Monday.
 He said Israel would maintain diplomatic relations with the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, known as Abu Mazen, whose position was not directly affected by the sweeping victory of Hamas in the legislative elections late last month.
 ''I have no interest in harming Palestinian Authority chairman Abu Mazen, as long as he doesn't cooperate with Hamas and as long as the Palestinian government isn't led by Hamas,'' Mr. Olmert told an Israeli-European economic conference in Tel Aviv. 
 ''As long as it doesn't contain a Hamas government, we will speak and cooperate'' with the Palestinian Authority ''with the intention of strengthening those who acknowledge the right of Israel to live without terror and within safe borders,'' Mr. Olmert said.
 As Palestinian president, Mr. Abbas oversees the security services as commander in chief. But when Yasir Arafat was alive, the United States pressed for the creation of a new post of prime minister and a cabinet, both approved by the legislature. Under that arrangement, the prime minister is chairman of the Palestinian security council, and the interior minister is in charge of the various security forces.
 The election of Hamas, which will control the prime minister's post and the government, has made those arrangements awkward for the United States and for Mr. Abbas, who says he intends to try to regain full control over the Palestinian security forces and their budget.
 Israel and the West were taken aback by the victory of Hamas, a group they consider a terrorist organization, and are now looking to Mr. Abbas as if he, whom they criticized for weakness when his Fatah faction controlled the government, has somehow become stronger after Fatah's defeat by Hamas.
 Mr. Olmert spoke one day after his government decided to transfer some $54 million in tax and customs revenues, collected by Israel but owed to the Palestinians, to the Palestinian Authority. But he warned that the money would not be given to a government containing Hamas figures.
 Israel was under considerable pressure from the United States to release the money so the Palestinians could pay 140,000 employees, including some 58,000 members of the security services. But the payment was sharply criticized by the Likud Party as a gift to Hamas. 
 The United States is trying to put off the day that Hamas takes control until after the Israeli elections on March 28, so that financing can continue to flow to pay salaries. James D. Wolfensohn, the representative of the United States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations -- known as the quartet -- will visit the Arab countries in the Persian Gulf region to raise up to $300 million for the Palestinian Authority.
 Even with the tax and customs receipts, the authority still has a monthly deficit of $50 million to $60 million. Saudi Arabia has pledged $100 million, and some states, like Qatar, have pledged a few million more to get the authority through January and February.
 The World Bank trust fund withheld a payment of $60 million in December when the Palestinian Authority broke its commitment to be more fiscally responsible. The money is mostly from the European Union, and there is pressure from Washington to pay the money anyway. The World Bank would prefer to give the money back to individual donor countries for them to pay the Palestinians, rather than undermine its demands for structural reform.
 The Palestinians, meanwhile, are dealing with the embarrassing fallout of a major corruption scandal among Fatah leaders of the Palestinian Authority. 
 Mr. Abbas ordered the investigation kept quiet until the Palestinian elections were over, but the Palestinian attorney general, Ahmed alMeghani, disclosed a corruption scandal on Sunday that could involve the stealing of billions of dollars by high-ranking Palestinian officials. 
 Mr. Meghani said he had arrested 25 people and issued warrants for others, some of whom who have fled the territories since Hamas won on Jan. 25. The disclosures are awkward, given the Palestinian Authority's current need for money.
 Hamas leaders gathered Monday in Cairo for talks with the Egyptians on a new Palestinian government. Hamas leaders have made contradictory statements about whether they would deal with Israel, and whether they would seek money from Iran, which opposes any peace treaty with Israel and already helps to finance Hamas and Islamic Jihad, another radical faction. 
 Separately, the Israeli organization Peace Now said Monday that the number of Israeli settlers living in occupied territory in the West Bank -- not including East Jerusalem, which Israel annexed in 1967 -- increased in 2005 by about 7,000 to 250,000 settlers, even after the pullout of some 9,000 Israeli settlers from the Gaza Strip and northern West Bank last summer. 
 The settler population is increasing at 5.5 percent a year, Peace Now said, compared with a 1.8 percent for the overall Israeli population. No new West Bank settlement outposts were established in 2005, but 52 illegal outposts were established since March 2001, when Ariel Sharon became prime minister. 
 Before his stroke, he promised Washington to get rid of them, though the Israeli government says that only 24 outposts constructed since March 2001 remain. An additional 200,000 Israelis live in East Jerusalem, which much of the world regards as occupied but which Israel considers an integral part of its capital.
 Also on Monday, Israeli forces fired rockets at a car in northern Gaza, killing two Palestinians who it said were members of Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AL FATAH (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); BUDGETS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%) Palestinians

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%) Palestinian Authority; Hamas

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (91%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (90%) Steven Erlanger; Ehud (Deputy Prime Min) Olmert

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (50%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); GULF STATES (64%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



169 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET: HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Slowing the Growth of Medicare

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
President Bush proposes to cut the projected growth of Medicare by $2.5 billion next year and by $35.9 billion from 2007 to 2011, mostly by reducing the annual inflation updates that hospitals and other health care providers receive. 
 Medicare would still grow rapidly: 7.7 percent a year under the president's budget, compared with 8.1 percent under current law.
Health care providers are already mobilizing a campaign to block the president's proposals. In an election year, they appear to have a reasonable chance of succeeding. They contend that the proposals would hurt many of the 42 million beneficiaries.
 Mr. Bush would give hospitals and hospices less than a full inflation update in each of the next three years. He would freeze Medicare payment rates for skilled nursing homes and home health agencies in 2007, then reduce the inflation allowances they would otherwise receive in the next two years.
 The White House contends that health care providers can live with the cutbacks if they become more productive. But William D. Novelli, chief executive of AARP, warned that the proposals could lead to ''a crisis in quality and access to health care for older Americans.''
 Mr. Bush proposed a major new tool to cut the growth of Medicare. If general revenues account for more than 45 percent of Medicare spending in any year, payments to health care providers would be automatically cut by four-tenths of 1 percent. If Congress failed to act, the cuts would be deeper. Payments would be cut by an additional four-tenths of 1 percent every year in which the threshold was exceeded.
 This mechanism is intended to prod Congress to take action to slow the program's growth. Medicare is financed partly with payroll taxes and premiums, but it is relying to a larger degree on general revenues. 
 Mr. Bush also proposed savings in Medicaid, the federal-state program for low-income people. Savings would total $783 million next year and $13.6 billion from 2007 to 2011. Mr. Bush said he would achieve most of the savings by limiting the ability of states to shift Medicaid costs to the federal government.
 The president requested $80.6 billion in 2007 for the Department of Veterans Affairs, including $34.3 billion for health care programs. He proposed higher drug co-payments and new fees for middle-income veterans with no service-connected disabilities. ROBERT PEAR

 $67.6 billion
-2.3%

Note: Percentages represent changes from last year's discretionary budget.

GRAPHIC: PhotoChart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); MEDICARE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (73%); HOSPICE (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); MEDICAID (58%); HOME HEALTH CARE (55%) Medicine and Health; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicare; Medicaid; Hospitals; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



170 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET: THE DEFICIT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: In Calculating the Shortfall, Likely Costs Are Left Out 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
On paper, President Bush's budget seems to meet his promise of cutting the federal deficit in half by the time he leaves office.
 But in practice, the budget is much less realistic than it appears because it omits nearly a half-trillion dollars in costs that are likely to be incurred over the next five years.
The omissions include any costs for the war in Iraq after 2007, any additional reconstruction costs for New Orleans after 2006 and any plan for preventing a huge expansion in the alternative minimum tax after the end of this year.
 And because Mr. Bush's blueprint is limited to the next five years, it offers little guidance on how he would restrain the soaring costs of Medicare and Social Security as the nation's 70 million-plus baby boomers begin to retire in 2008. 
 If all of the White House proposals and projections are taken at face value, the budget deficit will climb to $423 billion this fiscal year and then shrink to $208 billion by 2009. 
 That would fulfill Mr. Bush's promise to halve the deficit, but only if he manages to avoid the gremlins that have bedeviled his previous plans. 
 The most obvious omission involves the costs of the war in Iraq, which have averaged nearly $100 billion a year since 2003. White House officials said Monday that they planned to ask Congress for an additional $70 billion this fiscal year, on top of the $50 billion it has already approved, and $50 billion for 2007.
 Those costs appear to have been incorporated into the deficit forecasts through 2007, but the budget assumes that those costs will cease in the years that follow.
 Far more significant, however, is Mr. Bush's refusal to deal with an explosion in the alternative minimum tax. 
 Created in 1969 to stop the nation's richest citizens from taking too much advantage of tax breaks, the alternative minimum tax is set to engulf tens of millions of additional families over the next few years. 
 Mr. Bush and Congressional leaders from both parties have promised to prevent that from happening, but Mr. Bush's budget still assumes that the government will reap hundreds of billions of extra dollars from the tax over the next five years.
 The new White House proposal includes about $34 billion to keep the tax from expanding, but that will cover only 2006. 
 The budget commitment needed to keep the alternative minimum tax at current levels will keep rising and soon become as expensive as the war in Iraq. In 2009, the year in which Mr. Bush promises to reduce the deficit to $208 billion, the cost of preventing a de facto tax increase just for that year would push the deficit to nearly $300 billion.
 One year ago, Mr. Bush promised to address the problem by proposing a top-to-bottom overhaul of the income tax system that would eliminate the alternative minimum tax and pay for that by ending scores of other tax breaks.
 But Mr. Bush has all but abandoned any efforts at tax overhaul for this year and did not mention the issue in his State of the Union address last week. Where Mr. Bush has not wavered is his insistence on preserving and expanding the tax cuts from his first term.
 The White House budget outlines plans to shave about $65 billion from programs like Medicare, Medicaid, food stamps education and housing assistance for low-income families, the elderly and the disabled.
 But Mr. Bush would extend virtually all of the tax cuts from 2001 and 2003, add new tax breaks to subsidize the purchase of health care, and extend dozens of other expiring tax cuts for businesses and investors.
 Extending Mr. Bush's basic tax cuts from 2001 and 2003, most of which expire around 2010, would cost about $178 billion over the next five years and $1.35 trillion over the next decade.
 Adding on all the other proposals in the budget, including renewing existing tax breaks and expanding tax breaks for programs like health savings accounts, the five-year tally of costs climbs to nearly $300 billion and the 10-year total passes $1.5 trillion. 
 In an effort to shift the debate, Mr. Bush's new budget calls for Congress to take a new approach in assessing the cost of making his tax cuts permanent.
 Under Mr. Bush's plan, Congress would not treat an extension of the tax cuts as having any cost. That is the way the White House tallies up its budget, but it would be a huge change for Congress, which explicitly played down the cost of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts by having them expire. 
 Robert Greenstein, director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group, said that even a Republican-led Congress was unlikely to agree to the change. 
 ''What the administration wants is the most flagrant gimmick in the history of the U. S. budget,'' Mr. Greenstein said. ''It's so flagrant that I don't think that even Congress will give it to them.'' 
 Even staunch champions of fiscal discipline acknowledge that budget deficits over the next few years are not in themselves disastrous. 
 As a share of the nation's gross domestic product, a measure that most economists consider a better gauge of financial health than just a dollar figure, the deficit this year would hit 3.2 percent and decline to 1.2 percent after five years.
 This year's anticipated deficit, worsened by the war and hurricane relief, is much smaller as a share of gross domestic product than those in the 1980's and early 90's.
 But the budget deficits this year and in the immediate future are alarming to many economists for two other reasons.
 For one thing, the budget faces much larger problems as tens of millions of baby boomers begin to retire. The oldest will qualify for Social Security and Medicare benefits in 2008, with the numbers expected to soar in the decade that follows.
 Economists also say the budget deficits pose a more immediate concern. They are extremely high for a country that has enjoyed strong economic growth for more than four years and has seen its unemployment rate drop below 5 percent.
 According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, the primary causes of the budget deficit have changed dramatically. For the first several years of Mr. Bush's presidency, much of it stemmed from a series of economic shocks -- the collapse of the stock market bubble, the recession of 2001, anxiety caused by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 and corporate accounting scandals.
 By contrast, the Congressional Budget Office estimated that in the 2005 fiscal year, economic problems caused only about 8 percent of the deficit. The rest resulted from policy choices by Congress and the Bush administration.
 That leaves the government's financial health much more dependent on the health of the economy.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative John M. Spratt Jr., left, and Senator Kent Conrad, the ranking Democrats on the Congressional budget committees, discussed the new budget and the federal deficit at a news conference yesterday. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)Chart: ''Forecasting the Deficit''President Bush's budget for the 2007 fiscal year meets his goal of reducing the deficit by half by the end of his term. But likely costs not included in the administration's projections would lessen the reductions.White House projections: In billions of dollarsGraph tracks White House projections in billions of dollars since 1980.and as a percentage of the gross domestic productGraph tracks percent of gross domestic product since 1980.(Sources by Office of Management and Budget [deficits and surpluses]
 Congressional Budget Office [other likely costs])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); APPROVALS (73%); WEATHER (73%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); INCOME TAX (62%); HURRICANES (59%) Election Issues; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Taxation; Alternative Minimum Tax

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); KENT CONRAD (58%); JOHN SPRATT (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) United States; Iraq; New Orleans (La); United States

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



171 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET: THE CONTEXT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Holding Fast to a Policy of Tax Cutting

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER; Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
George W. Bush ran for office as a ''compassionate conservative,'' arguing that Americans did not have to choose between huge tax cuts and a government that would do its part to address social needs like education and health care.
 Now into his sixth year in the White House, Mr. Bush offered a budget on Monday that showed more clearly than ever the inexorable limits of that political promise. 
Mr. Bush is asking Congress, first and foremost, to make his tax cuts permanent and to increase spending on national security, while looking for savings in popular domestic programs like Medicare and vocational education. The tradeoffs, to his critics, are achingly clear, and unfair.
 Mr. Bush's budget began an ideologically charged debate in a midterm election year, with his party's control of Congress at stake. Democrats said Mr. Bush was proposing spending reductions that went well beyond fat to preserve his tax cuts for the affluent.
 ''This is cutting lean, muscular programs,'' said Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the ranking Democrat on the House Budget Committee. 
 The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee quickly dispatched talking points tailored to hot Senate races. ''White House budget forces Santorum to choose between Pennsylvania and Bush,'' said one set of talking points focused on Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, a Republican facing a difficult re-election fight. ''Pennsylvania could lose millions in law enforcement, education, health care dollars.''
 Republicans countered that failure to renew the tax cuts would mean a dangerous tax increase that would threaten the health of the economy. 
 ''The most important thing we can do with our federal budget is to keep a good, strong, growing economy generating jobs,'' said Joshua B. Bolten, the White House budget director. Mr. Bush's marching orders were simple, Mr. Bolten added -- to ''focus on national priorities and tighten our belts elsewhere.'' 
 Mr. Bush has never fit easily into any category when it comes to his philosophy of government. He has been called a big-government conservative, a supply-sider and, by conservatives who despair of his unwillingness to get even tougher on domestic spending, a spendthrift.
 To many Democrats, he appears intent on extending and expanding his tax cuts precisely to create the situation the government faces now, leaving it to choose between tolerating large deficits or cutting into domestic programs in a way that begins to alter the social contract.
 Even now, the dissonance has not been fully resolved. The Bush administration is rolling out the biggest expansion of Medicare in 40 years -- the prescription drug benefit enacted in 2003 -- but at the same time calling for billions in reductions in projected payments to hospitals and other Medicare providers over the next five years.
 Still, the new budget underscores the consistent and paramount importance of tax cuts in the Bush philosophy. His first term cuts affected more money than any other initiative undertaken in his presidency, including the costs thus far of the war in Iraq. All told, including tax incentives for health care programs and the extension of other tax breaks that are likely to be taken up by Congress, the White House budget calls for nearly $300 billion in tax cuts over the next five years, and $1.5 trillion over the next 10 years.
 Most of that lost revenue would be the result of extending Mr. Bush's tax cuts of 2001 and 2003, which reduced the income tax rates, offered generous new breaks to families and businesses, and slashed taxes on investment income. 
 Democrats assert that the country simply cannot afford extending all those tax cuts, especially since their benefits would go largely to upper income people. But administration officials argued again on Monday that the nation's economy had suffered serious shocks over the past five years, from the terrorist attacks and Hurricane Katrina, and that Mr. Bush's tax policies had played a crucial role in preserving economic growth. In other words, the ''belt-tightening'' must come elsewhere.
 Mr. Bush proposed an array of savings in domestic programs, including big reductions or cuts in 141 programs. Critics asserted those reductions would do little to ease the deficit even as they imposed real hardship on some people, constituting pain for little gain. Gene B. Sperling, a former economic adviser to President Bill Clinton, compared it to a man who leases three fully loaded Hummers, finds it stretches his family's budget to the breaking point, and decides his family has to start buying cheaper peanut butter. 
 ''They're trying to create a framework where it seems the government can't do anything dramatic on child poverty or helping people between jobs because there's too much discretionary spending,'' Mr. Sperling said. ''And their own numbers show that's flat out wrong.''
 With the deficit expected to be more than $400 billion this year, and having made clear that he does not intend to be lured into negotiations about scaling back his tax cuts, Mr. Bush is increasingly responding to pressure from conservatives to exert more discipline on domestic spending. His budget did win some praise from influential conservatives like Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas. ''Just calling for entitlement spending reform is a step in the right direction,'' Mr. Hensarling said.
 In an election year that could turn on the enthusiasm of his party's conservative base, Mr. Bush is clearly happy to be identified as a budget cutter. But whether his party has the stomach in an election year to push ahead with Medicare trims -- always a difficult issue at the grassroots level, where local doctors and hospitals loom large -- is another question.
 Among those lining up to oppose the Medicare spending restrictions were the major hospital associations and the AARP, formidable political lobbies.
 And even within the ranks of Republicans, there was some immediate opposition. Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, said she was ''disappointed and even surprised'' at the proposed restrictions in Medicare and Medicaid, which she said would ''dramatically affect people's access to care'' in Maine.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The release of President Bush's budget yesterday in Washington started an ideologically charged debate in a midterm election year. (Photo by David Y. Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (75%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (74%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (72%); HOSPITALS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); TRENDS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); TERRORISM (59%); JOB CREATION (50%) Election Issues; Medicine and Health; Medicare; Taxation; Social Conditions and Trends; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN SPRATT (58%); RICK SANTORUM (50%) George W (Pres) Bush; Robin Toner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



172 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1946 words

HEADLINE: BUSH BUDGET PLAN FOR $2.77 TRILLION STRESSES SECURITY

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Carl Hulse, Diana Jean Schemo and Matthew L. Wald contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
President Bush proposed a $2.77 trillion budget on Monday calling for increased spending on the military and domestic security and substantial cuts in domestic programs as disparate as education, farm subsidies and the national parks.
 The budget bears all the hallmarks of the Bush presidency: his overriding priorities are national security and making permanent the tax cuts passed by Congress in recent years.
But it is unclear how much appetite Congress will have in a critical midterm election year for further spending cuts, including a new formula Mr. Bush is proposing to limit the growth in Medicare spending, at a savings of $36 billion over the next five years. 
 And Democrats said Mr. Bush's emphasis on tax cuts had created what in their view was a false choice between addressing the budget deficit and maintaining necessary social programs. 
 While Mr. Bush said in his written introduction to the budget that his priorities were ''protecting our citizens and our homeland,'' some Democrats said his method was flawed. Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the ranking Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said, ''A budget is a statement of moral choices, and this budget makes the wrong choices.''
 The budget will pose particularly agonizing choices for the Republican majority. Republicans are caught between pressure from conservatives to make real headway in limiting the size and role of the federal government, and the political reality that votes to cut programs that touch the lives of millions of people could make them vulnerable to Democratic attacks in the fall. 
 The budget is chockablock with proposals that could give Republicans pause, like one to scale back programs that help the poor insulate their homes. 
 While presidential budgets amount to an opening offer in a yearlong negotiation with Congress, the four hefty volumes released by the administration on Monday underscored how radically the realities and politics of spending have changed during Mr. Bush's presidency. 
 As the president was taking office in January 2001, the Congressional Budget Office projected that the federal budget would run a surplus in excess of $5.6 trillion between 2002 and 2011. Now, after tax cuts, a terror attack, a recession and a war in Iraq that has proven far more expensive than the administration projected, the budget office predicts deficits for the five years starting Oct. 1 totaling more than $2.2 trillion.
 Moreover, Mr. Bush's budget shows the tension between his promise, since he began seeking the presidency, to act as a ''compassionate conservative'' and the fiscal pressures created by his tax cuts and support for more spending on national security. [News analysis, Page A14.]
 His chances of having it approved depend not just on his ability to help reconcile those tensions as they play out in his own party but also on the skills of the Republican leadership evolving in the House, under the newly elected majority leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio.
 The main proposals in the budget include:
 An increase in military spending of $28.5 billion, or 6.9 percent, to $439.3 billion, and an increase in financing for programs directly related to domestic security, about a third of which are outside the Department of Homeland Security, of 3.3 percent, to $33.1 billion.
 A reduction in spending on all other annually appropriated domestic programs of $2.2 billion, or one-half of 1 percent, to $398.3 billion. That reduction encompasses cutbacks in the budgets of 12 cabinet agencies, including education, housing and environmental protection.
 Tax incentives to encourage people to save more to cover their own medical costs and a mechanism intended to prod Congress to hold down the growth of costs in Medicare. 
 More money to bolster the nation's borders against illegal immigration.
 A call for Mr. Bush's tax cuts, which will expire in coming years, to be made permanent, reducing projected federal revenues by $178.6 billion over the next five years and $1.35 trillion over the next decade.
 The administration argued that even with a sharp increase in the budget deficit this year, which was fueled by the costs of Hurricane Katrina and the war in Iraq, it would meet its pledge of cutting the budget deficit in half by 2009, compared with its projected deficit for 2004. 
 New figures issued Monday by Mr. Bush's budget director, Joshua B. Bolten, showed that the huge deficits that have returned since Mr. Bush took office were partly offset last year by what Mr. Bolten called a ''remarkable'' $274 billion increase in federal tax receipts. Almost all of that was the result of stronger-than-expected economic growth, which Mr. Bolten said could be directly attributed to the tax cuts -- a supply-side argument many of the administration's critics reject.
 Mr. Bush, in his budget introduction, defended seeking spending increases of 7 percent and 3 percent for the military and for domestic security while cutting elsewhere. ''Working with Congress,'' he said, ''we have given our men and women on the front lines in the war on terror the funding they need to defeat the enemy and detect, disrupt and dismantle terrorist plots and operations.''
 In other areas where Mr. Bush has called for new programs, including nuclear energy research and preparing for a potential outbreak of bird flu, the amount of new federal money proposed is relatively modest. 
 For example, the nuclear energy program Mr. Bush proposed in last week's State of the Union address as part of an effort to wean the United States off Middle East oil is budgeted at $250 million, building on a program about a quarter of that size that has existed for many years.
 That amounts to about one-half of 1 percent of the estimated cost of operations in Iraq in the 2007 fiscal year, which the administration tentatively estimated at $50 billion, in addition to the military budget of $439.3 billion. Congress has already appropriated about $50 billion for continuing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan this year, and the administration is preparing to ask for an additional $70 billion or so this year. 
 In the politics of military budgeting, the administration asks for money for the Pentagon's regular operations; wars are extra. The Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, a research organization that studies the Pentagon budget, said that taken together, the allocations ''would mark the highest level of funding for defense since the height of the Korean War.'' 
 Mr. Bush added to his budget another State of the Union proposal, the American Competitiveness Initiative, including the training of 70,000 high school teachers and 30,000 scientists and mathematicians to teach classes in local public schools, at a cost of a little over $400 million. 
 But he is also asking Congress to shut down programs in vocational education and two other programs -- legacies of President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society program -- to prepare poor and minority students for college.
 Democrats immediately attacked the budget, and most focused on the projected increase in the deficit to $423 billion, a figure that the administration said had risen because of the more than $100 billion in emergency spending after Hurricane Katrina. Democratic leaders said a far bigger factor was tax cuts, which become far more costly after Mr. Bush leaves office and provide most of their benefits to upper-income people. 
 ''If the Bush tax cut agenda is enabled, the revenue loss over 10 years is $1.8 trillion,'' said Mr. Spratt, the South Carolina Democrat.
 He noted that Mr. Bush omitted almost all the cost of reversing the alternative minimum tax, a system created decades ago to make sure the richest Americans paid at least some tax and that now affects millions of new taxpayers each year.
 While Congress created a ''patch'' to prevent the tax from engulfing new taxpayers in 2006, it has not passed a longer-term extension of that fix, which by some estimates could cost upward of $800 billion in the next 10 years, Mr. Spratt said.
 The Senate minority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, tried to tie the budget to Washington's lobbying scandals, saying the programs Mr. Bush saved were part of ''the Republican culture of corruption.''
 ''While working Americans are facing higher prices for everything from health care to gas to college tuition,'' Mr. Reid said, ''this president's budget continues to hand out costly, budget-busting favors for special interests like the drug, oil and H.M.O. industries.''
 He added, ''The president is asking our seniors, our students and our families to clean up his fiscal mess with painful cuts in health care and student aid.''
 But the Democrats are unlikely to rein in military or domestic security spending -- a move that would open them further to the Republican accusation that they are weak on national security issues. 
 For their part, Republican leaders said the proposal represented only a starting point for Congressional budget debate.
 ''President Bush has laid the groundwork for a renewed look at our spending priorities as we focus on reining in federal spending, reducing the deficit and continuing America's strong economic growth,'' said Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, carefully avoiding any specific endorsement of Mr. Bush's proposals.
 The biggest proposed savings were in mandatory spending on entitlements. Those totals would come down by $65 billion in five years, more than half of which is accounted for by slowing Medicare growth. 
 Mr. Bolten called the current trends in Medicare ''unsustainable'' and said Mr. Bush remained committed to fundamental changes in entitlement spending, despite the failure of his campaign last year to revamp Social Security. 
 The budget covers the 2007 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1. The total of $2.77 trillion in spending called for is an increase of 2.3 percent from projected spending of $2.71 trillion this year. That is considerably above the $2.57 trillion plan Mr. Bush sent to Congress a year ago.
 The administration insisted that it remained on track for cutting the budget deficit in half by the time Mr. Bush leaves office in 2009. But that involves some numerical sleight of hand; it is based on a projected deficit of $521 billion for 2004 that never came in that high. 
 The 2006 projected deficit of $423 billion is well above the pre-Hurricane Katrina estimate that the deficit for the year would come in at $341 billion. But under Mr. Bush's projections, the deficit should fall again to $354 billion in the 2007 fiscal year, and to $183 billion in 2010.
 Mr. Bolten urged reporters to ignore the dollar amounts and focus on deficits as a percentage of gross domestic product. Over the past 40 years, deficits have averaged 2.3 percent of G.D.P.; last year they ran at 2.6 percent. This year the deficit will be 3.2 percent, but he argued that by 2009, barring unforeseen circumstances, it should drop to 1.4 percent. 
 ''In order to keep the deficit on this declining path,'' Mr. Bolten said, ''we must continue to do two things: first, keep the economy growing, and second, restrain spending.''
 Republicans made it clear that restraint would be politically difficult. Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said the proposal on Medicare and Medicaid would be particularly difficult. 
 ''Congress just finished reducing the growth of Medicare and Medicaid by $11.1 billion over the next five years,'' Mr. Grassley said, ''and it wasn't an easy legislative accomplishment. Any more reductions of a significant scope could be difficult this year.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Copies of President Bush's proposed budget for 2007 being delivered yesterday to the Senate Budget Committee hearing room on Capitol Hill. (Photo by David Y. Lee for The New York Times)(pg. A15)Chart: ''The Big Picture''Breakdown of President Bush's budget for the 2007 fiscal year.WHERE IT COMES FROMTOTAL REVENUE: $2.42 trillionIndividual income taxes$1,096 billion45% of revenuePayroll taxes$88437%Corporate income taxes$26111%Excise taxes, estate and gift taxes, other$1757%DeficitHOW$354 IT IS SPENTTOTAL SPENDING: $2.77 trillionMANDATORY SPENDINGSocial Security$581 billion21% of spendingMedicare$38714%Medicaid*$2057%Other$32012%DISCRETIONARY SPENDINGMilitary and domestic security$53719%Nonmilitary$49218%Interest on the debt$2479%*Also includes State Children's Health Insurance Program.(Source by Office of Management and Budget)(pg. A15)Chart: ''President Bush's $2.77 trillion budget proposes increases for the military but reductions for other areas.''MilitaryDiscretionary budget, in billions: 439.3Change in discretionary budget: +6.9%Does not include supplemental appropriations, estimated to be $50 billion for wars in Iraq and Afghanistan in 2007.Homeland SecurityDiscretionary budget, in billions: 30.9Change in discretionary budget: +1.3Increases FEMA spending. Provides for new border agents, technology and detention space to deter illegal immigrants.Health and Human ServicesDiscretionary budget, in billions: 67.6Change in discretionary budget: -2.3Reduces projected Medicare spending by $36 billion over five years. Includes money for pandemic influenza preparedness.EducationDiscretionary budget, in billions: 54.4Change in discretionary budget: -3.8Continues financing for No Child Left Behind Act. Includes private-school vouchers for students in under-performing schools.(Source by White House Office of Management and Budget)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORISM (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); MEDICARE (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%) Law and Legislation; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Social Conditions and Trends; Education and Schools; Mathematics ; Teachers and School Employees; Science and Technology; Taxation; Energy and Power; Atomic Energy; Minorities (US); Medicine and Health; Medicare; Election Issues 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%) Homeland Security Department

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN SPRATT (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; David E Sanger; Joshua B (Budget Dir) Bolten

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) United States; United States; United States; Iraq; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



173 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES: MEMO PAD; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 637 words

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:

THE TOP TRAVEL WORRIES -- In a survey, more business travelers cited theft (37 percent) than terrorism (27 percent) as the biggest potential risk on the road. The survey of 1,717 business travelers was commissioned by the travel management company Ultramar Travel Bureau. Of those surveyed, 56 percent said their company had an emergency preparedness plan for corporate travelers. 


NEW BOEING JET CERTIFIED -- Boeing said its new 777-200LR Worldliner jet had been certified for commercial passenger service after six months of flight tests. The jet can carry more than 300 passengers up to 9,420 nautical miles. The first 777-200LR will be delivered to Pakistan International Airlines this month, the company said. In November, a Boeing 777-200LR on a demonstration flight set a world distance record for a nonstop commercial flight -- 11,664 nautical miles to London from Hong Kong in 22 hours and 42 minutes.

CHECKED BAGS A LA CARTE -- The bad news is that it will cost at least $4.50 to check a bag starting March 16 on Ryanair, the big European discount carrier that many American business travelers use for cheap city-to-city flights once they arrive in Europe. The good news is that Ryanair is cutting its average fare about 9 percent at the same time. The $4.50 bag-check fee is for customers who book in advance on the airline's Web site. Those who do not will pay $8.50 a bag at the airport. This month, Terry Trippler, the air travel adviser at Cheapseats.com, predicted that this would be the year when many airlines begin charging for products and services that used to be included in the fare.
 RALEIGH-DURHAM NONSTOP Starting June 8, Delta Air Lines will begin the only nonstop service between Raleigh-Durham International Airport in North Carolina and Los Angeles International Airport. The flights will be once daily, except Saturdays. Delta said the Raleigh-Durham area had become a global center for business travelers. More than 100 major research and development companies are clustered in the region's Research Triangle Park. Now, travelers between Los Angeles and Raleigh-Durham must take connecting flights, usually through Atlanta.

WI-FI HEADS-UP -- Last year brought a rapid acceleration in the availability of free Internet hot spot access, not only in public places like airline terminals, coffee shops and hotel lobbies, but also in outdoor parks and other open areas. But beware of the Evil Twin, says Lisa Madigan, the attorney general of Illinois. An Evil Twin is an attack computer in the same area that someone can use to hijack your computer surreptitiously to steal data, including passwords and credit card information, or mimic the Web site you think you are visiting to prompt you for valuable information. Preventive measures include disabling your wireless card when it is not in use, using only trusted hot spot providers and locations and avoiding sending sensitive information from a hot spot. More information is available at www.illinoisattorneygeneral.gov. Click on Consumer Alerts and Warnings under the Protecting Consumers link.

CROWDED SKIES -- Domestic airlines carried 529.6 million passengers in the first 10 months of last year, a 4.6 percent increase over that period in 2004, according to the federal Bureau of Transportation Statistics. When November and December are counted in, the number of passengers carried by domestic airlines for the full year is expected to have exceeded last year's record of 634.6 million.

CHEAP WIRELESS -- Extended Stay Hotels said it now offered high-speed wireless access at its more than 670 properties in the United States. There is a one-time fee of $4.99 for the stay. The company's hotel brands include Extended Stay America, Homestead Studio Suites, Studio Plus Deluxe, Crossland Economy Studios and Extended Stay Deluxe. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); HIJACKING (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (76%); AIR SERVICE (76%); AIR FARES (75%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (69%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) 

COMPANY: RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (91%); BOEING CO (84%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (72%); PAKISTAN INTERNATIONAL AIRLINES CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (59%) Ultramar Travel Bureau; Boeing Co; Pakistan International Airlines; Ryanair; Cheapseats.com; Delta Air Lines; Bureau of Transportation Statistics; Extended Stay America Inc

TICKER: RYAAY (NASDAQ) (91%); RYA (LSE) (91%); BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); DAL (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%)

PERSON: LISA MADIGAN (50%) Terry Trippler; Madigan00132200Atty Gen); Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); DURHAM, NC, USA (90%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (90%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (77%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPE (70%) London (Eng); Hong Kong 00131500; North Carolina; Los Angeles (Calif); Illinois

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



174 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; A CONVERSATION WITH -- Herman Taylor; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Mississippi's 'Heart Man' Examines Links Between Race and Disease 

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA DREIFUS

DATELINE: JACKSON, Miss. 

 BODY:
When Dr. Herman A. Taylor Jr. goes for breakfast in this city of 180,000, he orders carefully: granola, fresh fruit. ''People look at what I put on my tray,'' he said on a recent morning at the Broad Street Bakery, a local cafe. ''They wonder if I practice what I preach.''
 Around Jackson, where a common breakfast can be eggs fried in lard, Dr. Taylor, a University of Mississippi cardiologist, is known as ''heart man.'' He is the director of the Jackson Heart Study, the largest epidemiological investigation ever undertaken to discover the links between cardiovascular disease and race.
 From now until 2014, Dr. Taylor and his team will be following 5,302 black residents of three Mississippi counties -- Hinds, Rankin and Madison -- observing their lives and how their heart health is related to their environment. 
 For the study's participants, there will be periodic medical examinations and referrals for care when problems are detected. The ultimate aim of the $54 million investigation, Dr. Taylor said, ''is to gain the information we need to stop an epidemic of cardiovascular diseases within the African-American community.''

Q. The Framingham Heart Study, which tracked cardiovascular disease in three generations of New Englanders, is thought to be the most productive investigation in public health history. With Framingham's research continuing, why do something similar here in Jackson?

A. Framingham can't tell us everything. You can probably count the number of blacks in the original study on one hand. Well, maybe two. It's no one's fault. When that study was first begun in 1948, the town of Framingham was mostly populated by second-generation immigrants and Yankees. That's just what it was.
 But if there are unique risks and environmental agents triggering cardiovascular disease in African-Americans, Framingham's data can't be that helpful.

Q. Is there a special problem with heart disease in African-Americans?

A. For the nation as a whole, death from cardiovascular disease has declined since 1963. Yet, if you look at African-Americans in regions like Mississippi, mortality from heart disease is flat, or trending upward. This is particularly true for women. A middle-aged black woman in Mississippi will have four times the risk of death from cardiovascular disease than a white woman elsewhere in the country.
 We have reasonable guesses why this is so. We think obesity is hugely important. We also think that smoking, inactivity, high blood pressure and access to health care figure into the problem, too. But we have to pin it down. We need more information on things like social support, anger, hostility, optimism. There may also be some unique buffers against stress within our community -- like religion and extended family. 
 When you do a study like this, you want to figure out what's killing people. You enroll a large number and follow them. Over the years, some people will get sick; others won't. So the job is to try to determine the difference between those who got sick and those who didn't. 
 That's how Framingham worked.

Q. Why do a health study in Jackson?

A. What did the bank robber Willie Sutton answer when asked why he robbed banks? ''Because that's where the money is!'' Mississippi is where the heart disease is. We have the highest rates of it in the country.

Q. You've just finished collecting your base line data. Have you found anything interesting?

A. Very high levels of obesity, higher than the national average. African- American women lead the way in obesity nationally, and our numbers here are significantly higher than that. The rates of diabetes and hypertension are quite high.
 Interestingly, alcohol consumption among the women is much lower than average. There are some other findings, but we'll have to hold off on announcing them until they are published in professional journals.

Q. Are you looking at the unique stresses that African-Americans experience -- racial discrimination, for instance?

A. We have questionnaires that zero in on discrimination. But we also look at the response, how you cope with it.
 Also, a lot of the areas where blacks live are economically depressed. One of the things we're looking at is, What kind of access do you have to a healthy lifestyle?
 Can you get out of there to walk, do exercise -- or is the level of violence in your immediate surroundings so high that this would be a risky proposition? We look at how many grocery stores are in a certain area. Do you have to rely on the corner market with its jars of pickled eggs and pigs' feet on the counter?

Q. Is the traditional diet of Mississippi a problem related to heart disease?

A. Yes. In the traditional diet, the fat and calories are astronomical. They add up to our being the fattest state in the union. The soul food diet needs a lot of tweaking if it's ever to be remotely healthy.
 There was a study of blacks and whites in a Georgia county in the 1960's. It showed that even given the traditional diet, blacks had a surprisingly low rate of coronary heart disease. The big difference: they were sharecroppers, people who did physical work. They didn't have nearly the access to bad things all day long that people have now. 
 The problem today for people living under stressful conditions is that harmful stuff is sometimes a cheap way to take a load off their lives and feel less stressed. I think that drives a lot of eating and smoking.

Q. Do you think that some people are going to hate your message of heart health?

A. Some will think we're further stigmatizing a group with a lot of problems already. But if you have conversations with African-Americans from the South, they already suspect that a lot of things they love are no good for them.

Q. Do you try to intervene in the lives of the people you're studying?

A. We're an observational study. But we have to be careful. If you don't share helpful information because you don't want to interfere with the natural history of their disease, then you're on a slippery slope. That was the rationale behind keeping information from the sick in the Tuskegee study.
 People around here remember that. So, of course, we take an active role in spreading the word about prevention.
 Also, when one of our medical exams shows something of clinical importance in a participant, we contact their physician. If they don't have one, we have a group of local doctors who've volunteered to take them on. 

Q. Did you grow up in the South?

A. Near Birmingham. My mother was a teacher; my father a steelworker, active in his union.
 During my childhood, I think there were two big influences, beyond my family: the incredibly heroic acts you saw from individuals like Martin Luther King, and the space program. I wanted to grow up and help my people. I also dreamed about science. For me personally, the wonderful thing about working on this study is that it's a way for me to do both.


GRAPHIC: Photo: HEARTS AND MINDS -- Dr. Herman A. Taylor Jr. and his team plan to follow 5,302 African-Americans in and around Jackson, Miss., until 2014, observing their health, their feelings and other aspects of their lives. (Photo by Gretchen Haien for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (92%); CARDIOLOGY (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HEART DISEASE (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (75%); EPIDEMICS (75%); HYPERTENSION (74%); WOMEN (73%); OBESITY (69%); TRENDS (64%) Heart; Blacks; Life Styles; Weight

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (57%)

PERSON: Claudia Dreifus; Herman A (Dr) Taylor

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (92%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Jackson (Miss)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



175 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health&Fitness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1977 words

HEADLINE: In the Execution Chamber, The Moral Compass Wavers

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
Burl Cain is a religious man who believes it is only for God to say when a person's number is up. But in his job as warden and chief executioner at the Louisiana State Penitentiary in Angola, Mr. Cain is the one who gives the order to start a lethal injection, and he has held condemned inmates' hands as they died. 
 He does it, he said in an interview, because capital punishment ''is the law of the land.''
''It's something we do whether we're for it or against it, and we try to make the process as humane as possible,'' he said, referring to himself and others on the execution team. 
 But he concedes, ''The issue is coping, how we cope with it.''
 Common wisdom holds that people have a set standard of morality that never wavers. Yet studies of people who do unpalatable things, whether by choice, or for reasons of duty or economic necessity, find that people's moral codes are more flexible than generally understood. To buffer themselves from their own consciences, people often adjust their moral judgments in a process some psychologists call moral disengagement, or moral distancing. 
 In recent years, researchers have determined the psychological techniques most often used to disengage, and for the first time they have tested them in people working in perhaps the most morally challenging job short of soldiering, staffing a prison execution team. 
 The results of this and other studies suggest that a person's moral judgment can shift quickly, in anticipation of an unpalatable act, or slowly and unconsciously. 
 Moral disengagement ''is where all the action is,'' said Albert Bandura, a professor of psychology at Stanford and an expert on the psychology of moral behavior. ''It's in our ability to selectively engage and disengage our moral standards, and it helps explain how people can be barbarically cruel in one moment and compassionate the next.''
 The crude codes of behavior that evolved to hold early human societies together -- taboos against killing, against stealing -- would have been psychologically suffocating if people did not have some way to let themselves off the hook in extreme situations, some experts argue. Survival sometimes required brutal acts; human sacrifice was commonplace, as were executions.
 The innate human ability to disconnect morally has made it hard for researchers to find an association between people's stated convictions and their behavior: preachers can commit sexual crimes; prostitutes may live otherwise exemplary lives; well-trained soldiers can commit atrocities. 
 Investigators can identify the precise kinds of thoughts that allow people to do things that defy their personal codes of ethics.
 Now, psychologists at Stanford have shown that prison staff members who work on execution teams exhibit high levels of moral disengagement -- and the closer they are to the killing, the higher their level of disengagement goes. The trailblazing research grew out of a high school project. 
 In the late 1990's, Michael Osofsky, then a teenage student in New Orleans, began interviewing prison guards at the penitentiary in nearby Angola. His father, a psychiatrist who consulted with the prison, collaborated, as did the warden, Mr. Cain. 
 By the time Mr. Osofsky graduated from Stanford in 2003, he had conducted in-depth interviews with 246 prison workers from penitentiaries, including Angola, in three states. They included guards who administer the lethal shots, counselors who provide support during the execution, members of the strap-down team, and guards not involved in executions. The people on the execution teams ''come together, do the execution, then go back to their regular jobs'' in the prison, Mr. Osofsky, now on a fellowship in Asia, said in a telephone interview. ''They never really talked about this part of their job, even with their families; even with each other.''
 Working with Mr. Cain, Dr. Bandura and Philip Zimbardo, another Stanford psychologist, Mr. Osofsky administered a moral disengagement scale to the execution team members and the guards not on the execution team. 
 This questionnaire asked workers to rate how much they approved or disapproved of 19 statements, including: ''The Bible teaches that murders must be avenged: life for a life, eye for an eye''; ''Nowadays the death penalty is done in ways that minimize the suffering''; and ''Because of the nature of their crimes, murderers have lost the right to live.''
 In an analysis of the answers published late last year in the journal Law and Human Behavior, the psychologists reported that members of the execution team were far more likely than guards not on the team to agree that the inmates had lost important human qualities; to cite the danger that ''they can escape and kill again;'' and to consider the cost to society of caring for violent criminals. 
 The team members were also more likely than other guards to favor religious support for the sentence: an eye for an eye. 
 ''You have to sanctify lethal means: this is the most powerful technique'' of disengagement from a shared human moral code, said Dr. Bandura, who has expressed serious moral reservations about capital punishment. ''If you can't convince people of the sanctity of the greater cause, they are not going to carry the job out as effectively.'' 
 Execution teams are organized so as to divide the grisly tasks, enhancing what researchers call a diffusion of responsibility. A medical technician provides the lethal drugs; a team of guards straps the inmate down, with each guard securing only one part of the body; another guard administers the drugs. ''No one person can say he is entirely responsible for the death,'' Mr. Osofsky said. 
 Firing squads draw on this same idea. Everyone in the squad fires but no one can be sure whose shot was deadly. 
 The level of disengagement, as measured by the scale, was about as high in prison workers who participated in one execution as in those who had been party to more than 15, the study found. This suggests that, while the job may get easier over time, ''moral disengagement is an enabler, rather than merely the result of performing repeated executions,'' the authors conclude. 
 The pattern was strikingly different in members of the execution support staff, particularly the counselors working with the families of inmates and victims. 
 These staff members were highly morally engaged when they first joined the execution staff, deeply sympathetic to everyone involved, including the condemned. ''I'm in a helping profession, but there isn't a damn thing I can do for these guys,'' one of them said to Mr. Osofsky. ''I hate it, but I do it. I am required to do it.''
 That ambivalence seemed to affect the counselors' moral judgment over time, the study found. After they had been involved in 10 executions, the counselors' scores on the disengagement scale almost matched the executioners'. 
 The finding stands as a caution to the millions of people who work in the service of organizations whose motives they mistrust, psychologists say: shifts in moral judgment are often unconscious, and can poison the best instincts and intentions. 
 ''This really gets at the idea of people working in corporate structures that are involved in selling, say, weapons or tobacco, and saying, 'Well, I just keep the books,' '' when they disapprove of the business, said Susan Ravenscroft, a professor of accounting at Iowa State University in Ames who has studied business ethics.
 Moral distancing can also be seen in the language of war, politics and corporate scandal. Pilots euphemistically ''service a target'' rather than bomb it; enemies are dehumanized as ''gooks,'' ''hajis'' or infidels. Politicians and chief executives facing indictments deflect questions about ethical lapses by acknowledging that ''mistakes were made,'' or that they were ''out of the loop.'' 
 These remarks reflect internal methods of self-protection, as well as public evasions, research suggests.
 Yet it is in the mundane corner-cutting of everyday life that moral disengagement may be most common and insidious, and least conscious.
 In a 2004 study, professors at Iowa State University and the University of Arkansas tested the moral judgment of 47 college students who had cheated on a take-home exam, a complex accounting problem. 
 Many of the students found a solution to the problem online -- posted by another professor who was unaware it was part of an exam -- and reproduced the solution as their own, though it used techniques they had not yet learned. Others had clearly collaborated, which their professor had explicitly forbidden. Another 17 students had not cheated, as far as their teacher could determine.
 The professor threw out the test scores and got permission from the students to ask about their behavior. The cheaters' scores on a standard test of moral judgment did not correlate at all with their level of plagiarism or collaboration. On the contrary, it was the most dishonest male students who scored highest on the morals test. 
 ''Clearly, this is not what you want to find in a test of moral judgment,'' said Dr. Ravenscroft, a co-author of the study, with Charles Shrader of Iowa State and Tim West of the University of Arkansas. 
 Only by conducting in-depth interviews with students about their behavior did the researchers begin to see clear, familiar patterns. One was displacing the blame: ''I think it's hard for people not to look at the answer manual if it's available,'' said one student. ''Maybe you should have taken the problem off so people wouldn't be tempted.'' 
 Another was justifying the behavior by comparison: ''I really don't consider working with another person that unethical,'' one student commented. ''Taking and copying answers from the key was highly unethical.'' Many students ''rationalized cheating behavior as a necessary defense to the cheating of others,'' the researchers concluded in their analysis, to appear this year in the Business and Professional Ethics Journal. ''Yet in an extreme example of moral exclusion, none of the students discussed this impact on others.''
 Recognizing these kinds of selfish evasions in oneself is hardly proof of moral collapse, psychologists say. Rather, they say, moral disengagement is evidence that a sound moral sensibility is trying to assert itself, warning against a situation it finds suspect. As a rule people don't like to cheat or lie, studies find, and they are extremely reluctant to inflict pain on others, no matter the circumstances. 
 And moral engagement is dynamic. Once people stop doing what is consciously or unconsciously upsetting them, the research suggests, they engage their conscience more fully.
 That is, if they have the luxury to walk away.
 ''I remember the one execution I attended, there was this strange heaviness in the air all day,'' Mr. Osofsky said. ''These guards you knew were somber and detached, keeping to themselves. This wasn't something they gloried in or looked forward to at all. They didn't really seem like themselves.''


Advantageous comparison
Comparing an enemy to Hitler to justify an attack; or excusing a reckless act by comparing it to worse transgression by a rival or predecessor.

Displacement of responsibility
Shifting the blame to a boss, a leader or another authority figure; ''I was just carrying out orders.''

Diffusion of responsibility
Sharing the responsibility for a transgression with others who took part, or who played indirect roles: ''Everyone was doing it.''

Disregard or distortion of consequences
Refusal to acknowledge the reality of the damage caused; rationalizing that ''it wasn't all that bad.''

Dehumanization
Assailing others as degenerates, devils, savages or infidels. Some torturers refer to their victims as ''worms.''

Blaming the victim
The people being cheated or attacked are ''asking for it.''

(pg. F6)

GRAPHIC: Photo: DIFFUSION OF DUTIES -- Participants in executions, like ones carried out by lethal injection in San Quentin, traditionally divide the responsibilities among workers so that no one person is entirely responsible for the death. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. F6)Drawing (Drawing by Jen Renninger)(pg. F6)Chart: '''Everyone Was Doing It'''Dr. Albert Bandura of Stanford University has studied the psychology of moral reasoning for decades. He has identified eight mechanisms that people use to rationalize immoral behavior.Moral justificationSoldiers learn to see killing in the context of a larger good
terrorists may say they are punishing ''nonbelievers.''Euphemistic labeling''Collateral damage''
''clean, surgical strikes''
 and having someone ''taken care of'' are all familiar examples.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (91%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); ETHICS (89%); PRISONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); RELIGION (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (73%); SEX OFFENSES (63%) Mental Health and Disorders; Prisons and Prisoners; Capital Punishment; Research; Murders and Attempted Murders; Mental Health and Disorders

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%) Law and Human Behavior (Journal)

PERSON: Benedict Carey; Michael Osofsky

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



176 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Corn Power Put to the Test, as Experts Try to Find a New Recipe to Make It

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: AMES, Iowa 

 BODY:
The endless fields of corn in the Midwest can be distilled into endless gallons of ethanol, a clean-burning, high-octane fuel that could end any worldwide oil shortage, reduce emissions that cause global warming, and free the United States from dependence on foreign energy. 
 There is only one catch: Turning corn into ethanol takes energy. For every gallon that an ethanol manufacturing plant produces, it uses the equivalent of almost two-fifths of a gallon of fuel (usually natural gas), and that does not count the fuel needed to make fertilizer for the corn, run the farm machinery or truck the ethanol to market. 
The use of all that fossil fuel to make ethanol substantially reduces its value as an alternative source of energy. Not that ethanol is useless. For one thing, it is far easier than natural gas to use in motor vehicles. 
 Production is expected to hit five billion gallons this year, equal to more than 3 percent of gasoline supplies, and more ethanol distilleries are being built. [In his State of the Union message, President Bush called for research on ''cutting-edge methods of producing ethanol.'']
 But if ethanol is to realize its potential, its proponents recognize that they will have to develop new ways to make it without using so much natural gas -- or coal, as some distilleries are doing to save money.
 ''In this industry, you can't take a parochial view of your business,'' said William A. Lee, general manager of Chippewa Valley Ethanol, in Benson, Minn., and former chairman of the Renewable Fuels Association, an ethanol trade group. ''We have to be headed to a more sustainable future.'' Engineers are trying a variety of methods. Here are several of the most promising.

Get Help From the Cow
 Some companies are building ethanol plants next to cattle feeding operations, so that corn can go through the ethanol distillery, and then residues from the operation -- basically corn, minus the starch -- can go straight to the cattle as feed. 
 The corn passes through the cow, and the manure may come back to the plant and go into a contraption called an anaerobic digester, which mimics the conditions in a cow's stomach so that bacteria can produce methane, a component of natural gas. 

Get Closer to the Cow
 The corn residues, called distillers grains, can be exposed to high-temperature steam, to turn their carbohydrates into hydrocarbons. If the distillers grains are used as cattle feed, the resulting manure can also be exposed to steam to produce hydrocarbons.
 Ethanol takes energy to make because it requires a lot of steam. Typically, the steam is used to blast cornstarch and water into a smooth mixture, keeping the mixture at an ideal temperature for enzymes to break down the valuable chemicals in the starch and for yeast to turn corn sugars into alcohol. Then the mixture is heated to distill off the alcohol, and the remaining distillers grains are usually dried to extend their shelf life until they can be eaten by cattle.
 Some ethanol producers skip the drying, if there are enough cattle nearby that the grains can be eaten promptly. In Sioux Center, Iowa, at the Siouxland Energy and Livestock Cooperative, local farmers opened a plant in 2001 that is adjacent to a 10,000-head feedlot. 
 By not drying the grains, Siouxland has reduced its natural-gas consumption to 24,000 B.T.U. per gallon of ethanol -- meaning that the natural gas it uses has an energy value less than one-third that of the ethanol it makes, creating 85,000 B.T.U. a gallon when burned. (This calculation does not count the electricity the plant uses, or the diesel fuel used to haul the ethanol to a filling station.)

Make a New Kind of Gas
 At the Iowa Energy Center, a state-financed lab here amid the cornfields near the Iowa State University campus, engineers are experimenting with another technique. 
 A cluster of steam pipes, gleaming steel tanks, augers and hoppers, assembled by a start-up engineering firm called Frontline Bioenergy, is replacing natural gas with another gas on a small scale, for now.
 The new gas is made from the part of the corn plant that is not the kernel, chopped into pieces half an inch long and dumped into a tank with steam and a limited amount of air. 
 In a process called partial oxidation, the steam breaks apart the plant's carbohydrates into two gases: elemental hydrogen and carbon monoxide. Both burn nicely as a substitute for natural gas.
 About 90 percent of the material turns to gas; some of the remainder is minerals that can be sold for other uses. The process consumes natural gas to get started, but after that, it burns the gas it makes to sustain itself. 
 ''It's a renewable substitute for natural gas,'' said Norman Reese, general manager of Frontline Bioenergy. 
 The corn parts that the process uses, called stover, are left in the field. They could be burned directly but would be much dirtier that way.

But Back to the Cow
 A variety of materials can be turned into gas, including manure. 
 ''Manure is just partly processed biomass,'' said Jerod Smeenk, engineering manager at Frontline Bioenergy.
 Chippewa Valley Ethanol, the Minnesota company, plans to have a pilot-scale plant running in about a year, using distillers grains. The choice is not ideal, because the grains are not waste; they have a market value as cattle feed. But it is a low-risk choice for Chippewa, which can invest in the equipment needed to gather stover if the gasifier works as promised. 
 Companies like Chippewa may promote their aspiration to protect the environment, but they are also driven by price. When the ethanol industry started 20 years ago, it took twice as much natural gas to make a gallon of ethanol as it does now, said Mr. Lee, the general manager. But gas was much cheaper then. 
 Right now, Chippewa is paying as much as $12 per million B.T.U. for natural gas, compared with $2 in the mid-1980's, and Mr. Lee said gasification ''makes economic sense'' when gas costs $10 or more per million B.T.U. 
 At Frontline, John Reardon, the research and development manager, said of the gasification project: ''It's just a step. But our whole economy is based on fossil energy, and we have to make a step somewhere.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 16, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An illustration in Science Times on Feb. 7 with an article about energy-efficient ways to make ethanol from corn misidentified an ingredient in one manufacturing process. It is stillage, a byproduct of distillation. (Silage is raw plant matter preserved in a silo to make animal feed.)
An illustration in Science Times on Feb. 7 with an article about energy-efficient ways to make ethanol from corn misidentified an ingredient in one manufacturing process. It is stillage, a byproduct of distillation. (Silage is raw plant matter preserved in a silo to make animal feed.)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''When It Takes Fuel to Make Fuel''Because ethanol requires so much fossil fuel to produce, it is not a fully renewable resource. Engineers are working on ways to make the process more efficient, essentially by using more of the leftover plant matter called biomass. Two methods are shown below.MAKING ETHANOLEnergy in one gallon of ethanol: 85,000 B.T.U.Natural gas used at the factory to make one gallon: 35,000 B.T.U.CREATING FUEL FROM FARM WASTES1. Silage, the residue left over from distilling corn into ethanol, is separated by centrifuge.2. Some of the processed silage is fed to cattle.3. Manure from cattle is piped to a ''digester'' tank.4. In the tank, the manure and the thin silage are digested by bacteria, producing methane gas.5. The methane is used to replace natural gas in the distillation process.CREATING FUEL FROM LEFTOVER PLANT MATTER1. Extraneous parts of the corn plant, like leaves, husks and stems, are harvested.2. The material is chopped into small pieces and placed in an airtight tank.3 With careful control of temperature and oxygen content, biomass molecules break apart to produce a gas rich in carbon monoxide and hydrogen.4. The hydrogen and carbon monoxide burn, replacing natural gas and generating steam to run both the gasifier and the ethanol plant.Diagrams highlight the aforementioned processes.(Al Granberg/The New York Times)(Sources by Frontline BioEnergy
 Nebraska BioClean)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (94%); ALCOHOLS (93%); BIOFUELS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); DISTILLERIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); BIOREMEDIATION (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); GASOLINE (78%); METHANE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); FERTILIZERS (75%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); ENZYMES (71%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (70%); BACTERIA (55%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Grain; Ethanol ; Finances

PERSON: Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



177 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: There Goes the Neighborhood, the Machine District 

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

 BODY:
Later this week, a group of men with callused hands and a set of 19th-century tools will drag a 2,600-pound grinder across Larry Goodman's grease-soaked floor, haul it onto the back of a flatbed truck and then sweep out an empty storefront that has dealt in industrial workhorses for 80 years. 
 It is safe to say that there will be few tears shed when his company, Grand Machinery Exchange, leaves Lower Manhattan for Long Island, but its departure will mark the demise of New York's once robust machinery district and an end to one of the more tangible links to New York's industrial past.
Mr. Goodman, whose grandfather started selling second-hand metalworking machines on Centre Street in 1927, recalls a gritty world that buzzed with riggers, repairmen and buyers haggling over Volkswagen-size contraptions. ''It was a riot down here,'' he said, watching one of his machines being trundled away. ''All these guys, all these places, they're gone now.'' 
 Long before luxury lofts, the Apple store and the swarms of European tourists -- decades before the words SoHo and TriBeCa were even a glimmer in the eyes of real estate opportunists -- there were the bronze forgers, the book printers, the food canners and the garment makers. Until the 1950's, when the industrial lifeblood began to ebb away, vast stretches of Lower and Midtown Manhattan were given over to a vertical city of foundries and factories that employed hundreds of thousands. 
 And it was here, along the island's lower spine, that a tribe of used-machine dealers gathered, most of them former junk peddlers, and their refurbished presses, shapers and grinders kept the factories humming. 
 There were once 40 such dealers in the machinery district in the Canal Street area, and Henry Zeisel is grudgingly nostalgic for the rough and tumble pageant of gruff men, many of them East European Jews, who knew how to turn discarded band saws and crankshafts into saleable merchandise. 
 ''They used to call us the 40 thieves,'' said Mr. Zeisel, 86, whose father opened Zeisel Machinery in 1925, which long ago moved to New Jersey. ''There was a great deal of competition, but despite the reputation, most of us were honest businessmen who worked way too hard.''
 The end of the machinery district follows the evaporation of so many other mercantile zones that have given New York rich concentrations of, say, used books and restaurant supplies. Radio Row, the collection of electronic gadget dealers, was obliterated by the construction of the World Trade Center, and there are few New Yorkers old enough to recall the knot of church-goods dealers around Murray Street or the butter-and-egg district at Duane and Greenwich Streets. A few months ago the city's wholesale fishmongers moved en masse to Hunts Point, Queens, from their ancestral home at the Fulton Fish Market beside the East River, and the viability of other districts that specialize in textiles, flowers and meat packing looks increasingly grim. 
 The machinery district's death cannot be pinned solely on rising real estate values, the culprit for so much displacement in up-and-coming neighborhoods. The exodus of light manufacturing, which had filled all those lofts in SoHo , drained away some of the best customers, and as the machines grew bulkier and heavier, the dealers simply needed more showroom space. The final blows include the advent of cheap airfare, the fax machine and finally the Internet, which diminished the need for a centralized market. 
 ''The buyers used to take the train in from New England or the South and go from one showroom to the next,'' said Murray Zeisel, 77, Henry Zeisel's younger brother. ''When the dealers started to leave, so did the out-of-town walk-ins.''
 As the showrooms left, so too did the army of freelance riggers, the thick-necked deliverymen who could carry a massive lathe across town or country. Because many smaller loft buildings lacked freight elevators, new purchases would have to be lifted up the outside of the building and passed through a window. Larger machines might be disassembled and then reassembled after their move. 
 ''In the early days, you'd even see men carrying machines up the stairs on their back,'' said Harry Mison, 70, a former president of the Machine Dealers National Association whose family dealership, Noble Machinery, closed four years ago after moving to Long Island. ''There were plenty of characters.'' 
 By the mid-80's, there were just a half-dozen showrooms left, and without the riggers, the salesmen and their customers, it was only a matter of time before lunchtime haunts like Harry's delicatessen, Flanagan's steakhouse and Moran's luncheonette went out of business. 
 Grand Machinery Exchange, the district's sole survivor, would have pulled out sooner had Mr. Goodman's family not owned the Centre Street building and an even larger warehouse nearby on Baxter Street. (The final years of delay were prompted by the federal tax code, which would have made the sale of the properties financially imprudent.) Mr. Goodman, 44, who started working for his father a day after graduating from college, is eager to move to the company's new airplane hangar of a building on Long Island, which at 50,000 square feet will double the amount of space. 
 ''We're ready to enter the 21st century,'' he said, sitting at his desk below the portrait of his grandmother, Bertha Goodman, who demanded that her image be affixed to the wall upon her death. ''This is not a funeral but a very necessary change.''
 Even with most of its merchandise gone, the Centre Street showroom felt like a time capsule of Manhattan's industrial past, filled with ancient hardware that once powered factories and piles of yellowed manuals that explain the inner workings of machinery long turned to scrap. 
 Puttering around the basement, Mr. Goodman noted the thick steel girders that his grandfather, Jacob, an immigrant from Poland who never learned to read or write, installed in 1947 at a cost of $64,000. ''Without these, the floors would have collapsed,'' he said. Scattered about were wooden carts and hand trucks that would look at home in a museum of the Industrial Revolution. Mr. Goodman said everything would probably end up in a Dumpster. 
 And the portrait of his grandmother? ''I think she's had a long enough run,'' he said with a shrug.
 As he packed up his files, a longtime customer, Hale Gurland, stopped by to say goodbye and reminisce about the old days, when the sidewalks were often made impassable by machinery. Mr. Gurland, 53, a metal sculptor who grew up around the corner, used to earn pocket money as a teenager by helping to move equipment. As an adult, he often bought cutting and grinding devices that helped produce his art. 
 ''Nothing I ever bought from your father worked,'' Mr. Gurland said half in jest. ''The guys down here had a saying: 'If it doesn't work, just bring it back.' '' 
 Still, unlike Mr. Goodman, Mr. Gurland was deeply wistful about the end of the machinery district and slightly resentful about its replacement by the chic and the overpriced. 
 ''You used to be able to buy anything down here, even rocket engines,'' he said. ''Now it's all yuppies and boutiques. You can't even find a screwdriver in this neighborhood.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Feb. 7 about the demise of the machinery district in Lower and Midtown Manhattan misidentified the borough that is the new home of another mercantile zone, the wholesale fish market, located for years in Lower Manhattan. The market, in the Hunts Point neighborhood, is in the Bronx, not Queens
Because of an editing error, an article on Feb. 7 about the demise of the machinery district in Lower and Midtown Manhattan misidentified the borough that is the new home of another mercantile zone, the wholesale fish market, located for years in Lower Manhattan. The market, in the Hunts Point neighborhood, is in the Bronx, not Queens

GRAPHIC: Photos: The district rebuilt used machinery for nearby factories, since fled.
 Some of Grand Machinery Exchange's remaining goods being loaded on Centre Street before being trucked to a new home on Long Island. (Photographs by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELOCATIONS (84%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); BOOK PRINTING (65%); APPAREL MFG (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (61%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (60%) Machinery and Equipment; Relocation of Business; Relocation of Personnel

ORGANIZATION: Grand Machinery Exchange (Co)

PERSON: Andrew Jacobs; Larry (Grand Machinery Exchange) Goodman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%) New York City; Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006



178 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Buy a Hybrid, And Save A Gas Guzzler

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
SOME of my favorite people drive a Prius. They bought the car, obviously, because they were worried about the planet. But the fringe benefits are pretty nice, too.
 Prius drivers can use a carpool lane in some places even when no one else is in the car. No matter where they're driving, they coast down the road in a whisper-quiet hum unlike anything else. Best of all, even if no one likes admitting it, they get to enjoy the cool-kid cachet that comes with being an early adopter of a fad. No other vehicle has had a recurring role on the TV show ''Curb Your Enthusiasm.''
Now President Bush has taken the hybrid craze to a whole new level. To cure our addiction to oil, he said last week, we must invest in hybrid cars, hydrogen cars, even cars that run on wood chips and grass. Energy technology is having its big moment. 
 Too bad the benefits of our new cult car have been so exaggerated.
 Let's start with the obvious advantage of hybrids. When you drive one, you burn less gas than you would in a regular car. A typical driver of a Prius will use about 250 fewer gallons of gasoline each year than somebody would in a Toyota Corolla, which gets 29 miles a gallon. That's doing everyone else a favor because gas use has other costs -- like global warming and American troops stationed overseas -- that nobody fully pays at the pump.
 But the favor is not nearly as big as hybrid owners imagine, for two reasons. First, hybrids have the most overblown mileage ratings in the auto industry. In the government's road tests, which are conducted in a world without much traffic or any air-conditioning, the Prius gets 55 miles to the gallon. Consumer Reports says the car really goes 44 miles on a gallon of gas. When I used one last week -- and there is no denying that it's a great car to drive -- I got 45 in Manhattan and on local highways. 
 This is just the beginning of the story. The more time you spend looking at the economics of the hybrids, the less comfortable you get.
 The most important reason is a government policy that, amazingly enough, seems almost intended to undercut the benefits of efficient cars. In 1978, Congress set a minimum corporate average fuel economy, known as CAFE, for all carmakers. Today, the minimum average for cars is 27.5 miles a gallon. (For S.U.V.'s and other light trucks, it is 21.6.) 
 YOU can guess what this means for hybrids. Each one becomes a free pass for its manufacturer to sell a few extra gas guzzlers. For now, this is less true for Toyota's cars, because they're above the mileage requirement. But Toyota's trucks and the American automakers are right near the limits. So every Toyota Highlander hybrid S.U.V. begets a hulking Lexus S.U.V., and every Ford Escape -- the hybrid S.U.V. that Kermit the Frog hawked during the Super Bowl -- makes room for a Lincoln Navigator, which gets all of 12 miles a gallon. Instead of simply saving gas when you buy a hybrid, you're giving somebody else the right to use it. 
 The hybrid, then, is just about the perfect example of what's wrong with our energy policy. It's a Band-Aid that does a lot less to help the earth than we like to tell ourselves. When Vice President Dick Cheney dismissed conservation as ''a sign of personal virtue'' a few years back, a lot of environmentalists were disgusted. But that, sadly, is what a lot of well-meaning hybrid owners are driving: an expensive symbol that they're worried about our planet, rather than a true solution. 
 You can consider yourself a conservationist and still see the logic in this. As Jon Coifman, the media director of the Natural Resources Defense Council, says, ''We're not going to kick our oil addiction with good will and personal virtue. You do need market signals, and you do need rules. And you need virtue. You need it all.''
 The simplest idea in economics, I think, is that people respond to the incentives they are given. It's why market economies have done so well. So if we have decided that we need to use less oil for our own good -- which seems to be the case -- we need big incentives to change our behavior. 
 A substantial gas tax would be the simplest, with other taxes being cut to keep down the overall burden. Car buyers could drive whatever they wanted, as long as they were paying the full cost of their gas, and automakers would respond with creative products. If we're not capable of having a serious discussion about new taxes, the second-best option would be lavish incentives for companies to sell a fuel-efficient fleet.
 Jonathan Skinner, an economist at Dartmouth, has a nice way of thinking about this. Forget about the 250 gallons of gas that a Prius saves relative to a Corolla. An S.U.V. that gets 16 miles a gallon, like the Cadillac SRX, uses almost 600 fewer gallons annually than an 11-mile-a-gallon Hummer H2, because small differences add up when gas is being burned so quickly. It's the person deciding between those two vehicles who needs some extra incentives.
 Instead, the government is giving $3,000 tax credits to hybrid buyers and opening carpool lanes to them. As a result, some people are buying cars they don't need. So get this: Americans are now replacing perfectly good cars, like the Corolla, in the name of conservation.
 There is one sign of improvement. The Environmental Protection Agency has announced that it is fixing its fuel-economy ratings. The stickers that appear on the windows of new cars will soon show more realistic mileage numbers.
 Unfortunately, the E.P.A. is in charge of only the stickers. The Department of Transportation makes the fuel-economy rules -- the ones that actually matter -- and it's not planning any changes. It will proceed with the fiction that the Prius gets 55 miles to the gallon. This is our energy policy.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Just how stingy?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (73%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%) Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency ; Electric Vehicles; Automobiles

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%) David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



179 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Trimming Executive Pay And Dividend

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
General Motors, under pressure to show its blue-collar workers that investors and executives are also prepared to give up something in order to help overcome the company's deepest losses in more than a decade, said Tuesday that it would reduce pay for top officials and cut its stock dividend by half.
 G.M., still clinging to its status as the world's largest auto company, also announced changes in the pension and health care plans for its retired salaried workers as it struggles to turn around its operations and avoid a potential bankruptcy.
The executive pay reductions -- including 50 percent for G.M.'s chief executive -- affect only a small number of people and save relatively little compared with the dividend cut and the reductions in health care contributions. 
 But even as executives played down their significance, the moves are important symbolically to go along with the givebacks G.M. has already won from its union workers and to set the stage for more concessions it intends to seek from the United Automobile Workers in contract negotiations next year. 
 Leaders of the U.A.W. said that union workers had already given enough and that they would not discuss any more concessions ahead of the contract talks. 
 The moves are eventually expected to reduce the company's annual structural costs by more than $900 million, with the dividend cut helping preserve $565 million in precious cash each year. Over all, the company is aiming to cut about $7 billion from its annual structural costs. 
 But two big steps that have been widely anticipated by G.M. were not part of the company's announcement.
 G.M. did not disclose any developments in the long-awaited sale of a portion of its G.M.A.C. finance unit. Nor did it disclose an agreement concerning the U.A.W. and the Delphi Corporation, G.M.'s former parts unit, which is operating under bankruptcy protection.
 As a result, many analysts said the troubles at G.M., which lost $8.6 billion in 2005, were far from over. 
 ''We believe that there is more to come,'' John Murphy, an industry analyst with Merrill Lynch, wrote in a research note. ''Ultimately, we believe that an active downsizing of the company to a defensible market share will be necessary.'' 
 On Tuesday, G.M. shares fell 53 cents, to $22.81. Before Tuesday, G.M. last cut its dividend in 1992, amid a deep financial crisis that resulted in the ouster of its top management team.
 Along with its losses, G.M.'s market share in the United States fell to just over 26 percent last year, its lowest since 1925. In November, G.M. said it would close all or part of 12 plants and eliminate 30,000 jobs through 2008.
 Yet, its biggest shareholder, Kirk Kerkorian, wants the company to do more -- and G.M. is at least partly listening. Its latest moves were announced a day after the company gave a seat on its board to Jerome B. York, an adviser to Mr. Kerkorian.
 Mr. York, in a speech in Detroit on Jan. 10, called for many of the steps that G.M. took, saying the company needed to move more swiftly on the turnaround effort that began late last year. 
 But the company also rejected several of Mr. York's recommendations, like broader cuts in executive pay and paring back its car and truck divisions.
 Moreover, G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, declined at a news conference Tuesday to predict when G.M. would return to profitability, resisting Mr. York's call for the company to set clear financial goals.
 ''We will let you know when we think we are ready to do that,'' Mr. Wagoner said, citing more ''big issues'' that G.M. needs to address.
 As recently as Jan. 6, Mr. Wagoner did not seem ready to take even the actions G.M. announced today. At that time, he said that shareholders had suffered enough, given the 52 percent decline in the value of G.M. shares last year. 
 As part of the turnaround effort, Mr. Wagoner, who received $2.2 million in 2005, will take a 50 percent pay cut, to $1.1 million. a
 A vice chairman, Robert A. Lutz, who earns $1.55 million a year, will take a 30 percent cut, as will John Devine, another vice chairman, and the chief financial officer, Frederick Henderson.
 G.M.'s chief counsel, Thomas Gottshalk, will take a 10 percent cut. Cash compensation for G.M. directors, now $60,000, will fall by half. The directors also receive $140,000 in shares each year.
 Mr. York wanted G.M. to do more, calling for a sliding scale of cuts affecting executives, managers and salaried employees. Such steps have taken place at bankrupt airlines like Delta and Northwest.
 At Delta, for example, Gerald Grinstein's annual salary was set at $500,000, substantially below market levels, when he took over as chief executive in 2004 and he forfeited half his salary that year.
 In 2005, Mr. Grinstein's salary was cut by 10 percent to $450,000 in line with the across-the-board reduction applied to all nonpilot employees. 
 At Ford Motor, the chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr., whose family-controlled company lost $1.1 billion in North America last year, said last year that he would not accept compensation until Ford was back on its feet.
 In 1978, Lee A. Iacocca, then chief executive of the beleaguered Chrysler Corporation, reduced his pay to $1 a year, after union members took a $2 hourly pay cut. Both moves came in the wake of a federal bailout effort.
 Union members have also contributed to the G.M. recovery effort, voting last year to accept a plan that would require them to pay for part of their health care coverage, which had been virtually free. 
 On Tuesday, G.M. said it was capping health care coverage for 100,000 retired salaried workers, and 26,000 active employees who joined the company before 1993. G.M. no longer offers health care coverage for its salaried retirees.
 Retirees are also going to be called on to pay higher monthly contributions, deductibles, and prescription drug payments. G.M. said it also could make changes in retirees' medical, dental, vision and prescription drug plans. Eventually, G.M. said the move would save it $900 million a year, although its savings will begin only in 2007.
 Including U.A.W. members, the G.M. health care plan covers 1.1 million retired workers, spouses and family members. 
 G.M. estimates that it spent $5.4 billion on its health care plan last year, or the equivalent of $5,090 a person. But a G.M. spokesman, Jerry Dubrowski, said the automaker could not estimate how much more its retired salaried workers would pay.
 The company said it planned to freeze its retiree pension program, and introduce a defined-benefit plan or cash balance plan, as well as make other changes in its retirement program for future retirees. Current retirees and surviving spouses will not be affected, G.M. said. Details will not be made available until next month.
 On Tuesday, the U.A.W.'s president, Ron Gettelfinger, said G.M. was doing ''the right thing.'' Like Mr. York, Mr. Gettelfinger has called for shared sacrifices across the company. 
 But asked at a union conference in Washington whether his workers might contribute more, Mr. Gettelfinger said: ''Absolutely not. We've done our share. We're ready to move forward.''
 For his part, Mr. Wagoner tried to play down suggestions that the company's moves were meant as a message to the U.A.W.
 ''This is the kind of thing we need to do,'' he said. ''I don't have a big scoreboard in my office'' depicting which groups had taken cuts, Mr. Wagoner said. ''I think you can say the whole family is participating in the effort to turn G.M. around.''
 Mr. Wagoner said the auto company was approaching its problems ''as systematically and aggressively as we can.'' 
 He said it was on track to reduce its structural costs by about $7 billion a year, including Tuesday's moves, or about one-sixth of its annual expenses. Yet, G.M. has estimated that it may have to pay as much as $12 billion to cover its liability from the bankruptcy of Delphi, a part of G.M. until 1999.
 About 4,000 Delphi workers have the right to come back to G.M. if jobs are available for them, making G.M. responsible for the cost of their benefits. On Tuesday, the U.A.W. vice president, Richard Shoemaker, said the three parties -- G.M., the U.A.W. and Delphi -- were not making progress in their discussions.
 Until the Delphi situation is resolved, analysts said, G.M. would have trouble completing its sale of a stake in G.M.A.C., the credit unit, a deal that would generate much-needed cash. While Tuesday's cuts will help the automaker save money, ''these important wild cards have gotten lost in the shuffle,'' Mr. Murphy said.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 9, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about a decision by General Motors to cut its dividend and the pay of some executives misstated the makeup of compensation for directors. They will forgo cash compensation and receive $100,000 in restricted stock -- not $30,000 in cash and $70,000 in stock.
A front-page article yesterday about a decision by General Motors to cut its dividend and the pay of some executives misstated the makeup of compensation for directors. They will forgo cash compensation and receive $100,000 in restricted stock -- not $30,000 in cash and $70,000 in stock.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rick Wagoner, the chief executive of General Motors, said his pay would be cut in half, to $1.1 million a year. (Photo by Jeff Kowalsky/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C3)Chart: ''Cutting Costs''General Motors, which lost $8.6 billion last year, has announced a number of steps to reduce its costs.ANNUAL STRUCTURAL COSTSEmployee expenses
plants, property and equipment
 overheadSAVINGS$3.0 bil.Hourly workers retiree health care benefitsAnnounced Oct. 2005$1.5Plant closings and work force reductionNov. 2005$1.5Simplification of manufacturing processes and platformsNov. 2005$0.9Salaried workers retiree health care benefitsYesterday$33 bil. REMAINING STRUCTURAL COSTSAfter cuts go into effect(Source by General Motors)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); MARKET SHARE (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%) Automobiles; Labor; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining); Finances; Bankruptcies; Wages and Salaries; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%) General Motors Corp; United Automobile Workers

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (59%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%) Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



180 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Cisco Systems Profit Narrowly Tops Estimates

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Cisco Systems, a maker of equipment used to route Internet traffic, reported second-quarter earnings Tuesday that narrowly exceeded the projections of Wall Street analysts.
 For its second quarter, which ended Jan. 28, Cisco reported sales of $6.6 billion, which was a 9.3 percent increase from the $6.1 billion in the comparable period a year ago and matched Wall Street projections. 
The company said pro forma profit was 26 cents a share, compared with Wall Street projections of 25 cents. A year ago, Cisco reported pro forma income of 22 cents a share. 
 Excluding one-time charges and the cost of expensing stock options, Cisco's profit for the second quarter this year was 22 cents a share.
 Net profit was $1.375 billion, down from $1.4 billion a year earlier, Cisco said. The returns, while far from showing the explosive growth enjoyed by Cisco during the heyday of the Internet boom, indicate that the company is headed in the right direction, said Stephen Kamman, a telecommunications equipment analyst with CIBC World Markets. 
 ''In a market where a lot of companies haven't managed to deliver, that is probably good enough,'' Mr. Kamman said, referring to the company's 1-cent edge over Wall Street forecasts. ''You can't expect miracles forever.'' Mr. Kamman has a buy rating on Cisco's stock.
 Cisco, which is based in San Jose, Calif., reported results after the close of market trading. Its stock rose $1.03, about 6 percent, to $19.12 a share in after-hours trading after closing at $18.09 a share on Nasdaq. 
 John T. Chambers, Cisco's chief executive, attributed what he called solid quarterly returns to unexpectedly strong business from United States companies, from which Cisco received 49 percent of its business last quarter. Mr. Chambers said that orders in the United States were up 20 percent over the comparable period a year ago.
 ''The U.S. topped our highlight list,'' Mr. Chambers said.
 Dennis D. Powell, Cisco's chief financial officer, said that expenses, measured on a pro forma basis, were $2.4 billion, the same as last quarter, and up from $2.1 billion a year earlier. Mr. Powell said some increase in expenses was a result of hiring new sales representatives.
 Cisco told investors that it expected its revenue to increase 10 percent to 12 percent in the current quarter from the third quarter of last year. But Mr. Chambers cautioned investors that Cisco continued to face some potential pitfalls, including swings in the global economy, in particular slow momentum in the British business market and new competition from low-cost manufacturers based in Asia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); SALES & SELLING (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); STOCK OPTIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); SALES MANAGEMENT (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (98%); CISCO SYSTEMS FRANCE (92%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (55%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (98%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



181 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: No More Mr. Tough Guy

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I've always thought Dick Cheney took national security seriously. I don't anymore. It seems that Mr. Cheney is so convinced that we have no choice but to be dependent on crude oil, so convinced that conservation is just some silly liberal hobby, that he will never seriously summon the country to kick its oil habit, never summon it to do anything great.
 Indeed, he seems determined to be a drag on any serious effort to make America energy-independent. He presents all this as a tough-guy ''realist'' view of the world. But it's actually an ignorant and naive view -- one that underestimates what Americans can do, and totally misses how the energy question has overtaken Iraq as the most important issue in U.S. foreign policy. If he persists, Mr. Cheney is going to ensure that the Bush team squanders its last three years -- and a lot more years for the country. 
Listen to Mr. Cheney's answer when the conservative talk show host Laura Ingraham asked him how he reacted to my urgings for a gasoline tax to push all Americans to drive energy-saving vehicles and make us energy-independent -- now.
 ''Well, I don't agree with that,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''I think -- the president and I believe very deeply that, obviously, the government has got a role to play here in terms of supporting research into new technologies and encouraging the development of new methods of generating energy. But we also are big believers in the market, and that we need to be careful about having government come in, for example, and tell people how to live their lives. This notion that we have to 'impose pain,' some kind of government mandate, I think we would resist. The marketplace does work out there.''
 What is he talking about? The global oil market is anything but free. It's controlled by the world's largest cartel -- OPEC -- which sets output, and thereby prices, according to the needs of some of the worst regimes in the world. By doing nothing, we are letting their needs determine the price and their treasuries reap all the profits.
 Also, why does Mr. Cheney have no problem influencing the market by lowering taxes to get consumers to spend, but he rejects raising gasoline taxes to get consumers to save energy -- a fundamental national interest. 
 Don't take it from me. Gregory Mankiw of Harvard, who recently retired as chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, wrote in The Wall Street Journal on Jan. 3 about his New Year's resolutions: ''Everyone hates taxes, but the government needs to fund its operations, and some taxes can actually do some good in the process. I will tell the American people that a higher tax on gasoline is better at encouraging conservation than are heavy-handed [mileage standards]. It would not only encourage people to buy more fuel-efficient cars, but it would encourage them to drive less.''
 Mr. Cheney, we are told, is a ''tough guy.'' Really? Well, how tough is this: We have a small gasoline tax, but Europe and Japan tax their gasoline by $2 and $3 a gallon, or more. They use those taxes to build schools, highways and national health care for their citizens. But they spend very little on defense compared with us. 
 So who protects their oil supplies from the Middle East? U.S. taxpayers. We spend nearly $600 billion a year on defense, a large chunk in the Persian Gulf. But how do we pay for that without a gas tax? Income taxes and Social Security. Yes, we tax our incomes and raid our children's Social Security fund so Europeans and Japanese can comfortably import their oil from the gulf, impose big gas taxes on it at their pumps and then use that income for their own domestic needs. And because they have high gas taxes, they also beat Detroit at making more fuel-efficient cars. Now how tough is that? 
 Finally, if Mr. Cheney believes so much in markets, why did the 2005 energy act contain about $2 billion in tax breaks for oil companies? Why does his administration permit a 54-cents-a-gallon tax on imported ethanol -- fuel made from sugar or corn -- so Brazilian sugar exports won't compete with American sugar? Yes, we tax imported ethanol from Brazil, but we don't tax imported oil from Saudi Arabia, Venezuela or Russia. 
 ''Everyone says we need a new Marshall Plan,'' said Michael Mandelbaum, a foreign policy expert and the author of ''The Case for Goliath.'' ''We have a Marshall Plan. It's our energy policy. It's a Marshall plan for terrorists and dictators.''
 How tough is it, Mr. Cheney, to will the ends -- an end to America's oil addiction -- but not will the means: a gasoline tax? It's not very tough, it's not very smart, and it's going to end badly for us. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); GASOLINE (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); CARTELS (86%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Taxation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (53%) Thomas L Friedman; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%) Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



182 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Debt Rose More Slowly in 2005

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Consumers, affected by high debt-loads and low savings rates, increased borrowing last year by the smallest amount in 13 years, the Federal Reserve reported Tuesday. 
 The report said that borrowing on credit cards, auto loans and many other forms of consumer debt rose 3 percent in 2005, down from rates above 4 percent in the three previous years and a 7.7 percent surge in 2001. It was the smallest increase since a 1 percent rise in 1992.
 For December, consumer borrowing went up at an annual pace of 1.9 percent, after a 0.3 percent pace of increase in November and a drop of 4 percent in October, which reflected a decline in auto sales.
 Some analysts said consumers were beginning to feel burdened by debt, which is at record levels over all, and by interest rates that are rising as the Federal Reserve increases benchmark rates as a pre-emptive strike against any quickening of inflation.
 Last week, the Commerce Department reported that consumers spent all they earned and then some last year, pushing the personal savings rate into negative territory -- minus 0.5 percent -- for the first time since the Depression.
 The Fed's report Tuesday, which excluded borrowing in the form of home mortgages and other loans secured by real estate, showed that the increase last year in credit card and other revolving debt was 2.6 percent, the smallest in 23 years.
 Analysts said some of the slowdown reflected a step-up in home equity loans rather than increases in credit card debt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LENDING (92%); PERSONAL DEBT (91%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SAVINGS RATES (73%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (54%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (53%) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



183 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: A Florida City Awaits the Payoff From Its Bet on Condos

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

DATELINE: FORT MYERS, Fla., Feb. 5 

 BODY:
As the stepchild to its more beautiful sisters in southwest Florida, Naples and Sarasota, this city has struggled for decades to revitalize its picturesque downtown and attract snowbirds and tourists. 
 With low-rise buildings dating back to the 1800's, the city has the potential to be a New Urbanist paradise. But as in many other cities that began sprawling outward in the 1970's, the downtown was long neglected until high hopes for condo development along the riverfront spurred city planners to undertake a major redevelopment effort.
Now, the historical buildings are no longer deteriorating; many have been rehabilitated using preservation tax credits and other tax abatement measures. And yet much of downtown is still vacant, leaving some people in Fort Myers to wonder, What if you rebuild it and they still don't come? 
 ''The city leaders have put all their eggs in the condo basket,'' said Warren J. Wright, the councilman for downtown Fort Myers. ''They said, if we build enough condo units, then downtown will come back to life. But the way the economy is going, I'm not sure they'll ever get built.'' 
 City planners had long ago determined that increasing the downtown residential population, currently less than 3,000, would be critical to the city's revitalization. And with riverfront property suddenly in high demand as condo fever belatedly reached Fort Myers, the city went where the market took it. 
 The Beau Rivage, the first high-rise tower to be built on the Caloosahatchee River in 15 years, opened in October 2004. It all but sold out before construction began. Developers from Ohio to Israel took note, and snapped up land along the waterfront. Based on the sudden interest in Fort Myers, the city hired Andres Duany, the well-known New Urbanist architect and urban planner, to develop a master plan for downtown and the waterfront. 
 In short order, the city began approving high-rise condo projects for a total of 3,600 units, all exceeding the height limit set by the master plan that had just been adopted, as well as the number of units allowed by law in a coastal high-hazard zone. (The city is currently lobbying the state to raise the cap.) Fort Myers also proceeded with a $30 million downtown street improvement project, and spent millions expanding the airport. 
 But the Beau Rivage might become the harbinger of a market slowdown. A year ago people here worried that Fort Myers, predicted to triple its downtown population in five years, would be overdeveloped. Now some are concerned that wealthy condo dwellers might not save the city after all. 
 Open more than a year, the Beau Rivage is only 35 percent occupied at the height of snowbird season, when Northerners come to Florida. Many of the units have already been flipped once, and 26 of the 124 units are back on the market. 
 At least one investor, Craig A. Teich, based in Fort Lauderdale, barely made his money back when he sold five units in a hurry; Beau Rivage's management acknowledged that he escaped a loss only because he bought into the complex at a discount rate.
 Three of the nine projects that have been approved since the master plan was adopted are under construction, with three more high-rise projects in the process of approval. But one developer, the BSR Group, based in Israel, recently tried to sell its riverfront property in a deal that fell through, and a project by the Throgmartin Company is tied up in a land swap imbroglio involving the National Park Service. The rest might suffer from rising construction costs and a slowdown in preconstruction sales. 
 ''I don't know why there aren't more people in Beau Rivage,'' said Donald Paight, executive director of the Fort Myers Downtown Redevelopment Agency. ''But I'm very confident that all of the towers that have been approved will get built. Developers have already invested millions of dollars on land acquisition, design and permitting. People will be living in them eventually.''
 He added, ''If an investor doesn't make as much money as they hoped, I don't really care.'' 
 One real estate agent who put investors into three condo developments that are not yet under construction says he believes his clients are safe. 
 ''We cherry-picked the best developments and their construction costs are already locked in,'' said the agent, Brad Cozza of the Cozza Investment Group at Keller Williams Realty. ''If the rest don't get built, that only helps us. Anything above $500 a square foot is tough, and that's the price some of these other towers that haven't locked in their construction costs are going to face.''
 That is cold comfort to owners of downtown businesses -- those, that is, still open -- who are becoming increasingly critical of the city. 
 ''I don't know how much longer I can hold on,'' said Betty Naughton, who owns an antiques store called Everything Old Is New Again. ''There is absolutely no foot traffic. And without that, we can't last.''
 Another downtown retailer, Ron Killion, who owns a gift shop called Frog and the Fly, said his store was still open only because it is a hobby that he does not count on for income.
 Compared with how downtown looked seven years ago, when he first opened, things have improved markedly, he said. But Mr. Killion is concerned about a new grocery store and retail center just outside the historical area, behind one of the largest waterfront condo projects on the river. He believes this new retail center will pull what few shoppers there are away from the historical district.
 ''They should have built a grocery store downtown five years ago,'' he said. ''I live downtown, and there's nowhere to get groceries.'' 
 Mr. Paight of the downtown redevelopment agency said: ''We had to focus on the bigger picture. Residential development had to come first. I do feel badly for the retailers who are struggling, but there's only so much we can do. And there are some stores downtown that are doing well.'' 
 One downtown developer, Dominik Goertz, remains optimistic. He has been buying historical buildings and rehabilitating them since 1997, nine of them to date, using tax credits and partial tax abatements. He has sold some space as residential and commercial condos; other space he has kept as rentals, which he said were fully leased.
 ''I'm not concerned about a lack of activity,'' Mr. Goertz said. ''You can't compare it to a mall. Downtown is the best chance to have a healthy, local business community. The city is committed to that.'' 
 But planners and community advocates lament that the city has not done more to encourage downtown work force housing and retailing, as well as waterfront amenities for people who already live in Fort Myers. 
 ''The city has approved all these condo units on the river and didn't pay any attention to the other pieces of the puzzle,'' said Marsa Detscher, an urban planning consultant who lives in Fort Myers but works outside the area.
 ''I'm not anti-growth, but you can't redevelop a city based on high-rise towers alone,'' Ms. Detscher said. ''Even if they do get built, those residents don't live here year-round and don't demand services. They don't vote and don't participate in civic life. Downtown is not going to benefit much from that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A condo building, top, rises near the Beau Rivage in Fort Myers, Fla. First Street, above, was a focal point of redevelopment. (Photographs by Amanda Inscore for The New York Times)Map of Florida highlighting Fort Myers: Hopes of riverfront condo projects spurred activity in Fort Myers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); TAX LAW (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); LOBBYING (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) 

PERSON: Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT MYERS, FL, USA (98%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (92%); NAPLES, FL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Fort Myers (Fla); Florida

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



184 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: A Long Island City Awakening

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
Midtown Manhattan is closer to Long Island City than it is to downtown Manhattan, and the transportation links are excellent. All this has made the area particularly attractive to deep-pocketed developers of residential projects, like Rockrose and AvalonBay, and they and other builders have a number of projects under way to house people who cannot afford Manhattan prices or decline to pay them.
 As a result, the prospective influx of people to what had been an industrial area seems likely to attract retailers and other service companies. But will office developers and business tenants be attracted to what has long been designated as New York City's fourth central business district, after Midtown, downtown Manhattan and downtown Brooklyn? 
Opinions vary. Some office projects have been developed, and others are being planned. But despite high rents and a shortage of prime space in Midtown, office tenants are not clamoring for sites in Long Island City, real estate professionals say, and developers are reluctant to build without an anchor tenant.
 ''The East Side of Manhattan is one subway stop away from the Citicorp building'' in Long Island City, said Christopher Jones of the Regional Plan Association, a nonpartisan research group. ''That is closer than the West Side. But the East River remains a physical and psychological barrier.'' 
 The Citicorp tower, also known as Court Square One, is a 48-story, 1.4-million-square-foot office building that opened in 1989.
 Mr. Jones said that government-aided efforts to revive downtown Manhattan in the wake of the attack of Sept. 11 may delay efforts to develop a commercial core in Long Island City, despite favorable zoning changes intended to encourage high-rise development.
 ''There is some potential tension between downtown and Long Island City,'' Mr. Jones said. ''But over all, Long Island City caters to a different market than downtown, and it is on a different time scale'' in that there is a sense of urgency to redevelop Lower Manhattan relatively quickly.
 Residential development is starting to transform Long Island City, argued Sanford Zuckerbrot, chairman of Sholom & Zuckerbrot, a brokerage firm with headquarters in the area. ''Until recently, we had only local developers in the area. Now, we have had an influx of big-time developers -- Manhattan developers who were not associated with Queens.''
 He said Rockrose was planning to build seven residential buildings that would house 3,200 to 3,300 condominium units, along with other residential developments. ''Now we are having long-term development, like Jersey City,'' where major projects have been built in several stages, Mr. Zuckerbrot said. 
 Some industrial buildings, like the Eagle Electric factory near the Citicorp high-rise, are being converted into residences. But Mr. Zuckerbrot said some operations, like printers, were still viable and were needed to service businesses in Manhattan.
 He said the remaining industrial companies could co-exist with newer residential development in separate zones, as they do in Brooklyn in neighborhoods like Williamsburg and Greenpoint.
 Some commercial projects have already happened. To house up to 2,000 MetLife workers transferred out of Manhattan, Brause Realty converted and added to an old factory facing the Queensboro Bridge. Construction is under way near the Citicorp tower for a 16-story, 270,000-square-foot building that will house the United Nations Federal Credit Union and other commercial tenants. It is called Court Square Two.
 But other projects remain stalled. Tishman Speyer's plan for a major office tower in Queens Plaza has not attracted a major tenant so far. ''The site is all zoned and ready to go for as much as 3.5 million square feet, but they will not build without a tenant,'' said John Reinertsen, a specialist in Queens properties for CB Richard Ellis, a Manhattan-based brokerage and services company.
 Mr. Reinertsen said a growing residential population might help to spur the development of commercial properties, but he added that for now areas zoned as residential would be the first to be developed. ''The value of land that is zoned for residential is three times more than for commercial,'' he said.
 The residential and commercial markets are really not linked in Long Island City, unlike in some other areas where there are mixed-use projects with offices, stores and housing, said John Maltz, the president of Greiner-Maltz, a brokerage firm focusing on Queens, Brooklyn and Long Island. The projects that have taken place, like the MetLife development or the United Nations Credit Union, have been driven by a single major tenant.
 Most developers, he said, have no stomach to put up speculative office buildings in hopes of filling them with multiple tenants. ''There is land available along Jackson Avenue'' that is zoned for high-density commercial development, he said, ''but nobody is going into the ground.''
 Nevertheless, when the Reckson Associates Realty Corporation, a real estate investment trust, acquired the Citicorp building and recapitalized it last fall, the company noted the potential of the area.
 Scott Rechler, the president of Reckson, said Long Island City was ''one of the last remaining underdeveloped New York City submarkets.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Eagle Electric factory, near the Citicorp high-rise in Long Island City, a subway stop from Manhattan, is being converted into residences. (Photo by Nicholas Hegel McClelland for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); ZONING (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%) 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (83%); AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%) Rockrose Development Corp; Avalonb00336200nities Inc; Citicorp

TICKER: C (NYSE) (83%); C (BMV) (83%); 8710 (TSE) (83%); AVB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (58%)

PERSON: John Holusha

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Long Island City (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



185 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: World Trade Agency Rules for U.S. in Biotech Dispute

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
The United States won a closely watched trade dispute yesterday when the World Trade Organization ruled that the European Union breached international rules by restricting imports of genetically modified crops and food made from them. 
 The decision, which was not made public but was discussed by federal trade officials, also represents a victory for the agricultural biotechnology industry, which for years has been battling opposition to its products from consumers and governments in Europe and some other countries.
The ruling by a three-person panel at the Geneva-based trade body is not expected to flood Europe with biotech foods. But American government and industry officials said it would help discourage other countries from adopting similar barriers and would set a precedent that countries must have sound scientific reasons for rejecting genetically modified crops. Some countries have feared they would lose exports to Europe if they were to grow the crops. 
 ''One of the reasons we brought the case was because of the chilling effect the E.U.'s actions had on the adoption of biotechnology,'' a United States trade official told reporters yesterday. 
 The official disclosed details of the case on the condition that he not be identified because preliminary decisions by the W.T.O. are initially confidential. He said he was commenting because parts of the decision had already been leaked to news media. 
 Officials of the countries involved in the dispute were still trying to digest the ruling, which American officials said was 800 pages, the longest ruling in the organization's history. 
 The United States, joined by Canada and Argentina, filed a complaint against the European Union in 2003, claiming that a moratorium on approvals of genetically modified crops that Europe adopted in 1998 violated a food trade treaty that requires regulatory decisions to be made without ''undue delay'' and to be based on science. 
 The three countries also complained that six European countries -- Austria, France, Germany, Greece, Italy and Luxembourg -- violated trade rules by banning even biotech crops that had been approved by the European Commission. 
 Europe had argued that it did not have a moratorium but that it just took time to weigh the possible risks to health and environment posed by genetic engineering. It said it needed to take a ''precautionary'' approach to regulation as opposed to Washington's ''laissez-faire'' stance. 
 The trade organization panel appears not to have challenged Europe's regulatory process for biotech crops. Rather, it said Europe failed to follow its own procedures, resulting in undue delay of decisions. 
 The panel ruled in favor of the United States regarding the bans by the six countries. It also ruled in favor of the United States on 23 of 27 specific crops, according to L. Val Giddings, a biotechnology industry consultant who said he had been briefed on the ruling. 
 Genetically modified crops, mainly corn, soybeans and cotton containing bacterial genes that provide resistance to herbicides or insects, are widely grown and consumed in the United States but rarely in Europe. 
 American biotechnology, food and agriculture groups hailed the ruling. 
 ''This is a good, clear signal to the world that Europe was wrong,'' said Leon Corzine, chairman of the National Corn Growers Association. He said about $300 million a year in corn exports to Europe were lost as a result of the moratorium. 
 But consumer and environmental groups opposed to biotech crops condemned the finding. 
 ''The World Trade Organization, with its secretive decision-making processes, is unfit to decide what we should eat or what farmers should grow,'' Alexandra Wandel, trade coordinator for Friends of the Earth Europe, said in a statement. 
 Given that European consumers are still wary of the crops and foods made from them, sales there are not expected to expand rapidly. Some experts said the decision could even harden resistance to the foods. 
 ''To the extent the issue has died down a little in Europe, it risks bringing it to the forefront again,'' said Charlotte Hebebrand, president of the International Food and Agricultural Trade Policy Council, a group based in Washington that supports open trade. Until Friday, Ms. Hebebrand worked in the European Commission's Washington office. 
 Europe is expected to argue that the decision is moot because it resumed approving biotech crops in 2004. But the American trade official said that some applications filed in the 1990's had still not been approved. Moreover, the recent approvals have generally been for importing crops, not for growing them. 
 The decision could still be changed before it is made public, though such an action is unusual. After the decision is made public, the parties can appeal. 
 Europe could ignore the ruling and instead accept retaliatory tariffs on some of its exports to the United States. Europe has still not opened its market to beef raised on growth hormones, even though the United States won a case at the trade organization in the late 1990's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (93%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); CROP RESEARCH (77%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (77%); APPROVALS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) World Trade Organization; European Union

PERSON: Andrew Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); AUSTRIA (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (79%); FRANCE (79%); LUXEMBOURG (78%); GREECE (73%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



186 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: South Korea and U.S. Start Talks on Free Trade Pact 

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Feb. 3 

 BODY:
South Korean and American negotiators have started a one-year drive to draw up the United States' largest free trade accord since Nafta went into effect in 1994 with Canada and Mexico.
 Working against an April 2007 deadline, the negotiators are trying to bind two economies that rank first and 11th in size in the world.
 For President Roh Moo Hyun of South Korea, a free trade pact would cement the alliance with the United States, countering criticism that he has let South Korea drift into China's economic and political orbit. By jumping over China and Japan to negotiate the first free trade pact by the United States with an Asian powerhouse, President Roh would leave a strong legacy when he leaves office in two years. 
 For Washington, the temptation to win better access to the seventh-largest export market is expected to carry more weight than objections from auto and steel manufacturers.
 The talks highlight the shift of North Asia's largest economic powers -- China, Japan and South Korea -- away from a past focus on multilateral accords, like those of the World Trade Organization, to bilateral pacts.
 After reaching free trade pacts with Chile in 2004, and with Singapore last year, South Korea's Foreign Ministry created an ''F.T.A. unit'' to pursue such accords. This month, South Korea is scheduled to start talks with Mexico, to announce talks with India and to hold a fourth round of talks with Canada. 
 Initial research has been conducted with China and with Mercosur, the South American trading bloc. Initial talks have taken place with Japan and with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
 ''Korea has not been a very open economy,'' said Moon Hwy Chang, a Korean professor of international business. ''We have to go in the direction of an open-door policy. F.T.A. is the way we have to go.''
 Many economists say free trade will bring a new impulse to an Asian tiger that is slowing in middle age. South Korea's currency, the won, has gained 22 percent against the dollar since 2002. With the won trading at the highest levels in nearly a decade, South Korean exports grew only 4.3 percent in January. Imports surged 17.6 percent, nearly wiping out the trade surplus for the month. 
 To pitch the advantages of a free trade pact to South Koreans, Alexander Vershbow, the United States ambassador here, wrote in a newspaper essay that the annual flow of American investment to Mexico tripled after Nafta went into effect. 
 He noted forecasts by South Korea's government that a free trade pact would increase the country's real gross domestic product by as much as 2 percent, would increase exports to the United States by 15 percent and would raise manufacturing employment by 6.5 percent.
 ''Koreans whose food bill as a percentage of income is higher than for citizens of almost all other O.E.C.D. (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development) members -- will enjoy lower food prices and a greater selection of fruits and vegetables,'' he wrote, referring to the world's developed nations.
 ''Money saved on food can be invested in education, leisure, and cutting-edge I.T. services -- exactly the type of sectors that need to grow to provide future generations with well-paying jobs.''
 It is unclear whether both countries can negotiate what could be a 1,000-page document before President Bush's fast-track trade negotiating authority expires next year.
 But in Tokyo, J. Thomas Schieffer, the United States ambassador to Japan, recalled the pessimism expressed when President Bush and Prime Minister John Howard of Australia announced in 2003 that their two countries would negotiate a free trade pact in one year.
 ''The bureaucracies said it couldn't be done,'' Mr. Schieffer, who was ambassador to Australia, told reporters. Noting that the talks were concluded in less than one year, he added, ''If you have the political will at the top to get it done, the bureaucracies react to that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (96%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (96%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%) 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: Roh Moo Hyun; James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%); MEXICO (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



187 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Why Settle for Gold in Turin? The Real Prize Is a Darker Delight

BYLINE: By DANA BOWEN

 BODY:
IT would be like going to Venice and not having a Bellini. So, while Turin's Olympic visitors will be more concerned with skating and skiing, they would do well to detour to a cafe and try a bicerin.
 This cold-weather cocktail of espresso and melted chocolate, sipped through a cool blanket of cream, is hard to find anywhere else. While the Piedmont's other flavors -- nebbiolo and truffles, grissini and gianduja hazelnut chocolates -- have made names for themselves abroad, this demure drink that warms winter bones has never left home. 
''I don't think you're going to find it here,'' said Fortunato Nicotra, the executive chef of Felidia in Manhattan and a Turin native. He was right: requests for bicerin (pronounced bee-cheh-REEN) at coffee counters and chocolate bars in Manhattan and Brooklyn were met with blank stares and offerings of milky mochaccino. (In flavor and density, Jacques Torres's mocha came unwittingly close, though it lacked the balanced doses of chocolate, espresso and cream that distinguish bicerin.)
 To many the ultimate version is served in Turin at Al Bicerin, a cozy closet of a confectioners' shop dating to 1763 in the Piazza della Consolata. On a busy day, 300 cups of bicerin may be served in the short-stemmed glasses from which it takes its name. 
 ''We make the original,'' Marite Costa, who has owned Al Bicerin since 1983, said in a telephone interview. Though the recipe is closely guarded, the technique is not: Ms. Costa first adds a shot of locally roasted espresso -- ''the right mix between soft and robust'' -- then a layer of liquefied homemade chocolate, and finally fior di latte, or top cream, shaken just enough so it floats.
 The shop has always been managed by women, a tradition that helped welcome women into Turin's influential cafe culture. If the wooden walls could talk, they would tell of Italy's unification leaders and duchesses, Nietzsche and the girl next door, rubbing shoulders as they sipped bicerin.
 Dario Bragaglia, author of the newly updated ''Torino: Storie e Sapori di una Capitale'' (''Turin: History and Flavors of a Capital''), said via e-mail that the drink was popular until the eve of World War I, when inflation caused prices to surge, ending its mainstream appeal. ''It returned in fashion about 10 years ago, with the recuperation of traditional and authentic foods,'' he said. 
 Ennio Ranaboldo, chief executive of United States operations for the Lavazza coffee company, which is based in Turin, said the current vogue may have something to do with Al Bicerin's location, in the center of the Quadrilatero Romano, a neighborhood he compared to the Lower East Side of Manhattan in its recent trendy transformation. 
 One of the few places in the States offering bicerin is Laboratorio del Galileo in Washington, where Roberto Donna, the chef, spikes it with rum and serves it as a predessert. It's his most requested recipe.
 Mr. Donna, a Turin native, said chefs are creating new versions with layers and foams. One comes with tiramisu at Scott Conant's restaurant Alto in Midtown, stratified with espresso-chocolate ganache and mocha foam and sprinkled with Maldon sea salt.
 Delicious, yes. Bicerin -- not even close.

Bicerin
Time: 10 minutes, plus more for chilling

1/3cup high-quality cocoa powder, dark chocolate shavings or hot chocolate mix (see note)
Sugar
2/3cup chilled heavy cream
Ground espresso (enough for 2 long shots, about 1/3 cup each).

1. At least 15 minutes before making bicerin, place stainless steel cocktail shaker or jar in the freezer. Fill 2 water goblets or Irish coffee mugs with hot tap water.
2. In small saucepan combine chocolate with about 2/3 cup water, and set over medium heat. Simmer, stirring occasionally, until chocolate coats spoon, about 10 minutes. Add sugar to taste. Shut off heat.
3. Empty glasses and wipe dry. Remove shaker or jar from freezer, add cream and shake vigorously 1 minute. Make espresso. To each glass or mug add a shot of espresso and 1/3 cup chocolate, and carefully spoon 1/3 cup cream over top. Serve immediately.
Yield: 2 drinks.
Note: Venchi's Cacao Due Vecchi cocoa, produced in the Piedmont region of Italy and sold at DiPalo Fine Foods (200 Grand Street, at Mott Street, 212-226-1033), yields thick, rich hot chocolate that can be sweetened to taste. The cost is $8.99 for 250 grams, or about 9 ounces.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rich enough for you? A bicerin, made at the New York office of the Lavazza company. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (90%); CONFECTIONERY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); COFFEE (77%); COFFEE & TEA (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); WOMEN (74%); INTERVIEWS (69%); WORLD WAR I (50%) Beverages; Chocolate; Coffee; Recipes

PERSON: Dana Bowen

GEOGRAPHIC: TURIN, ITALY (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (90%) Turin (Italy); Italy

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



188 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Editor Dies After Beating by the Police 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
A Chinese newspaper editor who was severely beaten by the police after he published an article that alleged petty abuses of power in their ranks died of the wounds he suffered in the attack, a New York-based media watchdog group said Tuesday. 
 The editor, Wu Xianghu, 41, died of liver and kidney failure last week after he failed to recover from the Oct. 20 beating in his office in the eastern coastal city of Taizhou, the Committee to Protect Journalists said in a statement.
The city government of Taizhou said the cause of Mr. Wu's death was still being determined. State news media reported earlier that a beating had occurred, but officials subsequently banned coverage of the matter and have not publicly acknowledged the death.
 In October, The Taizhou Evening News published a report that criticized high license fees the traffic police imposed on electric bicycles, which are popular in the area. The report suggested that the fees violated local regulations.
 The next day, a large group of traffic policemen stormed the offices of The Taizhou Evening News and beat Mr. Wu in plain sight, colleagues said at the time.
 One senior traffic police officer, Li Xiaoguo, was fired for his role in the incident, the state-run New China News Agency said at the time, but there was no indication that other officers had been fired or that any faced criminal prosecution.
 ''The death of our colleague after he was brutally assaulted for his work is a cruel reminder of the new dangers faced by Chinese journalists,'' Ann Cooper, the executive director of the Committee to Protect Journalists, said in a statement. ''The government must ensure the safety of the working press. This begins by bringing to justice the attackers of Wu Xianghu.'' 
 Chinese media operate under strict controls and do not routinely criticize the police or other authorities. But in an increasingly competitive economy, some newspapers and television news programs have pursued bolder investigations to attract readers and viewers.
 Beyond the risk of offending censors, journalists who expose official corruption often face harassment and intimidation, and in some cases have been prosecuted and sentenced to long jail terms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF PRESS (92%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); WRITERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CENSORSHIP (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (79%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); CORRUPTION (73%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); CITIES (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); SENTENCING (70%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Freedom and Human Rights; News and News Media; Censorship; Freedom of Speech and Expression; Freedom of the Press

ORGANIZATION: Taizhou Evening News; Committee to Protect Journalists

PERSON: Joseph Kahn; Wu Xianghu

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) China; Taizhou (China)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



189 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE ISLAMIC FLARE-UP: ROOTS OF DISPUTE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: West Coming to Grasp Wide Islamic Protests As Sign of Deep Gulf 

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL; Reporting for this article was contributed by Marlise Simons in Paris, Mark Landler and Petra Kappl in Frankfurt, Victor Homola and Sarah Plass in Berlin, Renwick McLean in Madrid, Elisabetta Povoledo in Milan, Peter Kiefer in Rome and Ivar Ekman in Copenhagen.

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
As Islamic protests grew against the publication of cartoons lampooning the Prophet Muhammad, a small but vocal Muslim immigrant organization responded with a drawing on its Web site of Hitler in bed with Anne Frank. ''Write this one in your diary, Anne,'' Hitler was shown as saying.
 The intent, said the group, the Arab European League, was ''to use our right to artistic expression,'' just as the Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten did last September when it published 12 cartoons showing Muhammad, several of them satiric.
''Europe has its sacred cows, even if they're not religious sacred cows,'' said Dyab Abou Jahjah, the founder of the organization, which advocates for immigrants' rights in Belgium, the Netherlands and Denmark. 
 After days of violent protests that have claimed several lives, the conflict has pushed both sides across an unexpected threshold, where they view each other with miscomprehension and suspicion.
 As the protests have spread, some Europeans have come to realize that relatively small Muslim minorities -- 3 percent in Britain, 4 percent in Denmark and around 5 percent in the European Union -- can wield power across the Islamic world.
 ''No longer is the issue merely that of belittling an immigrant group,'' wrote Jurgen Gottschlich, a German journalist based in Istanbul. ''Just as there are heroes of free speech in Denmark, there are also heroes from the Arabian peninsula to North Africa to Indonesia who are ready to take to the barricades to defend their prophet's dignity.''
 Ibrahim Magdy, 39, an Egyptian Coptic Christian with a florist business in Rome, said, ''The problem now is that when you say something or do something, you are not just talking to the Egyptians or to the Syrians or to the Saudis, but you are talking to the entire Muslim world.''
 The cartoons have set off a profound debate about freedom of expression and supposed double standards. And the spreading protest signified a hardening of extremes that left little room for moderation. ''The moderate Muslim has again been effectively silenced,'' said Tabish Khair, professor of English at the University of Aarhus, Denmark.
 For decades European nations have wrestled with an influx of immigrants who came for economic and political reasons, primarily from lands where Islam is the dominant faith -- from Bosnia and Turkey, from Iraq, Iran and elsewhere in the Middle East, from North Africa and Somalia. But many feel they have never been fully welcome. 
 The catalog of Islamic terrorism -- from the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the United States, to the March 2004 bombings in Madrid and the July 2005 attacks in London -- has challenged governments and societies to distinguish between moderates and extremists, like the four British-born Muslims who killed themselves and 52 other people in London. 
 Ostensibly, said Timothy Garton Ash, an Oxford professor of European history, the clash has pitted two sets of values -- freedom of expression and multiculturalism -- against each other. Muslim immigrants, initially seen in the 1960's as temporary laborers, have formed permanent and expanding communities.
 But beyond that, there is a seething resentment among some Muslims that they are treated as second-class citizens and potential terrorists in lands that deny the importance of their faith, even though the number of Muslims in Europe totals 20 million, and possibly many more.
 ''If you have black hair, it is really difficult to find a job,'' said Muhammad Elzjahim, a 22-year-old construction worker of Palestinian descent whose parents moved to Denmark when he was 2 years old. He said he had studied dentistry for three and a half years only to find that ''it was for nothing, because I couldn't find a job in my field.''
 That mistrust is mirrored by a gnawing sense among some Europeans that their generous welfare states have become home to an unwelcome minority that does not share their values and may even represent a fifth column of potential insurgents, who project themselves as the victims of Islamophobia and discrimination in housing and jobs.
 ''The radicals don't want an agreement, they don't want the round table,'' said Rainer Mion, a 44-year-old German insurance agent in Berlin. ''What they want is to spread their Islamic beliefs all over the world.'' 
 Giulio Cordese, a 50-year-old salesman in an Italian specialty deli in Berlin, added: ''We have to make a point here. Personally, I would expel all Muslims in the concerned countries, because they simply don't accept democratic rules here.''
 But that goes to the core of the debate: which rules apply to which people? 
 In London on Tuesday, Abu Hamza al-Masri, an Egyptian who is wanted in the United States on terrorism charges, was sentenced to seven years for incitement to murder. Five days earlier, Nick Griffin, chairman of the anti-immigrant British National Party, was acquitted on race hate charges relating to assaults on Islam as a ''vicious, wicked faith.''
 The different outcomes provoked fresh accusations that British justice -- like British society, by this argument -- discriminates against Muslims. ''We seem to have different standards when we deal with these issues from different communities,'' said Massoud Shadjareh, a founder of the Islamic Human Rights Commission in London.
 Flemming Rose, the culture editor of Jyllands-Posten, which first published the cartoons, insisted last week that his interest lay solely in asserting the right to free speech over religious taboos. ''When Muslims say you are not showing respect, I would say: you are not asking for my respect, you are asking for my submission,'' he said.
 Yet, The Guardian reported Monday that three years ago, Jyllands-Posten rejected several cartoons satirizing the resurrection of Jesus, saying they were not funny and would ''provoke an outcry.'' The editor who rejected those drawings, Jens Kaiser, dismissed comparisons with the Muhammad cartoons, saying the paper had never asked for the cartoons of Jesus. 
 Many here echoed Mr. Rose's apprehension that European values and freedoms are under threat. 
 ''In America, few people fear that they will have to live according to the norms of Islam,'' an editorial in the Dutch newspaper NRC Handelsblad read. ''In European countries, with a large or growing Muslim minority, there is a real fear that behind the demand for respect hides another agenda: the threat that everyone must adjust to the rules of Islam.''
 In 2005, a Moroccan-Dutch painter, Rachid Ben Ali, went into hiding after receiving death threats related to an exhibit showing ''hate imams'' spitting bombs. Most infamously, in 2004, the Dutch filmmaker Theo van Gogh was murdered for committing what his confessed killer called blasphemy in his film, ''Submission,'' about violence against Islamic women.
 In the Netherlands, where the population of 16 million includes a million Muslims, some people wonder whether their secular values can guarantee social peace.
 In earlier periods of European history, NRC Handelsblad said, ''a small religious dispute could lead to large- or small-scale wars.''
 ''The Muslim immigration has thrown Europe back to the religious conflicts of the past.''
 In Britain, some analysts argue that the government of Prime Minister Tony Blair has shown itself ready to promote self-censorship when dealing with Islamic militancy in the interest of averting further terrorist attacks. ''Islam is protected by an invisible blasphemy law,'' said Jasper Gerard, a columnist in The Sunday Times. ''It is called fear.''
 In some assessments, the situation rewards those at the extremes. ''Islamic fundamentalists and European right-wingers both enjoy a veritable gift that can be used to ignite fire after fire,'' said Janne Haaland Matlary, professor of international relations and former deputy foreign minister of Norway. 
 Many Europeans draw distinctions, suggesting different responses across the Continent. 
 In Germany, where two newspapers published some of the cartoons, arson attacks directed at Turkish and other immigrants in the early 1990's conjured the specter of Nazism, and some people believe that memory has built a degree of caution. 
 ''We must de-escalate the situation,'' said Ayyub Axel Kohler, a convert to Islam who heads the Central Council of Muslims in Germany. ''It might be easier to do that in Germany than in other countries.'' 
 A joint statement released Tuesday by Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations, Secretary General Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, and Javier Solana, the foreign policy representative of the European Union, sought to re-establish a common ground. 
 ''We fully uphold the right of free speech,'' the statement read. ''But we understand the deep hurt and widespread indignation felt in the Muslim World. We believe freedom of the press entails responsibility and discretion, and should respect the beliefs and tenets of all religions.
 ''But we also believe the recent violent acts surpass the limits of peaceful protest. 
 ''Aggression against life and property can only damage the image of a peaceful Islam.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 14, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Wednesday with an article about tensions between native Europeans and Muslim immigrants over European cartoons lampooning the Prophet Muhammad misstated the year in which Theo van Gogh, a Dutch filmmaker, was killed by a Muslim extremist who said Mr. van Gogh had insulted Islam. It was November 2004, not 2002.
A picture caption on Wednesday with an article about tensions between native Europeans and Muslim immigrants over European cartoons lampooning the Prophet Muhammad misstated the year in which Theo van Gogh, a Dutch filmmaker, was killed by a Muslim extremist who said Mr. van Gogh had insulted Islam. It was November 2004, not 2002.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nick Griffin, center, of the British National Party, at court in January. He was acquitted last week of incitement after calling Islam wicked. (Photo by Jon Super/Associated Press)
 Theo van Gogh lay dead after being stabbed in Amsterdam in November 2002. His killer said Mr. van Gogh had insulted Islam in a film. (Photo by Maartje Blijdenstein/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (89%); TERRORISM (83%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); WRITERS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); RIOTS (73%); WEB SITES (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%); BOMBINGS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Islam; Cartoons and Cartoonists; Demonstrations and Riots; Freedom of the Press; Freedom of Speech and Expression; News and News Media; Islam

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: Alan Cowell; Muhammad (Prophet) (C570-632)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (72%); MADRID, SPAIN (65%) EUROPE (94%); DENMARK (94%); TURKEY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EGYPT (92%); AFRICA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); SYRIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); IRAQ (79%); GERMANY (77%) Denmark; Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



190 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Our Towns; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Comfort, Like Pain, Is Shared

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: MANHASSET, N.Y. 

 BODY:
THE names on the two plaques bordering the crucifix outside St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church are as vivid as they were during that terrible September -- Roko Camaj, who washed windows at the towers 1,300 feet above the earth; Christopher Quackenbush, who tried to live by the message of ''A Christmas Carol'' all year long; Michael H. Seaman; Joseph Dickey Jr. 
 There are 36 in all -- 10 parishioners, 11 graduates of the religious school, 15 relatives of parishioners -- but everyone knows they don't come close to reflecting all the losses suffered at a single church in one of the towns hit hardest on Sept. 11, 2001. 
It's way too early for plaques and remembrances at the Sacred Heart Parish in D'Iberville, Miss., whose own terrible August and September is told in the houses reduced to rubble, the church ruined under 11 feet of water, the people still without homes or jobs. But there is a redemptive message for both of them in the alliance of two parishes, distant in every way except a shared sense of pain and a common faith that there is life after grief.
 Some members of St. Mary's say it is likely that they would have adopted Sacred Heart even if they had not experienced their own tragedy. But if they needed a lesson in how to respond to disaster far away, they needed only to remember what happened to them.
 Almost all of them remember a kindness that descended from afar -- the company in Texas that decided to donate money to a local family in need instead of having a Christmas party, the teddy bears sent from schoolchildren in Iowa to schoolchildren in Manhasset, the banners and letters of condolence and of support that poured in for weeks. 
 So when the church's pastor, Msgr. John J. McCann, followed the devastation from Hurricane Katrina last summer, he immediately thought there had to be a way to respond. After weeks of frustration in trying to connect to many battered parishes, he was eventually directed to Sacred Heart, which was established near Biloxi in the 19th century to serve a largely French and Cajun population and now serves one that is largely working-class and includes retirees, casino workers and Vietnamese shrimpers.
 The area caught almost the full brunt of the storm, with the homes of almost 60 percent of the parishioners left uninhabitable. The church, parish school and rectory were unusable and its vestments, Bibles and schoolbooks destroyed.
 Five months after Katrina, its pastor, the Rev. Robert Higginbotham, works from an R.V. Sacred Heart holds its services at a Methodist church, a Baptist church and its diocesan center. The membership, once about 1,500 individuals and families, is down to 1,000, and rebuilding the parish still seems a distant dream.
 But it no longer seems an impossible one, and Sacred Heart hopes to rebuild the parish school by September and celebrate Mass in its own church by Christmas. St. Mary's is one of a handful of churches trying to help rebuild Sacred Heart, and it has a very specific and ambitious goal: to raise $150,000 for the school cafeteria. 
 THIS weekend, Father Higginbotham, who came to Sacred Heart last January after 20 years as an Air Force chaplain, will get to meet the people in Manhasset for the first time. He arrives tomorrow night for three days of meeting with parishioners, schoolchildren and the pastoral staff, attending all the church's Masses, including a special noon Mass on Sunday that he will celebrate with St. Mary's priests. He will have a lot on his mind -- describing his parish and the people who depend on it, providing a road map for recovery, sharing a vision of hope in time of need.
 But in addition to thanking St. Mary's, he will have in mind its example of community and faith and of recovery from unfathomable loss. And along with being grateful for its generosity, he said he was also struck by its example of outlasting bad times, no matter how horrific they are.
 ''It's still very tough here,'' he said by phone the other day from the trailer in Mississippi. ''We're probably still a bit of distance from any real upswing in the economic situation. But we can see from them that even when there's great loss, there's life beyond it. One encouraging thing they're trying to say to us is that you're not alone in your loss, and that from our experience we're telling you you'll make it through. So they're helping financially, but they're helping in other ways, too.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (86%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); CHRISTMAS (76%); TEXTBOOKS (75%); FAMILY (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (69%); HURRICANES (69%); TERRORISM (69%); WEATHER (69%); CASINOS (50%) Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm) 

ORGANIZATION: St Mary's Roman Catholic Church (NYC); Roman Catholic Church; Sacred Heart Parish (D'Iberville, Miss)

PERSON: Peter Applebome

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BILOXI, MS, USA (77%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; D'Iberville (Miss)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



191 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: Discovering Values, In Movies and in Life

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Remaking the Epic of America'' (column, Feb. 5): 
 David Brooks, in his latest celebration of traditional American values, describes a return to an acceptance of authority and an ethic of ambition and hard work.
Isn't it somewhat of a paradox that all of his examples are from recent American movies, not from real life? 
 In almost every column, Mr. Brooks finds almost everything in America to be working splendidly. But inequality is the highest it has been since the 1920's, economic mobility is the lowest it has been in decades, and corporate wealth and power so dominate American politics that democracy has become a sham.

Peter Schanck
Santa Fe, N.M., Feb. 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FILM (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ETHICS (71%) 

PERSON: Peter Schanck; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



192 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall on Lowered Forecast by Luxury Homebuilder 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday after Toll Brothers, the nation's largest builder of luxury homes, said 2006 sales would be less than its most recent forecast. 
 The estimate from Toll ''caused some concern as to what a slowing housing market would do to the economy,'' said Eric Thorne, an investment manager at Bryn Mawr Trust in Bryn Mawr, Pa.
 Homebuilders led the retreat along with oil and gold producers, which sank with prices of the commodities. General Motors slid after the automaker cut its dividend in half and Moody's Investors Service suggested the sale of G.M.'s finance unit might be in jeopardy. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 10.24 points, or 0.81 percent, to 1,254.78. The Nasdaq composite index declined 13.84 points, or 0.61 percent, to 2,244.96. 
 A rise in Walt Disney on higher theme-park profit helped limit the drop in the Dow Jones industrial average, which lost 48.51 points, or 0.45 percent, to 10,749.76. 
 Cisco Systems reported better-than-expected results after the close of trading, which could lift stocks today. 
 Toll Brothers fell $1.73, to $29.47. Sales will rise as little as 4.9 percent this year, half its previous forecast, the company said. Orders for new homes fell 29 percent in the quarter ended Jan. 31. 
 ''The Toll Brothers data is telling us that the fairy dust of rising home prices is floating away,'' said Morgan Stanley's chief global economist, Stephen S. Roach, in New York. ''The economy is going to slip back to a weak pace of underlying income and labor growth.'' 
 D. R. Horton, the nation's largest homebuilder, lost $1.28, to $33.67, and Pulte Homes, the No. 2 homebuilder, fell 87 cents, to $37.07. 
 Energy-related companies declined as oil prices fell to a three-week low. Crude oil fell 3.1 percent to $63.09 a barrel on expectations an Energy Department report today will show that United States inventories of oil and gasoline jumped last week. 
 Exxon Mobil slid $1.42, to $60.55. Valero Energy, the biggest refiner, slumped $2.89, to $56.61. Mining stocks declined after the price of gold and copper dropped. 
 Gold fell 3.4 percent, the most in two years. The drop in oil eased concern that inflation will accelerate and erode the value of assets including equities. Copper slid 2.3 percent on speculation supplies will increase. 
 Phelps Dodge, the world's biggest publicly trader copper producer, fell $12.66, to $152.53. Newmont Mining, the largest producer of gold, declined $4.21, to $56.27. 
 Allegheny Technologies, a steel producer, fell $4.10, to $49.63. The company revised its reported fourth-quarter profit to include $1.6 million in costs to settle a lawsuit with Kaiser Aerospace & Electronics, cutting fourth- quarter net income by 1 cent to $1.17 a share. 
 G.M. lost 53 cents, to $22.81. Bowing to pressure from investors led by the billionaire Kirk Kerkorian, the company slashed its annual dividend $1 a share, cut top executives' salaries and revised health and pension benefits. Separately, Moody's said a delay in selling the automaker's finance unit suggested ''difficulty'' in setting terms that would lead to an investment-grade rating. 
 Disney climbed $1.74, or 7 percent, to $26.70, for the top gain in the Dow average. The company said its theme-park profit for the fiscal first quarter was $375 million, higher than expected. 
 Interest rates edged higher, with the rate on the 10-year Treasury bond rising to 4.57 percent, from 4.54 percent late Monday, and the price, which moves in the opposite direction from the rate, falling 6/32, to 9915/32.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auctions of four-week Treasury bills and three-year Treasury notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.736
High Yield: 4.595
Low Yield: 4.538
Median Yield: 4.571
Total applied for: $43,941,757
Accepted: $22,306,795
Noncompetitive: $181,989
Interest set at: 4*

The 3-year notes mature Feb. 15, 2009.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.671
High Rate: 4.230
Coupon Yield: 4.303
Low Rate: 4.190
Median Rate: 4.200
Total applied for: $40,533,586
Accepted: $16,631,498
Noncompetitive: $247,666

The four-week bills mature March 09, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond-equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks securities for yesterday and one month ago. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GOLD MINING (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); COPPER MARKETS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); DIVIDENDS (74%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); COPPER INDUSTRY (69%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); MINES & MINING (64%) 

COMPANY: D R HORTON INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (83%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (71%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); BRYN MAWR TRUST CO (57%); WALT DISNEY CO (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (55%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%); PULTEGROUP INC (53%); VALERO ENERGY CORP (52%); ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INC (50%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (50%)

TICKER: DHI (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (57%); DIS (NYSE) (56%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (55%); XOM (NYSE) (53%); PHM (NYSE) (53%); VLO (NYSE) (52%); ATI (NYSE) (50%); NEM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (90%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (53%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (53%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (50%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3325 STEEL FOUNDRIES, NEC (50%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (50%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (50%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



193 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 947 words

PERSON: Rev. William A. Jones

HEADLINE: Rev. William A. Jones, Civil Rights Activist, Dies at 71 

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
The Rev. William A. Jones, who marshaled his golden voice and forceful personality to exert influence far beyond his Brooklyn pulpit in support of local and national civil rights causes, died on Feb. 4 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 71.
 The cause was complications of kidney disease, said Carolyn McClair, publicist for Bethany Baptist Church, where Dr. Jones served for 43 years until his retirement last September. 
Dr. Jones, a son and grandson of Baptist ministers, was renowned as a lyrical, deep-voiced preacher heard weekly in 400 cities on television and radio in a program called ''Bethany Hour,'' as well as in his 5,000-member church in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn. In an interview with The New York Times in 1997, he called good preaching ''a divine symphony played upon the instrument of a human tongue.''
 His concept of religion centered on helping the poor and dispossessed. He led campaigns to integrate building trade unions, organized boycotts to force A.&P. and other supermarket chains to hire more minority workers, and opened a banquet hall and cafeteria to serve residents of his overwhelmingly poor neighborhood.
 ''You can't talk religion to a hungry man,'' he said in an interview with The Times in 1963.
 At the national level, he joined the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1961 to split from conservative Baptists and form the Progressive National Baptist Convention, which now has more than 2,000 churches and 2.5 million members. Its avowed purpose: ''To redeem the soul of America.'' Dr. Jones later served as president of the convention. 
 In 1979, he helped found the National Black Pastors Conference, a group of 3,000 Protestant and Roman Catholic black priests and ministers, and later led the organization. He said he believed that black churches, banded together, could be a strong political force, one not as dependent on white benefactors as many civil rights organizations were.
 ''We have our finger on all the black churches in this country,'' Dr. Jones said in an interview with The Times in 1980. ''Just imagine 12,000 black churches saying, 'Go out and vote.' We could change the nation and change the world.''
 After serving as the New York chairman of Operation Breadbasket, the economic development arm of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, he succeeded the Rev. Jesse Jackson as the national chairman.
 Dr. Jones did not play things safe. When Rudolph W. Giuliani was running for mayor in 1993, he said, ''Elements that can best be described as fascist seem to have grown up and flowered around Mr. Giuliani.''
 Mayor David N. Dinkins, who was standing by Dr. Jones's side at a rally at Bethany when he made the remark, quickly disavowed it.
 In 1988, when a black girl, Tawana Brawley, contended that she had been beaten and raped by white racists, Dr. Jones came to her aid. He housed her mother, Glenda, in his church for 40 days so she could avoid testifying under oath. (A state grand jury later ruled that Tawana's accusations were lies.)
 Dr. Jones provided platforms for controversial black speakers like Leonard Jeffries, a professor at the City College of New York who has been widely criticized for anti-Semitic statements. When Alton H. Maddox Jr., one of Tawana Brawley's lawyers, was ordered to appear before a grievance committee questioning his conduct, he took Dr. Jones with him.
 Mr. Maddox said in a speech reprinted in The Amsterdam News in 1993 that he had chosen Dr. Jones because he was ''big enough and bad enough.''
 Dr. Jones said the Rev. Al Sharpton's mother asked him to look after her son when he was a boy; he later recruited Mr. Sharpton as a youth leader in Operation Breadbasket. In 1994, Mr. Sharpton, a Pentecostal minister from the age of 10, went to Dr. Jones's church to be baptized as a Baptist.
 ''Reverend Jones has always been an anchor to my family,'' Mr. Sharpton told The Times.
 William Augustus Jones Jr. was born on Feb. 24, 1934, in Louisville, Ky. He graduated with honors in sociology from the University of Kentucky, where he regretted that he could not play basketball because blacks were then barred from the team.
 He graduated from Crozer Theological Seminary, near Chester, Pa., the same seminary attended by King. He later earned a doctorate from the school, now part of Colgate Rochester Crozer Divinity School.
 He enlisted in the Army in 1954 as a private and was discharged in 1956 as a first lieutenant. He was called to the ministry of the First Baptist Church of Paschal in Philadelphia.
 He joined Bethany in September 1962 and within 10 months was leading 75 ministers in a protest at the State University of New York's Health Science Center at Brooklyn, charging discriminatory hiring practices by unions. More than 700 people were arrested, including Dr. Jones's own children; in the aftermath, blacks increased their participation in the building trades.
 The A.&P. protest, which involved raucous demonstrations at the company's headquarters in Manhattan, also resulted in changing some hiring and buying practices.
 In 1969, Dr. Jones became the first African-American to run for Brooklyn borough president, finishing third in a field of four.
 Dr. Jones is survived by his wife, the former Natalie Barkley Brown; a son, William Augustus III of Lexington, Ky.; three daughters, Elsa Elisabeth Jones of Rocky Hill, Conn., and Lesley-Diann Jones and Jennifer Jones Austin, both of Brooklyn; three brothers, the Rev. Lamont Jones Sr. of Lexington, the Rev. Henry Wise Jones of Atlanta and Byron Timothy Jones of Frankfort, Ky.; two sisters, Phyllis Jones Meade and Sylvia Jones Harris, both of Atlanta; and eight grandchildren.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. William A. Jones. (Photo by David Lee/Bethany Baptist Church)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); MAYORS (76%); BOYCOTTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (54%) 

ORGANIZATION: Cisco Systems

MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); JESSE JACKSON (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (53%); JOHN T CHAMBERS (50%) John T Chambers; Matt Richtel; Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Religion

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



194 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Seeking Curbs on Special Spending Requests 

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Corruption scandals and new scrutiny on lobbying practices are providing powerful ammunition to critics of earmarks -- the popular legislative practice of steering federal dollars to home state projects or the causes of well-connected lobbyists.
 With backing from President Bush and Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the new House majority leader, lawmakers say they have an opportunity to restrain the targeted spending and force disclosure of projects that have increasingly been quietly added to major legislation at the last minute.
But it will not be easy. 
 ''I think, in the end, we are going to have to do it,'' Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said as the Senate prepared for a Rules Committee hearing on Wednesday on earmarks and some House Republicans insisted that controls on such spending be debated at a party retreat this week. ''The public is fed up.'' 
 Winning money for projects back home is the driving passion of many lawmakers and is considered a bipartisan necessity for re-election. And leaders of the House and Senate say it is the right of Congress to direct how federal dollars should be spent. 
 But even Representative Jerry Lewis, the California Republican who heads the House Appropriations Committee, believes the 35,000 individual spending requests the panel receives each year is evidence that things have gotten out of hand.
 ''The chairman would agree the process has gotten excessive,'' his spokesman, John Scofield, said Tuesday.
 Although Mr. Bush embraced the idea of limiting earmarks in his State of the Union address, his newly released budget offered no recommendation on how to approach the issue. But it did warn of the hazards of earmarks, saying the push by lawmakers to add millions of dollars in pet projects to agency spending could be disruptive.
 ''Earmarks that are outside of an agency's mission can detract from an efficient and effective federal effort on behalf of taxpayers,'' said the budget document, noting that $900 million in health care research projects added to the Pentagon budget last year were better suited to civilian agencies. 
 The attention to earmarks, which have ballooned to almost 15,000 from 4,000 annually in the last decade, came as the administration on Tuesday began the job of selling its $2.77 trillion budget on Capitol Hill to restive Republicans as well as Democrats who said it hid the impact on the deficit and failed to account for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 ''This budget would continue the economic policies that have brought prosperity to America,'' Treasury Secretary John W. Snow told the Senate Ways and Means Committee, saying the plan maintained both lower taxes and fiscal discipline by holding down spending. 
 But Democrats and allied interest groups said the budget continued policies that were driving up the deficit and forcing the government to borrow from foreign sources. 
 ''We're handing our children and our children's children a set of obligations that they will owe to foreign central banks,'' said Senator Max Baucus of Montana, senior Democrat on the committee. 
 In a rebuke from Republicans at a separate hearing, Senator John McCain of Arizona scolded Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld for the administration's insistence on seeking money for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan as emergency spending separate from the budget debate, even though the wars have been fought for years.
 ''I don't know how you'd call it an 'emergency' any more when we know that we are going to have costs for a number of years associated with the Iraq war,'' Mr. McCain said. He accused the administration of an ''end run'' around the normal Congressional process and said, ''It's got to stop.''
 Mr. McCain is also a chief advocate of shining a light on earmarks, joining lawmakers in the House and Senate who argue that increased exposure of the occasionally marginal or egregious project will lead to fewer such requests. 
 He and others also say that new controls on earmarks should be tied to new lobbying rules because the recent scandals show that lobbyists have intensified their efforts to influence lawmakers partly to win a share of the billions of dollars in earmarks awarded by Congress. 
 ''Lobbyists make their money when they get things that nobody knows about or there is no particular popularity to the issue,'' said Representative Charles Bass, Republican of New Hampshire.
 Some groups contend that earmarks should be banned entirely, but the emerging proposals are intended primarily to increase disclosure. 
 A measure introduced by Mr. Flake in the House would require that earmarks be included in the legislative language of bills rather than accompanying Congressional reports, and he would create a procedure to challenge the spending on the floor.
 A proposal introduced in the Senate by Senators Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, and Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, would allow senators to object to any earmarks added in the final stages of negotiations and force sponsors to win at least 60 votes to retain them. 
 It would also require that the final version of legislation be available for at least 24 hours before a floor vote and that the sponsor of each earmark be included along with a justification. 
 All earmark requests would also have to be printed in the Congressional Record.
 ''I think it is a reasonable and balanced approach,'' Mrs. Feinstein said Tuesday.
 Republican leaders in the House and Senate have said they are open to some changes in handling earmarks. But Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois said lawmakers must retain the opportunity to pursue projects for their districts rather than leaving all spending decisions to the executive branch.
 ''Members go home and they talk to their constituents, they talk to schools and hospitals and all the entities that exist, and they should have some input on how some of that money is spent as well,'' Mr. Hastert said. ''Whatever earmarks there are, there ought to be transparency. They shouldn't be dropped in at the dead of night.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, left, with Senators John McCain, center, and John W. Warner yesterday at a military spending hearing. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ETHICS (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); CORRUPTION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%) Election Issues; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Ethics

PERSON: JOHN WARNER (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); JEFF FLAKE (58%); JERRY LEWIS (57%) Carl Hulse

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



195 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: New York Health Care Industry Says It Faces $1.2 Billion in Cutbacks Under Bush Plan

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
The Medicare cutbacks that President Bush proposed this week would eventually wring $1.2 billion a year from New York's troubled health care industry, cuts that would come as the state is already losing hospitals to wrenching changes in health care, industry officials said on Tuesday.
 Health care spending is one of the driving engines of the economy of New York, which has some of the nation's premier teaching hospitals. But as Medicare and Medicaid costs have risen in recent years, federal and state officials have tried to rein in these costs, putting pressure on the local health care industry and helping result in the closings of several smaller hospitals. 
Representatives of New York's health care industry say that the latest cutbacks, proposed in the budget that the president sent Congress on Monday, would force hospitals, nursing homes and home care providers to reduce services for elderly and disabled residents of the state.
 Health care officials say the proposed federal reductions -- when combined with $431 million in annual Medicaid cuts that Gov. George E. Pataki recently proposed in his budget plan -- are likely to result in more crowded clinics and emergency rooms in poorer communities, as well as higher bills for private insurers and patients themselves.
 ''The double whammy of the proposed cuts in Albany and Washington will have crippling impact on New York's health care system, forcing more hospitals to close and forcing the remaining hospitals to cut back services and increase personnel layoffs,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, the president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, a trade group.
 When similar cuts have been proposed in past years, lawmakers have been able to get some of the money restored, and with midterm elections approaching, even some Republican leaders have expressed skepticism about the president's ability to carry out all the proposed cuts in the growth of Medicare. But with the program consuming an ever larger share of the federal budget, some of his proposals to rein in the cost of Medicare are likely to survive.
 Mr. Bush is seeking to cut projected Medicare payments by $36 billion over the next five years, mostly through a reduction in the annual inflation adjustments that hospitals and other health care providers have traditionally received to cover year-to-year increases in costs.
 The reductions in Medicare payments would be phased in gradually over five years. When fully carried out by the fifth year, the reductions in Medicare payments to New York hospitals would total about $711 million annually, according to a budget analysis by the hospital association. The reduction in payments to nursing homes and home care providers would total $450 million annually once they are fully phased in, according to the same analysis.
 New York hospitals may share a large part of the responsibility for the predicament they are now facing. Managed-care companies and government officials have long argued that New York's hospital industry is highly inefficient and that hospital administrators have been to quick to turn to the government for help. But industry leaders strongly dispute that assertion.
 Whatever the truth, this much is clear: The hospital industry in New York is undergoing profound and painful changes. In the last decade, 33 hospitals across the state have been forced to close because of financial problems, according to the hospital association.
 Beyond that, four hospitals in New York State filed for bankruptcy protection in 2005 alone, including St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers, the largest Roman Catholic hospital system in New York State, and the Brooklyn Hospital Center, according to the association.
 The Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx would be among the hardest hit by the proposed Medicare cuts, losing more than $18 million annually once the cuts take full effect. 
 Dr. Spencer Foreman, the hospital's president, said that the cuts could have dire effects given the hospital's financial condition. He pointed out that the hospital does $2 billion in business with a $20 million profit.
 He said that the new cuts could ultimately force staff reductions across the board, from primary care programs to inpatient critical care units. He said that as many as many as 40 people might have to be laid off. ''We have whisper-thin margins,'' he said. ''We are trying desperately to hold what is effectively a break-even bottom line.''
 Even some of the president's Republican allies are beginning to express concern about the effects the Medicare cuts could ultimately have.
 Representative John E. Sweeney of New York, who is a member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee, said he agreed that there was a need to restrain federal spending but did not think that that goal should be met at the expense of hospitals.
 ''We need deficit reduction,'' he said. But he added that the proposed Medicare cut ''disproportionately lays the burden on hospitals, and that has a devastating impact up and down New York.''
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat from New York whose seat on the Finance Committee gives him a major role in the debate, said Republicans and Democrats on the committee were concerned about the proposed cut. ''The only good news is that it is so deep and wide, and affects the whole nation, that we have a very decent chance of reversing a good part of it,'' he said of the president's proposal. 
 But Gary Karr, a spokesman for the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said the president's plan was one of the recommendations of a panel Congress created in 1997 to look into ways of improving the program. ''The aim of the president's budget is to keep Medicare's costs in line and to preserve the program and keep costs reasonable,'' he said.
 The reaction to the president's plan came on a day when representatives of the hospital industry traveled to the state capital in Albany to urge the lawmakers to resist the Medicaid cuts that Mr. Pataki had proposed. The representatives were joined by leaders of the union representing tens of thousands of New York hospital workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (96%); MEDICARE (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); INSURANCE (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); AGING (68%); MEDICAID (58%); DISABLED PERSONS (53%) Medicine and Health; Medicaid; Medicare; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Raymond Hernandez; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) United States; New York State; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



196 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Weld Attacks Spitzer on Property Tax Plans

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
William F. Weld, campaigning for the Republican nomination for governor, intensified his attacks on Eliot Spitzer on Tuesday, criticizing the Democratic candidate for his positions on taxation.
 Speaking to a Rotary club here, in Rochester, Mr. Weld cited reports that Mr. Spitzer, the state attorney general, would consider shifting the primary source of local government tax revenue from property taxes to income taxes if he were elected governor.
''I simply do not know how one does this without raising income taxes,'' said Mr. Weld, who served two terms as governor of Massachusetts. ''When they get raised, they tend to get raised a lot, and quickly. It's a slippery slope and, in my view, not a way to go.'' 
 Instead, Mr. Weld called for amending the State Constitution to cap the property tax levy at 2.5 percent of a municipality's total property value and to limit subsequent increases to 2.5 percent of that amount per year, with an exception for new construction.
 He also proposed limiting annual state spending to the previous year's tax revenue, adjusted for inflation and population growth, with half of any surplus going toward tax rebates and the other half into what he called a rainy-day fund to be used to make up emergency shortfalls.
 ''Colorado has a Taxpayer Bill of Rights and between 1997 and 2001, it delivered more than $3 billion worth of rebates to taxpayers,'' Mr. Weld said. He said that such legislation ''would have saved New York taxpayers $23 billion between fiscal 1995 and fiscal 2005.''
 Mr. Spitzer's campaign acknowledged that he had discussed income-tax-based alternatives to the current system, but insisted that any changes would not result in an overall tax increase.
 ''These comments are speculative and misinformed,'' said Mr. Spitzer's spokesman, Ryan Toohey. ''Mr. Spitzer has made it clear that he will not propose any new taxes.''
 Mr. Weld was asked again about his stewardship of Decker College, a commercial trade school in Kentucky that he left last fall, before announcing his bid for governor. The school declared bankruptcy soon thereafter, and a federal investigation into allegations of financial aid fraud is under way.
 ''It's being looked into by professionals now,'' said Mr. Weld, who has repeatedly denied any knowledge of wrongdoing at Decker. ''I'm a big believer in professionals looking into things, so let's see what they come up with.'' 
 In appealing to upstate Republicans, on the turf of Tom Golisano, a former potential rival for the nomination, Mr. Weld referred to ''my old boss, Ronald Reagan'' -- he was a senior Justice Department official in the Reagan administration -- and described himself as ''a supply-sider.'' He also advocated public-school choice and eliminating the state's cap on the number of charter schools, and proposed a $500 per-family tax credit to offset education-related costs like school supplies and SAT preparation courses.
 ''In describing New York State,'' Mr. Weld said, ''Tom Golisano once said: 'If it moves, you tax it. If it still moves, you regulate it. And when it stops moving, you subsidize it.' ''
 After his speech, Mr. Weld was asked if he hoped to gain the endorsement of Mr. Golisano, a billionaire who is contemplating creating a political action committee to support candidates who share the reform goals he espoused in previous campaigns. ''Anybody would,'' Mr. Weld said, smiling.


GRAPHIC: Photo: William F. Weld talked about taxes yesterday as he campaigned in Rochester in his quest for the Republican nomination for governor. (Photo by David Duprey/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); TAX LAW (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Election Issues

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) David Staba; William F Weld; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



197 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Testing Plan Is Gaining High Ratings Nationwide

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
The College Board's Advanced Placement program is taking on increased prominence in the national effort to ratchet up the rigor of American high school education, mentioned in President Bush's State of the Union message and embraced by individual states. 
 According to the second annual report from the College Board, which administers the Advanced Placement program, about 60 percent of American high schools now offer Advanced Placement courses, and the average high school offers a choice of eight such courses. 
 ''The number of students participating in A.P. has more than doubled in 10 years, and today almost 15,000 U.S. schools offer A.P. courses,'' said Gaston Caperton, the president of the board, a New York-based nonprofit organization. 
 The percentage of American high school students passing A.P. exams increased in all 50 states last year, the report said. In the class of 2005, 14.1 percent of students received an A.P. exam grade of 3 or higher on one or more A.P. exams, up from 13.2 percent of the class of 2004, and 10.2 percent of the class of 2000. 
 A.P. exams in 35 subjects are given in May, at a cost of $82 each. They are graded on a scale of 1 to 5, with 5 representing A-level college work, and 3 representing about a C+.
 Most colleges and universities give credit for high scores, and allow students who have done well on the exams to register for higher-level college classes. African-American and American Indian students remain significantly under-represented in A.P. classrooms, according to the report. Nationwide, African-American students make up 13.4 percent of the student population, but only 6.4 percent of A.P. exam takers, and Indians make up 1.1 percent of the population, but only 0.5 percent of those taking the exams. 
 In contrast, Latino students represent 13.4 percent of the student population and 13.6 percent of those taking the exams. 
 In New York, almost 23 percent of last year's graduates got a grade of 3 or higher on an A.P. exam at some point in their high school career, the highest proportion in the nation. 
 ''We don't know exactly why New York has always been the leader, but it's probably that so many schools on Long Island have had such a strong A.P. culture that it brings up the average,'' said Trevor Packer, who heads the A.P. program. 
 The A.P. program started 50 years ago as a way to introduce a few high school students at top high schools to college-level work. But in recent years, it has expanded drastically, becoming a route for all high schools to expose students to course work in areas like economics, psychology and statistics -- and, increasingly, helping students impress colleges. 
 While the program is not the only way to offer students college-level work -- many educators say the International Baccalaureate program, a smaller competitor, has more depth -- the percentage of students taking A.P. classes has increasingly been viewed as a measure of rigor. 
 In his message, President Bush, emphasizing the need to prepare young Americans to be more competitive globally, proposed to expand incentives to quadruple the number of students taking A.P. science and math exams, to 1.5 million, by 2012. 
 Over all, students in the United States have lagged behind their counterparts in other countries in math and science on international tests. The Trends in International Math and Science Study, developed by an international group and gathered every four years, showed in 2003 that American students scored the lowest of 16 countries in physics and the second lowest in calculus.
 But A.P. students did far better. Those who had taken A.P. calculus, even including those who scored only a 1 or 2 on the exam, did as well on the TIMSS exams as students from the first-place nation, France. And those who had taken AP physics, including those with low scores, were outperformed only by those from the top two nations, Norway and Sweden. 
 Three states -- Arkansas, Florida and South Carolina -- now pay for students to take A.P. exams, and in those states, the program has grown rapidly. In Arkansas, which began paying for the exams last spring, the number of students taking part in the program doubled in one year, as did the number of low-income students in the program; the number of African-Americans tripled. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (63%) Education and Schools; Admissions Standards; Colleges and Universities; Blacks; Indians, American; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (93%) College Board

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%) Tamar Lewin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006



198 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: Some Assembly Needed: China as Asia's Factory

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHENZHEN, China 

 BODY:
Hundreds of workers at a sprawling Japanese-owned Hitachi factory here are fashioning plates of glass and aluminum into shiny computer disks, wrapping them in foil. The products are destined for the United States, where they will arrive like billions of other items, labeled ''made in China.'' 
 But often these days, ''made in China'' is mostly made elsewhere -- by multinational companies in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the United States that are using China as the final assembly station in their vast global production networks.
Analysts say this evolving global supply chain, which usually tags goods at their final assembly stop, is increasingly distorting global trade figures and has the effect of turning China into a bigger trade threat than it may actually be. That kind of distortion is likely to appear again on Feb. 10, when the Commerce Department announces the American trade deficit with China. By many estimates, it swelled to a record $200 billion last year. 
 It may look as if China is getting the big payoff from trade. But over all, some of the biggest winners are consumers in the United States and other advanced economies who have benefited greatly as a result of the shift in the final production of toys, clothing, electronics and other goods from elsewhere in Asia to a cheaper China. 
 American multinational corporations and other foreign companies, including retailers, are the largely invisible hands behind the factories pumping out these inexpensive goods. And they are reaping the bulk of profits from the trade. 
 Yasheng Huang, an associate professor at the Sloan School of Management at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, explained: ''Basically, in the 1990's, foreign firms based in America, Europe, Japan and the rest of Asia moved their manufacturing operations to China. But the controls and therefore profits of these operations firmly rest with foreign firms. While China gets the wage benefits of globalization, it does not get to keep the profits of globalization.''
 The real losers, it seems, are mostly low-wage workers elsewhere, like the ones at Hitachi who lost their jobs in Japan, along with workers in other parts of Asia who suffered as employers began relocating plants to China. Blue-collar workers in the United States have also lost out.
 Asian exports to the United States have actually slipped over the last 15 years. Factories in Taiwan used to assemble many of the world's computers; now China does. Hong Kong garment workers used to stitch tons of fabric into finished clothing; now Chinese workers do. And Japanese plants once manufactured the most popular consumer electronics brands, like Sony, Panasonic and Toshiba; now many of these are shipped from Chinese ports.
 In fact, about 60 percent of this country's exports are controlled by foreign companies, according to Chinese customs data. In categories like computer parts and consumer electronics, foreign companies command an even greater share of control over the exports, analysts say.
 Foreign expertise has been critical as manufacturing supply chains become increasingly complex, involving countries' each producing components that are then shipped to China for assembly. Such a system can render global trade statistics misleading, and some experts say that a more apt label would be ''assembled in China.''
 ''The biggest beneficiary of all this is the United States,'' said Dong Tao, an economist at UBS in Hong Kong. ''A Barbie doll costs $20, but China only gets about 35 cents of that.''
 Because so many different hands in different places touch a particular product, Mr. Dong said, you might as well throw away the trade figures. 
 ''In a globalized world, bilateral trade figures are irrelevant,'' he argued. ''The trade balance between the U.S. and China is as irrelevant as the trade balance between New York and Minnesota.''
 China's supply of cheap labor, coupled with what is widely seen as a deliberately undervalued currency, helped some $465 billion in foreign direct investment flow into the country from 1995 to 2004, making it one of the hottest destinations in the world for foreign capital.
 In the electronics industry, relocations to China have soared. A decade ago, Taiwan controlled the computer components market and relied on domestic manufacturing. Today, companies on Taiwan produce 80 percent of computer motherboards, 72 percent of notebook computers and 68 percent of L.C.D. monitors. And most of the assembly takes place in China.
 ''Everyone has moved to China,'' says Tony Yang, an executive at Aopen of Taiwan, a maker of computers and parts. ''Our suppliers, our buyers, their main production facilities have all been relocated. Wages in Taiwan are just too high.''
 Japanese and South Korean companies are also here in force. Panasonic has 70,000 employees working in China; Toshiba's largest information technology production site is in Hangzhou, a coastal city south of Shanghai. And Samsung has 23 factories, 50,000 employees and all of its notebook computer production in China. Its last computer notebook plant in South Korea closed last year.
 The migration has left footprints in trade statistics. In 1990, Japan was the United States' dominant trading partner in the Pacific, and Asia accounted for 38 percent of all American imports. Last year, China was the dominant Asian trader. Its trade with the United States has risen some 1,200 percent since 1990, even as the Asian share of American imports slipped to 36 percent. 
 What changed from 1990 to 2005 is that many goods became a lot cheaper as China took on a greater and greater role as the world's basic factory floor. 
 Even as that shift was taking place, the more prosperous Asian countries retained and even expanded their influence in the global supply chain, designing more sophisticated models, making components, and carrying out marketing and brand management. 
 And so while China has something in the range of a $200 billion trade surplus with the United States, it also has a $137 billion trade deficit with the rest of Asia. This movement of goods, services and money has been uneven.
 ''I don't think the developed world shifted that much work to Asia,'' said Vincent Chan, an analyst at Credit Suisse. ''The places that have seen the most manufacturing disappear are Hong Kong and Taiwan.''
 American and European companies, particularly in autos and electronics, are moving more of their manufacturing to China. Dell personal computers used to be made primarily in the United States. Now, most are assembled in China. 
 Bigger multinationals could be on the way. Airbus is considering building passenger jets in China. And General Motors is weighing whether to export some cars it makes in this country. 
 Companies like Hitachi, here in Shenzhen, usually come to China because of cheap land and labor and a factory system where young workers essentially march to their jobs every eight hours, often from company-owned dormitories nearby. 
 ''Most of our growth is now coming from China,'' said Dennis Rourk, general manager at the Hitachi plant here, which is expanding and creating a new supply chain for disk drives in the region. He said Hitachi had encouraged its suppliers to locate there, as well.
 Thousands of factories have created millions of jobs for China's low-wage migrant laborers, who earn about 75 cents an hour. But so far, Chinese companies in these industries have generally been unable to climb from basic manufacturing to design work and beyond.
 Nonetheless, China's rise as a world commercial power is in striking contrast to that of Japan in the 1980's, when the Japanese were building their own brands like Toyota, Honda and Sony. China has few global brands beyond Lenovo and Haier -- big companies struggling to make their names more widely known. 
 Chinese officials rarely miss an opportunity to argue that the trade statistics showing huge surpluses are misleading indicators of the country's prosperity.
 ''What China got in the past few years is only some pretty figures,'' said Mei Xinyu, of the Commerce Ministry's research institute. ''American and foreign companies have gotten the real profit.''
 Still, the economy is booming, and an aggressive class of entrepreneurs is emerging at home that resembles the successful breed of overseas Chinese who built business empires during the 20th century.
 Yin Mingshan, 68, a multimill-ionaire in the central city of Chongqing, is fashioning himself a Chinese Henry Ford. ''We are the biggest exporter of motorcycles in China,'' he declared. 
 Mr. Yin started out selling books in the 1980's, then engines and motorcycles in the 90's. Today, his company, the Lifan Group, has opened a 3.6-million-square-foot factory. He says his next goal is to export cars to the United States.
 ''That's how the Japanese got started,'' said Donald Brasher, who operates Global Trade Information Services. ''Remember, in the 1950's, the Japanese started exporting motorcycles. And 20 years later, it was cars.''
 Lifan is not alone among Chinese businesses. The Chery Automobile Company has plans to ship inexpensive cars to the American market in 2007. And last month, another carmaker, Geely said at the Detroit auto show that it was working on a small four-door sedan that it could sell in the United States for less than $10,000. 
 Mr. Yin's instructive slogans are plastered on his factory's facade, sometimes in big English-language letters. In an odd way, they echo the wall posters of the time of Mao Zedong and the Cultural Revolution, updated to reflect China's emergence as a key player in a global economy.
 They are meant to inspire the staff, he said, pointing to a slogan that read, ''One who earns money in China is a winner; one who earns money overseas is a hero.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 18, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Feb. 9 about multinational companies' use of China as a final assembly point for products made from parts manufactured in other parts of Asia misidentified the employer of Dong Tao, an economist who discussed how the strategy benefited the United States. He works for Credit Suisse, not UBS.
An article in Business Day on Feb. 9 about multinational companies' use of China as a final assembly point for products made from parts manufactured in other parts of Asia misidentified the employer of Dong Tao, an economist who discussed how the strategy benefited the United States. He works for Credit Suisse, not UBS.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hitachi disks from Shenzhen, China, for use in computer hard drives. (Photo by Nelson Ching for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Hitachi is among multinational corporations that are putting plants in China because of its cheap labor and highly disciplined factory work forces. (Photo by Nelson Ching for The New York Times)(pg. C7)Chart: ''Shifting Trade Winds''The share of all United States imports from Asia has fallen over the last 15 years, and China has become the biggest trading partner. Share of U.S. imports from AsiaGraph shows figures for Singapore, S. Korea, Taiwan, Japan, and others since 1990.(Source by Census Bureau, foreign trade division)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); RETAILERS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); FABRICS (65%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (60%) International Trade and World Market; Multinational Companies; Factories and Industrial Plants; Production; Labor; International Trade and World Market; Unemployment; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: HITACHI LTD (85%); TOSHIBA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Commerce Department ; Hitachi Corp

TICKER: 6501 (TSE) (85%); TOS (LSE) (58%); 6502 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); TAIWAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (74%) China; Japan; South Korea; Taiwan; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2006



199 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; CIRCUITS: BASICS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Protecting Your MP3, And What to Do When You Don't

BYLINE: By SEAN CAPTAIN

 BODY:
Compressed audio formats like MP3 files, and the devices that play them, allow people to take huge music collections virtually anywhere. But the very portability of an MP3 player can be its undoing -- too often, the pocket-size gadgets are dropped, scratched, drowned, or exposed to extreme temperatures.
 ''I've dropped my cellphone a dozen times, but if you drop your iPod once, you've got to send it in for repair,'' says Ryan Arter, whose company iPodResQ (ipodresq.com) receives around 1,200 iPods for repair every week.
About half of the iPods have broken L.C.D. screens, which often results from people doing with the iPod what comes naturally: putting it in their pockets. ''If your jeans are at all tight, and you sit down, it's going to bend your iPod,'' Mr. Arter said. The ultrathin iPod Nano is especially susceptible, he said. 
 IPods, which account for 69 percent of the MP3 player market in the United States, according to the NPD Group, are not alone in suffering injuries. Other brands need repair, too. 
 Willie Jefferson of Albuquerque, N.M., runs a small business called Madskillz (madskillz.com) that repairs and resells Creative and Dell players as well as iPods, which he says are especially delicate. He finds on eBay used players with all kinds of ailments, including broken screens, frozen hard drives, and detached headphone sockets. 
 Fortunately, there are ways to prevent damage before the music stops.

Protection Strategies
 The most important tip is to cover your player. 
 First, there are clear plastic film covers that protect against scratches. Jeremy Horwitz, editor in chief of the iPod-oriented Web site iLounge (ilounge.com), recommends a product called the Invisibleshield from theinvisibleshield.com , because it covers the entire iPod ($25 for the full-size iPod). The company also sells film covers for the screens and sometimes the bodies of players from other companies including Archos, Creative, Samsung, Sony and Toshiba. But the film is not entirely clear, Mr. Horowitz says. 
 For greater transparency, he recommends Power Support (powersupportusa.com), which sells Crystal Film covers for the iPod's screen and its click wheel ($16). 
 Protection against drops requires a thicker sheath, like Power Support's Silicone Jackets or covers from iSkin (iskin.com). Both sell protectors for iPods ($35 at iSkin; $30 at Power Support) and the Sony PSP game console; iSkin also provides a cover for iRiver's H100 series.
 Electronics stores like RadioShack also sell screen-protector film that can be cut to fit various devices.
 Ultimate protection comes from a hard case, and Mr. Horowitz says his readers have done best with Otter Products (otterbox.com), which makes clear OtterBox cases ($50) to protect iPods against hard jolts and submersion in shallow water. 
 A case will also keep dirt out of the device, which Mr. Arter of iPodResQ said is another common hazard.
 Soft and hard cases are available for other player brands, but the selection is limited. 
 Vendors like Belkin (belkin.com), BoxWave (boxwave.com), Case Logic (caselogic.com), DLO (dlo.com), Rivet (rivetnow.com) and Vaja (vajacases.com) offer generic cases and some made specifically for players from Creative, Dell, iRiver, Samsung and Sony. Manufacturers often provide cases with their players or sell them as extras.
 ''Unfortunately, you do not see the same third party support for non-iPod players due to simple economics; non-iPods lack an economy of scale,'' said Grahm Skee, whose Web site, Anything but iPod (anythingbutipod.com), picks up where iLounge leaves off. 
 Extreme temperature is another peril. Freezing temperatures, for example, can crack an L.C.D., Mr. Arter said.
 Mr. Jefferson of Madskillz said wrapping the headphone wire tightly around the player can put tension on the headphone socket, causing it to break loose. And he believes that players with solid-state memory like the iPod Nano and the Samsung YP-T7JZ can better withstand jolts at the gym than can hard- drive-based devices like the full-size iPod and the Creative Zen Sleek Photo.

Service Strategies
 Even the best care can't save a lemon, as Leah Kennedy of San Francisco learned when she purchased an iPod three years ago. 
 When the buttons stuck, she took the device to her local Apple Store. ''Their response was that some of them have defects, and it was just born that way,'' Ms. Kennedy said. She promptly received a replacement, which she put into an iSkin case. The player has had no functional problems since.
 Ms. Kennedy's service experience seems to represent what people can expect from Apple, though it wasn't always that way. Problems with short-lived batteries in the first three generations of the iPod prompted a class-action lawsuit that Apple settled in late 2005. ''I think when they were successfully sued and forced to settle,'' said Mr. Horwitz of iLounge, ''they modified their behavior and became more responsible.''
 Apple, like many manufacturers, offers a one-year warranty and also sells extended coverage. Beware of fine print, however. Creative, for example, doesn't charge for parts during the one-year warranty, but it bills for labor after 90 days. And warranties cover only defects, not clumsiness or abuse.
 For removing scratches, Mr. Horwitz recommends using Ice Creme polish from RadTech at radtech.com. It can also be used on acrylic, polycarbonate plastic or unpainted metal on many types of gadgets.
 More significant damage probably requires professional help. Player manufacturers often handle repairs. And iPod owners can also choose from plentiful independent services, including iPodResQ, iPodMods (ipodmods.com), TechRestore (iPod.techrestore.com) and iPod Mechanic (ipodmechanic.com). All have roughly similar prices. IPodResQ, for example, charges $129 to replace the screen in the fourth-generation iPod, $115 for a Nano's screen and $95 for a Mini's. (Fees include overnight shipping.) A 20-gigabyte hard drive replacement costs $160, and iPodResQ can try to copy music from a malfunctioning player onto CD's.
 The procedure costs $42.50 an hour at iPodResQ, and Mr. Arter said it usually takes an hour if it is possible at all. (Ten CD's are included. Additional CD's, and shipping, cost extra.) For a seriously damaged drive ''it's very difficult to do at a reasonable price,'' he said. 
 Battery replacement is a common repair for players over about two years old. In many players, batteries can be removed without tools. For example, $40 buys an easily replaceable battery for Creative's 4-, 5- and 6-gigabyte Zen Micros or for iRiver's 5- and 6-gigabyte H10 players. 
 Gaining access to an iPod battery, however, requires disassembling the device. Owners can purchase a battery and kit to do the replacement themselves. Mr. Horwitz recommends two companies, FastMac (fastmac.com) and Newer Technology (newertech.com), which sell kits starting at about $20. 
 Full service is also available. FastMac, for instance, charges an extra $19.95 for overnight battery installation. Replacement batteries sold by independent companies often have higher milliampere-hour ratings than the original batteries in new iPods, allowing them to hold a charge longer. But Mr. Horwitz said that the difference was less pronounced with current iPod models. 
 Though almost anything can be fixed, replacing multiple major components -- like the L.C.D. and the hard drive -- may not be economical, Mr. Arter said. Besides, for technophiles, a broken part may be just the excuse to upgrade to the newest model. ''The life of an MP3 player is not a matter of durability but a matter of lifestyle,'' said Mr. Skee of Anything but iPod. ''Consumers want the latest technology.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Bruce MacPherson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (92%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (89%); INTERNET AUDIO (89%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (52%); RADIOSHACK CORP (50%)

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (52%); 6502 (TSE) (52%); RSH (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (70%) NEW MEXICO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2006



200 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Report Says Number of Attacks By Insurgents in Iraq Increases

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
Sweeping statistics on insurgent violence in Iraq that were declassified for a Senate hearing on Wednesday appear to portray a rebellion whose ability to mount attacks has steadily grown in the nearly three years since the invasion. 
 The statistics were included in a report written by Joseph A. Christoff, director of international affairs and trade at the Government Accountability Office, who testified before the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee during a hearing on Iraq stabilization and reconstruction.
 The American military declassified the statistics so he could present them to the hearing in his report, Mr. Christoff said in an interview. The figures cover attacks on American and Iraqi forces and civilians.
 The curve traced out by the figures between June 2003 and December 2005 shows a number of fluctuations, including several large spikes in insurgent activity -- one as recently as October of last year. But while American and Iraqi officials have often pointed to the downward edges of those fluctuations as evidence that the steam was going out of the insurgency, the numbers over all seem to tell a different story, Mr. Christoff said. ''It's not going down,'' he said. ''There are peaks and valleys, but if you look at every peak, it's higher than the peak before.''
 Officials have recently noted that the numbers of attacks in the final two months of last year dropped after an October peak, which occurred around both Ramadan and a referendum on Iraq's constitution. But Mr. Christoff's chart shows that the number of attacks in December, nearly 2,500, was almost 250 percent of the number in March 2004.
 But the trend line began even before March 2004, when the number of attacks was already nearly double what it had been in July or August 2003. Mr. Christoff's paper cites a senior United States military officer saying that ''attack levels ebb and flow as the various insurgent groups -- almost all of which are an intrinsic part of Iraq's population -- re-arm and attack again.''
 Attacks against Iraqi security forces have grown faster than the overall count; by December 2005 they had grown more than 200 percent since March 2004. Of course, as more Iraqis are trained and put into the field, more of them are targets.
 The paper, citing a contracting office in Iraq, said that as attacks had fluctuated downward in the final two months of last year, attacks on convoys related to rebuilding efforts had risen. Twenty convoys had been attacked, with 11 casualties, in October 2005, while 33 convoys had been attacked, with 34 casualties, in January 2006, the paper says.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Ebb and Flow of Attacks in Iraq''Graph tracks the Number of attacks on:Iraqi officials and infrastructureIraqi security forcesCiviliansCoalition forcesGraph tracks the Percentage change in number of attacks from March 2004.(Source by Government Accountability Office's report to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (93%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); REFERENDUMS (64%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: James Glanz; Stuart W Jr Bowen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2006

 
