

1 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: In Manhattan, Apartment Sales Rose but Prices Were Flat

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
The number of apartments sold in Manhattan rose significantly in the last three months, but prices were flat, with some categories dipping slightly compared with the previous quarter, according to sales reports to be released on Thursday by the city's largest brokerage firms.
 The reports showed that there were 80 percent more transactions in the second quarter of this year than the same period in 2009 and 15 percent more than the previous quarter of this year, a return to historically normal levels after a virtual standstill early last year. But even though brokers are reporting much heavier traffic at open houses and bidding wars on certain properties, prices have not rebounded. 
 According to the reports, the average sales price for a Manhattan apartment ranges from $1.34 million to $1.43 million, with three agencies reporting an increase of about half a percent from the last quarter and one agency showing a 2 percent decline. But compared with last year, the averages reflect an increase of about 9 percent for three agencies and a decline of 1 percent for the fourth brokerage. 
 A report issued by Streeteasy.com, a real estate Web site, also showed prices remaining stable -- with an average sales price of $1.39 million, a 3.5 percent increase from the previous quarter -- and sales volume increasing by 65 percent from last year.
 ''Prices are basically flat, but we saw a big uptick in sales,'' said Pamela Liebman, chief executive of the Corcoran Group, the agency that showed a slight drop in average prices. ''Buyers are getting a lot more for their money, and they've jumped back in and are taking advantage of it.'' 
 Ms. Liebman said she was not alarmed by the minor price decline because ''it's always the case that activity comes back first before prices do.''
 Diane M. Ramirez, president of Halstead Property, said increased sales volume was an indication that the real estate market was on the mend. Halstead's report showed 2,522 closings in the second quarter, 81 percent more than the same time in 2009 and 10 percent more than the first quarter. 
 ''We're looking at good steady transaction numbers, and to me, that's a sign that the pulse feels healthy,'' Ms. Ramirez said.
 While prices generally showed no change, one segment that saw a marked decline was studio apartments in condominiums and new developments. The reports showed that median prices for these studios were about $460,000, which is 8.5 percent to 14 percent below the previous quarter. 
 But Ms. Liebman said sales volume remained strong. ''It could be that there are fewer investors buying and the more traditional buyers are buying smaller or less-expensive units,'' she said.
 Larger and consequently higher-priced apartments appear to be selling well.
 Hall F. Willkie, president of Brown Harris Stevens, said that while the high end of the market saw the sharpest decline in price and activity last year, the market for apartments priced $2 million to $10 million had picked up in recent months. He said that deals under $2 million accounted for 82 percent of his agency's sales at the beginning of the year, but that that percentage had dropped to 60. ''I would have never thought a year ago that we'd be where we are today,'' Mr. Willkie said.
 Prices at the high end remain relatively flat, but larger apartments now account for more of total sales. Three-bedroom apartments, for example, represented 18 percent of all apartments sold in the last three months, a 50 percent increase from the 12 percent market share they claimed in the first quarter and also a year ago, according to Prudential Douglas Elliman's report. 
 ''This recession came back from the bottom up,'' said Dottie Herman, chief executive of Prudential Douglas Elliman. ''Smaller apartments were first, because there's always going to be a market for the entry-level apartment, but now the high end is selling too because people see an opportunity since prices are down.''
 Two other good signs for the industry are shorter time spent on the market and smaller discounts from final listing prices, said Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist for Halstead and Brown Harris Stevens. Apartments sat on the market for an average of 112 days in the second quarter, 13 percent less time than a year ago; and buyers paid 96.6 percent of the last asking price, up from 92.6 percent a year ago. ''If sellers are pricing right, it's selling quickly,'' he said. ''That's a sign of a healthy market.''
 Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel and the author of Elliman's report, said prices would most likely be flat for the rest of the year. ''We've reached the point where a lot of the damage has been done, but we're not yet at recovery,'' he said.
 Factors inhibiting recovery, he added, include continued difficulty getting jumbo mortgages, high unemployment, rising foreclosures and a ''shadow'' inventory of new development units that have yet to come to market. 
 ''It's still too early to celebrate,'' Mr. Miller said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



2 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Aid Is Cut to Programs for Sex-Crime Victims

BYLINE: By TRYMAINE LEE

 BODY:
At a time when the Police Department is examining how it trains its officers to handle sex crimes, the City Council has eliminated financing for programs that help victims of sexual assault, including sexually abused youths, young men and immigrants.
 Missing from the $63 billion budget that was passed by the City Council this week was $332,500 that had helped finance the New York City Alliance Against Sexual Assault and three rape crisis programs: one at the Kingsbridge Heights Community Center in the Bronx, the Mount Sinai Sexual Assault and Violence Intervention Program in Queens and the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Intervention Program in Manhattan. 
 The cuts come weeks after a task force formed by Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly recommended new training protocols for officers after it reviewed complaints from sex crime victims and rape treatment counselors that victims' claims were often ignored or minimized by the police.
 While attacks classified as rapes dropped 35.7 percent from 2005 to 2009, there has been a sharp increase in the rate at which complaints of forcible rape have been dismissed by the police as false or lacking enough evidence to take to court.
 As the Council and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg hammered out the final details of the budget, there was the usual outcry over cuts to particular programs or agencies, especially since a budget shortfall resulted in some significant reductions.
 But the elimination of the money to help sexual assault victims services was approved with little notice, said Harriet Lessel, the executive director of the New York City Alliance Against Sexual Assault, who said the Council's move cost the organization one-third of its operating budget. 
 Ms. Lessel, who said the city had provided money for the organization every year for nearly a decade, said she was shocked when she got word the financing was being ended.
 ''We had no idea that there was going to be a complete cut,'' she said. ''We expected some cuts, but certainly we could not have imagined that all funding to the programs would be cut.''
 ''We thought the City Council understood that sexual assault was a serious public health and human rights issue that can be prevented,'' Ms. Lessel said. ''It's really disappointing and devastating.''
 She said the loss of financing would end the organization's initiatives to reach out to victims in immigrant communities, to help nurture grass-roots community coalitions in the South Bronx and the Lower East Side and to promote sexual education to at-risk youth.
 City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn said it would be naive for any taxpayer-financed program to take its money for granted, particular given the city's economic troubles.
 ''We had to make tough decisions,'' said Ms. Quinn, adding that she gave the alliance $5,000 from her discretionary fund. ''And we decided to prioritize our funding to programs that were working directly with crime victims.''
 ''Education and outreach is important work, but we had to make choices,'' she said.
 Ms. Quinn said the budget still provided money to groups that help children who are abused and victims of domestic violence, who are often sexually assaulted. The council steered about $4 million to groups that address domestic violence.
 City Councilwoman Julissa Ferreras, who represents several Queens neighborhoods and is chairwoman of the women's issues committee, said the cuts were unavoidable. 
 ''I abhor these cuts and fought to restore them,'' Ms. Ferreras said in a statement. ''Sexual assault is a major problem in our city and affects my district in particular. It's very frustrating.''
 ''Unfortunately,'' she added, ''the city is facing a budget crunch, and there are many vital programs getting axed. I hate to imagine where we are headed if we can't afford to pay for rape crisis centers. Is that the kind of city we want to live in?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEX OFFENSES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (78%); SEX EDUCATION (78%); MAYORS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



3 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Second Quarter Ends With Dow Down 10% and S.&P. 500 Off 12%

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Bettina Wassener contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
The stock market rounded out its worst quarter since late 2008 on Wednesday with a late slide that spared few blue chips. 
 A day after the broad market tumbled to its lowest level so far this year, it fell a further 1 percent Wednesday after Moody's warned that it might lower the credit rating of Spain. The news from Moody's, coupled with disappointing data on the American jobs market, cast more doubt over the health of the global economy.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 96.28 points, or 0.98 percent, to 9,774.02 on Wednesday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 10.53 points, or 1.01 percent, to 1,030.71, while the Nasdaq composite index was off 25.94 points, or 1.21 percent, at 2,109.24. 
 Wednesday's decline left the Dow down nearly 10 percent for the second quarter. The broader S.& P. 500 index and the Nasdaq both lost about 12 percent in the quarter. In all, it was the worst quarterly showing since late 2008, when the financial crisis was running high. 
 So far this year, the S.& P. 500 index is down 7.57 percent, and the Dow Jones industrial average is down 6.27 percent.
 Howard Silverblatt, the senior index analyst for Standard & Poor's, said at the end of the day ''nobody wanted to be in the market, and this was not even a Friday. This is definitely a more dangerous market,'' he added. ''We are getting closer to a bear market,'' he said. A bear market is typically characterized by a 20 percent decline from the market's recent peak. 
 Many sectors of the market have fallen hard this year. Energy and materials shares have lost about 13 percent, while consumer discretionary stocks have declined more than 9 percent.
 The same worries that have dogged the market for months -- concern that the economy might worsen, along with the debt crisis in Europe -- continue to hang over Wall Street. 
 ''I frankly think you just were not going to win today because it has been such a lousy quarter,'' said Andrew M. Brooks, head of United States equity trading at T. Rowe Price. ''There just doesn't seem to be any reason to be brave right now. The news is lukewarm at best across all fronts.''
 He added: ''It has just been an ugly tape over the last six weeks and there is fatigue out there, frankly.'' 
 Concerns over monthly jobs figures scheduled for release on Friday were heightened Wednesday after a report by the employer services company ADP said private employers added 13,000 jobs in June, well below the 60,000 that economists polled by Thomson Reuters had predicted.
 In another report, the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago said its business barometer fell to 59.1 in June from 59.7 in May; economists had forecast a June reading of 59.0. A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the regional economy. 
 Scott Wren, a senior equity strategist with Wells Fargo Advisors, said that the fears of an economic slowdown in Europe, the downward adjustment of the outlook for Chinese growth, recent weak housing data and fears about Friday's employment numbers were depressing the market.
 ''There is continued uncertainty on a number of fronts and it is going to take time to work through it,'' he said. 
 ''Clearly the employment report is going to set the tone for the next few weeks.'' 
 He said retail investors especially were hesitant about getting back into the market.
 ''People are more prone to selling stocks than to buying them,'' Mr. Wren said. ''There is a lot of cash on the sidelines but there is really not a lot of reason to think that it is going to get into the market anytime soon.''
 Mr. Brooks said that this was a time for investors who had been on the sidelines to re-enter the market and scoop up stocks on the cheap.
 Technology, telecommunications and materials stocks all ended lower. 
 Celgene, which agreed to buy Abraxis BioScience for $2.9 billion in cash and stocks, fell $2.42, to $50.82, while Abraxis was up 21 percent, or $12.89, to $74.20.
 Ford rose 20 cents, to $10.08. Ford said it had reduced its debt by $7 billion in the quarter.
 Boeing was down 29 cents, to $62.75. It had said it would acquire Argon ST for approximately $775 million.
 Delta Air Lines rose 44 cents, to $11.75, after its chief executive, Richard H. Anderson, said that the industry was going into an ''up cycle.''
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.93 percent, from 2.95 percent late Tuesday. The price rose 5/32, to 104 27/32.
 The price for crude oil dropped 31 cents, to $75.63 a barrel.
 The dollar was mixed against other major currencies. The euro rose to $1.2244, from $1.2209 late Tuesday, while the British pound slipped to $1.4957, from $1.5081. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); DEBT CRISIS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EURO CRISIS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



4 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: In Ruling, W.T.O. Faults Europe Over Aid to Airbus

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW; Brian Knowlton contributed reporting

 BODY:
The United States won an ''important victory'' in a trade ruling that Airbus, the European plane maker, had benefited from four decades of improper subsidies, taking sales from Boeing as a result, the United States trade representative, Ron Kirk, said on Wednesday.
 The ruling, by the World Trade Organization, immediately fueled concerns in Congress about whether the Pentagon should consider the subsidies in deciding whether to award a $40 billion contract for refueling tankers to Boeing or Airbus's parent, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, or EADS. 
 Boeing, based in Chicago, has long contended that the subsidies helped Airbus vault past it in 2003 to become the world's largest plane maker.
 The 1,200-page ruling concluded that Airbus received subsidies -- in the form of loans from European governments at below-market interest rates -- to produce its six best-selling models. The trade panel recommended that steps be taken to withdraw the subsidies or nullify their effects.
 From the start of its first A300 jet in 1969, with interest-free financing from France and Germany, to the creation of its new A380 superjumbo jet, the trade panel concluded that it ''would not have been possible for Airbus to have launched all of these models, as originally designed and at the times it did,'' without the subsidies.
 The ruling said that if the European company had had to rely on commercial financing, at interest rates as high as 15 to 16 percent in the early years, ''the increase in the level of debt Airbus would have accumulated over the years would have been massive.'' It said Airbus would have been a ''much weaker'' company and probably could not have afforded to build the A380. 
 The ruling, which was outlined in broad terms in March but not released fully until Wednesday, found that the Airbus A310, A320, A330 and A340 models were also developed largely with low-interest government loans.
 EADS is bidding for the Pentagon tanker contract with a version of the A330. Pentagon officials have said they want to get the most competitive price for the tankers, and they will not consider the impact of the subsidies in choosing between Boeing and EADS. 
 ''Today's ruling confirms what I have been saying for years: Airbus's illegal subsidies have harmed American workers and businesses, and they need to end,'' said Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, where Boeing assembles many of its planes. Contrasting the trade representative's stance with that of the Pentagon, she added: ''It makes no sense for one part of the U.S. government to be fighting illegal subsidies, while another is pretending they don't exist.'' 
 Boeing executives also hope that the political pressure created by the ruling will keep Europe from going ahead with similar loans to help Airbus develop the A350, which is meant to compete with Boeing's new 787 Dreamliner passenger jet. 
 The trade ruling does not apply to $4.3 billion in European governments' loan pledges for the A350, since work on it had not begun when the complaint was filed.
 But Mr. Kirk, the United States trade representative, ''has made clear that he would be very disappointed if any member states moved forward with disbursing aid for the A350,'' his general counsel, Timothy Reif, said.
 Karel De Gucht, the European Union's trade commissioner, said he was disappointed by some of the trade panel's findings. He said European officials would decide soon whether to appeal the ruling.
 ''The E.U. remains committed to a negotiated outcome to the dispute with no preconditions on either side,'' he said.
 United States officials said they were able to prevail by showing that Boeing had lost market share in foreign countries because the subsidies enabled Airbus to offer more models than it otherwise could have. 
 The United States claimed that European governments gave Airbus about $15 billion in low-interest loans, and the W.T.O. panel found that Airbus also benefited from several billion dollars in other subsidies, like runway construction and research grants.
 The trade panel also found that some of the European loans on the A380 were meant to promote export sales. Under the trade rules, that type of subsidy would need to be withdrawn within 90 days if the full W.T.O. ratified the panel's findings. 
 Airbus supporters said the trade panel had rejected some of the claims by the United States, including one that the A330-200 -- the plane on which the EADS refueling tanker is based -- also benefited from a loan tied to export sales.
 But the trade panel still found that the A330-200s were unfairly subsidized. It said other low-interest loans had made the entire A330 series possible, and without them, ''the A330-200 could not have been launched when it was without significantly higher costs.'' 
 Boeing officials have said they fear the subsidies could allow EADS to undercut their price in the tanker competition even though the A300-200 is larger than Boeing's plane. Some of Boeing's backers in Congress have called on the Pentagon to add the estimated value of the subsidies to the EADS bid price. 
 President Obama recently promised Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, that the bidding would be fair. EADS officials contended on Wednesday that the competition should not be altered.
 The European Union also has brought its own case before the W.T.O., claiming that Boeing has benefited from more than $20 billion in subsidies since the 1980s from its military business and tax breaks. A preliminary ruling in that case is expected in mid-July. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers with an A380 wing at an Airbus factory in Britain. European governments may be asked to withdraw their subsidies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (68%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (94%); AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (94%); EAD (MCE) (94%); BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

PERSON: RON KIRK (57%); PATTY MURRAY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



5 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CONVERSATIONS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Learning to Be Tough Beneath a Hard Hat

BYLINE: By ADRIANA GARDELLA

 BODY:
Gail Warrior planned to use the Russian she studied in college to help her open an accounting firm in the former Soviet Union. Instead, she is chief executive and president of the Warrior Group, a company with $124 million in revenue and 58 employees that is based in DeSoto, Tex., and handles modular construction projects in 30 states. ''Life happens,'' said Ms. Warrior, 42. She recently discussed the deal that almost put her out of business, the nuances of winning government contracts and the balancing act of being a newly divorced parent to a 10-year-old son. A condensed version of the conversation follows.
 Q.Why construction?
 A. I know how to run a successful business, and this one happens to be in construction. I always wanted to be an entrepreneur and grew up working in my dad's business. He was an ex-Army man who had one of the first African-American-owned insurance agencies in Dallas and was very successful. That's how I learned the ins and outs of running a business -- how to treat employees, how to deal with disappointments. I saw a lot at an early age. It toughened me up. 
 Q.What led you to start Warrior Group?
 A. My husband at the time and I were looking for our next big adventure. Our friends owned a manufacturer of modular buildings. Over dinner one night, they suggested that we start selling modular construction services to the federal government. In 1997, we opened our first Warrior Group office inside their manufacturing plant.
 Q.What was it like to work with your spouse?
 A. My ex-husband and I always worked well together because we had different strengths and clearly defined roles. He handled business development -- he could sell a pair of glasses to a blind man. I'm better at long-term strategy and keeping costs down. I'm all over that. 
 Q.Did he report to you?
 A. Yes. 
 Q.Will you continue to work together?
 A. We separated a year ago and the divorce becomes final in July. Last month, he decided to resign from his position as vice president of business development. If he had left a few years ago, the business would have suffered. But we've built a strong business development team. We didn't want any one person to have all the knowledge.
 Q.How did you build the business? 
 A. We asked, ''What can we do that no one else is doing?'' and realized we could sell large-scale, design-build projects to the government. We had always grown organically, through profits. It was small, incremental growth until 2005, when we were awarded a contract to build 300,000 square feet of Army barracks at Fort Bliss. In 2007, we got the contract to build 500,000 square feet of barracks there, and built yet another 500,000 square feet of dorms in 2008. The total contract over those years came to $131 million.
 Q.How did you win that job?
 A. The Army had a dilemma because it had to create durable, high-quality structures quickly to replace housing that had in some cases been around since World War ll. We convinced them that modular was the solution. 
 Q.Were you ready for such a big project?
 A. We didn't have the cash flow to handle a job of this size. First, we tried to get bank financing, but lots of banks are scared of lending to construction companies. And I was reluctant to seek venture capital funding. I was worried about losing control of my baby. Eventually, we went to Texas Women's Venture Fund -- a group made up primarily of women executives and business owners. T.W.V.F. wasn't interested in owning the company. They provided $3 million in debt capital, as opposed to equity. They placed someone on our advisory board to help us manage cash flow. It was a two-year relationship that transformed our business.
 Q.What percentage of your business is government work?
 A. About 90 percent, which includes military, health care and education. 
 Q.What's the most important thing you learned about getting government contracts?
 A. At first, working with government procurement people and understanding all the criteria as a bidder can be incredibly overwhelming. There are rules, regulations, mandates and laws to consider. Unlike with commercial contracts, the government tells you exactly what information it needs from you to determine if it wants to award you a contract. So, even when we partner with a general contractor, the paperwork we submit in response to a request for proposal must be exactly what was requested. If you offer unwanted information, you can be disqualified.
 Q.Does it help, when seeking government contracts, to be a woman and a minority?
 A. At the end of day, it may give you a couple extra points during consideration, but ultimately, a contract is awarded on merit, experience and expertise. If we don't complete the project on time and on budget, we won't be considered for future jobs, regardless of quotas.
 Q.What is the biggest challenge Warrior Group has faced?
 A. In 2003, one job almost put us out of business. A project manager was taking kickbacks from a subcontractor. We had to terminate them both, fix their mistakes and finish on time to avoid serious liquidated damages. We lost about $1 million on that job, mostly due to the overtime we paid to finish it. We had to lay off half our staff. I hired a consultant to help turn the company around. He was here for about 30 days before giving us his recommendation, which was to shut our doors and file for bankruptcy. I said, ''You are joking.'' For me it wasn't that simple. I had almost 20 employees depending on me. So, we robbed Peter to pay Paul and struggled for a couple of years. During that time, people would ask me, ''How's business?'' and I'd say ''Great!''
 Q.How have you navigated the male-dominated construction business?
 A. People take me seriously now. But early on, depending on the audience, I'd take one of my guys along with me to meetings. I meet people where they are. It's not about my ego. It's about all of us being successful. At the end of the day, my name is still on the payroll checks and I'm still C.E.O. of the company. But construction is still a good old boy network.
 Q.Were there times when that network held you back?
 A. No. I don't allow that kind of negativity to seep into my consciousness and wreak havoc.
 Q. How did you weather the recession?
 A. When it hit, we had just been awarded some contracts, so it didn't affect us. Residential and private sector construction was down, but government side wasn't. We were flush with business.
 Q.Is it difficult raising a child and a business simultaneously?
 A. You do what you have to do. I've learned how to maximize every second of every day. But balance is harder as a single parent because it requires more organization. Both my ex-husband and I are very active in our son's life. We put him at the forefront and want him to understand he still has a strong family unit. 
 Q.What's ahead for Warrior Group?
 A. I'm not sure we'll bring on a new V.P. of business development. We are interviewing for a president. I'd love to have a female in that position. I really like to support women. The guys are going to take care of the guys. So, if I can help women, why not? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gail Warrior, right, chief of the Warrior Group, with Jay VanBrocklin, at its project at the University of North Texas, Dallas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK GRAHAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); ARMIES (75%); CONTRACT AWARDS (75%); SALES & SELLING (74%); MILITARY BASES (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (64%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



6 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Latin Economies Racing Forward As Others Creep

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Andrea Zarate contributed reporting from Lima.

 BODY:
LIMA, Peru -- While the United States and Europe fret over huge deficits and threats to a fragile recovery, this region has a surprise in store. Latin America, beset in the past by debt defaults, currency devaluations and the need for bailouts from rich countries, is experiencing robust economic growth that is the envy of its northern counterparts. 
 Strong demand in Asia for commodities like iron ore, tin and gold, combined with policies in several Latin American economies that help control deficits and keep inflation low, are encouraging investment and fueling much of the growth. The World Bank forecasts that the region's economy will grow 4.5 percent this year. 
 Recent growth spurts around Latin America have surpassed the expectations of many governments themselves. Brazil, the region's rising power, is leading the regional recovery from the downturn of 2009, growing 9 percent in the first quarter from the same period last year. Brazil's central bank said Wednesday that growth for 2010 could reach 7.3 percent, the nation's fastest expansion in 24 years. 
 After a sharp contraction last year, Mexico's economy grew 4.3 percent in the first quarter and may reach 5 percent this year, the Mexican government has said, possibly outpacing the economy in the United States.
 Smaller countries are also growing fast. Here in Peru, where memories are still raw of an economy in tatters from hyperinflation and a brutal, two-decade war against Maoist rebels that left almost 70,000 people dead, gross domestic product surged 9.3 percent in April from the same month of last year. 
 ''We're witnessing what are probably the best economic conditions in Peru in my lifetime,'' said Mario Zamora, 70, who owns six pharmacies in Los Olivos, a bustling working-class district of northern Lima where thousands of poor migrants from Peru's highlands have settled. 
 Vibrancy mixes with grit around his pharmacies. A Domino's Pizza vies for customers with Peruvian-Chinese restaurants called chifas. Motorcycle taxis deliver passengers to nightclubs. Competition, in the form of a newly arrived Chilean pharmacy chain, looms around the corner from his main store. 
 Los Olivos offers a glimpse into the growth lifting parts of Latin America out of poverty, but big exceptions persist. In Venezuela, electricity shortages and fears of expropriations caused gross domestic product to shrink 5.8 percent in the first quarter. 
 But Venezuela, and to a lesser extent Ecuador, another oil-dependent country that lags behind its neighbors in growth, seem to be exceptions to a broader trend.
 Even small countries ideologically aligned with Venezuela have adopted pragmatic policies and are faring well. While Europe was gripped by fears of contagion from Greece's debt crisis, the credit rating agencyStandard & Poor's upgraded Bolivia in May, citing its sound public finances.
 Latin America's growth largely reflects a deepening engagement with Asia, where China and other countries are also growing fast. China surpassed the United States last year as Brazil's top trading partner, and is the second largest trading partner in countries like Venezuela and Colombia, Washington's top ally in the region. 
 Some scholars of Latin America's economic history of ups and downs say the robust recovery may be too good to last, pointing to volatile politics in some places, excessive reliance on commodity exports and the risks of sharply increasing trade with China. 
 Michael Pettis, a specialist at Peking University in Beijing on China's financial links with developing countries, said the region was especially exposed to Chinese policies that had driven up global demand for commodities, including what appears to be Chinese stockpiling of commodities. 
 ''Within China there is a ferocious debate over the sustainability of this investment-driven growth,'' Mr. Pettis said. ''I'm worried that too few policy makers in Latin America are aware of the debate and of the vulnerability this creates in Latin America.'' 
 Other economists, including Nicolas Eyzaguirre, director of the Western Hemisphere department of the International Monetary Fund, suggest that low international interest rates, another factor supporting Latin America's growth, will not last much longer. Even so, they applaud home-grown policies that are supporting growth. 
 Chile, for instance, saved revenues from copper exports when commodities prices climbed, allowing it to enact a stimulus plan last year and rebound from the February earthquake. Chile's economy grew 8.2 percent in April from the previous month, its biggest increase since 1996.
 ''This time around, the positive shock is probably even better, since some countries saved at least part of their windfall from the good years,'' Mr. Eyzaguirre said. 
 Within the fund itself, Latin America's recovery is translating into new political sway, particularly for Brazil, which has paid its debt to the fund and is seeking to enhance its voting stake in it. As Brazil posts China-level growth, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva is nurturing soft-power ambitions, with ventures like a state television station that will broadcast to African nations. 
 David Rothkopf, a former Commerce Department official in the Clinton administration, pointed to the dozens of embassies and consulates that Mr. da Silva has opened around the world.
 ''Like other Latin American countries, Brazil needs to improve its infrastructure and train more engineers,'' Mr. Rothkopf said, ''but it embodies the rise of emerging powers, one of the great themes of this century.'' 
 Peru, whose economic growth is expected to rival or outstrip Brazil's over the next several years, exemplifies the challenges remaining in a sizzling economy.
 The country boasts nimble companies like Ajegroup, founded during the chaos of the 1980s. Now the company's soft drinks compete with giants like Coca-Cola, not just in Peru but in other Latin American countries as well. 
 Foreign investment has flowed into Peru, largely in mining. But this investment reveals both weaknesses and strengths. Mining accounts for about 8 percent of economic activity, but about half of tax revenues, creating problems if commodities prices fall, said Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, a former finance minister here. 
 Deep inequalities also persist, especially between the capital, Lima, and the Andean highlands and the forests of the Amazon basin, where factions of the Shining Path guerrilla group feed off the cocaine trade. As much as 70 percent of the labor force still works outside the tax system, depriving workers of benefits and the government of revenue. 
 But some of what glitters in Peru's boom seems to be paving the way for lasting prosperity. Felipe Castillo, 60, mayor of Los Olivos, is investing tax proceeds in a new low-tuition municipal university for 4,000 students. He gazed recently at the 11-story structure, in a slum that has begun to take on the trappings of a lower-middle-class district. 
 ''Maybe the students at this institution will look at the mistakes of our economic policy in the past as the tragic features of a bygone era,'' Mr. Castillo said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Plaza Norte shopping mall in Los Olivos, a district of Lima, where many poor migrants from the Peruvian highlands live. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Copper awaiting delivery in Valparaiso, Chile. Latin America has benefited from strong Asian demand for commodities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELISEO FERNANDEZ/REUTERS) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); EURO CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); POWER FAILURES (68%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (68%); PHARMACIES (68%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); DEVALUATION (57%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); DOMINO'S PIZZA INC (52%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); DPZ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); CHILE (92%); MEXICO (92%); ECUADOR (79%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



7 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: In Paris, the Meek Inherit the Runways

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
Paris
 THERE is a great deal about Thom Browne's miniature fashion that is cloying, like -- well, like a million things one can name these days. But people have hung in there just the same. If you perform the exercise of who designed a style first, Mr. Browne would certainly get credit for the game changer of tailored shorts and shrunken blazers on males over 10.
 That's the beauty of fashion: Insist on something long enough, and everybody will think it's their idea.
 As the setting for Mr. Browne's first Paris show, the French Communist Party headquarters offered the American designer a good built-in joke. Fashion is also doctrinaire, and based on the number of Zaras and Gaps on street corners, it seems to be on its way to world domination. At close range, here in Paris, with the conceit of a diplomatic summit, Mr. Browne's uniformity owed less to the United States as Camelot than to the blunt aesthetic of an East German housing block. It had a certain authority. 
 As editors sat at rows of long tables in a slanted assembly room, Mr. Browne repeated the same signature jacket and pair of shorts, changing the fabrics -- seersucker, stripes, plaids, solids embroidered with small fish or sharks. The models, all wearing gold-mirrored sunglasses and a smear of gold glitter on their lips, had their hair pasted down like the Beaver on Sunday. They looked nerdy but dangerous somehow.
 Ultimately it was a good showing for the Thom Browne flag, and chatter about the gold sunglasses was on Twitter. The show, which had opened with a waltz, ended with Bowie's ''Space Oddity.'' Hearing it, a few people in the room must have thought of Raf Simons's 1998 show -- also in the summer, but held outdoors at dusk before a giant silver ball that reflected both the surrounding neighborhood and a long union line of boys in slim black suits. It was one of those shows, so artfully and simply presented, that struck a generational chord.
 But how many remember something like that now? Two years is suddenly an eternity in fashion, and the economic crisis has made everyone, retailers and designers, extremely competitive. The most sophisticated talents now know that they can't exist without the mainstream. Cool is a ghetto. So Karl Lagerfeld lends his image to a bottle of Coke or is guest editor of the newspaper Liberation, which saw a sales increase of 40 percent.
 The Paris spring men's shows, which ended on Sunday, retain a reputation for creative freedom, though there seems to be a lack of bold thinking. For some designers, the hook of a single idea worked. Rei Kawakubo of Comme des Garcons reproduced the human skull as wallpaper prints on cotton, as mesh-embedded cutouts on the back of jackets, and as an inspiration for fake-leather blazers reduced to skeletal strips.
 You imagine the thought process for a John Galliano show going something like, ''Let's do Charlie Chaplin and Luchino Visconti on the sands of the Lido!'' The references are usually groaners -- and it doesn't much matter since the results come out the same. Still, this time, Mr. Galliano's mix of undersize jackets and oversize pants -- low in the crotch and at the waist and held up with suspenders -- made a sharp impression.
 BUT men are having a hard time, as Hanna Rosin observed in an article in the current issue of The Atlantic, its tag line, ''How women are taking control -- of everything.'' Men are wimping out, in the example of Judd Apatow's chronic adolescent characters, or being mowed down by Beyonce and Lady Gaga. 
 You sensed a little of this problem at the shows, and it was not a pretty sight. Stefano Pilati, the Saint Laurent designer, reverted to a drowsy Paul Bowles sexuality, with delicate young men in even more delicate-looking knits and high-waist shorts that rippled over skinny legs. If you saw a guy with a little fez tipped over his brow, what would you think? How fast can he set up my chair by the pool?
 I wanted to like Riccardo Tisci's laces for the Givenchy man. I really did. There was something interesting about the mock Victorian elegance he seemed to be working, without the reliance on literal references. And there's a footballer's bulk to his silhouette, which is at least a consistent point of view for him. And I certainly have no gripe with his skirts, which are actually shorts with a flap in front. Shorts that suggest skirts were a trend of the collections. Rather, my problem with Mr. Tisci's clothes is that his process seems too heavy-handed, without enough perspective and finesse that might make the results just a little more real.
 Buyers praised what Nickelson Wooster, the men's fashion director of Neiman Marcus and Bergdorf Goodman, called ''the crisper, cleaned-up look'' of clothes, a shift from washed fabrics. The amount of white in the collections -- at Raf Simons, Hermes, Ann Demeulemeester -- added to the fresher look. Mr. Wooster also liked the trend of sleeveless jackets and tops; it was a big theme at Lanvin, Dior, Rick Owens and Mr. Simons, who opened with a sleeveless scubalike jacket zipped over full white cotton trousers.
 Sarah Lerfel, an owner of the influential Colette boutique in Paris, was less impressed, though. She told me when I caught up with her that she didn't think the spring shows had so many new ideas. She was particularly, if reluctantly, critical of Mr. Simons's collection.
 ''It's not the Raf I understand,'' said Ms. Lerfel, who found the use of zippers -- set in wide black strips and worked into the front or backs of jackets and cotton tunics -- tricky.
 ''Maybe I am too old,'' she said with a laugh, ''but for me it was not mature.''
 Mr. Simons wanted to reflect on his 15 years in fashion and on the collection that influenced him to become a designer -- Martin Margiela's 1989 show that made use of plain fabrics and everyday materials like tape. The loose, zippered shirts, as well as the scuba fit and extra volumes, also indicated that Mr. Simons wanted to do something that was a bit experimental. He has taken some knocks on blogs in recent seasons that, in focusing on tailoring, he has lost some of his avant-garde edge. Yet those suits were plenty inventive. They were just more subtle than what he showed the other night. 
 For Mr. Simons, the creative process is as personal as it can be, and not too many designers have the emotional range, or nerve, for his level of self-expression. It may be that some of the ideas in his latest collection are not immature but rather in a raw, early stage of development. That in itself is a remarkable thing in a leading designer -- that he still feels free in all the modern prisons of fashion.
 Kim Jones sent out a fine collection for Dunhill, emphasizing a slim, fluid fit and subtle shadings of gray. 
 All in all, I thought Veronique Nichanian of Hermes seemed the most relaxed of anybody. She had those whites and creams, the season's new-new double-breasted jacket and a nice slacker vibe. Whatever troubles men today, it was of no concern to her.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HERMES: A double breasted linen suit, worn with athletic looking sandals.
THOM BROWNE: His signature shrunken jackets and shorts in seersucker, stripes, plaids and solids embroidered with small sharks.
RAF SIMONS: A sleeveless jacket, zippered with an extended pull, and voluminous trousers.
DUNHILL: A blazer over a printed cotton foulard shirt and shorts.
YVES SAINT LAURENT: A dickie under a sweater and high-waist shorts.
LANVIN: A biker jacket and patterned pants, with an oversize waist pack.
COMME DES GARCONS: Skull prints on a cotton shirt and full shorts.
GIVENCHY: A tailored vest and a matching skirt-shorts combo.
 JOHN GALLIANO: A belted linen suit worn with satin ribbon espadrilles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VALERIO MEZZANOTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COTTON FABRICS (78%); FABRICS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); RETAILERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



8 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Lawmaker-Candidates Race Toward a Money Deadline in a Flurry of Meals

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and ROBERT PEAR; Kitty Bennett and Derek Willis contributed research.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Lawmakers have been toiling away at a feverish pace here this week, working their way through breakfasts, lunches and dinners across Capitol Hill. The urgent task is not simply passing legislation, but raising money.
 Election Day may be four months away, but a critical benchmark for the midterm election year took place Wednesday at midnight, the deadline for second-quarter fund-raising. Candidates in both parties will be judged -- fairly or not -- by their ability to raise money to fend off a challenger or topple an incumbent.
 The fund-raising tallies have taken on greater meaning this year, with Republicans confident they are within reach of winning control of the House and Senate. Several Democrats fearful of losing their seats -- and some Republicans who are taking advantage of the favorable winds -- have already raised more money this year than during the entire last election cycle.
 ''Please make an emergency contribution of at least $39 -- one dollar for every Democrat-held seat we need to win to elect a new Republican majority,'' Representative John A. Boehner, the House Republican leader, told supporters in a note titled ''Final Notice.'' 
 Breakfast is not typically on the menu at Charlie Palmer Steak, a short walk from the Capitol, but exceptions are made. And on Tuesday and Wednesday morning, Representative Earl Pomeroy of North Dakota, who is among the endangered Democrats, held consecutive events for lobbyists and other supporters.
 A block away at Johnny's Half Shell, where Creole-style grillades, grits and beignets are served for breakfast, the private rooms were bustling Wednesday as three Democrats and one Republican held last-minute events before the midnight deadline. The final figures will be made public July 15.
 ''It's important for score-keeping purposes,'' Representative Jason Altmire, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said as he stepped out of the restaurant into the morning sunshine. ''This deadline is the one where people make decisions on who is a strong candidate and who's not.''
 The burst of fund-raisers takes place as lawmakers are considering the fate of energy legislation and a sweeping financial regulatory bill. The supporters and opponents of both measures, along with a slew of other matters, made contributions and used the fund-raisers for one-on-one time with members of Congress.
 From kaffeeklatsches to cocktail parties, dozens of fund-raisers filled the calendars of Republican and Democratic lawmakers. Many political candidates from across the country also made visits this week to Washington, often squeezing in back-to-back-to-back events attended by different sets of lobbyists and political action committees representing various industries.
 Geoffrey C. Peterson, a lobbyist on taxes and health care issues, said this week's events reached ''a frenzied pace.'' Reached by cellphone Tuesday as he was going to a fund-raiser for a Democratic senator, he said, ''In the last two days, I've gotten 50 to 60 invitations.''
 Carly Fiorina, the Republican Senate nominee from California, held four events in a span of 18 hours. Her schedule began with a dinner Monday at Charlie Palmer Steak. The next morning, she had a breakfast at the Monocle Restaurant, followed by coffee at a downtown public affairs firm and lunch at the National Republican Senatorial Committee. Donors paid $500 to $5,000 to mingle with Ms. Fiorina, who is challenging Senator Barbara Boxer.
 Representative Ken Calvert, Republican of California, held a breakfast reception on Wednesday morning. Ten hours later, he was host of a ''Last Day of Quarter Dinner.''
 An examination of fund-raising reports by The New York Times shows that Mr. Calvert is among the 11 Republicans who raised more money by April than during the entire election cycle in 2008. He raised $1.2 million, financial reports show, compared with $900,000 two years ago.
 The analysis also found that 14 Democrats had already surpassed their 2008 fund-raising figures after the first three months of this year. The list includes vulnerable longtime members like Representative Ike Skelton of Missouri, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, who reported raising $1.5 million by April, compared with $1.1 million in the entire previous election cycle.
 Representative Joe Wilson, Republican of South Carolina, who apologized for yelling ''You lie'' to President Obama on the House floor, raised more than four times as much money by April, $4 million, compared with $900,000 in the cycle two years ago. Mr. Wilson's outburst made him a something of a celebrity in some conservative circles.
 Representative Alan Grayson, Democrat of Florida, raised $3.1 million by April, more than six times what he had raised two years ago. His criticism of the Republican Party's alleged view on health care, ''Don't get sick, and if you do get sick, die quickly,'' caught fire and was celebrated by many liberal donors.
 Most rank-and-file members of Congress have to work considerably harder to raise money, particularly given the economic downturn and scaled-down budgets from lobbyists and Political Action Committees. Yet the expectations have not been reduced, which was apparent in the tone of many of the solicitations.
 In an invitation to a fund-raising event Tuesday for Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York, his finance director wrote: ''If you cannot join us on the 29th, but are considering making a contribution to the campaign in the near future, sending your check now, postmarked on or before the 30th, would be much appreciated.''
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, also noted the importance of the deadline. Mr. Schumer, who is running for re-election, urged donors to ''get your contribution in before midnight on 6/30.'' He added that a strong showing could discourage ''a well-funded challenge from a corporate-backed candidate.''
 The sales pitches, whether they were delivered in speeches by candidates or through a written solicitation, contained a breathless and dire sense of urgency. The language underscored the pressure that party leaders on both sides place on candidates to meet their fund-raising goals. A paltry financial showing could mean that party leaders will write off a district and spend money elsewhere.
 ''Every little bit helps,'' Representative Tim Holden, Democrat of Pennsylvania, wrote supporters this week, asking for contributions as low as $10. ''No amount is too small.''
 As the midnight deadline approached Wednesday, with dinners and cocktail parties wrapping up, some lawmakers wasted little time with their efforts for the third quarter. Those figures will not be disclosed until Oct. 15, which could be too late to set expectations, in time to provide a late influx of cash for campaigns.
 Representative Anna G. Eshoo, Democrat of California, scheduled a breakfast at Johnny's Half Shell on Thursday, the opening day of the next period. And Representative Wally Herger, Republican of California, is host of a night at the Washington Nationals ballpark, where a ticket (and a seat in a suite with the congressman) goes for $1,500.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 30, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled Representative Anna Eshoo's surname.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS MAP
 CHART: A Fund-raising Frenzy: Lawmakers scheduled breakfast, lunch and dinner events in clubs and restaurants on Capitol Hill to raise money before the deadline for second-quarter fund-raising on Wednesday. A sampling of representatives and senators who held fund-raisers: 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (72%); ENERGY REGULATION (60%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (50%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (50%)

PERSON: JASON ALTMIRE (58%); EARL POMEROY (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



9 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Slump Cripples Aid for Drugs To Treat H.I.V.

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. -- The weak economy is crippling the government program that provides life-sustaining antiretroviral drugs to people with H.I.V. or AIDS who cannot afford them. Nearly 1,800 have been relegated to rapidly expanding waiting lists that less than three years ago had dwindled to zero.
 As with other safety-net programs, ballooning demand caused by persistent unemployment and loss of health insurance is being met with reductions in government resources. Without reliable access to the medications, which cost patients in the AIDS Drug Assistance Program an average of $12,000 a year, people with H.I.V. are more likely to develop full-blown AIDS, transmit the virus and require expensive hospitalizations.
 Eleven states have closed enrollment in the federal program, most recently Florida, which has the nation's third-largest population of people with H.I.V. Three other states have narrowed eligibility, and two of them -- Arkansas and Utah -- have dropped scores of people from the program. 
 Last week, because of swelling numbers here in South Florida, the nationwide waiting list surged past record levels set in 2004, to 1,781 people, according to the National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors. The growth is expected to continue when Georgia starts deferring enrollment in its drug assistance program on July 1. Illinois may soon follow, and New Jersey plans to cut eligibility on Aug. 1, removing 600 of the 7,700 people on its rolls.
 Louisiana capped enrollment on June 1 but decided against keeping a waiting list. ''It implies you're actually waiting on something,'' said DeAnn Gruber, the interim director of the state's H.I.V./AIDS program. ''We don't want to give anyone false hope.'' 
 Ten states' programs have stopped covering drugs that do not directly combat H.I.V. or opportunistic infections. Unless money is found by Aug. 1, Florida plans to pare 53 of 101 medications from its formulary, including those for conditions that are often related to H.I.V., like diabetes, high blood pressure and anxiety. 
 In many states, there is a sense of reverting to the 1980s and early 1990s, before the development of protease inhibitors reversed the rise in AIDS deaths.
 ''The worry then was that there were no medications for AIDS,'' said Dr. Wayne A. Duffus, medical director of the drug assistance program in South Carolina. ''The worry now is that there are medicines, but you can't afford them. A lot of patients are certainly old enough to remember what happens if you don't get your medicines.''
 For the moment, pharmaceutical companies have stepped into the breach, negotiating discounts for the state drug plans and accepting needy patients into programs that temporarily provide free medications. Although there is no data to prove it, state AIDS directors said a vast majority of people on waiting lists seemed to be getting medications one way or another.
 But they concede that some patients may be going without, and that caseworkers are being diverted from critical tasks while navigating a thicket of cumbersome applications seeking drug companies' help. 
 ''The drug companies are trying their best to lower prices,'' said Carl Schmid, deputy executive director of the AIDS Institute, an advocacy group. ''But we cannot rely on them to finance the health care of poor people living with H.I.V. and AIDS.''
 Tim Sweeney, 49, a Fort Lauderdale man who has depended on the assistance program for a dozen years, said he was put on Florida's waiting list because he was four days late to re-enroll, as is required every six months. Mr. Sweeney, who has AIDS, takes six H.I.V. pills twice a day, as well as three other medications. Their total retail cost: $4,500 a month.
 Unemployed for 18 months, Mr. Sweeney said he spent three days filling out forms to apply for aid from pharmaceutical companies. While awaiting responses, he is being supplied with drugs, one week at a time, by the AIDS Healthcare Foundation, a social service agency.
 The patchwork arrangement gives him little comfort. ''My biggest fear,'' said Mr. Sweeney, who credits the drugs with vastly improving his immune cell counts, ''is that I've done all this hard work over 20 years and now I'm going to fall back.''
 Scott Miller, 42, a northeast Florida truck driver who lost his health insurance in May along with his job, said he had never before sought assistance during five years with H.I.V. When his caseworker told him there was a waiting list, he asked what he was supposed to do.
 ''She just shrugged her shoulders and said, 'I don't know what to tell you,' '' Mr. Miller said. After several days without drugs, Mr. Miller qualified for a free three-month supply of his medication, Atripla, from Bristol-Myers Squibb. 
 Dr. Helmut Albrecht, director of the infectious diseases program at the University of South Carolina School of Medicine, said he knew of one wait-listed patient who had died after a seizure while awaiting approval from drug company programs.
 ''In my world, there is never a certainty if meds would have prevented death,'' Dr. Albrecht said, ''but the fact remains that the wait certainly did not help.''
 Drug assistance has grown since 1996 to become the largest component of the federal Ryan White program, which provides grants to states and localities. The drug program's budget from all sources is now $1.6 billion, with Washington contributing about 55 percent, states offering 14 percent and drug company rebates accounting for 31 percent, according to the state AIDS directors.
 A confluence of factors has caused the strain. Enrollment has spiked during the recession, up 12 percent from June 2008 to June 2009, to about 169,000 people. The trend has probably accelerated since then. In Florida, monthly enrollments grew by a third between May 2009 and May 2010. 
 A renewed emphasis on testing is also driving up caseloads, and federal treatment guidelines now recommend an earlier start to drug therapy. Because the drugs are so effective, people often stay on the rolls for extended periods. 
 Meanwhile, federal financial support has stayed essentially flat, up barely 2 percent this year, while appropriations from state budgets have fallen 34 percent, according to the state AIDS directors. The drug companies increased their contribution by half, to nearly $500 million, but it is still not enough. 
 Once fully implemented in 2014, the new health care law is expected to close the gaps by expanding Medicaid, subsidizing private insurance and requiring insurers to cover pre-existing conditions. 
 More immediately, two Republican senators, Tom Coburn of Oklahoma and Richard M. Burr of North Carolina, have proposed redirecting $126 million from stimulus spending to the drug assistance program. 
 President Obama opposes taking money from stimulus projects but is ''working to ensure'' that the program gets adequate financing, said Shin Inouye, a White House spokesman. He did not provide details. Mr. Obama recommended a $20 million increase in next year's drug assistance budget.
 In Florida, where AIDS deaths have dropped by two-thirds since the introduction of antiretroviral drugs, state officials cannot forecast how long the waiting list might be necessary. Unemployment stands at 11.7 percent, and there is no budget relief in sight. The list, which was begun on June 1, already holds 361 names.
 ''I know people are scared,'' said Thomas M. Liberti, chief of the state H.I.V./AIDS bureau. ''We haven't had a waiting list in 14 years. Unfortunately, we did not outlast the recession.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tim Sweeney of Fort Lauderdale is now on a waiting list for the medications he has long used. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL MCELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) CHART: An Uncertain Wait for Life-Saving Drugs: Because of budgetary pressures, 11 states have closed enrollment in their AIDS Drug Assistance Programs. Within the last week, the cumulative wait list set a record. (Source: National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (90%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); PRESCRIPTION FORMULARIES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (73%); ENZYME INHIBITORS (73%); AIDS POLICY (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); HYPERTENSION (70%); DIABETES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (89%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



10 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: How Goldman Pressed A.I.G. for Cash

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Executives of Goldman Sachs and the American International Group, the Wall Street titans whose long alliance dissolved into a battle that shook the financial world, defended their actions on Wednesday before the federal commission investigating the financial crisis. 
 But perhaps more revealing than the executives' explanations was the release of 500 pages of documents by the panel, the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, showing how Goldman's aggressive and repeated demands for billions in cash from A.I.G. drove the insurer to the brink of failure in September 2008. 
 The documents also revealed for the first time the dollar amounts behind Goldman's negative bet on A.I.G., which Goldman put in place to hedge its risk that A.I.G. might fail and not pay its obligations.
 ''Goldman was first going in the door asking for collateral. Goldman was by far the most aggressive in terms of the timing and amount asked for,'' Phil Angelides, the chairman of the commission, said. ''You were way ahead of everyone else in terms of the amount being demanded and the timing for that.'' 
 The collapse of A.I.G., once the world's largest insurer, and its dealings with Goldman and other major banks in the months leading up to that failure, have been the subject of significant Congressional interest since it was bailed out by taxpayers in the fall of 2008. 
 Under the terms of the $182 billion rescue, which was overseen by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the Treasury, the banks that had insured mortgage securities with A.I.G. were made whole on those contracts when they agreed to unwind them. Some $46 billion of the A.I.G. bailout money went to those banks.
 In his first public appearance since A.I.G.'s collapse, Joseph J. Cassano, the former chief executive of the unit that insured the mortgage securities, said that he had fought back against demands for cash from banks like Goldman until his retirement from A.I.G. in March 2008. 
 He told commission members that he could have saved taxpayers billions of dollars if he had stayed at the company as its ''chief negotiator'' because he knew the ins and outs of A.I.G.'s legal contracts with the banks. 
 ''I would have gone to the counterparties, and I think even then I would have been able to negotiate substantial discounts by using the rights available to us, such that the taxpayer would not have had to accelerate the $40 billion to the counterparties,'' Mr. Cassano said.
 A.I.G.'s battle with Goldman began in the summer of 2007 and, the documents show, centered on the value of the underlying mortgage securities that A.I.G. had insured. The documents include a timeline of Goldman's collateral calls and show that in the summer of 2008, Goldman at one point had received nearly half of all the cash A.I.G. gave to counterparties, even though Goldman's deals with A.I.G. made up only a fifth of the insurer's book of business insuring complex mortgage securities.
 While Mr. Cassano remained at A.I.G., the insurer resisted when Goldman demanded cash to shore up deterioration in the securities; A.I.G. officials argued that the investment bank's valuations were inappropriately low and were well below those of any other dealer on Wall Street, the documents show. 
 For example, on Feb. 6, 2008, even as A.I.G.'s dispute with Goldman over valuations was escalating, the documents indicate that requests for cash from Societe Generale, another large A.I.G. trading partner, used values that were in line with A.I.G.'s assessments. 
 After Mr. Cassano left A.I.G., Goldman succeeded in more of its demands for cash. When Mr. Cassano left, A.I.G. had put up $3 billion; six months later, A.I.G. had transferred $7 billion to Goldman. 
 The market for mortgage securities was declining during this period, but the commission documents indicate that Goldman's demands were far more aggressive than that of other banks. 
 When asked by commission members about this, Goldman's executives explained that their valuations came from actual trades at the time the cash demands were made. 
 Mr. Angelides of the commission asked Goldman to provide evidence that such trades had actually occurred.
 Most of the contracts were dismantled by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York during the bailout of 2008. It retained the risk of the mortgage securities that A.I.G. had insured.
 Goldman was one of the largest banks on the other side of A.I.G.'s mortgage deals, and executives from that bank, including Gary D. Cohn, the president of Goldman, also testified on Wednesday.
 Mr. Cohn said that Goldman's collateral demands of A.I.G. were justified under the bank's valuation rules. 
 ''We did not call for collateral because we anticipated the eventual scale of A.I.G.'s problems,'' Mr. Cohn said in his testimony. ''We simply stuck to our risk management protocols.''
 Mr. Cohn also said that as Goldman issued demands on A.I.G., it bought insurance on A.I.G. as a whole, in case the insurer failed. The commission released the dollar amounts of that protection over time, showing that Goldman first bought the insurance in July 2007, when it began making demands on A.I.G. At that time, Goldman bought just $100 million of insurance in case A.I.G. collapsed, but that amount grew to $3 billion over the next year.
 Of course, when Goldman bought that insurance, it knew that A.I.G. was facing its demands for cash, but Mr. Cohn said making that bet against A.I.G. was needed for risk management. ''If someone owes you money, you must go out and take protection,'' Mr. Cohn said.
 After Goldman received much of the collateral it desired from A.I.G. in August 2008, the bank reduced some of its insurance on the company. 
 In his posted testimony, Mr. Cassano acknowledged that A.I.G. had made a large bet that the housing market would do well. But he defended A.I.G.'s risk decisions, saying the insurer had stopped issuing new insurance on mortgage securities in 2006. He also said he believed that the insurance instruments -- known as credit-default swaps -- would have performed fine over time, if left in place.
 He said the contracts' performance for the Fed was good. ''The portfolios are withstanding the test of time in extremely difficult circumstances,'' he added.
 Until recently, Mr. Cassano was under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission over whether he had intentionally made misleading statements about the value of the mortgage contracts A.I.G. entered into with banks. The S.E.C. dropped the case in June.
 Also questioned were Martin J. Sullivan, A.I.G.'s former chief, and Robert Lewis, chief risk officer. Mr. Angelides asked about statements that they had not understood the exposure in Mr. Cassano's unit until it was too late.
 ''The liquidity aspect was something quite frankly we didn't focus on to the extent that we now know we should have,'' Mr. Lewis said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joseph J. Cassano, former chief of an A.I.G. unit, testified at a hearing on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Gary Cohn (B5) CHART: Goldman's Dealings With A.I.G.: A.I.G. insured about $20 billion of mortgage securities for Goldman Sachs. But as the value of those securities fell, Goldman demanded increasing amounts of money from A.I.G. to cover potential losses. A.I.G. provided less than Goldman wanted, so Goldman bought insurance from other companies in case A.I.G. failed. (Source: Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission investigation) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (75%); CHRONOLOGIES (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (66%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

PERSON: JOE CASSANO (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



11 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Energy Savers, Loan Losers

BYLINE: By TODD WOODY

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- The Obama administration is devoting $150 million in stimulus money for programs that help homeowners install solar panels and other energy improvements, which they pay for over time on their property tax bills.
 At the same time, the two government-chartered agencies that buy and resell most home mortgages are threatening to derail the effort by warning that they might not accept loans for homes that take advantage of the special financing. 
 The mixed messages have alarmed state officials and prompted many local governments to freeze their programs, which have been hailed as an innovative way to help homeowners afford the retrofitting of a house with solar panels, which can cost $30,000 or more before incentives.
 ''The thing that is maddening is that this is having a real-life impact with companies laying off people and homeowners in limbo as all these projects are stalled,'' said Clifford Rechtschaffen, a special assistant attorney general in California. 
 Under the financing programs, a local government borrows money through bonds or other means, and then uses it to make loans to homeowners to cover the upfront costs of solar installations or other energy improvements. Each owner repays the loan over 20 years through a special property tax assessment, which stays with the home even if it is sold. 
 The technique, known as Property Assessed Clean Energy, or PACE, was pioneered by Berkeley, Calif., in 2008, and 22 states have authorized such programs, which are intended to make it easier and cheaper for homeowners to invest in energy efficiency. 
 So far, only a few thousand people have used them. 
 But the Energy Department wants to promote the programs -- and give an economic boost to companies that install energy systems -- through the $150 million in stimulus funds, which are intended to help communities cover setup and administrative costs.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government entities that guarantee more than half of the residential mortgages in the United States, have different priorities. They are worried that taxpayers will end up as losers if a homeowner defaults on a mortgage on a home that uses such creative financing. Typically, property taxes must be paid first from any proceeds on a foreclosed home.
 In letters sent to mortgage lenders on May 5, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac stated that energy-efficiency liens could not take priority over a mortgage. ''The purpose of this industry letter is to remind seller/servicers that an energy-related lien may not be senior to any mortgage delivered to Freddie Mac,'' wrote Patricia J. McClung, a Freddie Mac executive. 
 However, the agencies did not offer guidance to mortgage lenders on how to handle properties that carry the energy liens. Backers of the programs fear that mortgage lenders, who depend on Fannie and Freddie to buy their home loans, will now start demanding that the entire lien be paid off before issuing a new loan.
 That is what happened to Deke DeKay of Healdsburg, Calif., when he sold a house in nearby Geyserville in May. Mr. DeKay, who had purchased the foreclosed home as an investment, put in new insulation and heating and cooling systems, financed by $11,000 from Sonoma County's program. 
 ''We thought this would be an interesting way of upgrading the home's energy efficiency without adding to the purchase price,'' Mr. DeKay said. ''Then right before the close of escrow, the bank discovered this stuff'' Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac put out and refused to approve the loan without the assessment being paid off first.
 Now Mr. DeKay is worried about his own home, which carries a $25,500 lien for a five-kilowatt solar array installed last year. ''If we ever want to refinance the house, it will be impossible for us to do that,'' he said.
 State and local officials, including Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, and some members of Congress have jumped into the fray, pressing the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie and Freddie, for clarification of its position on the financing programs. 
 ''The letters have had a devastating impact on PACE programs in California, placing at risk hundreds of millions of dollars of federal stimulus funding, hundreds of millions of dollars of state, local and private funding, and impacting California's efforts to promote green jobs and greenhouse gas emissions reductions,'' Ken Alex, a senior assistant attorney general in California, wrote in a June 22 letter to the housing agency.
 Cathy Zoi, an assistant secretary at the Energy Department, wrote to the agency in May to express concern that the apparent policy change would weaken the Obama administration's renewable energy program. 
 Fannie and Freddie did not respond to requests for comment. 
 But Alfred Pollard, general counsel for the housing agency, said, ''We are very cognizant of the concerns expressed in the communities regarding the PACE programs, and we are working expeditiously to respond to the communications we have received.'' 
 Local and state officials say that the energy liens are no different than other types of special property taxes, like those used to finance sidewalks and underground utilities. None of those have raised alarms at Fannie and Freddie. 
 Ben Pearlman, a commissioner for Boulder County, Colo., said he was worried that treating the energy liens as loans could set a precedent that would undermine local governments' ability to pay for municipal improvements through tax assessments. 
 Mr. Pearlman noted that the county had financed energy-efficiency upgrades and solar installations for 600 homes so far, but he said that the county had suspended its residential program as a result of the Fannie and Freddie letters. 
 ''Because they touch so many mortgages in this country, it makes it impossible for us to proceed,'' he said.
 The uncertainty has had ripple effects beyond homeowners. For example, after San Francisco suspended its program, Recurve, a local retrofitting company, was forced to temporarily lay off workers.
 ''We lost almost a quarter of a million dollars' worth of projects overnight,'' said Matt Golden, Recurve's president. 
 Every PACE program has been affected, according to Cisco DeVries, who developed Berkeley's project and now serves as president of Renewable Funding, an Oakland, Calif., company that devises and administers such programs for cities and counties. 
 ''Nobody wants to put a property owner in a position where they have a lender who feels they've violated their mortgage,'' Mr. DeVries said.
 It is unknown how many homeowners have encountered such problems. But Rod Dole, Sonoma County's treasurer and tax collector, said one lender declined to refinance a local PACE participant's mortgage unless the assessment was paid off, and a title company had asked the same for a different refinancing. 
 Mr. Dole said Sonoma County, which has enrolled 950 homes in PACE, has continued its program but now discloses the lender letters to homeowners. ''We are anticipating a slowdown in interest due to the uncertainty,'' he said. 
 Katrina Wilhelm, who enrolled in the Sonoma program to finance the installation of a solar array at her 20-acre ranch in Santa Rosa, Calif., said she was unaware of the issue. 
 ''That's unfortunate because part of the draw was that the loan goes with the property to the next owner so it can be a win all around, for me and the future buyers,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Katrina Wilhelm had a solar array installed on her barn in Sonoma County as part of a county program to promote energy efficiency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Ann and Deke DeKay, center, with a Sonoma County official, Paul Kelley, took part in the program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM TOONEY/COUNTY OF SONOMA) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); PROPERTY ASSESSED CLEAN ENERGY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX ASSESSORS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (53%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (86%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (86%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (86%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (86%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



12 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Harsh Words for G.O.P. From Obama

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
RACINE, Wis. -- President Obama leveled a harsh indictment against Congressional Republicans on Wednesday, accusing them of doing the bidding of bankers and oil executives while cutting ''working folks loose to fend for themselves.''
 In a visit to an economically hard-hit area, Mr. Obama tried to deflect blame for stubborn joblessness and turn the tables on Republicans, who have been trying to ride a wave of economic populism. While the economy remains in tenuous shape, he argued that it would have been worse without his spending and policy agenda.
 ''I just want everyone to remember -- we've tried the other side's theories,'' he said at a town-hall-style meeting. ''We know what their ideas are. We know where they led us. So now we've got a choice: We can return to what we know did not work, or we can build a stronger future. We can go backwards or we can go forward. And I don't know about you, but I want to move forward in this country.'' 
 Mr. Obama criticized Republicans for opposing an extension of unemployment benefits and further aid to state governments to avert mass layoffs, as well as new regulations on Wall Street financial firms.
 ''They think that our economy will do better if we just let the banks or the oil companies or the insurance industry make their own rules,'' he said. ''They still believe that even after the Wall Street crash, even after the BP oil well blew, that we should keep a hands-off attitude.''
 The president's appearance had the feel of a campaign outing as Democrats try to retain control of Congress in the face of bad poll numbers heading into fall elections. Mr. Obama used the occasion to take particularly sharp shots at a couple of specific Republican leaders, belittling some of their recent statements as examples of their being out of touch with struggling Americans.
 Mr. Obama singled out Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, for saying that financial regulation legislation was like ''killing an ant with a nuclear weapon,'' even as the Democratic National Committee and other allies amplified the attack on the Web.
 ''He compared the financial crisis to an ant,'' Mr. Obama said. ''That is the same financial crisis that led to the loss of nearly eight million jobs. Same crisis that cost people their homes, their life savings. He can't be that out of touch with the struggles of American families. And if he is, then he's got to come here to Racine and ask people what they think.''
 Mr. Boehner responded even before the president went on stage, saying in a statement that he was not comparing the financial crisis to an ant but instead arguing that the financial regulation bill would kill more jobs and make the situation worse without tackling the problems of the government-controlled lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 ''Attacking Republicans,'' he said, ''is a lot easier than explaining to the citizens of Racine, who face 14 percent unemployment, why one in every 10 Americans in our work force is unemployed nearly 18 months after the president's trillion-dollar 'stimulus' spending bill was enacted.'' 
 ''The American people want leadership from the White House,'' he added, ''not more childish partisanship.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); INDICTMENTS (73%); INSURANCE (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (70%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



13 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: The Most Unhappy Fellow

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Our Independence Day weekend winner of the title of Most Unhappy Person in Washington is: John Boehner, the House minority leader.
 I know this is a bit of a surprise since the award almost always goes to the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, whose job is frequently compared to herding cats. Although cats are much more sympathetic than senators. 
 I'd go for squirrels. Rabid squirrels. Rabid squirrels that are running for re-election. 
 Even this week, Reid's life looked pretty miserable because he is trying to get a commitment on finance reform from the newest Republican senator, Scott Brown of Massachusetts.
 Brown ran as a sort of populist man of the people, but in April, he told The Boston Globe that he couldn't support the then-current version of the bill. When asked what he wanted changed, Brown said: ''Well, what areas do you think should be fixed? I mean, you know, tell me. And then I'll get a team and go fix it.''
 It was at this point that we began to suspect that Massachusetts's junior senator is not a deep thinker.
 Brown came around and voted for the bill when it passed the Senate. Then he backed away when it came out of conference committee because the conferees had added a tax on big banks. 
 Which Brown claimed he could not support. This was at the same time that he was refusing to give the Democrats a final critical vote on extending unemployment benefits. We have here a populist man of the people playing the role of friend to the big banks while not being particularly helpful to the long-term unemployed. What can I tell you? The guy is extremely popular in Massachusetts. Maybe it's because he drives a truck.
 The Democrats dove back into conference and got rid of a $19 billion tax just to make Brown happy. Now he says he's going to spend the upcoming holiday recess pondering the bill's implications.
 This must be very frustrating for Reid, but it's the sort of thing that happens so often that he must think of it as normal life. Boehner, the House Republican leader, seems to be in a more pathetic state, which began with an interview he did with The Pittsburgh Tribune-Review. This is the paper owned by Richard Mellon Scaife, the wealthy patron of right-wing causes, but all I can say is, you go, Pittsburgh Tribune-Review. 
 Boehner dismissed the financial reform package as ''killing an ant with a nuclear weapon.'' Once again, Democrats did the happy dance. 
 ''That's right,'' said President Obama at his town-hall meeting on the economy in Wisconsin. ''He compared the financial crisis to an ant. The same financial crisis that led to the loss of nearly eight million jobs.''
 It really was a ridiculous metaphor. The financial reform package is actually more like killing a mastodon with a small spear. Could work, but not the sort of weapon you'd want to count on for every occasion.
 Boehner also called for means-testing Social Security so that retirees with ''substantial non-Social Security income'' don't get payments. This should be popular with upper-middle-class Republican voters, whose great complaint has always been that the government insists on giving them too much money.
 Perhaps most interesting was his attack on the Obama administration's attempts to impose a moratorium on deep-sea drilling. ''The deep-water drilling -- maybe there's a reason there to pause till we know what happened and we can make sure we can prevent it from happening again,'' Boehner said. ''But all of this other drilling that's going on down there in the more shallow waters -- there's no reason to have a moratorium.''
 This is actually a perfect description of the Obama policy. It was as if Boehner had denounced the health care reform law by saying that it would probably be a good idea to require people to have insurance and subsidize it for the poor, but that there was absolutely no reason to nationalize all the hospitals and have them run by the Army. Boehner looked burned-out in the interview, like a sullen college student sitting through a boring seminar. A very tanned, puffy-eyed, 60-year-old college student.
 What was his problem? Joe Scarborough, the MSNBC talk-show host and former Republican congressman, volunteered an answer: Boehner had the work ethic of a sullen college student as well.
 ''Every Republican I talk to says John Boehner, by 5 or 6 o'clock at night, you can see him at bars. He is not a hard worker,'' said Scarborough. 
 Defending his boss to Politico.com, a Boehner spokesman said that the Republican leader has spent all his spare time raising money for the party. ''Thus far this year, he's headlined more than 230 events and raised about $27 million. And that's just the beginning.''
 Think about that. The year is only half over, so that means Boehner is averaging about 1.25 fund-raising events per day. No wonder he looks tired. No wonder he doesn't know that the deep-water drilling moratorium only involves deep-water drilling. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (89%); SCOTT BROWN (79%); HARRY REID (78%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



14 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Changes Tariff Status Of Some Goods

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Some tires from Thailand, wood flooring from Brazil and gold rope necklaces from India will cost more in the United States as a result of an annual review by the Obama administration of a trade program intended to help developing countries. 
 The review, released Wednesday, also determined that fresh-cut carnations from Colombia and silver jewelry from Thailand could continue to enjoy protection from import duties.
 The trade program, known as the Generalized System of Preferences, was created in 1974 to help poor countries grow economically by allowing certain goods to be imported to the United States duty-free. 
 The protections apply to about 5,000 types of products from 131 countries, including 43 of the very poorest nations, like Afghanistan and Cambodia. Exports to the United States under the program represent a big share of exports for nations like Tunisia, Fiji and Armenia.
 The value of exports under the program was $20.3 billion in 2009, the United States trade representative's office said.
 The program ''is central to our trade agenda and critical to developing countries' continued growth and development,'' the trade representative, Ron Kirk, said in a statement. 
 Under the program, duty-free treatment is to be withdrawn -- as was the case Wednesday with the Thai tires -- if the annual trade of a country's product exceeds either a certain value ($140 million last year) or half of total imports to the United States of that product. The president can in some circumstances waive those limits, as in the case of the carnations and silver jewelry. 
 The administration also approved a request by Egypt to add frozen beans and frozen mixed vegetables to the eligibility list.
 In this year's review, the trade representative's office also considered worker rights, investor protections and enforcement of intellectual property rights. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FINE JEWELRY (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); FLOORING (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); APPROVALS (63%); FROZEN FOODS (63%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); RON KIRK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); COLOMBIA (92%); THAILAND (91%); INDIA (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



15 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Top 2 Civilians Face Rockiness After Afghan Military Shake-Up

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As General David H. Petraeus takes command in Afghanistan, the two top American civilian officials in the war face an uncertain and tricky future, working with a newly empowered military leader, under the gaze of an impatient president who has put them on notice that his fractious war council needs to pull together.
 Richard C. Holbrooke, the Obama administration's special representative to the region, and Karl W. Eikenberry, the ambassador to Afghanistan, both hung on to their jobs in the uproar that followed Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal's career-ending quotes in Rolling Stone magazine.
But privately, at least one senior White House official suggested using General McChrystal's exit as an excuse for a housecleaning, according to senior officials. That was rejected as too disruptive during a military campaign that relies heavily on civilian support, these people said. 
 In recent days, other administration officials have begun floating the idea that Ambassador Eikenberry might be replaced by Ryan C. Crocker, the highly regarded former ambassador in Iraq who forged a close partnership with General Petraeus during the successful Iraq troop increase. Such a prospect is viewed as remote, given Mr. Crocker's prestigious new post at Texas A&M University. But the fact that his name is being invoked underlines the challenges that confront Ambassador Eikenberry, as he adapts to a new partner -- one who has strong ideas about how soldiers and diplomats should work together in war.
 It also illustrates the remarkably powerful role that General Petraeus will assume in the nine-year-old war, setting him up as almost a viceroy in Afghanistan and a key broker in negotiations between President Hamid Karzai and Pakistan over an eventual political settlement.
 Before General Petraeus's arrival, some critics said the White House had created a problem by recruiting several forceful, ambitious personalities and giving them jobs with overlapping responsibilities. Administration officials acknowledge that, as one said, ''there are obviously a number of substantial personalities on the team.'' But the White House believes that the current lineup can mesh, and that a difficult war demands this much talent.
 Still, the McChrystal blow-up has reverberated through the State Department. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton instructed Ambassador Eikenberry and Mr. Holbrooke to take a hard look at the civilian team, two officials said. She is not wedded to the current lineup if it continues to bog down in internecine battles, they said.
 ''You can't have a major shift in a civ-mil structure without having the civilian side take a step back and look at everything,'' said a senior State Department official, using the jargon for a civilian-military campaign.
 General Petraeus, whose appointment was approved 99-0 by the Senate on Wednesday, took pains at his confirmation hearing on Tuesday to back a unified civilian and military effort. He noted then that he had telephoned Mr. Holbrooke and would rendezvous with Ambassador Eikenberry in Brussels, so the two could land in Kabul together.
 ''Holbrooke has been my wingman, to a great degree,'' General Petraeus said in an interview. ''We have had, and do have, a very good relationship.'' That role, he said, will now fall to Ambassador Eikenberry.
 Ambassador Eikenberry was highly critical of the Pentagon's proposal last year to send 60,000 additional troops to Afghanistan, which led to a difficult relationship with General McChrystal. But in fact General Petraeus was the true architect of the plan.
 The ambassador, a retired lieutenant general and former commander in Afghanistan, graduated from West Point in 1973, a year ahead of General Petraeus, but they did not know each other at the academy. The two share a scholarly bent: General Petraeus holds a Ph.D. from Princeton, while Ambassador Eikenberry has master's degrees from Harvard and Stanford.
 While they were never assigned together, their careers intersected twice. In Iraq, General Eikenberry led an assessment of Iraqi security forces while General Petraeus was commanding the 101st Airborne Division in Mosul. When General Eikenberry was commander in Afghanistan, General Petraeus led an assessment of Afghan National Security Forces.
 General Petraeus declined to discuss personnel issues, while Ambassador Eikenberry and Mr. Holbrooke turned down requests for an interview. Mr. Crocker, now the dean of the George Bush School of Government at Texas A&M, did not return a call for comment.
 For Mr. Holbrooke, the new landscape is challenging in other ways. Officials said his job security was less in doubt than it was six months ago, when his ouster was the subject of Washington chatter. Yet he has arguably become a less central player: Jacob J. Lew, a deputy secretary of state, manages much of the civilian influx in Afghanistan that Mr. Holbrooke helped shape, while the embassy in Kabul is carrying it out. Mr. Holbrooke's current portfolio has played to his weaknesses, his own allies admit. He is best as a high-level negotiator, and not as comfortable with the nitty-gritty work of helping Afghanistan build an economy.
 These days, Mr. Holbrooke has become a globe-trotting diplomat, trying to retain flagging European allies while seeking to draw influential Muslim countries like Egypt into helping Afghanistan. At a recent conference of 35 countries in Madrid, Mr. Holbrooke drummed up more support from allies for the Afghan government's campaign to reintegrate Taliban fighters into mainstream society.
 Mr. Karzai's longer-term effort to reconcile with Taliban leaders, and his negotiations with Pakistan, could propel Mr. Holbrooke back into a central role. Were these talks to become more serious, several officials said, Mr. Holbrooke's negotiating skills could be put to use, as a broker and guardian of American interests. For now, though, as evidence of General Petraeus's influence, he will do most of the shuttling between Kabul and Islamabad, the Pakistani capital.
 On his last visit to the region, Mr. Holbrooke met with Mr. Karzai and with senior Pakistani officials, including the army chief of staff, Ashfaq Parvez Kayani. Mr. Holbrooke's past run-ins with Mr. Karzai, several officials said, have not hindered his ability to deal with the Afghan leader, and Pakistani officials said they trusted him. Husain Haqqani, Pakistan's ambassador to Washington, said that Mr. Holbrooke took time to understand Pakistan's concerns. ''Ambassador Holbrooke is liked by some, admired by others and seen as effective, even by those who may not like him,'' Mr. Haqqani said.
 Still, General Petraeus is indisputably the key player, and he has wasted no time asserting his control. On a secure videoconference call last Saturday, a person familiar with the call said, General Petraeus threw his support behind a costly, and controversial, plan to install temporary generators to supply more electricity to Kandahar, the Taliban stronghold that is the next major American military target.
 Mr. Holbrooke and Ambassador Eikenberry swiftly assented.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 2, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, a picture caption on Thursday with an article about the uncertain futures faced by the top American civilian officials in Afghanistan in the aftermath of the American military command shakeup referred incorrectly to the location where one of them, Richard C. Holbrooke, the Obama administration's special representative to the region, was shown walking with Maj. Gen. Richard P. Mills, a Marine commander. It was in Marja, about 380 miles southwest of Kabul -- not ''near Kabul.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard C. Holbrooke, the special representative to Afghanistan and Pakistan, with Maj. Gen. Richard P. Mills near Kabul. Gen. David H. Petraeus called Mr. Holbrooke his ''wingman.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABDUL KHALEQ/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Karl W. Eikenberry, the ambassador to Afghanistan, center, greeted an official in Kabul last month after a military academy ceremony. Rumors had the ambassador's job in jeopardy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MASSOUD HOSSAINI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); APPROVALS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%)

COMPANY: ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (90%); DAVID PETRAEUS (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (78%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



16 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Ireland's Economy Posts First Growth in Two Years

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
DUBLIN (AP) -- Ireland has resumed economic growth following eight straight quarters of sharp declines, the Central Statistics Office reported Wednesday.
 The government agency said Ireland's gross domestic product grew 2.7 percent in the first quarter of 2010. It was the first such rise since the latest quarter of 2007, when Ireland's economy began to buckle amid a bursting bubble in construction and property speculation. 
 However gross national product -- a different measure that excludes the largely expatriated profits of foreign multinationals -- continued to slide, falling 0.5 percent in the first quarter, suggesting that Ireland's domestic economy is still struggling to climb out of its worst recession since the 1930s.
 The agency said the number of people claiming unemployment benefits reached a record high of 452,882, a 3.4 percent rise from May. That figure includes 79,239 people in part-time or casual jobs still eligible for welfare.
 Over all, the unemployment rate rose to 13.4 percent from May's rate of 13.2 percent, a 16-year high.
 Still, economists welcomed the news of G.D.P.'s return to the black as a long-awaited sign that Ireland's recession is ending.
 They credited the G.D.P. rebound to Ireland's dependence on a growing economy in the United States and the recent slide in the euro. The weaker European currency makes Ireland's exports of software, pharmaceuticals, food and services cheaper for its two biggest trading partners in Great Britain and the United States.
 Increasingly economists are forecasting that Ireland's G.D.P. and G.N.P. will record gains in 2010, setting aside earlier predictions of another year of declines. By contrast, Ireland's G.D.P. fell 7.6 percent and its G.N.P. 10.7 percent in 2009, the biggest such falls in Irish economic history.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); STATISTICS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); CURRENCIES (69%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (64%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (74%) IRELAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



17 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Should Oil Drilling in the Gulf Be Put on Hold?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Moratorium Won't Reduce Drilling Risks'' (Talking Business column, June 26):
 Joe Nocera supports a federal judge's recent decision to lift the six-month moratorium on deepwater oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and makes a cogent argument about the terrible economic price to be paid for continuing the moratorium. The same argument is embraced by political and industrial leaders in Louisiana and other gulf states. 
 The Gulf of Mexico, however, is contending with life-threatening wounds and may not recover from the present ecological damage, let alone take on further risk.
 The Gulf of Mexico is priceless because its benefit to humankind is tremendous and irreplaceable. Economists and political leaders should start using this price in their calculations.
 Sanford Malter New York, June 26, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Joe Nocera acknowledges that the United States will ultimately need to develop alternatives to oil, yet he claims that we need all the oil we can possibly get in the meantime.
 How does loosening the moratorium on deepwater drilling do anything other than delay this inevitable transition by keeping oil prices artificially depressed and soaking up funds that could otherwise be used to develop those alternatives?
 We've been hearing this same talk since the 1970s. The business-as-usual scenario and low oil prices are exactly what have prevented transportation not dependent on oil from being pursued aggressively.
 Jeremy B. Abramowitz Washington, June 26, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Joe Nocera makes some good points regarding the competing interests in the drilling moratorium issue. But he repeats a common and faulty analogy to the airline industry when he points out that the government does not ground all commercial aircraft after a single airliner crashes.
 While on the surface this may seem to be a valid counterargument, the crash of one airliner does not have the potential to devastate an entire region of the United States in the way that the catastrophic failure of one deepwater oil well does.
 Ross Parker Simons Pascagoula, Miss., June 27, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TUCKER NICHOLS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AIRLINES (86%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); JUDGES (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (74%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (68%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



18 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: TARP, the Bailout Fund Everyone Loves to Hate, Could Make Its Exit Early

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- While testifying on Capitol Hill last week about the government's bank bailout program, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner likened the hearing to a eulogy for the initiative.
 The comment, which at the time seemed like wishful thinking, now appears prescient.
 In an 11th-hour maneuver this week, the Obama administration and Congressional Democrats abruptly proposed phasing out the deeply unpopular bailout program, enacted in the depths of the financial crisis. Spending authority under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, as the bailout is called, would be redirected instead to pay for the financial regulation legislation nearing the finish line. 
 The action, which the Congressional Budget Office projected would ultimately yield $11 billion in taxpayer savings, was taken to mollify a few moderate Senate Republicans whose support is essential to ratifying a House-Senate compromise on a far-reaching overhaul of the financial system. 
 Instead of a five-year, $19 billion fee imposed on banks, the latest proposal would seek to avoid placing a new cost on taxpayers by phasing out TARP early and requiring the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to collect more money from banks, especially big ones.
 But Republican opponents quickly denounced the action as a gimmick. ''Blatant accounting fraud,'' said Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the top Republican on the Senate Banking Committee. ''A ridiculous scheme,'' said Representative Spencer Bachus, also of Alabama, his counterpart on the House Financial Services Committee. 
 A close look at the figures suggests that while some budgetary conjecture -- even wizardry -- was involved in projecting the taxpayer savings from ending the program three months early, the action is more than just symbolic.
 Ending the program early would bring to fruition what was already under way. No new money was being disbursed to bail out banks, automakers or financial institutions. While the original law authorized $700 billion to prop up ailing institutions, as of last week the government had disbursed $386 billion. New program money -- not enough, critics say -- is being spent to help homeowners help avoid foreclosure. 
 About half of that sum has been repaid, most notably by giant banks like Citigroup and Bank of America. The auto industry, which has received $80 billion from the fund so far, and the American International Group, which was given $48 billion under the program in addition to billions in other aid, account for most of the money that has yet to be recouped. 
 The proposal would prohibit using the bailout money for any new initiative, limiting the Treasury to programs that had already been announced, like foreclosure prevention. It also would specify that the Treasury could not, as the original law permitted, hand out for a second time money that had been repaid. Under the original law, the $700 billion was like a revolving line of credit with a limit on the amount of money that could be out at any one time, not a cap on cumulative disbursements. 
 The proposal would cap the amount that could be used over the life of the program at $475 billion. Treasury officials said that cap was manageable but consequential; officials had estimated that they might have to give out as much as $536 billion in total out of the original $700 billion.
 After a series of complex calculations, budget experts projected that the latest proposal would reduce the ultimate cost to taxpayers -- that is, the money that will most likely never be repaid -- by about $11 billion from the current estimate of about $105 billion.
 The most important practical consequence of ending the program early is that the Treasury Department will have less room for maneuver in the event that the economy takes another nosedive. 
 Treasury officials said Wednesday that they had been debating for months, on their own, whether to shut down the program early. 
 Mr. Geithner's top aides engaged in months of debate over the question. Two counselors to Mr. Geithner, Jake Siewert and Lewis A. Sachs, who has since left government, argued that the program was politically toxic and that new financing was not likely to be needed.
 Other advisers, like Lewis S. Alexander and Gene Sperling, wanted to keep the program to preserve the Treasury's capacity to deal with unforeseeable events. They were joined by Herbert M. Allison Jr., assistant secretary for financial stability, who manages the program, and Michael S. Barr, assistant secretary for financial institutions. 
 As it moved slowly through the Senate, Treasury officials contemplated ending the program as one concession they could offer to secure votes, according to an adviser to Mr. Geithner who asked for anonymity because he was not authorized to speak about high-level deliberations. 
 ''It was an idea to give the bill a little more acceleration,'' the adviser said.
 But the idea was shelved when the Senate managed to pass its version of the bill in June. 
 That changed this week, when Senator Scott Brown, a Massachusetts Republican whose support was vital to the Senate's initial passage of the legislation, objected to the $19 billion bank fee included in the compromise legislation produced by a joint Senate-House conference committee. He declared he would not vote for the compromise if it included the tax.
 So the bill's primary shepherds, Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, both Democrats, hurriedly but briefly reconvened the conference committee Tuesday to modify the bill. 
 Along with the TARP provision, the newest version of the legislation would require the F.D.I.C. to hold greater reserves in its insurance fund equal to 1.35 percent of insured deposits, up from 1.15 percent by 2020, financed by assessments on banks with more than $10 billion in assets. The provision is intended to save $5.7 billion, but critics said that it amounted to a tax on big banks by another name. 
 Mr. Brown praised the change on Wednesday but stopped short of saying whether he would support the bill. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: An Accounting of TARP: The Troubled Asset Relief Program disbursed $386 billion of the $700 billion that was authorized. About half of it has been repaid. (Source: Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); ACCOUNTING (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (66%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%); RICHARD SHELBY (58%); SPENCER BACHUS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



19 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Signals from New Data on Jobs and Manufacturing

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Private-sector employment rose less than expected in June, underscoring concerns about a weak labor market, while business activity in the Midwest grew slightly more than expected.
 Private employers added a paltry 13,000 jobs in June, compared with a revised gain of 57,000 in May, a report by a payrolls processor showed on Wednesday. Economists had forecast a rise of 60,000 jobs, according to a Reuters survey. 
 Separately, the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago business barometer fell to 59.1 in June, from 59.7 in May; economists had forecast a June reading of 59.0. A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the regional economy.
 The private-sector job figures, released by ADP Employer Services, added to worries about a slowing labor market recovery ahead of Friday's widely watched federal payrolls and unemployment report.
 ''The data is quite concerning. If this weaker trend in private-sector employment is confirmed on Friday, it would increase the risk of weak growth in the second half of 2010,'' said Zach Pandl, economist at Nomura Securities International in New York.
 The Labor Department jobs report, scheduled to be released on Friday. is expected to show a decline in overall nonfarm payrolls of 110,000 in June, as temporary workers hired to conduct the census were laid off, but a gain in private payrolls of 112,000, according to a Reuters poll of analysts.
 Another report Tuesday showed business activity in New York City dipped in June from record levels in May, although a gauge of job growth rose.
 The Institute for Supply Management-New York's seasonally adjusted index of current business conditions fell to 69.3 in June, from 89.9 in May.
 In other data Wednesday, refinancing drove mortgage applications to an eight-month peak, as loan rates fell to or near record lows, but demand to buy homes sank toward 13-year lows last week, the Mortgage Bankers Association said.
 The housing market continued to deflate after a spring sales spree, fueled by now-expired federal tax credits of up to $8,000, robbed from summer home buying.
 The upside is now limited by unemployment stuck near 10 percent, heavy foreclosure supply and pent-up selling from owners just waiting for the right time to put their homes back on the market.
 Mortgage refinancing requests rose 12.6 percent in the week ended June 25 to the highest level since May 2009, as average 30-year mortgage rates slid 0.08 percentage point to 4.67 percent, the industry group said.
 The 30-year loan rate flirted with the record low of 4.61 percent set in March 2009, according to the mortgage association's records dating back to 1990, while the 4.06 percent 15-year rate was at a record low.
 Refinancing drove total mortgage applications up by 8.8 percent, seasonally adjusted, last week. Nearly 77 percent of all loan requests were for refinancing, the highest share since April 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MORTGAGE LOANS (87%); PERSONAL FINANCE (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); STATISTICS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); FORECLOSURE (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (70%); NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (55%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (70%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



20 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; BATS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Score: 149 Pitches? Once Shouldn't Hurt

BYLINE: By J. C. BRADBURY

 BODY:
Arizona Diamondbacks Manager A.J. Hinch did something odd after his pitcher Edwin Jacksonthrew a no-hitter last Friday: He defended his decision not to pull Jackson from the game. When a starter has not allowed any hits, a manager ought to feel comfortable leaving him in the game.
 But the recent trend of limiting pitch counts to preserve arms makes Jackson's 149-pitch performance stand out. For example, the Nationals' emerging phenom, Stephen Strasburg, was pulled from a potential no-hit bid in the minors this year. It wasn't that long ago when the complete game, no matter how many pitches it took, was the mark of a good outing. 
To get a sense of how unusual Jackson's performance has become, it was only the third time since 2000 that someone had thrown that many pitches. Livan Hernandez, well known for his durability, threw 150 pitches for the Nationals against the Marlins in 2005, and Randy Johnson threw 149 pitches for the Diamondbacks against the Expos in 2002. Compare that with the 1990s, when at least 49 pitchers threw 149 or more pitches in a game.
 But what damage did Hinch really do by leaving Jackson in the game? Despite all the recent fuss over pitch counts, there is not much evidence that isolated high-pitch performances damage pitchers.
 Recently, Sean Forman, the creator of Baseball-Reference.com, and I conducted a statistical analysis of the impact of pitch counts on starting pitchers from 1988 through 2009 (the research will be presented at the Society for American Baseball Research convention in Atlanta next month). After controlling for many factors, we found that single high-pitch-count games did appear to have a real but small negative impact on future performance. Every pitch over the average output increases a pitcher's expected earned run average in the next game by about 0.007. Based on his 5.05 E.R.A. and average of 104 pitches a game before last Friday, Jackson's expected E.R.A. for his next start will be about 5.37.
 Furthermore, the Diamondbacks gave Jackson an extra two days of rest before his next start. Rest days have only a tiny positive impact on performance, in this case lowering his expected E.R.A. to 5.34. Over all, it is a significant diminishing effect, but not so large that it should cause a manager to pull a pitcher from a no-hitter.
 Keep in mind we are analyzing this as an exceptional, one-time jump in pitching load. If Jackson continued to throw close to 150 pitches a game, his productivity would suffer to a much greater degree. Averaging a high pitch count over five games has double the impact of a single game, and a high pitch count over 10 games has triple the impact, potentially raising Jackson's expected E.R.A. by nearly a run. Although we did not address injuries in this study, pastanalysis has not found a link between pitching loads and injuries.
 So while allowing Jackson to stay on the mound might have been against his protective instincts, Hinch made the right call. The accolades and attention received probably outweigh the price that the team and Jackson will pay from extending him for a single game.
 J. C. Bradbury, a sports economist at Kennesaw State University, is author of ''Hot Stove Economics,'' to be published in October. He collaborates with Baseball-Reference.com, an online baseball encyclopedia, and runs the blog Sabernomics.com.This post has been revised to reflect the following correction: 
 Correction: July 7, 2010:
 An article on Friday about the recent trend of limiting pitch counts to preserve a player's arm misidentified the team that Livan Hernandez threw 150 pitches for in a game in 2005. He was pitching for the Nationals against the Marlins, not for the Marlins.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 7, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about the recent trend of limiting pitch counts to preserve a player's arm misidentified the team that Livan Hernandez threw 150 pitches for in a game in 2005. He was pitching for the Nationals against the Marlins, not for the Marlins.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edwin Jackson tossed a no-hitter against Tampa Bay last Friday, becoming only the third pitcher since 2000 to throw 149 or more pitches in a game. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS O'MEARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: An Oddly High Pitch Count Over the last two decades, managers have limited pitch counts to protect their starters. (Source: Baseball- Reference.com)
BATTING RUNS LEADERS
E.R.A.+ LEADERS
 SIMPLE RATING SYSTEM 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); TRENDS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



21 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Interior Delays Offshore Expansion Hearings

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Interior Department, preoccupied with its response to the BPoil leak in the Gulf of Mexico, said Wednesday that it was pushing back the date of public hearings on the administration's plan, announced before the disaster began, to expand offshore drilling. 
 The department said on Wednesday that more extensive environmental and safety reviews were needed before moving ahead with any new leasing decisions.
 The process was to have begun with public hearings in Alaska, along the Gulf Coast and the southern Atlantic Coast in June and early July. Those hearings have now been put off until later in the year, the department said in a statement. No new dates were given.
 President Obama announced on March 30 -- three weeks before the fatal explosion and fire on April 20 that wrecked the BP Deepwater Horizon rig -- that he intended to open large new coastal areas to offshore drilling, including some that had been off limits for decades. Environmentalists and many officials in the affected states protested the decision, saying that there had been inadequate planning for the environmental and economic damage from a major spill.
 The Obama offshore drilling plan, which would have covered the years 2012-2017, remains the administration's policy, officials said on Wednesday, though it is likely to be significantly changed in the aftermath of the gulf spill. Several congressional committees began moving legislation on Wednesday that would tighten regulations for offshore operations and impose much stricter financial accountability for deepwater drillers.
 Interior Secretary Ken Salazar said he expected offshore wells to continue to supply a significant share of the nation's domestic oil and natural gas production. But he said he would make sure that such operations are conducted safely and that they employ the best available technology.
 Michael R. Bromwich, the new head of the Interior Department office overseeing offshore drilling, said: ''We remain focused on responding to the BP oil spill and implementing strong reforms that are raising the bar for the oil and gas industry. At the appropriate time, we will begin the process of engaging the public, conducting environmental analysis and looking ahead to where and how to responsibly develop oil and gas resources under the next five-year program.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL SPILLS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); KEN SALAZAR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



22 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Finance Overhaul Approved by House

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House on Wednesday adopted legislation to revamp the nation's financial regulatory system, voting mostly along party lines as partisan acrimony impeded cooperation even on the shared goals of averting future economic crises. 
 The vote in the House was 237 to 192, with all but three Republicans standing in opposition to a measure that President Obama in his State of the Union speech said embodied one of the highest priorities of his administration: ''serious financial reform.'' 
 ''If this bill were to fail,'' the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, said, ''We would be preserving a status quo that has left our economy in a wretched state.'' 
 To symbolize the importance of the bill, Ms. Pelosi personally gaveled the vote to a close, with 234 Democrats joined by three Republicans in favor; and 173 Republicans and 19 Democrats opposed. 
 The Senate is also expected to approve the measure, but the majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said that he would not be able to schedule a vote until after Congress returned from a weeklong recess for the Fourth of July. 
 Democrats in the Senate need the support of a few Republicans to complete the financial regulatory overhaul and one of those who supported the Senate version of the bill, Scott Brown of Massachusetts, said he wanted to spend the recess reviewing the final language. 
 The bill gives government regulators the authority to liquidate failing financial companies by breaking them apart, selling assets and forcing creditors and shareholders to take losses so that taxpayers do not pay the bill. 
 The legislation also vastly expands the regulatory powers of the Federal Reserve and establishes a systemic risk council of high-ranking officials, led by the Treasury secretary, to detect potential threats to the overall financial system. It creates a powerful new consumer financial protection bureau and widens the purview of the Securities and Exchange Commission to broaden regulation of hedge funds and credit rating agencies. 
 The measure restricts the ability of banks to invest and trade for their own accounts -- a provision known as the Volcker Rule, for its proponent, the former Fed chairman, Paul A. Volcker -- and creates a new regulatory framework for derivatives, the complex financial instruments that were at the heart of the 2008 crisis. 
 The bill was shepherded through the House by Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Financial Services Committee, who spent more than a year drafting it even as Congress was mostly focused on health care. 
 The mostly party-line House vote stood in contrast to the bipartisan approval of the $700 billion financial system rescue in October 2008, when 172 Democrats and 91 Republicans joined in support of the bill requested by President George W. Bush. 
 Ms. Pelosi recalled that effort on Wednesday in her speech urging passage of the regulatory overhaul. 
 House Republicans complained that the Democrats' legislation would extend the reach of government regulators too far, that it would encourage rather than prevent future bailouts, and that it would not address the causes of the financial crisis because it did not deal with the government-controlled mortgage giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 ''When you look at this legislation it is proof positive again that this majority just doesn't get it,'' said Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana. ''Under the guise of financial reform, Democrats today are pushing another bill that will kill jobs, raise taxes and make bailouts permanent.'' 
 But Democrats said that Republicans had tried and failed to prevent the government from responding to the worst financial downturn since the Great Depression and had put their desire to obstruct Mr. Obama's agenda ahead of the nation's best interests. 
 Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, a member of the Democratic leadership, said the bill would establish safeguards against future crises. ''Never again will we allow the American economy to be held hostage to bad decisions made by Wall Street and the financial sector,'' Mr. Van Hollen said. ''Unfortunately our colleagues on the other side of the aisle haven't gotten this message.'' 
 Representative Paul E. Kanjorski, Democrat of Pennsylvania, expressed disbelief at the Republican opposition. ''To now make the argument that we need do nothing,'' he said, ''is pure ludicrousness.'' 
 In speech after speech, Republicans attacked the bill as a threat to free markets and to economic recovery and job creation. 
 ''This legislation is a clear attack on capital formation in America,'' said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the Republican whip. ''It purports to prevent the next financial crisis, but it does so by vastly expanding the power of the same regulators who failed to prevent the last one.'' 
 Mr. Cantor added, ''It's the notion that you can solve a problem by reflexively piling vast new layers of new bureaucracy and regulatory costs and taxes on it.'' 
 Mr. Obama had wanted the bill completed and on his desk by Independence Day. The delayed vote in the Senate represented a small victory for Senate Republicans who were working hard to run down the clock and deny Democrats a chance to notch legislative accomplishments between now and the midterm elections in November.
 But the Democrats also see political advantage in the Republican opposition, and Mr. Obama, at a town hall meeting in Wisconsin on Wednesday, seized on comments by the House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, in which he said of the financial regulation bill, ''This is killing an ant with a nuclear weapon.'' 
 Mr. Obama said, ''You would think this would be a bipartisan issue.'' He added: ''He compared the financial crisis to an ant. This is the same financial crisis that led to the loss of nearly eight million jobs, the same crisis that cost people their homes, their life savings.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 30, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled Representative Paul E. Kanjorski's surname.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (79%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); CREDIT BUREAUS (64%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (64%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (78%); HARRY REID (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SCOTT BROWN (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



23 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Kagan Reminds Senators, Legislation Is Your Job

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Supreme Court confirmation hearings are usually designed to probe a nominee's conception of the role of the justices. But this week's questioning of Elena Kagan turned into a tutorial on Congressional responsibility.
 Over and over, Ms. Kagan reminded the senators questioning her of their own duty to pass cogent, sensible -- and constitutional -- laws. The Supreme Court, she said, was not created to strike down foolish measures.
 On Tuesday, for instance, Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, asked what should happen if Congress enacted a law requiring Americans ''to eat three vegetables and three fruits every day.'' 
 ''It sounds like a dumb law,'' Ms. Kagan said. But she would not commit to striking it down. ''I think that courts would be wrong to strike down laws that they think are senseless, just because they're senseless,'' she said.
 Ms. Kagan repeatedly said she would show ''great deference to Congress.'' Perhaps surprisingly, that was not what many senators seemed to want to hear. They appeared to want the Supreme Court to save them from themselves.
 Richard H. Pildes, a law professor at New York University, said Ms. Kagan's attitude toward Congress amounted to tough love. ''Elena is a hard-minded person,'' he said. ''She's lucid and clear and demanding of herself and demanding of others.'' 
 ''The deference to Congress that she's talking about,'' Professor Pildes added, ''brings with it a real sense of the responsibilities of Congress as well.''
 Asked on Wednesday by Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, why, in her role as solicitor general, she had made an aggressive argument in defending a federal statute outlawing the sale of dogfighting videos, Ms. Kagan said poor legislative craftsmanship had left her little choice.
 ''I hesitate to criticize Congress's work,'' she said, ''but it was a statute that was not drafted with the kind of precision that made it easy to defend from a First Amendment challenge.'' 
 Ms. Kagan aligned herself with Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., who held his nose in the early years of the last century while voting to uphold statutes he thought were foolish.
 Justice Holmes, Ms. Kagan said, ''hated a lot of the legislation that was being enacted during those years, but insisted that if the people wanted it, it was their right to go hang themselves.''
 In his memorable dissent in Lochner v. New York, a 1905 decision that struck down a New York work-hours law, Justice Holmes wrote that the Supreme Court should work hard to stay out of the way where economic legislation is concerned. 
 ''A constitution is not intended to embody a particular economic theory,'' he wrote. ''It is made for people of fundamentally differing views, and the accident of our finding certain opinions natural and familiar, or novel, and even shocking, ought not to conclude our judgment upon the question whether statutes embodying them conflict with the Constitution of the United States.''
 That is essentially the answer Ms. Kagan gave, in a kind of confirmation jujitsu, to questions from senators of both parties eager to see their views made into law by the courts rather than Congress.
 Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, asked about opportunities for female lawyers. Ms. Kagan agreed that society had far to go. ''But this isn't the court's role,'' she said. ''This really is Congress's role.''
 What about the disparity between sentences imposed for trafficking in crack and powder cocaine, one that tends to produce racially skewed punishment? asked Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois.
 ''It is a policy issue, quintessentially,'' Ms. Kagan responded. ''There's nothing that the Supreme Court or that any court can do about it. It's really one that Congress has to decide.''
 Like judges, members of Congress also swear to uphold the Constitution, Ms. Kagan said, and they should not look to the courts to save them from their folly.
 ''They ought to be the policymakers for the nation,'' Ms. Kagan said of legislators and other elected officials. ''The courts have an important role to play, but it's a limited role. It's essentially sort of policing the boundaries and making sure that Congress doesn't overstep its role, doesn't violate individual rights or interfere with other parts of the governmental system.''
 Asked about the criteria the Supreme Court should use in deciding which cases to hear, Ms. Kagan listed three, including conflicts among the lower courts and matters of surpassing significance. But she placed special emphasis on the third one: when a lower court has struck down a federal law.
 ''That's a serious thing, to invalidate an act of Congress,'' Ms. Kagan said. ''You know, for the most part we want to defer to the legislative branch, to the decisions of our elected branches. So that's such a serious thing that the court is going to take that case.''
 Ms. Kagan explained that much of her defense as solicitor general of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002, part of which was struck down in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission in January, was based on factual findings in The Congressional Record.
 Congress, she said, knows how money can warp politics, and she suggested that the Supreme Court should have paid more deference to that expertise.
 Mr. Coburn's question about mandatory fruits and vegetables was, of course, a transparent proxy for the recent health care legislation, and Ms. Kagan knew that. 
 She gave only a general answer about the limits of Congressional power to pass laws mandating behavior under the Constitution's commerce clause. But she did say that the Congress had substantial power in another sense.
 ''The principal protector against bad laws is the political branches themselves,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%)

PERSON: ELENA KAGAN (92%); ORRIN HATCH (57%); TOM COBURN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



24 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; BATS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Score: 149 Pitches? Once Shouldn't Hurt

BYLINE: By J. C. BRADBURY

 BODY:
Arizona Diamondbacks Manager A.J. Hinch did something odd after his pitcher Edwin Jacksonthrew a no-hitter last Friday: He defended his decision not to pull Jackson from the game. When a starter has not allowed any hits, a manager ought to feel comfortable leaving him in the game.
 But the recent trend of limiting pitch counts to preserve arms makes Jackson's 149-pitch performance stand out. For example, the Nationals' emerging phenom, Stephen Strasburg, was pulled from a potential no-hit bid in the minors this year. It wasn't that long ago when the complete game, no matter how many pitches it took, was the mark of a good outing. 
To get a sense of how unusual Jackson's performance has become, it was only the third time since 2000 that someone had thrown that many pitches. Livan Hernandez, well known for his durability, threw 150 pitches for the Nationals against the Marlins in 2005, and Randy Johnson threw 149 pitches for the Diamondbacks against the Expos in 2002. Compare that with the 1990s, when at least 49 pitchers threw 149 or more pitches in a game.
 But what damage did Hinch really do by leaving Jackson in the game? Despite all the recent fuss over pitch counts, there is not much evidence that isolated high-pitch performances damage pitchers.
 Recently, Sean Forman, the creator of Baseball-Reference.com, and I conducted a statistical analysis of the impact of pitch counts on starting pitchers from 1988 through 2009 (the research will be presented at the Society for American Baseball Research convention in Atlanta next month). After controlling for many factors, we found that single high-pitch-count games did appear to have a real but small negative impact on future performance. Every pitch over the average output increases a pitcher's expected earned run average in the next game by about 0.007. Based on his 5.05 E.R.A. and average of 104 pitches a game before last Friday, Jackson's expected E.R.A. for his next start will be about 5.37.
 Furthermore, the Diamondbacks gave Jackson an extra two days of rest before his next start. Rest days have only a tiny positive impact on performance, in this case lowering his expected E.R.A. to 5.34. Over all, it is a significant diminishing effect, but not so large that it should cause a manager to pull a pitcher from a no-hitter.
 Keep in mind we are analyzing this as an exceptional, one-time jump in pitching load. If Jackson continued to throw close to 150 pitches a game, his productivity would suffer to a much greater degree. Averaging a high pitch count over five games has double the impact of a single game, and a high pitch count over 10 games has triple the impact, potentially raising Jackson's expected E.R.A. by nearly a run. Although we did not address injuries in this study, pastanalysis has not found a link between pitching loads and injuries.
 So while allowing Jackson to stay on the mound might have been against his protective instincts, Hinch made the right call. The accolades and attention received probably outweigh the price that the team and Jackson will pay from extending him for a single game.
 J. C. Bradbury, a sports economist at Kennesaw State University, is author of ''Hot Stove Economics,'' to be published in October. He collaborates with Baseball-Reference.com, an online baseball encyclopedia, and runs the blog Sabernomics.com.This post has been revised to reflect the following correction: 
 Correction: July 7, 2010:
 An article on Friday about the recent trend of limiting pitch counts to preserve a player's arm misidentified the team that Livan Hernandez threw 150 pitches for in a game in 2005. He was pitching for the Nationals against the Marlins, not for the Marlins.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 7, 2010, Wednesday 

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about the recent trend of limiting pitch counts to preserve a player's arm misidentified the team that Livan Hernandez threw 150 pitches for in a game in 2005. He was pitching for the Nationals against the Marlins, not for the Marlins.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edwin Jackson tossed a no-hitter against Tampa Bay last Friday, becoming only the third pitcher since 2000 to throw 149 or more pitches in a game. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS O'MEARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: An Oddly High Pitch Count Over the last two decades, managers have limited pitch counts to protect their starters. (Source: Baseball- Reference.com)
BATTING RUNS LEADERS
E.R.A.+ LEADERS
 SIMPLE RATING SYSTEM 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); TRENDS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



25 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Fear of a Weak Labor Picture and Further Recession Sends Shares Lower

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks fell Thursday as manufacturing and labor market data heightened fears of a double-dip recession before Friday's crucial employment report.
 Major indexes were lower for a fourth consecutive day after suffering their worst quarter since late 2008, but losses eased near the end of the session.
 ''Right now everyone is so concerned about a major 'potential depression' or deflation taking place. It's really roiling the market,'' said Paul Mendelsohn, chief investment strategist at Windham Financial Services in Charlotte, Vt. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 41.49 points, or 0.42 percent, to 9,732.53. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 3.34 points, or 0.32 percent, to 1,027.37. The Nasdaq composite index lost 7.88 points, or 0.37 percent, to 2,101.36.
 In a Reuters survey, economists expected Friday's Labor Department report on June nonfarm payrolls to show a decline of 110,000.
 Gold mining company stocks were among the hardest hit on Thursday after being one the few strong sectors in the second quarter as the price of gold fell.
 Barrick Gold fell 5.1 percent to $43.06 and Newmont Mining slid 4.5 percent to $58.99. The PHLX gold/silver sector index fell 4.4 percent.
 The spot gold price was down $43.30, to $1,198.95 an ounce. 
 ''What you are seeing is clearly a nervous feeling about all assets, whether they be tangible or intangible, paper or not. The overall mood is bearish, and metals may not be the safe haven that you can just bank on,'' said Scott Meyers, senior analyst at Pioneer Futures, which is based in New York.
 Indicators suggested equity markets were oversold, but fears of a worse-than-expected jobs report, exacerbated by Thursday's jobless claims data, kept buyers on the sidelines.
 Thursday's data also included the Institute for Supply Management's barometer of manufacturing activity, which fell to its lowest level since December, and pending home sales, which dropped a record 30 percent in May.
 Other data showed unemployment claims rose unexpectedly last week, heightening fears a labor market recovery was stalling.
 In another report, the National Association of Realtors said its index of pending home sales fell in May after the government tax credit for home buyers expired. The index for contracts signed in May fell by 30 percent, to 77.6, down from 110.9 in April. The index is down nearly 16 percent from where it stood in May 2009, the association said.
 The decline reversed three months of increases, as home buyers rushed to make use of the tax credit, put in place as part of a government stimulus measure to address the housing crisis. The May figure was also the lowest since the association started tracking such contract activity as a forward-looking indicator in 2001.
 Automakers posted a decline in sales in June from the month earlier, though the figures were higher than June 2009.
 Ford Motor, up 4.9 percent to $10.57, was one of the bright spots after the automaker reported June sales had gained 15 percent over June 2009.
 With increased worries about the trajectory of the economy, investors turned to Treasuries as a safe haven and interest rates were lower most of the session. But as stocks erased their worst losses near the close, Treasuries declined. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 5/32, to 104 22/32, and the yield rose to 2.95 percent from 2.93 percent late Wednesday.
 The euro rallied to a five-week high above $1.25 on Thursday, before falling back slightly to $1.2480 in late trading in New York. The dollar also fell against other currencies after the disappointing economic data heightened worries that the economic recovery is stalling in the United States.
 Concerns about euro zone debt and liquidity problems eased further on Thursday after Spain successfully sold 3.5 billion euros of a five-year bond, adding to positive sentiment a day after European banks borrowed less money than expected from a European Central Bank tender.
 Thinning liquidity ahead of the long Independence Day weekend in the United States exacerbated moves.
 ''There's a relief rally in the euro because we have gotten through the euro zone market events over the past 48 hours,'' said Amelia Bourdeau, senior currency strategist at UBS in Stamford, Conn. ''The euro zone seemed to navigate those events successfully.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); RECESSION (91%); GOLD MINING (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); DEFLATION (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); MINES & MINING (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (64%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (55%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (55%)

TICKER: NEM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (55%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



26 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1795 words

HEADLINE: Pay Your Nanny on the Books

BYLINE: By MONA SIMPSON. 
Mona Simpson's forthcoming novel ''My Hollywood'' is about an immigrant nanny.

 BODY:
Los Angeles
 I HAD my first paying job one week the summer I was 11. A mother hired me to take care of her 4-year-old daughter while she started a new job. She picked me up at a little before eight and said she would drive me home again, just after five. Even for my age I was remarkably unqualified: I had no siblings, and within my extended family I was the youngest cousin. I'd never changed a diaper or made my own bed. I arrived at the small house in a new development, terrified -- with reason.
 My charge, however, was a resourceful girl: she'd set up the stuffed animal refuge downstairs and a doll world in her room. She told me how to play with her. Mostly I sat and watched. 
 The first real obstacle was lunch. The mother had left out a can of tomato soup for the two of us, but I'd never operated a can opener, and I couldn't get the contraption to latch; it skated around the can, making no dent. Finally, desperate -- the girl was looking up at me with patient faith but also obvious hunger -- I pounded a hole in the can with a bottle opener and poured the soup from the small opening into the pot. I'd never controlled a stove before either. The girl pointed at the appropriate knobs and I stirred according to instructions.
 On Friday evening, after the steepest learning curve of my life, the mother gave me $20, and the girl and I hugged with some feeling. 
 Unbeknownst to me, this was my introduction to the gray economy of domestic work. No doubt the mother could have found a more experienced, competent babysitter for that week, but I was the daughter of a friend of a friend and, as a matriculating sixth grader, I came cheap. (Twenty dollars for the week, though a fortune to me, was still half the minimum wage then, a little more than $1 an hour.) Neither of us paid taxes or worried about insurance of any kind. But we were lucky: nobody got hurt and I truly liked the little girl. 
 Though it never would have occurred to me or to my employer that anything we did that week could concern lawmakers miles away, it also seemed ordinary enough when, for my next job, wrapping Christmas gifts in a dress shop, my mother had to get me a Social Security card. 
 Americans have long thought differently of domestic labor than of most other kinds of employment. This month, the New York Senate passed legislation to protect nannies, housekeepers and other domestic workers, requiring that they be paid overtime after eight hours; get at least one day a week off, seven paid sick days a year and five paid vacation days; and be given 14 days notice of termination, or equivalent pay. I hope Gov. David Paterson signs this into law, and that other states follow. (The California State Assembly is expected to consider a similar bill next year.) But it is not enough: considering the difficulties in enforcing such laws, families that employ domestic workers must be persuaded to forgo the considerable short-term advantages offered by an under-the-table system. 
 The United States has a history of failure in tendering rights for domestic help. The Department of Labor's archives hold thousands of sad letters written in the 1930s by maids, housecleaners, cooks and nannies to Franklin D. Roosevelt and his secretary of labor, Frances Perkins. Here are excerpts from one written to Eleanor Roosevelt in 1937:
 Dear Madam,
 ... I have often wondered why you or Mrs. Perkins have done nothing to help the women engaged in housework.... 
 I have been in close contact with many of the girls and women who were and still are housemaids, cooks and other house workers and can truly state some of the conditions are deplorable.
 Long hours, poor wages. Poor living conditions. A regular slave's existence and some of these women call themselves Christians. ...
 I could write a book about it beginning with A and ending with Z and all true. It would seem we are made of different clay than they are my how unbearable these women can be. ...
 Just a maid.
 P.S. Will write again when I can sign my name without getting into trouble.
 Other letters describe work schedules that make us realize how haphazardly we live in our own homes: ''Wash rear bathroom. Dust woodwork. Vacuum throughout house. Ironing. Bake -- bread and cake. Polish silver. Defrost Frigidaire.'' All of this took place on days when a formal meal was served and the baby was ''watched.'' 
 Mary Anderson, the first director of the Department of Labor's Women's Bureau (who had begun her own career as a domestic worker), replied to thousands of such letters, explaining hopefully that a group had newly organized, calling itself the National Committee for Household Workers. But the closest thing that existed then to regulations on hours, pay or stipulated notice for domestic workers was a pledge written by women of the Y.W.C.A., which employers and workers could voluntarily sign.
 More than 70 years later, the laws on the books have remained remarkably the same -- except that in 1974 many domestic workers were brought under the protection of the federal minimum wage. Now, New York's proposed laws have set off a passionate debate, perhaps because the problems of both domestic workers and their employers are seemingly intractable, and the fix is so small. 
 Some of these problems have to do with changed demographics: more women have entered the workforce, including thousands of impoverished immigrants who have come to American cities. Many more middle-class families hire domestic help than before because the mother herself works.
 Picture her 38, a mother of a boy in preschool and a baby girl. (This is a fictional portrait based on many people I've known.) Her job as a history lecturer at a local college is not particularly lucrative. She is teaching four sections, with much grading, many office hours and no job security. Her husband, a journalist, earns more than she does but works even longer hours. She always assumed she would have a job and children. Most days, at least, she wants to work.
 This not-so-young-anymore mother isn't employing a maid to clean her bathrooms or polish her silver. She doesn't own silver. Nonetheless, she and her husband together earn (pretax) four to five times what they pay their nanny.
 Still, as the professor arrives at her toy-strewn home on Friday and takes out her wallet -- the kids hanging on her knee and, on her arm, a bag of groceries not yet turned into dinner -- she's aware of how close her nanny's wages come to her own.
 Her nanny (another composite) is a mother, too, with children across an ocean. Years ago, working long hours for centavos in a failing economy, she came here as an undocumented immigrant. So far, the risk has paid off. She's on her third job, with an employer who gives her books and hand-me-down clothes. She used last year's Christmas bonus to pay an immigration lawyer.
 She shares a decent apartment with two other women and has a weekend job taking care of an elderly man. All in all she is able to send home five times what her husband earns. With the magic that is the global economy she's turned a servant's wage into private school tuition for her own children. 
 She likes taking her two charges to their mommy-and-me classes and birthday parties. When her own children were this age, she had to spend nine hours a day on a factory line making artificial flowers. She's made friends with other nannies, and among the mothers who pick up their children every day at the preschool, she's a favorite. Two of them have quietly offered her jobs. 
 These women's vastly different needs intersect in the gray economy. The nanny is glad to be paid in cash. She's been warned that this will deprive her of Social Security benefits when she's old, but right now she's not old and, besides, she may well go home in a few years if she can't get a green card. In any case, her sons' tuitions need to be paid today. 
 She's worked here six years without a green card, but of the many women she knows in her situation, only one has been caught and deported. That woman is back, working at an even better job. 
 HER employers have never before broken the law, either, except for a few joints in college. But after an evening spent calculating the state and federal tax withholdings, they had to admit that their nanny's take-home wage, with the mandated deductions, would no longer be respectable. And that's not even beginning to think about health insurance. Besides, no one they know, except for one striving couple with a husband who plans to run for office, pays their nanny on the books.
 A workplace so ungoverned is the Wild West, rife with temptation for exploitation and abuse. Even laws like the one New York may soon have can be only a first step. Because so many of the workers they are meant to protect are undocumented, few will want to come forward to report violations. And collective bargaining is unlikely among employees isolated in private homes. 
 Responding to news of the impending laws, commenters on nytimes.com predicted that many families will stop employing domestic help. Several suggested that mothers will stay home with their children. I think it's more likely that the demand for day care centers will increase, leading to more and better day care options, at a higher price. Then the women whom these laws seek to protect will be out of a job.
 Perhaps we should recognize the difference between a wealthy family hiring a domestic worker for convenience and grace notes and an employer whose own income is not vastly greater than that of the person she employs. Those below a certain income level might be offered a tax benefit for child-care expenses -- in home or not.
 Also, creative ways must be found to calculate overtime -- so that a working mother can put in her own eight hours and also commute to and from work, without needing to pay her nanny daily overtime. While regulation is surely needed to prevent live-in workers from being on call around the clock, perhaps a nine-hour day is a more realistic expectation -- stipulating that caregivers be allowed some downtime while small children or elderly parents nap. 
 And families should be provided with simple, one-page payroll forms that offer algorithms to calculate employees' deductions and withholdings. 
 In a 2009 survey of 800 parents in upper-middle-class Brooklyn neighborhoods, a large majority claimed to have a great deal of respect for their current nanny. Yet less than a quarter paid workers' compensation, disability, unemployment or Social Security taxes. 
 We must learn to show respect for our domestic workers with something other than hand-me-down furniture and clothing. Care work is real work, and we should compensate it at a level we can put on the books.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SOPHIA MARTINECK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FAMILY (78%); OVERTIME (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); LEGISLATION (70%); ANIMAL WELFARE (69%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (65%); SOCIAL SECURITY (65%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (61%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (60%); SICK LEAVE (60%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (50%); CHRISTMAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



27 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Panel Chairman Presses Goldman Sachs on Its Mortgage Bets' Market Effect

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
A Congressional commission questioned Goldman Sachs and the American International Group executives on Thursday about the way the companies set prices on complex mortgage securities during the financial crisis, when buyers for such assets were scarce. 
 The panel's chairman also pressed Goldman on whether its negative bets in the market became a ''self-fulfilling prophecy.'' 
 Goldman was among the most aggressive players on Wall Street in marking down the value of mortgage bonds as the financial crisis brewed, and ultimately benefited in protecting itself from the housing downfall. A.I.G., on the other hand, had a large positive bet on housing through the billions of dollars of mortgage securities that it insured for Goldman and other banks. 
 The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission is investigating Goldman's relationship with the American International Group in a two-day hearing as part of its broader study of the causes of the financial crisis. For more than a year before the government bailed out A.I.G., Goldman demanded cash from the insurer, based on Goldman's lower valuations of mortgage securities. A.I.G. battled Goldman in an epic dispute but ultimately surrendered and sent much of the requested money. 
 The four executives on the panel that testified on Thursday -- two from A.I.G. and two from Goldman -- were intimately involved in the dispute that ensued between the insurer and Goldman over those valuations. In addition, the commission questioned regulators from three different offices about the role of A.I.G. and derivatives in the crisis. 
 The hearing was just the latest public questioning of Goldman executives about the bank's role in the mortgage market. The commission on Thursday shifted attention to the way Goldman valued mortgage securities and how that affected the broader market. 
 The chairman of the commission, Phil Angelides, pointed to Goldman's bet against housing to question whether the firm itself could have been affecting the market, through its position and its marks on companies like A.I.G. 
 ''Look, you guys are net short, and you're driving down prices -- are you guys creating a self-fulfilling prophecy?'' Mr. Angelides said. ''Were you in fact pushing the market down?'' 
 Goldman's chief financial officer, David A. Viniar, said the bank did its best to estimate market pricing and that it did not move the market through its trading, claiming Goldman was a small player in the mortgage space.
 ''I think there's a misperception that we move the market,'' he said. ''We're a participant in the market.''
 Market prices did move in Goldman's direction in 2008, though many of the deals A.I.G. insured have been recovering and doing better since 2008, when they were transferred to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as part of the government's $182 billion bailout of A.I.G. 
 The hearing revisited a debate on valuation that was prevalent at the height of the crisis, when many financial companies complained that they were being forced to take oversize losses on assets because of the market panic. The vice chairman of the commission, Bill Thomas, focused his questions on the models that A.I.G. used. He asked the A.I.G. executives why they preferred to use their models for pricing rather than market pricing when Goldman was demanding cash. 
 Andrew Forster, an executive vice president at A.I.G., said he did not believe the prices in the market three years ago were accurate.
 ''If you're in a liquidity gap at a time when people do not want to add risk, personally I don't think you should mark all your positions to zero,'' Mr. Forster said. 
 The commissioners asked Goldman to follow up with additional information, including the identities of the third parties that provided insurance to Goldman on A.I.G. as a company. Goldman has pointed to that insurance as the safety net that would have covered Goldman if A.I.G. had failed. 
 Another commissioner asked Goldman to provide details of any communications the bank had related to the legal waiver it and other banks received during the bailout. That waiver blocks lawsuits between the banks and A.I.G. related to the mortgage securities that are now held by the Fed.
 In a second panel, Eric R. Dinallo, the former superintendent of the New York State Insurance Department, spoke about the Fed's and the Treasury's choice to pay off banks like Goldman in exchange for their mortgage bonds. Mr. Dinallo said it would have been better if the government had guaranteed those deals and left them on A.I.G.'s books.
 Gary Gensler, the chairman of the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, also testified, and he advocated for passage of the financial reform legislation. Clarence K. Lee, a former official with the Office of Thrift Supervision, also testified.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David A. Viniar, Goldman's chief financial officer, said the firm was a small player in the market. (ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (91%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); BONDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (60%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%); GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



28 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Albany Approves No-Fault Divorce and Domestic Workers' Rights

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Lawmakers on Thursday crossed two historic thresholds governing the realm of the home, making New York the first state to grant workplace rights to domestic employees and the last to allow some version of no-fault divorce.
 And in a potential boon to the home-birth movement, legislators passed a bill late Wednesday allowing midwives to practice independently of obstetricians. 
 The divorce bill, which was approved by the Assembly on Thursday evening, would for the first time allow a couple in New York to dissolve their marriage by mutual consent and without requiring one spouse to accuse the other of adultery, cruelty, imprisonment or abandonment. 
 The bill, which passed in the State Senate last month, would also allow one spouse to divorce the other unilaterally -- a change that opponents, including the Roman Catholic Church, said would lead to higher divorce rates. 
 But advocates said it would end an epidemic of institutionalized perjury in divorce courts, with some spouses said to falsely testify to wrongdoing in order to get a divorce. The bill passed 113 to 19, a large margin for a measure that, when last introduced 20 years ago, had to be pulled off the floor for lack of support.
 ''I'm gratified and pleasantly surprised by how broad the support was,'' said Assemblyman Jonathan L. Bing, a Manhattan Democrat and lead sponsor of the bill. ''Especially for lower-income individuals and victims of domestic violence, it will allow them to leave relationships that have clearly run their course. It would also give couples that want to end their marriages amicably a way to do so that they do not currently have under the law.'' 
 The law on domestic employees was a major victory with sweeping implications for the estimated 200,000 such workers in the New York City area.
 The legislation passed narrowly in both the Assembly and the Senate after the bills' sponsors agreed to drop provisions allowing domestic workers to sue employers who violated the law and requiring employers to give two weeks' notice before firing workers. 
 In the Senate, 3 Republicans joined all 32 Democrats to approve the bill, while in the Assembly, the legislation passed by 90 to 38. Gov. David A. Paterson said he would sign the legislation.
 ''I wrote, rewrote and rewrote again this legislation,'' said Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, a sponsor of the bill. ''I've been rewriting it for seven years. The final outcome is about parity, equity, dignity and justice for 200,000 people that would not have necessarily gotten it.''
 Long constituting a vast secret economy in New York and yet virtually without recourse when their employers exploited or abused them, domestic workers would, under the law, be covered by laws against workplace sexual harassment. They would also be entitled to temporary disability benefits, unemployment insurance and even overtime, all enforceable by the state. 
 For the first time, domestic workers would have a set workweek of 40 hours -- 44 in the case of live-in workers -- and at least one day of rest a week. To win passage in both houses, however, advocates agreed to drop a requirement for six paid holidays and six days of paid vacation a year. Instead, domestic workers will be entitled to three paid vacation days annually after they work for an employer for at least one year. 
 The passage was met with peals of laughter and applause from a group of domestic workers who traveled to Albany to witness the vote. As they filed out of the Senate gallery on Thursday, some of the workers cried, while others hugged, took photos on their cellphones or called friends with the good news.
 ''It will mean that we will have protection, that the work we do will be recognized,'' said Patricia Francois, 51, who left her job as a nanny a year and a half ago because, she said, her employer beat her. ''We take care of the sick. We take care of the elderly. We take care of their worldly goods.'' 
 The midwife bill, passed by the Assembly on Monday and the Senate late Wednesday, removes the requirement that midwives obtain an agreement from a doctor or hospital to provide backup to the midwife, including in emergencies. Some doctors refuse to sign such agreements because they believe it makes them responsible for patients they know little or nothing about.
 Many midwives have privileges at hospitals, where help is around the corner should something go wrong. But the requirement for a so-called written practice agreement had been a particularly high hurdle for midwives who assist at home births, which are often outside mainstream practice, and for those in rural counties where doctors are scarce. 
 The bill gained momentum in April when St. Vincent's Hospital in Greenwich Village, which had agreements with several home-birth midwives, closed, leaving those midwives unable to legally deliver babies.
 The repeal of the requirement had been bitterly opposed by the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, whose leadership argued that midwives could not practice safely without the direct supervision of a doctor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Albany, Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, a sponsor of the domestic workers bill, was congratulated by Priscilla Gonzalez, director of Domestic Workers United. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); APPROVALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (77%); FAMILY LAW (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); MIDWIVES (77%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (75%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (73%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (72%); RELIGION (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



29 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Go Begging As Gap Is Exposed In Worker Skills

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH; David Maxwell contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BEDFORD, Ohio -- Factory owners have been adding jobs slowly but steadily since the beginning of the year, giving a lift to the fragile economic recovery. And because they laid off so many workers -- more than two million since the end of 2007 -- manufacturers now have a vast pool of people to choose from.
 Yet some of these employers complain that they cannot fill their openings. 
 Plenty of people are applying for the jobs. The problem, the companies say, is a mismatch between the kind of skilled workers needed and the ranks of the unemployed. 
 Economists expect that Friday's government employment report will show that manufacturers continued adding jobs last month, although the overall picture is likely to be bleak. With the government dismissing Census workers, more jobs might have been cut than added in June. 
 And concerns are growing that the recovery could be teetering, with some fresh signs of softer demand this week. A central index of consumer confidence dropped sharply in June, while auto sales declined from the previous month. 
 Pending home sales plunged by 30 percent in May from April as tax credits for home buyers expired. Fretting that global growth is slowing, investors have driven stock indexes in the United States down to their levels of last October, for losses as great as 8 percent for 2010.
 As unlikely as it would seem against this backdrop, manufacturers who want to expand find that hiring is not always easy. During the recession, domestic manufacturers appear to have accelerated the long-term move toward greater automation, laying off more of their lowest-skilled workers and replacing them with cheaper labor abroad. 
 Now they are looking to hire people who can operate sophisticated computerized machinery, follow complex blueprints and demonstrate higher math proficiency than was previously required of the typical assembly line worker.
 Makers of innovative products like advanced medical devices and wind turbines are among those growing quickly and looking to hire, and they too need higher skills.
 ''That's where you're seeing the pain point,'' said Baiju R. Shah, chief executive of BioEnterprise, a nonprofit group in Cleveland trying to turn the region into a center for medical innovation. ''The people that are out of work just don't match the types of jobs that are here, open and growing.''
 The increasing emphasis on more advanced skills raises policy questions about how to help low-skilled job seekers who are being turned away at the factory door and increasingly becoming the long-term unemployed. This week, the Senate reconsidered but declined to extend unemployment benefits, after earlier extensions raised the maximum to 99 weeks. 
 The Obama administration has advocated further stimulus measures, which the Senate rejected, and has allocated more money for training. Still, officials say more robust job creation is the real solution.
 But a number of manufacturers say that even if demand surges, they will never bring back many of the lower-skilled jobs, and that training is not yet delivering the skilled employees they need. 
 Here in this suburb of Cleveland, supervisors at Ben Venue Laboratories, a contract drug maker for pharmaceutical companies, have reviewed 3,600 job applications this year and found only 47 people to hire at $13 to $15 an hour, or about $31,000 a year.
 The going rate for entry-level manufacturing workers in the area, according to Cleveland State University, is $10 to $12 an hour, but more skilled workers earn $15 to $20 an hour. 
 All candidates at Ben Venue must pass a basic skills test showing they can read and understand math at a ninth-grade level. A significant portion of recent applicants failed, and the company has been disappointed by the quality of graduates from local training programs. It is now struggling to fill 100 positions. 
 ''You would think in tough economic times that you would have your pick of people,'' said Thomas J. Murphy, chief executive of Ben Venue. 
 How many more people would be hired if manufacturers could find qualified candidates is hard to say. Since January, they have added 126,000 jobs, or about 6 percent of those slashed during the recession. The number may understate activity somewhat, as many factories have turned to temporary workers.
 Christina D. Romer, chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said the skills shortages reported by employers stem largely from a long-term structural shift in manufacturing, which should not be confused with the recent downturn. ''I do think that manufacturing can come back to what it was before the recession,'' she said.
 Automakers, for example, have been ramping up and mainly filling slots with people laid off a year or two ago.
 Manufacturers who profess to being shorthanded say they have retooled the way they make products, calling for higher-skilled employees. ''It's not just what is being made,'' said David Autor, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, ''but to the degree that you make it at all, you make it differently.''
 In a survey last year of 779 industrial companies by the National Association of Manufacturers, the Manufacturing Institute and Deloitte, the accounting and consulting firm, 32 percent of companies reported ''moderate to serious'' skills shortages. Sixty-three percent of life science companies, and 45 percent of energy firms cited such shortages.
 In the Cleveland area, historically a center of metalworking and rubber production, more than 40,000 manufacturing workers lost their jobs in the recession, a 21 percent decline, according to an analysis of employment data by Cleveland State University. Since the beginning of the year, the region has added 4,500 positions.
 Employers say they are looking for aptitude as much as specific skills. ''We are trying to find people with the right mindset and intelligence,'' said Mr. Murphy.
 Ben Venue has recruited about half its new factory hires from outside the pool of former manufacturing workers. Zachary Flyer, a 32-year-old Army veteran, had been laid off from a law firm filing room when he applied at the drug maker last summer.
 He spent four months this year learning how to operate a 400-square-foot freeze dryer that helps preserve vials of medicine. Monitoring vacuum pressure and temperatures on a color-coded computer screen with flashing numbers, Mr. Flyer said last month that he preferred his new work to the law firm, where he had spent seven years.
 ''I like jobs that are more hands-on, as opposed to watching paperwork all day,'' he said. 
 Local leaders worry that the skills shortage now will be exacerbated once baby boomers start retiring. In Ohio, officials project that about 30 percent of the state's manufacturing workers will be eligible for retirement by 2016.
 ''The new worker of tomorrow is in about sixth grade,'' said John Gajewski, executive director of the advanced manufacturing, engineering and apprenticeship program at Cuyahoga Community College in downtown Cleveland. ''And they need training to move into manufacturing.''
 At Astro Manufacturing and Design, a maker of parts and devices for the aerospace, medical and military industries, Rich Peterson, vice president for business development, recently gave a tour to a group of eighth graders. 
 He showed off surgical simulators and torpedo parts, saying he wanted them to see the ''cool'' things the company makes. By the end of the tour, more than a third of the students said they might consider working at a place like Astro, which is based in Eastlake and has five plants in the Cleveland area.
 For now, the company urgently needs six machinists to run what are known as computer numerical control -- or CNC -- machines. An outside recruiter has reviewed 50 resumes in the last month and come up empty. 
 The jobs, which would pay $18 to $23 an hour, require considerable technical skill. On an afternoon last month, Christopher Debruycker, 34, was running such a machine, the size and shape of a camper van parked on the factory floor. 
 Mr. Debruycker, who has been an operator for 15 years, had programmed the machine to carve an intricate part for a flight simulator out of a block of aluminum, and he monitored its progress on a control pad with an array of buttons. 
 ''We need 10 more people like him,'' Mr. Peterson said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Students at Cuyahoga Community College in Cleveland are training for manufacturing jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (77%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); CENSUS (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (67%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



30 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; VOICES FROM THE SPILL PETE LACOMBE, DIVE CAPTAIN; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: A Life on the Water, Drying Up

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
Capt. Pete Lacombe has the cabernet nose of a man who spends too much time in the sun. He would prefer to be underwater, diving or showing tourists the wondrous coral reefs of the Florida Keys, but the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico has largely kept him onshore. 
 Advance bookings for his diving company are now nonexistent. His 28-passenger red-and-white boat mostly sits idle these days, sloshing in a marina here, its life jackets dry as sand.
''I need 10 trips a week to make enough to survive,'' says Captain Pete, as he is known. ''Now I'm looking at none.''
 Like many others, he has been saddened to discover that the consequences of the oil spill extend beyond the spill's physical reach. Even without oil anywhere near where Captain Pete lives and works, tourists fearing that the spill could spread there are already holding back. 
 And the timing is atrocious. In a good year, a successful captain in the Keys makes maybe $40,000 a year, barely enough to pay for housing, food and rum. Even before the Deepwater Horizon disaster, the recession had left many captains like Captain Pete a few weeks shy of failure. The spill could easily push them over the edge. 
 ''It's not just fishermen,'' said Captain Pete, who is 45. ''It's dive boat operators, instructors, mates, the guys who fill up our tanks. This could be potentially devastating for all of us.''
 He is fighting to stay positive. This is an area largely allergic to melancholy, and Captain Pete -- who came here about a decade ago after ditching his job as an insurance adjuster in the Midwest -- has no intention of leaving. So a few months ago, when he feared falling behind on rent, he started making his own mustard to bring in extra cash. A 16-ounce Mason jar of Captain Pete's Banana Pepper Mustard costs $5, and his red nose comes partly from selling it by the side of the road. 
 His friends in the community are the condiment's biggest supporters, of course, but some visiting TV producers also pitched in recently, helping him create an advertisement that implores viewers to buy the mustard and ''add some sweet heat to your meat.''
 The humor is a classic Keys response -- drinking and laughing it up are pre-hurricane rituals around much of Florida, so why not for the spill? But really, with both storms and oil slicks, it's just a mask for the fear and helplessness. 
 ''You can rebuild Louisiana,'' says Don Brown, an Ernest Hemingway look-alike who manages the marina where Captain Pete docks his boat. ''You can't rebuild that reef.''
 ''The reef is alive,'' Captain Pete adds, sitting on his idle boat, beside Mr. Brown. ''Swimming with the fish down there, it's the closest you can come to flying.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: With fewer bookings for his boat, Capt. Pete Lacombe is concentrating instead on selling his homemade mustard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAGGIE STEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); SCUBA DIVING (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); MARINAS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



31 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Street Killings Prompt Police To Increase Overnight Patrols

BYLINE: By KAREN ZRAICK and NATE SCHWEBER

 BODY:
The Police Department is increasing overnight patrols after a recent spate of killings on the street, mostly in Brooklyn and the Bronx.
 Normally, about 65 percent of all shootings take place outdoors, according to the police. But over the past 28 days, about 90 percent occurred on the street, leading the police to believe that high-visibility patrols could deter violence and catch criminals shortly after they act. 
 Police officials said the number of officers on the street from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. in 23 precincts could double or even triple, using dedicated overtime funds. 
 ''In all likelihood, the shift will continue through July 4 and beyond, unless shooting patterns suggest that we readjust again,'' said Deputy Commissioner Paul J. Browne, the chief police spokesman.
 The move comes as the police try to hold down the homicide rate, which is up 11 percent through the end of June. But department officials said they were battling their own success. The homicide rate last year was the lowest since the department's switch in 1963 to what it considered a more reliable system of tracking killings.
 Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said the preponderance of street shootings suggested that ''enforcement and aggressive strategies'' might have an impact.
 ''We're always concerned, and we do everything we reasonably can to deploy our resources,'' Mr. Kelly added.
 At the start of the recession, many wondered whether economic forces would propel the city toward ''the bad old days'' around 1990, when killings peaked at 2,245. Those fears have not been realized. As of June 27, there had been 221 killings this year.
 Citywide, major crime over all was down 1.3 percent, but there were some notable increases. Rapes rose 13 percent, and shootings were up 7 percent. Grand larceny fell 7 percent.
 Thomas A. Reppetto, an author and the former president of the Citizens Crime Commission, said he had seen the homicide rate rise in the first half of previous years, only to come down again. ''I would suspect looking at these figures and the past years that we will end up at about the same level of crime in 2010 as we had in 2009,'' he said. ''Not necessarily in every category, but overall.''
 But the police must act swiftly to address emerging patterns, Mr. Reppetto added.
 Robert Johnson, 50, a cook, said he had noted an increase in violent crime around his home near Broadway Junction in Brooklyn. On June 20, a 31-year-old man was fatally shot across the street from a playground where he takes his grandchildren. 
 ''The last year has been real crazy,'' Mr. Johnson said, citing previous shootings on nearby Hull Street. ''I come in a little earlier. When it gets dark, I take them in,'' he said of the children. 
 In fact, the 73rd Precinct, where the park is, had 10 killings, as did the 81st Precinct, also in Brooklyn. The only precincts with more were the 75th, in East New York, Brooklyn, which had 15, and the 47th, in the north Bronx, with 11. 
 In the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn on Wednesday night, three people were shot, one fatally, while watching a basketball tournament at Kingston Park.
 Jamal Jones, 23, said he had organized the tournament, which featured star players from local high schools and drew a crowd of about 100. ''It was ugly, people getting trampled,'' said Mr. Jones, who sustained a graze wound to his arm. ''They're lucky, because it could have been a whole lot worse.''
 Craig Powell, 42, a schoolteacher who has lived in the area for 36 years, brought his daughters, 9 and 7, to the park on Thursday afternoon. He said he long ago became accustomed to a rise in crime during hot weather.
 ''It's just living in the 'hood, unfortunately,'' he said. ''You just hear about it and pray it doesn't happen to you and yours.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); CRIME RATES (91%); HOMICIDE (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); LARCENY & THEFT (71%); CITY LIFE (69%); CHILDREN (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



32 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: African Countries Form a Common Market

BYLINE: By JOSH KRON

 BODY:
BUJUMBURA, Burundi -- The world's newest common market was created Thursday when a regional bloc of five east African countries freed up the movement of people, products and capital across borders, furthering East Africa's dream of broad political unification. 
 The transformation and growth of the bloc, known as the East African Community, has been unfolding quickly after being reinvigorated just over 10 years ago. The bloc aims to become a monetary union by 2012 and have a common currency by 2015, with political federation to come soon after. Ultimately, leaders from the countries talk about becoming a single east African nation.
 The East African Community was founded in 1967 by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda but collapsed a decade later over political infighting between member states. Its resurrection, strengthened with the addition of Rwanda and Burundi and the creation of the common market, has been lauded by East African officials, though more work remains.
 ''What we have achieved so far is only the basic legal framework that outlines what needs to be done,'' Juma Mwapachu, the secretary general of the bloc, said in a press statement.
 The agreement will allow citizens, products, capital and business services to move freely throughout the five countries, but Mr. Mwapachu said some national laws within member states would need to be harmonized with the regional agreement. 
 The agreement extends to 125 million people across a varied political, geographic and economic landscape, bordering some of Africa's worst war zones, from Somalia to the Democratic Republic of Congo.
 Much of the region shares a common language, Swahili, and a history of previous agreements, which have promoted political will among the member states. Since its second founding in 1999, analysts say the community has developed swiftly. A customs union was formed in 2005.
 The community has expressed interest in a common currency, as well as a single tourist visa. The member states are also collaborating on building a regional railway line that would run from the Indian Ocean to Burundi, bordering Lake Tanganyika.
 ''The idea of a United States of East Africa is less far-fetched than it was before,'' said Pratibha Thaker, regional director for the Economist Intelligence Unit. 
 Despite the significance politicians have attached to the common market, Ms. Thaker said economic growth was the most immediate interest for member states.
 ''It is critical for trade in service and trade in goods,'' she said. ''Economics will make them come together faster than politics.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CURRENCIES (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (51%) BURUNDI (95%); AFRICA (95%); EASTERN AFRICA (95%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); RWANDA (79%); UGANDA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); KENYA (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



33 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: China Puts Best Face Forward in New English-Language Channel

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Christine Haughney contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- The Xinhua News Agency, China's dominant news service and the propaganda arm of the Communist Party, introduced a 24-hour English-language news channel and is preparing to open a prominent newsroom in Times Square, part of an expensive push to increase the reach and influence of the Chinese news media overseas.
 The president of Xinhua, Li Congjun, said Thursday at a press conference in Beijing that CNC World, the agency's new 24-hour news channel, was part of a government effort to ''present an international vision with a Chinese perspective.'' 
 The announcement is the strongest sign yet that China intends to spend billions of dollars over the next few years to create a global media empire that can match the country's rising economic and diplomatic power and more effectively project its views to an international audience.
 Beijing officials have long complained that China is often portrayed unfavorably in the Western media and that what it considers biased news coverage has hurt the country's interests abroad.
 The new channel, which media experts say appears to be modeled on Al Jazeera, the Arabic news network, aims to provide comprehensive coverage of world affairs, while explaining matters of direct concern to the Chinese leadership in a perspective its producers consider appropriate.
 Analysts say China's global media expansion is striking because many Western media giants, faced with an advertising slump, have scaled back operations by closing bureaus and laying off employees.
 ''While our media empires are melting away like the Himalayan glaciers, China's are expanding,'' said Orville Schell, director of the Center on U.S.-China Relations at the Asia Society in New York and a former dean of the journalism school at the University of California, Berkeley. ''They want to get every hallmark of the world of credible journalism they can, and being in New York City, in an iconic location, is part of that.''
 On Thursday, an official with Xinhua, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to the press, said Xinhua was planning to build a newsroom at the top of a 44-story skyscraper in Times Square, giving it an address in the same neighborhood as Reuters, Conde Nast, News Corp and The New York Times.
 Xinhua's move is just one of several planned by Beijing. China Central Television, the country's biggest state-run television broadcaster, has also been expanding overseas and offering broadcasts in English, Spanish, French, Arabic and other languages. And China has heavily financed a makeover of China Daily, its English-language daily newspaper, and introduced a new English edition of Global Times, which is controlled by People's Daily, the leading Communist Party-run newspaper.
 Whether state-run news services financed and controlled by Beijing can attract a big international audience or earn significant revenues overseas remains uncertain. Many media experts say Chinese news agencies, though improving, lack credible and objective reporting and are widely perceived to be propaganda vehicles for the Chinese government.
 ''We've criticized them a lot because they're a propaganda tool,'' said Clothilde Le Coz, the Washington director of Reporters Without Borders. ''So the fact that they want to expand in the U.S., we'd like to see what that would look like.''
 There have also been reports over the years that some of China's state-run news agencies are closely tied to state intelligence agencies. Xinhua got its start in 1931 as the Red China News Agency, even before the Communist Party gained power in 1949.
 Xinhua still functions as China's official news bureau, releasing government reports and official statements for Politburo members, and setting the tone for China's other heavily censored news publications, which are often instructed to republish Xinhua dispatches on major news events without alteration.
 On Thursday, the agency said in announcing its new 24-hour English news channel that it hoped to offer a ''better view of China to its international viewers.'' And it will try to do that, it said, with English-language news, live Internet broadcasts, talk shows and in-depth reporting.
 The agency already has more than 10,000 employees and 120 bureaus around the world, rivaling the reach, if not the quality, of Western news services like Reuters or Bloomberg. Xinhua has begun recruiting non-Chinese journalists from around the world to write for its news services.
 Mr. Schell at the Asia Society says Beijing is serious about trying to present its news agencies as a credible alternative to global brands. 
 ''Despite Herculean efforts, they don't think they're taken seriously; the agency is not on equal footing on credibility,'' he said of Xinhua. ''But we're one step away from the next stage, when they pick up distressed properties in the global media world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Xinhua, China's official news agency, introduced CNC World, a 24-hour English-language news channel, at a news conference in Beijing on Thursday. The expansion comes as many Western news media are cutting back. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUHAMMED MUHEISEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS REPORTING (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (88%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); MEDIA BIAS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (69%); CLOSINGS (64%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (62%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (62%); NWS (ASX) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



34 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Bad News Back Home

 BODY:
How bad does it have to get before Congress notices? Kevin Sack reported in The Times on Thursday that budget shortfalls have led 11 states to close enrollment in programs that provide drugs to people with H.I.V. and AIDS. Worse, the number of those turned away is expected to surge in the months ahead as more states defer enrollment and cut eligibility. 
 Against that backdrop -- and with other draconian state budget cuts under way or on the drawing board -- Congress has refused to provide more fiscal aid to states. The House leadership, bowing to demands from fiscally conservative Democrats, stripped a provision for $24 billion in state aid from a jobs bill it passed in May. The Senate included the aid in its version but has failed repeatedly to pass the measure. 
 For most states, the new budget year began on Thursday. With no help in sight from Washington, they will have to enact further spending cuts and tax increases just to balance their budgets. Collectively, the states face a budget hole of more than $100 billion. Cutbacks on that scale will be disastrous for a fragile economy, and the most vulnerable will suffer the most. 
 The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities has been tracking essential services that have already been slashed. As of July 1, Arizona has ended many behavioral health services for 4,000 children. Oregon has made significant cuts to community health programs for nearly 1,500 mentally ill residents and is eliminating a program that helps 2,000 residents with Alzheimer's or dementia receive care at home. 
 Kansas has reduced grants that help nearly 2,800 people with disabilities live independently, and Idaho has ended or reduced cash assistance to 1,250 low-income residents who are elderly or disabled. Public schools, colleges and universities are facing tuition increases or spending cuts in Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Minnesota, Missouri, Oregon, Virginia and Washington. 
 Spending cuts also mean layoffs. In all, the center projects that closing the states' budget gaps could cost the economy up to 900,000 jobs, both among government workers and private contractors.
 Without more federal aid to states, the nascent recovery will be stalled or, worse, reversed. And more people will suffer. Lawmakers need to take a look at what is happening beyond the Beltway. Americans, their constituents, are suffering. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); TUITION FEES (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (70%); CHILDREN (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); DISABLED PERSONS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); MENTAL HEALTH (65%); DEMENTIA (64%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



35 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales Defy The Statistics

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE, HUGO DIXON and GEORGE HAY

 BODY:
Auto sales should be accelerating in the United States -- at least according to a spate of rosy statistics. But June's numbers, released on Thursday, showed annual sales stuck in the low 11 million, better than last year, but way off the typical rate of 16 million before the crash. If only customers weren't so jittery about the economy.
 That is what's quelling the optimism fed by other positive-looking data. First, there are statistics suggesting pent-up demand. The median age of vehicles on the road, for example, is more than 10 years, rather than the eight or nine years to which the industry has become accustomed. 
 The annual discard rate of 3 to 4 percent of the 250 million vehicles on the road is low, too. It usually hovers around 5 percent. That means as many as five million vehicles are still cruising around that otherwise would have been retired to the junk yard by now.
 Then factor in two million new drivers each year. And consider that the value of used cars increased almost 11 percent in May from a year earlier, according to the Manheim index, which tracks used-car auction data. Prices jumped as much as 19 percent for more fuel-efficient cars and more than 14 percent for large S.U.V.'s. The more cash drivers get for old vehicles, the more likely they should be to splurge on new ones.
 All else being equal, this suggests that annual sales of 14 million should be within reach. If that happened, it would certainly help automakers like General Motors, whose chief executive, Edward E. Whitacre Jr., said on Thursday that 2010 should be ''a great year'' for the company to return to public markets.
 The trouble is, customers remain wary of buying big-ticket items. Unemployment is still stubbornly high. Many baby boomers, who buy almost half of all new vehicles, must be rethinking retirement plans after the crisis. And financing, though improved, is still not easy to come by.
 All of which leaves carmakers' strategists in a fix. There is so much data screaming that an upturn could be just around the corner. But consumer behavior has thrown a monkey wrench in the gears. That makes gauging a rebound next to impossible.
 Bonus Busting
 What is a banker's bonus really worth? Under new European rules, financiers will see part of their bonuses retained and another portion deferred, and some may also be clawed back. The value in today's money of a $1 million bonus could be cut to less than $800,000 under reasonable assumptions.
 The starting point is how much the banker gets immediately in cash. The new rules specify that 40 to 60 percent of a bonus must be deferred and that no more than half of the portion paid immediately can be in cash.
 That means there is a maximum of 30 percent in cash upfront. But for those with the biggest bonuses, at least 60 percent must be deferred. A recipient of a $1 million bonus may therefore collect at most $200,000 in cash right away.
 Another $200,000 is paid immediately but cannot be cashed in, while $600,000 is deferred, of which as much as half can be paid in cash. This sum, though, has to be discounted to reflect the delay in receiving it and the risk it will be clawed back for poor performance.
 Assume an annual clawback risk of 5 percent and take a 4 percent discount rate for the time value of money. Over a four-year period, that shrinks the banker's $300,000 of cash to $213,000.
 Now for the noncash part of the bonus. The immediate portion, $200,000, comes in securities that cannot be cashed in for an unspecified period. The deferred $300,000 is likely to come in the form of common shares.
 Bankers are unlikely to find either terribly appealing. Not only is there the risk of loss; the value is also much less certain than cash. Assume therefore that two discounts, each of 5 percent a year, are applied.
 If the $200,000 of securities has to be held for two years, it is worth only $165,000. The shares, deferred for four years, have a present value of $205,000.
 Add it up and the banker's $1 million bonus has miraculously shrunk to $783,000. Most people would still think that's a lot. But European bankers will no doubt feel ill-treated.
 ANTONY CURRIE, HUGO DIXON and GEORGE HAY
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward Whitacre, G.M.'s chief, is optimistic about the auto industry in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN NOREYKO FOR CHEVROLET) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); AUCTIONS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (72%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (70%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); PERSONAL FINANCE (66%); BABY BOOMERS (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



36 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: After Months of Gains, Car Sales Fell in June

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Sales of new vehicles in the United States slowed in June, automakers and analysts said on Thursday, raising concerns that the market's recovery could be stalling after months of slow but encouraging gains. 
 Sales by most carmakers were higher than 12 months ago, the midpoint of a miserable year for the industry, but below the levels for March, April and May.
 Compared with May, sales last month were lower by 14 percent for Toyota, 13 percent for General Motors, 12 percent for Chrysler and 11 percent for the Ford Motor Company. Auto sales typically fall about 3 percent from May to June each year. 
 ''People feel maybe a little better than they did at this time last year, but their personal financial situation really hasn't changed a lot,'' said Jessica Caldwell, the director of industry analysis at Edmunds.com, a Web site that tracks auto sales. ''And until that starts to look better, they still don't feel comfortable going into a dealership.''
 For the first half of the year, the industry was on pace to sell about 11.2 million vehicles nationwide, up from 10.6 million last year. Edmunds estimates sales will total 11.5 million this year, while other forecasts are as high as 12.5 million.
 ''Even getting to 11.5 is going to be a struggle,'' Ms. Caldwell said. Edmunds may reduce its forecast if sales do not improve in the coming months, she said.
 But automakers say they remain optimistic that demand will improve in the second half of the year. George Pipas, Ford's chief sales analyst, said the rebound of the industry from last year's recession was not necessarily expected to be quick or smooth.
 ''It certainly looks like a modest recovery, which is what we predicted and which is what we're going to get,'' Mr. Pipas said in a conference call with analysts and reporters.
 On a year-over-year basis, Ford sales rose 13 percent and G.M. sales were up 11 percent. G.M. sales increased 36 percent excluding the four brands it discontinued: Pontiac, Saab, Saturn and Hummer.
 In the first half of 2010, G.M.'s active brands -- Chevrolet, Buick, Cadillac and GMC -- sold 12 percent more vehicles than the company sold a year ago with eight brands. 
 Chrysler sales rose 35 percent from June 2009, though analysts said much of the increase was the result of more deliveries to business and government customers. G.M. said a cut in so-called fleet sales was largely to blame for its decrease from May.
 Chrysler sold 527,219 vehicles in the first half of the year, 48 percent of its full-year goal of 1.1 million.
 The South Korean carmaker Hyundai, which has surged as price-conscious consumers seek less expensive but appealing alternatives to competitors' offerings, said sales rose 35 percent in June and were on track to set a full-year record for the company.
 In contrast, sales fell short of expectations again at Toyota, which continued to struggle to recapture momentum after recalling nearly nine million vehicles to fix defective accelerator pedals. Toyota's sales rose 7 percent in June from a year ago and 10 percent in the first half of 2010 compared with 2009.
 Toyota has been offering generous discounts, but they have not been as effective in recent months as they were when introduced. 
 Toyota's problems grew Thursday, when company officials in Japan said 270,000 of its vehicles, including some Lexus luxury cars, might have faulty engines. Last week, the company stopped selling a Lexus hybrid car, the HS 250h, and recalled 17,000 of them to address a potential fire hazard. 
 The research firm J. D. Power and Associates estimated that so-called retail sales, which exclude bulk deliveries to business and government customers, declined to an annualized rate of 8.5 million vehicles. The annualized retail selling rate, a measure that accounts for seasonal variations in vehicle demand, was 8.9 million in May and 9.6 million in March and April. 
 ''It appears that the volatility in the stock market and downbeat economic reports have caused a decrease in consumer confidence, leading to a self-fulfilling prophecy,'' Jeff Schuster, J. D. Power's executive director of global forecasting, said. ''Consumers are clearly hunkering down in light of the current environment, waiting for signs of a renewed recovery.''
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hyundai Elantra
Chevrolet Impala CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
How the Automakers Fared
 Most Popular Cars and Trucks (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (87%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



37 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Myths Of Austerity

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
When I was young and naive, I believed that important people took positions based on careful consideration of the options. Now I know better. Much of what Serious People believe rests on prejudices, not analysis. And these prejudices are subject to fads and fashions.
 Which brings me to the subject of today's column. For the last few months, I and others have watched, with amazement and horror, the emergence of a consensus in policy circles in favor of immediate fiscal austerity. That is, somehow it has become conventional wisdom that now is the time to slash spending, despite the fact that the world's major economies remain deeply depressed. 
 This conventional wisdom isn't based on either evidence or careful analysis. Instead, it rests on what we might charitably call sheer speculation, and less charitably call figments of the policy elite's imagination -- specifically, on belief in what I've come to think of as the invisible bond vigilante and the confidence fairy.
 Bond vigilantes are investors who pull the plug on governments they perceive as unable or unwilling to pay their debts. Now there's no question that countries can suffer crises of confidence (see Greece, debt of). But what the advocates of austerity claim is that (a) the bond vigilantes are about to attack America, and (b) spending anything more on stimulus will set them off. 
 What reason do we have to believe that any of this is true? Yes, America has long-run budget problems, but what we do on stimulus over the next couple of years has almost no bearing on our ability to deal with these long-run problems. As Douglas Elmendorf, the director of the Congressional Budget Office, recently put it, ''There is no intrinsic contradiction between providing additional fiscal stimulus today, while the unemployment rate is high and many factories and offices are underused, and imposing fiscal restraint several years from now, when output and employment will probably be close to their potential.''
 Nonetheless, every few months we're told that the bond vigilantes have arrived, and we must impose austerity now now now to appease them. Three months ago, a slight uptick in long-term interest rates was greeted with near hysteria: ''Debt Fears Send Rates Up,'' was the headline at The Wall Street Journal, although there was no actual evidence of such fears, and Alan Greenspan pronounced the rise a ''canary in the mine.''
 Since then, long-term rates have plunged again. Far from fleeing U.S. government debt, investors evidently see it as their safest bet in a stumbling economy. Yet the advocates of austerity still assure us that bond vigilantes will attack any day now if we don't slash spending immediately.
 But don't worry: spending cuts may hurt, but the confidence fairy will take away the pain. ''The idea that austerity measures could trigger stagnation is incorrect,'' declared Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank, in a recent interview. Why? Because ''confidence-inspiring policies will foster and not hamper economic recovery.''
 What's the evidence for the belief that fiscal contraction is actually expansionary, because it improves confidence? (By the way, this is precisely the doctrine expounded by Herbert Hoover in 1932.) Well, there have been historical cases of spending cuts and tax increases followed by economic growth. But as far as I can tell, every one of those examples proves, on closer examination, to be a case in which the negative effects of austerity were offset by other factors, factors not likely to be relevant today. For example, Ireland's era of austerity-with-growth in the 1980s depended on a drastic move from trade deficit to trade surplus, which isn't a strategy everyone can pursue at the same time.
 And current examples of austerity are anything but encouraging. Ireland has been a good soldier in this crisis, grimly implementing savage spending cuts. Its reward has been a Depression-level slump -- and financial markets continue to treat it as a serious default risk. Other good soldiers, like Latvia and Estonia, have done even worse -- and all three nations have, believe it or not, had worse slumps in output and employment than Iceland, which was forced by the sheer scale of its financial crisis to adopt less orthodox policies.
 So the next time you hear serious-sounding people explaining the need for fiscal austerity, try to parse their argument. Almost surely, you'll discover that what sounds like hardheaded realism actually rests on a foundation of fantasy, on the belief that invisible vigilantes will punish us if we're bad and the confidence fairy will reward us if we're good. And real-world policy -- policy that will blight the lives of millions of working families -- is being built on that foundation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); BONDS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); INTEREST RATES (62%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



38 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: 2 Nuclear Power Plants Approved by Finland

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
The Finnish Parliament approved the construction of two nuclear power plants on Thursday, the latest victory for proponents of atomic energy in Europe. 
 Just two weeks ago, the Swedish Parliament narrowly voted to allow the reactors at 10 nuclear power plants to be replaced when the old ones are shut down -- a reversal from a 1980 referendum that called for them to be phased out entirely. 
 Nuclear power fell out of favor in much of Europe after the 1979 accident at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania and the 1986 disaster at Chernobyl, Ukraine. 
 But in an era of concern about dependence on foreign supplies of fossil fuels and increases in atmospheric carbon, there is renewed interest in electricity generated by nuclear fission. 
 ''Over all, opinions are firming and more positive,'' Ian Hore-Lacy, a spokesman for the World Nuclear Association, said of the European mood. ''People are less concerned about waste because they've seen it's not a drama, and it's been well managed.'' 
 With protesters in Helsinki gathered outside, the Finnish Parliament voted 120 to 72 to back a nuclear power plant application from a consortium called Teollisuuden Voima, and 121 to 71 to approve a new plant built by Fennovoima. The companies, which have five years to submit construction license applications, hope to begin operating the plants by 2020. 
 The vote will allow the Finns to build their sixth and seventh nuclear plants. The country's four existing nuclear plants provide about 28 percent of Finland's total electricity needs, according to the World Nuclear Association. Finland imports electricity, coal and gas from Russia for much of its remaining needs, and officials have expressed unease about dependence on a sometimes-difficult neighbor. 
 The two light-water reactors, which will generate a combined 3,200 megawatts, are estimated to cost as much as 10 billion euros ($12.5 billion). Neither group has decided on a reactor design yet. 
 Fennovoima, a Finnish consortium in which the German utility E.On holds a 34 percent stake, must first decide where to build its plant. Two possible sites, at Simo and Pyhajoki, have been identified. 
 Teollisuuden Voima, known as TVO, is building a new-generation EPR-model plant with Areva, the French engineering company, at Olkiluoto, in the southwest. 
 That project is running well over budget and behind schedule. Areva said on June 23 that it would book a charge of 400 million euros in the first half of the year against cost overruns, bringing its total write-downs on the plant to 2.7 billion euros. In 2005, it estimated the cost of the job at 3 billion euros. The plant had been scheduled to go online in 2009, but officials are now aiming for a 2013 start. 
 Construction of a similar reactor in Flamanville, France, is also experiencing delays and cost overruns, leading skeptics to question whether the industry can operate without significant government aid. 
 Nuclear power proponents argue that the technology is more environmentally sound than burning fossil fuels because no greenhouse gases are emitted to split atoms. Opponents cite concerns about the danger of accidents and long-term waste disposal. 
 Tomas Kaberger, director general of the Swedish Energy Agency, said there was no certainty that any of the plants would be built, despite talk of a nuclear renaissance. 
 ''Historically, the industry has not been able to reduce costs with increased experience,'' Mr. Kaberger said. ''New reactors have not been cheaper than previous models.'' 
 Mauri Pekkarinen, the Finnish minister of economic affairs, said he was confident the plants would be built without public financing. ''The companies don't need any subsidies,'' he said in an interview. ''The government has nothing to do with the financing.'' 
 Most of the nuclear plants under construction today are in China. In Europe, France has long been the main nuclear proponent, generating most of its electricity from its fleet of nuclear plants, and championing its technology on the world stage. Britain is eager to build new nuclear capacity, but at a time of austerity budgets, the government has suggested that it might have to resort to a tax on carbon pollution to finance construction. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Opponents of nuclear power gathered outside the Finnish Parliament in Helsinki on Thursday during the vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMMO MANTYLA/LEHTIKUVA, VIA REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (97%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (95%); POWER PLANTS (94%); APPROVALS (91%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); EURO (85%); ENGINEERING (78%); ENERGY SITING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); BUDGETS (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%)

COMPANY: AREVA SA (58%)

TICKER: AREVA (PAR) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS562211 HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (58%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (58%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (58%); NAICS212291 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORE MINING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HELSINKI, FINLAND (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) FINLAND (97%); SWEDEN (92%); UKRAINE (91%); EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



39 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Obama Exhorts Congress to Back Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama pressed Congress on Thursday to adopt a sweeping plan to fix a ''fundamentally broken'' immigration system, taking on a volatile issue that has inflamed passions in a weak economy heading into the fall midterm campaign.
 In his first speech devoted entirely to immigration policy since taking office, Mr. Obama tried to navigate between what he called the two extremes of the debate, defending his efforts to strengthen border security while promoting a path to citizenship for many of the 11 million people in the United States illegally. 
 The president's decision to elevate the issue reflected more of a political strategy than a legislative one since the White House has no plan to actually push a bill this year through a Congress already consumed by other issues. Instead, Mr. Obama's focus appeared intended to frame the debate for the approaching election to appeal to Hispanic voters who could be critical in several states as well as other middle-class voters turned off by anti-immigrant discourse while blaming Republicans for opposing a comprehensive overhaul.
 ''I'm ready to move forward, the majority of Democrats are ready to move forward, and I believe the majority of Americans are ready to move forward,'' he told an audience of lawmakers, advocates, business executives and labor leaders at American University here. ''But the fact is, without bipartisan support, as we had just a few years ago, we cannot solve this problem.''
 Republicans fired back, casting Mr. Obama's speech as cynical demagoguery and arguing that the real problem is an administration that does not do enough to enforce laws already on the books. Moreover, they said, with 15 million Americans now unemployed, this is the wrong time to loosen the rules on the estimated 8 million illegal immigrants currently in the workforce.
 ''We could cut unemployment in half simply by reclaiming the jobs taken by illegal workers,'' said Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, co-chairman of the Reclaim American Jobs Caucus. ''President Obama is on the wrong side of the American people on immigration. The president should support policies that help citizens and legal immigrants find the jobs they need and deserve, rather than fail to enforce immigration laws.''
 The immigration debate has flared in recent weeks with the passage of a new law in Arizona requiring police to question the immigration status of anyone they stop for other reasons if they suspect they are in the country illegally. About 20 other states are considering similar laws while the Justice Department is preparing a lawsuit to challenge the Arizona measure. 
 The White House has been under pressure to tackle an overhaul of immigration policy this year on the assumption that it could face a more hostile Congress after the November election. The president met separately this week with immigration advocates and with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. 
 His attention to the issue was also a favor to Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, who promised to pursue legislation as he battles for re-election in a state with a rising Hispanic population. Mr. Obama invited Mr. Reid to meet at the White House after Thursday's speech.
 The president drew praise from Mr. Reid and groups like the American Civil Liberties Union and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops. ''But a speech alone is not enough,'' said Janet Murguia, president of the National Council of La Raza, a Latino civil rights group, ''and it will not make a difference if the president does not follow through and push both parties in Congress to move a bill forward.''
 Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, questioned Mr. Obama's commitment. ''I haven't seen anything to demonstrate that he's used any political capital or made this a priority,'' he told reporters. A midday speech ''without any specific proposals but just an exhortation that things are not good and need to be fixed I don't think is showing leadership.''
 In his address, Mr. Obama repeated his support for an approach like that proposed by Senators Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.
 Under their plan, illegal immigrants who wish to remain in the country would be required to admit they broke the law and pay fines and back taxes, pass background checks and prove that they can speak English before going to the back of the line of those seeking permanent legal residency. It would also strengthen border security and interior enforcement, create a process for temporary workers and require Social Security cards with biometric data like fingerprints or retinal patterns to help ensure that illegal workers cannot get jobs. 
 The president rejected the most dramatic solutions to illegal migration. Mass deportations would be ''logistically impossible and wildly expensive,'' he said, but blanket amnesty was ''unwise and unfair'' to those who played by the rules. 
 ''In sum, the system is broken and everybody knows it,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Unfortunately, reform has been held hostage to political posturing, special-interest wrangling and to the pervasive sentiment in Washington that tackling such a thorny and emotional issue is inherently bad politics.'' 
 He also used the opportunity to repeat his opposition to Arizona's new law. Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the Republican minority whip, said the state's law was a response to Washington's failure to deal with the problem. ''All Americans would be better served,'' he said, ''if this administration focused on implementing proven border security solutions rather than engaging in demagoguery.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama spoke about immigration on Thursday in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); LITIGATION (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); LAMAR SMITH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



40 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1716 words

HEADLINE: Mission Impossible? Ex-Spy Is Long Shot to Oust Schumer

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
The last time Gary Berntsen went after such a formidable adversary in hostile territory, he was commanding a small band of fellow spies and commandos in pursuit of Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan after 9/11. After helping drive the Taliban from power, they tracked him to the mountains of Tora Bora, only to see him slip away.
 His current assignment could make that one look easy.
 Mr. Berntsen, a Long Island-bred C.I.A. operative who retired in 2005, decided earlier this year to try to serve his country in a new, and not exactly clandestine, way: by running for office. 
 While he spent his career influencing the politics of countries in the Middle East, South Asia and Latin America, he has next to no experience here at home. He did not even vote in the last presidential election. 
 But in his maiden campaign, Mr. Berntsen, 52, a Republican, has set out to bag the biggest game in New York: Charles E. Schumer, the state's senior senator, whose fund-raising and strategic prowess, polling strength, capacity for self-promotion, and assiduous constituent service have made him one of the nation's most powerful Democrats.
 Mission impossible? Mr. Berntsen is undaunted. ''I'm a professional insurgent by training,'' he says sharply. ''I've taken on all sorts of jobs over the years that people said to me couldn't be done -- 'too hard,' this, that. My response is: just watch and learn.''
 The previously unknown Mr. Berntsen's fervent support from Tea Party groups, for whom Mr. Schumer is a symbol of everything wrong with government, won him the Republican Party's designation as its preferred candidate this month. He faces a primary against Jay Townsend, a veteran political consultant from Cornwall-on-Hudson. 
 So far Mr. Berntsen has Republican leaders in New York and Washington cheering him on, but making no commitments of financial support. Indeed, in taking on Mr. Schumer, Mr. Berntsen would head into battle without anything like the firepower and air support that emboldened him as a spy. In Afghanistan, he wrote, he lugged a Rubbermaid trunk containing $8 million in government-issued $100 bills, which he used to buy trucks and warlords' support. So far Mr. Berntsen's campaign has reported raising less than $40,000.
 When he spotted Taliban positions on the Shomali Plain, too, his Special Forces teams could simply point laser markers at the enemy, call in air strikes, and sit back and watch the destruction. But Mr. Schumer, with a war chest of $21.8 million, would dominate the skies -- as in television ads -- if Mr. Berntsen so much as put a scare into him. (Schumer aides so far refuse to acknowledge his existence.)
 Then there is the little matter of operating behind enemy lines again: Is liberal New York really ready for a pro-gun Republican with a buzz cut who thinks the Guantanamo detainees should all be executed and that torture, as he once said on TV, ''works very, very well''?
 A cynic might say that the frequent Fox News and CNN commentator in Mr. Berntsen is looking for something other than a win: exposure that would enhance his brand as a lecturer, author and contractor. 
 Mr. Berntsen concedes it could not hurt, but insists that is not why he is running. He says his candidacy is not about his ego, either, but a straightforward desire to bring to the Senate a workmanlike, ''pointy-end-of-the-spear's'' point of view; he wants to pay his beloved country back some more; he does not want his son, an Army platoon leader in Afghanistan now, to have to go back again and again; and Mr. Schumer is less popular than Democrats realize.
 Anyway, somebody had to do it. ''I sort of see this as an opportunity in work clothes,'' Mr. Berntsen says. ''For Republicans to win here, he's going to have to be beat.''
 There is more to it: Mr. Berntsen is an adrenaline addict who seems happiest struggling uphill into a stiff wind. Photos from his stint as a team leader in the Afghan war show him looking almost serene. His restlessness helped wreck his first marriage after his return, and in 2007, he returned to Afghanistan for a year, rooting out I.E.D.'s alongside seven other Army contractors. (Two were killed and one lost his legs, Mr. Berntsen says.) 
 Since then, he said, his military contracting has been limited to advising Afghan National Police and United States military units on countering I.E.D.'s, including a two-month test of a program he devised to send Afghans into the streets to spot the devices. 
 He also helped would-be investors in a failed attempt to finance the expansion of the country's only cement factory. He has private clients and collects speaking fees, but Mr. Berntsen said his work as a government contractor or subcontractor had paid him about $175,000 a year since he left the C.I.A five years ago. He has not yet filed the financial disclosure report required of Senate candidates.
 Mr. Berntsen grew up in solidly middle-class Smithtown, on Long Island's north shore, by his own account drinking beer and ignoring his schoolwork. But in 1975, as America was getting out of Vietnam, he sought adventure in the Air Force. 
 As a crash firefighter in South Korea and Alaska, he used his long off-duty stretches to educate himself. He then sought a commission in the Marine Corps while studying political science and Russian studies at the University of New Mexico. But a C.I.A. recruiter got to him first.
 He started in the Directorate of Operations just as Hezbollah blew up the Marine barracks in Beirut in 1983, learned Persian, and worked against Iran. In 1998, according to his bestselling memoir, ''Jawbreaker,'' when Al Qaeda blew up two American Embassies in Africa, he led the response team in Dar es Salaam. He also led a fruitful but curtailed mission against Al Qaeda in Afghanistan in March 2000. Then, after 9/11, he was plucked from his station chief's job in South America, where he worked against narco-traffickers, to chase bin Laden.
 The publication of ''Jawbreaker'' in 2005 prompted a war of words with Gen. Tommy Franks, who had rebuffed Mr. Berntsen's pleas for 800 Army Rangers to trap bin Laden at the Pakistani border. General Franks denied that bin Laden's presence had been confirmed in Tora Bora; Mr. Berntsen insisted that his men definitely heard bin Laden's voice over a recovered Qaeda radio, and his account was later seconded by a Senate committee's report.
 The C.I.A. redacted the book heavily, and Mr. Berntsen sued the agency. But by then he was already out. Today he is remarried with a 6-month-old daughter and lives in Port Jefferson, 10 miles from where he grew up. (He said he last tried to vote in 2008, but his absentee ballot was rejected.)
 Mr. Berntsen, a Republican since 1976 and a huge admirer of President George H. W. Bush, says he had long wanted to try politics -- ''I didn't want to be defined in my life just as a C.I.A. officer'' -- so in 2008, he organized New York veterans for the McCain presidential campaign. This year, he entered a crowded Republican primary field in New York's First Congressional District, in Suffolk County. But the leader of a local Tea Party group, Stephen Flanagan, was so impressed that he urged Mr. Berntsen to aim higher.
 ''I thought it was a waste of talent, to be honest,'' Mr. Flanagan said. ''He has more stature than Schumer. He's done significant things under pressure. You can't question his qualifications.''
 Ten days before the Republican convention, Mr. Berntsen took the advice.
 He said he first considered running against Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, but figured Mr. Schumer ''would be attacking me from my flank'' anyway. ''You want to beat a giant, you have to go after one,'' he said.
 National Republicans hope that Mr. Berntsen can at least provoke Mr. Schumer to spend money in New York, leaving him less to spread around the country in other Senate contests.
 Mr. Berntsen echoes the Tea Party message in depicting Mr. Schumer as arrogant, out for himself, trading New York's interests for a shot at majority leader. He says he would represent the man in the street. ''That's who I am -- that's the tribe I come from. It's a little different from Senator Schumer.''
 He has plenty of stories to tell, and at a Tea Party event recently in Uniondale, N.Y., about 200 people loved them. At times, he sounded as if he were briefing a House member who hadn't done the required reading: his coiled-spring intensity made it seem like a stupid remark could result in a broken nose.
 His points are punched, even when they're not all that shocking: ''The mullahs are Islamic Nazis -- that's the nicest thing I can say about them,'' he said of Iran. He was forthright even when under attack, plainly explaining his support for letting gays serve openly in the military (but he opposes same-sex marriage).
 He can be funny, particularly when tossing off factoids that seemed as if they should be classified: North Korean diplomats -- ''the guys always standing in the corner wearing Kim Jong-il buttons, talking to themselves'' -- finance their operations by selling narcotics, he declared. Israelis have a drone with the wingspan of a 737. Phoenix had as many kidnappings last year as Kabul.
 He sounds less sure-footed on the economy: He talks of meeting the antitax advocate Grover Norquist, and confides that ''Grover's point to me was that we have a spending problem.'' He mixes up the deficit and national debt.
 Still, his C.I.A. buddies are watching with interest, gleefully imagining what would happen if Mr. Berntsen somehow managed to draw Mr. Schumer into a debate.
 ''He has a very blunt, confrontational manner about him, and I think that accentuates his aggressiveness,'' said Henry A. Crumpton, who supervised Mr. Berntsen in the C.I.A.'s post-9/11 Afghan campaign.
 John Maguire, a retired C.I.A. case officer who served with Mr. Berntsen in the Near East Division, said his candidacy represented the kind of asymmetrical threat to Mr. Schumer that could be so troublesome to defend a country against: ''It will be a stark contrast for the people of New York,'' he said. ''Because Gary has command of the issues, and he doesn't care what people will think.''
 ''Gary has nothing to lose,'' he added. ''That's a very mismatched situation. And he's very good with information warfare.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gary Berntsen, a Republican Senate candidate, with Beatrice DiPasquale, 97, after an event organized by the Long Island Tea Party Coalition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mr. Berntsen in a Russian- made helicopter on Nov. 12, 2001, the day that Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan was captured by coalition forces.
Mr. Berntsen once lugged a trunk containing $8 million, using it partly to buy Afghan warlords' support. So far, he has raised $40,000 for his Senate campaign. (A19)
 Mr. Berntsen says, ''I've taken on all sorts of jobs over the years that people said to me couldn't be done -- 'too hard,' this, that.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); POLITICS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); CHARLES SCHUMER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



41 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Among Some, High Marks for the Overhaul's Beginnings

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama gets high marks, even from some Republicans, for the way he has begun carrying out the new health care law in the 100 days since it was signed. And a new poll suggests a small increase in favorable views of the measure since May.
 But it remains unclear whether a substantial number of people will see tangible benefits before the November elections, and whether those benefits will help Democrats who voted for the legislation and are facing resistance from voters who view it as fiscally irresponsible and overly intrusive. 
 The administration has issued a blizzard of regulations, including a patient's bill of rights, and has persuaded insurance companies to make some changes sooner than required by the law. It has also assembled a team of insurance experts to help carry out the law, under close supervision from the White House.
 ''I give them an A for effort,'' said Stuart M. Butler, a vice president of the conservative Heritage Foundation. ''But there are land mines down the road because the law is fundamentally flawed.''
 Stephen E. Finan, a health economist at the American Cancer Society, said: ''I am extremely impressed with what the administration has accomplished. They have cranked out a lot of regulations. They're doing it methodically, and they're doing it well.''
 On Thursday, the administration unveiled a Web site, HealthCare.gov, where consumers can obtain information about public and private health insurance options in their states. The administration and many states are also setting up high-risk insurance pools for people who have been denied coverage because of pre-existing conditions.
 In the last three months, administration officials have issued rules allowing young adults to stay on their parents' policies and forbidding insurers to deny coverage to children with pre-existing conditions. They have notified nearly four million small businesses of a new tax credit to help defray the cost of insurance.
 On Tuesday, they began accepting applications for a separate program that will reimburse employers for some of the cost of providing health benefits to early retirees. And the government has begun sending $250 checks to Medicare beneficiaries with high drug costs.
 Ronald F. Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a liberal-leaning consumer group, described these initial steps as confidence-builders. ''If they work well,'' Mr. Pollack said, ''they will give people confidence that the broader reforms will be helpful.''
 Insurers, who fought the legislation, now say they hope it will succeed. ''We are working to get new products on the market by Sept. 23,'' said Alissa Fox, a senior vice president of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. ''After that date, we can't sell new policies to individuals or small groups unless they comply with the new standards.''
 While Mr. Obama hopes to gain political benefits from the law, he is, in some ways, caught in a political trap. No Republicans voted for the final bill. Republican leaders say their goal is to ''repeal and replace'' it. In response to daily Republican attacks, the White House defends every feature of the law, potentially creating expectations that will be difficult to fulfill in the near future.
 Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, the senior Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee, said the White House had significantly overstated the benefits of the law, most recently in a brochure sent to people on Medicare. The brochure looks like ''taxpayer-funded propaganda,'' Mr. Camp said.
 The new poll, conducted June 17-22 by the Kaiser Family Foundation, found that 48 percent of Americans had favorable views of the law, while 41 percent had unfavorable views. The favorable share was 41 percent in May and 46 percent in April.
 Americans remain deeply divided. Roughly a third of voters say that a candidate who voted for the health care law is more likely to get their vote, a third say less likely, and nearly a third say it does not make much difference.
 By far the least popular feature of the law, according to the poll, is a requirement for most Americans to have insurance or pay a fine, starting in 2014. The public may not accept the requirement until courts rule finally on its constitutionality. A federal district judge in Richmond, Va., heard arguments on the question on Thursday.
 In recent weeks, Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, has emerged, in effect, as the national insurance commissioner. She criticizes insurers by name when she believes they are seeking excessive rate increases, and she urges states to reject such requests.
 To date, economists see no evidence that the law has slowed the explosive growth of health spending, and some administration officials worry that it could fuel medical inflation. Mr. Obama has become adept at jawboning insurers. He told insurance executives last week that they must not use the law as an excuse for big rate increases.
 Insurers say they wish that Mr. Obama would put similar pressure on doctors and hospitals, whose services account for about half of all health spending.
 Consumer advocates, insurance companies and state insurance regulators have been working together to develop one of the most important new rules, requiring insurers to return at least 80 percent of premium dollars to policyholders in the form of health benefits or rebates.
 ''This experience is restoring my faith in the ability of government and people from different sectors to work together constructively when there is a clear imperative and a set of deadlines,'' said Amy R. Bach, executive director of United Policyholders, a national consumer rights organization based in San Francisco.
 But several developments in recent days point to problems that could threaten the success of the new law.
 The Congressional Budget Office said that federal health spending, including ''all the effects of the recently enacted health care legislation,'' was still on an unsustainable course.
 Mr. Obama just signed a bill providing temporary relief to doctors who treat Medicare patients. But doctors face a 21 percent cut in their Medicare fees in December, with a further cut of 5 percent scheduled for January.
 The new law calls for a major expansion of Medicaid, the program for low-income people, but it became apparent this week that some states could not afford the programs they had. Governors said they would have to cut services and lay off employees if they did not receive more help from the federal government.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kathleen Sebelius, secretary of health and human services, has been critical of insurance rate increases since the health care law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); FAMILY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (74%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); EARLY RETIREMENT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CANCER (70%); MEDICARE (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (64%)

COMPANY: BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (55%); HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



42 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Double-Teamed

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS and HOWARD BECK; Jonathan Abrams reported from Cleveland and Howard Beck from New York.. 
Jonathan Abrams reported from Cleveland and Howard Beck from New York

 BODY:
CLEVELAND -- They came by private jets, in droves, with fancy presentations and boxes stuffed with technological wizardry. There is nothing simple, or economical, about courting basketball's greatest free agent.
 On his first day of contractual freedom, LeBron James heard pitches from two rivals, the Knicks and the Nets, spending nearly five hours in a downtown office building while a small army of reporters and anxious fans stood vigil outside.
 When it was over, around 3:30 p.m., James walked out with his business manager, Maverick Carter, and his friend Randy Mims. James did not comment before leaving, but he left his first suitors feeling good about their chances.
 ''We tried to put him in a New York state of mind,'' Knicks Coach Mike D'Antoni said, sounding upbeat and classifying his outlook as ''cautiously optimistic.'' 
 In an e-mail message, the Nets' president, Rod Thorn, said, ''We met, told our story and now we'll see what happens.''
 It will be at least a few days before James, a two-time most valuable player, announces his intentions, and only after he meets with four more teams. The Miami Heat and the Los Angeles Clippers will make their pitches Friday, before the two presumed favorites -- the Chicago Bulls and the Cleveland Cavaliers -- get their turns Saturday.
 But the first major move of the N.B.A. off-season had nothing to do with James, Dwyane Wade or any of the other celebrated free agents.
 Instead, it was a coach, Phil Jackson, announcing that he would return to the Los Angeles Lakers for one more season and the pursuit of a third straight championship.
 ''Count me in,'' Jackson said in a statement released by the team Thursday.
 A new contract must still be negotiated, but money is not considered an obstacle, despite reports that Jackson will be asked to take a pay cut from the $12 million he made this past season. The length of the deal also will not be an issue, with Jackson indicating that he would coach for just one more year.
 ''It'll be the last stand for me, and I hope a grand one,'' he said.
 Just a week ago, Jackson said he was ''leaning toward retiring,'' while pondering a number of ongoing health concerns, including a painful knee condition. 
 His return ensures a measure of stability for the Lakers and Kobe Bryant, who have won five titles since Jackson arrived in 1999.
 James will have a new coach if he returns to Cleveland. The Cavaliers have agreed to a deal with Byron Scott, the former coach of the Nets and the New Orleans Hornets. Scott accepted the job a day after the Lakers assistant Brian Shaw -- who is in line to succeed Jackson -- withdrew his name. 
 The first elite player to come off the board may be Joe Johnson, who has already received a maximum-level contract offer -- $119.5 million over six years -- from his current team, the Atlanta Hawks.
 The Knicks are also offering Johnson the most they can under the rules, $91.5 million over five years. The $28 million difference will make it tough for Johnson, who has also drawn interest from the Bulls, to leave Atlanta. He would make about $24 million in the final season of a six-year deal -- a sum he surely would not receive as a 34-year-old free agent in 2015.
 For all of the intrigue and energy generated by James and his fellow star free agents -- Wade, Chris Bosh and Amar'e Stoudemire, among others -- the first wave of rich contracts was bestowed upon second-tier, third-tier and in some cases, fifth-tier players.
 Rudy Gay, a rising star forward who figured to draw multiple offers, instead agreed to stay with the Memphis Grizzlies on a five-year, $80 million contract, according to reports. Gay had been a target of the Knicks, the Nets and the Minnesota Timberwolves.
 The Timberwolves gave center Darko Milicic, a perennial disappointment, a four-year, $20 million deal, according to ESPN. The Milwaukee Bucks reached agreement with the journeyman forward Drew Gooden (five years, $32 million), and were close to a deal with guard John Salmons (five years, $39 million), according to reports. In the evening, the Phoenix Suns came to terms with center Channing Frye on a five-year, $30 million deal, according to Yahoo Sports and other outlets.
 None of the deals can be consummated until July 8, after the N.B.A.'s annual moratorium ends and the new salary cap is set.
 The flurry of rich deals, especially those bestowed upon role players, could undermine Commissioner David Stern as he wrestles with the players union over a new labor deal. The league has claimed annual losses of $400 million, a figure that the union has cast doubt upon.
 The courting and free spending will continue through the July 4 holiday weekend. The Knicks have meetings scheduled with Bosh and Wade in Chicago on Friday and with Stoudemire in New York on Monday. Wade met with the Bulls on Thursday. Bosh began his tour by meeting with the Houston Rockets, but he is believed to be leaning toward the Bulls or the Heat.
 All eyes were on Cleveland on Thursday morning, when Nets officials, led by their charismatic new owner Mikhail D. Prokhorov, arrived for an 11 a.m. meeting in a series of town cars. Thorn and Coach Avery Johnson were also present, but the most important recruiter might have been Jay-Z, the hip-hop mogul and Nets part-owner who is a close friend of James's.
 ''Meeting went well,'' Johnson shouted while walking out.
 The Knicks' contingent was led by D'Antoni, who has a longstanding relationship with James from their days together on the United States Olympic team. He was joined by the Garden chairman James L. Dolan, the team president Donnie Walsh and Allan Houston, the former Knicks star. Walsh, who recently had neck surgery, arrived in a wheelchair.
 The Knicks' pitch included a claim that James could make nearly $1 billion in salary and endorsements by playing for them, according to a report by Forbes.com and confirmed by a Knicks official. The figure was part of a study by Interbrand, a consulting firm hired by the Knicks. It concluded that James could not earn nearly as much playing for Cleveland, Miami or Chicago. However, the study made no mention of the Nets, who are moving to Brooklyn in 2012.
 ''Both teams represented their organizations well, and we appreciate their interest and effort,'' Leon Rose, James's agent, said in an e-mail message.
 While James met his first suitors, a group of Cavaliers employees, including their public-address announcer, gathered at a nearby intersection, wearing T-shirts and holding signs emblazoned with two words -- ''Community'' and ''Home'' -- intended to appeal to James's sentiment and sense of loyalty.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LeBron James after meeting with the New York teams. ''We met, told our story and now we'll see what happens,'' the Nets' president said.
MIKE D'ANTONI, above, about the Knicks' meeting with LeBron James (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON MILLER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B9)
The first elite player to come off the board may be Joe Johnson, right, who has received a maximum-level offer from the Hawks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN BLANCO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Phil Jackson announced that he would return to the Lakers for one more season in the pursuit of a third straight title. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN PETERSEN/GETTY IMAGES) (B12) CHART: A FULL-COUNTRY FAST BREAK: The Knicks' hierarchy has been on an exhausting pursuit of free agents. A timeline: (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); ATHLETES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); NEW JERSEY NETS (84%); ATLANTA HAWKS (59%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (59%); MIAMI HEAT (55%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (55%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); CHICAGO BULLS (54%); CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (54%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (91%); KOBE BRYANT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



43 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Britain Curbing Airport Growth To Aid Climate

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
In a bold if lonely environmental stand, Britain's coalition government has set out to curb the growth of what has been called ''binge flying'' by refusing to build new runways around London to accommodate more planes.
 Citing the high levels of greenhouse gas emissions from aviation, Prime Minister David Cameron, a Conservative, abruptly canceled longstanding plans to build a third runway at Heathrow Airport in May, just days after his election; he said he would also refuse to approve new runways at Gatwick and Stansted, London's second-string airports. 
 The government decided that enabling more flying was incompatible with Britain's oft-stated goal of curbing emissions. Britons have become accustomed to easy, frequent flying -- jetting off to weekend homes in Spain and bachelor parties in Prague -- as England has become a hub for low-cost airlines. The country's 2008 Climate Change Act requires it to reduce emissions by at least 34 percent by 2020 from levels reached in 1990. 
 ''The emissions were a significant factor'' in the decision to cancel the runway-building plans, Teresa Villiers, Britain's minister of state for transport, said in an interview. ''The 220,000 or so flights that might well come with a third runway would make it difficult to meet the targets we'd set for ourselves.'' She said that local environmental concerns like noise and pollution around Heathrow also weighed into the decision.
 Britain is bucking a global trend. Across North America, Asia and Europe, cities are building new runways or expanding terminals to handle projected growth in air travel and air freight in the hope of remaining competitive. 
 That growth in traffic has been damped but not halted by hard economic times, and in the current global recession, business concerns have generally prevailed over worries about climate change. In the United States, Chicago-O'Hare, Seattle-Tacoma and Washington-Dulles all opened new runways in 2008. 
 On Tuesday, Kennedy International Airport in New York reopened its Bay Runway -- one of four, and the airport's longest -- after a four-month, $376 million renovation that included the creation of two new taxiways to speed plane movements between runways and terminals. 
 Airport expansion plans have sometimes been modified or canceled because of concerns about noise or ground-level pollution. But Peder Jensen, a transportation specialist at the European Environment Agency in Copenhagen, said that as far as he knew, Britain ''is the only country that had made a conscious decision based on climate considerations.'' 
 Heathrow, one of the world's busiest airports and a major connection point for destinations in Europe, South Asia and the Middle East, is already notorious for its flight delays and endless lines. It is the only airport of its size with just two runways; Paris-Charles de Gaulle has four and O'Hare has seven. 
 So even though the Conservative Party had been expressing growing reservations about the planned expansion since 2008, many businessmen were shocked when Mr. Cameron canceled the plan after coming to power in a coalition with Liberal Democrats. 
 ''This is a new government that claimed to be business friendly, but their first move was to eliminate one of the best growth opportunities for London and the U.K. and British companies,'' said Steve Lott, a spokesman for the International Air Transport Association. ''We've run into a shortsighted political decision that will have terrible economic consequences.'' 
 The British government counters that the economic effects of scrapping the third runway are ''unclear'' while the environmental costs of adding one are unacceptably high. Ms. Villiers said that a high-speed rail network intended to replace short-haul flights would be a better way to address the airport's congestion than adding a runway. 
 ''We recognized that just putting more flights and more passengers into the skies over southeast England wasn't worth the environmental costs we're paying,'' she said. ''We decided to make Heathrow better rather than bigger.'' 
 Although it is often said that emissions from air travel account for 2 to 3 percent of global emissions, the proportion is higher in many developed countries: emissions from aviation are growing faster there than those from nearly any other sector.
 The British government has calculated that aviation emissions accounted for just 6 percent of the country's carbon dioxide emissions in 2006. But it concluded in a report that aviation could contribute up to a quarter of those emissions by 2030. 
 In the United States, the number of general aviation hours is forecast to grow an average of 1.8 percent a year, and to be 60 percent greater by 2025 than it is now, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. While airlines have worked hard to improve airplane efficiency, those efforts are dwarfed by the upward trend in flying. 
 Citizens' groups in communities near Heathrow fought hard for nearly a decade against the airport's runway expansion, complaining about noise and nitrous oxide pollution. As climate change became a more potent political issue in Britain several years ago, environmental groups with broader concerns jumped into the fray, camping out at Heathrow and occupying runways at smaller airports, shutting them down for hours. 
 ''If you were a politician, how you felt about the third runway became a test of your commitment to dealing with climate change,'' said Ben Stewart, communications director for Greenpeace U.K. 
 The temptation to expand airports is great for cities in search of new business and tourism. Airports in Europe are now mostly run by private companies, and for them, the more traffic, the more profit. 
 Some critics say the British government's principled stand is pointless because airlines and travelers will respond not by forgoing air travel but by flying through a different airport. Instead of emissions being reduced, the critics say, they will simply be transferred to places like Barajas Airport in Madrid or Frankfurt International Airport, which have recently been expanded. 
 ''My personal opinion is that the decision concerning Heathrow's third runway was highly politicized and outpaced the science of what that runway might or might not do in terms of emissions,'' said Christopher Oswald, a vice president of Airports Council International, an industry group. He suggested that a third runway might actually reduce emissions above Heathrow, because with less congestion, planes would spend less time idling on runways or circling in holding patterns. 
 But Dr. Jensen of the European Environment Agency said that building roads or runways generated more traffic in the long term because greater convenience draws people to a route. 
 Leo Murray, a spokesman for Plane Stupid, an environmental group that has fought new runways, called the British government's decision ''a turning point for aviation'' although he added, ''It is uncomfortable to have the coup de grace delivered by the Conservative government.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A plane approaching Heathrow Airport over local houses. Britain has decided not to build new runways around London. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); AIRLINES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TRENDS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); APPROVALS (70%); NOISE POLLUTION (69%); BUILDING RENOVATION (69%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); TACOMA, WA, USA (68%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); SPAIN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



44 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: The Proud Lobbyist

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On the eve of a critical Congressional vote last week on a sweeping measure to regulate Wall Street, the prominent lobbyist Tony Podesta met with one of the lawmakers to go over some final language and discuss the effect it could have on his many corporate clients.
 Once that was over, Mr. Podesta pivoted back to another client, BP, to help the company navigate Congressional waters and, in short, try to prevent an ugly situation from getting even uglier.
 For weeks now, the two biggest issues in Congress have been cleaning up Wall Street and cleaning up the Gulf Coast. To the surprise of no one in the capital's K Street corridor, Mr. Podesta -- Democratic fund-raiser, avid art collector and member of a family brand in Washington -- has had a big hand in both. And medical companies have also been drawn to his firm, particularly in the wake of the health care legislation. 
 In a remarkable season of lobbying, business is booming for the Podesta Group, already one of Washington's biggest players. It has become particularly lucrative for firms like Mr. Podesta's that are skilled at wielding influence in Congress, the center of epic debates on health care, bailouts and financial regulations.
 ''We've been dealing with some very big issues,'' he said with a bit of understatement.
 For lobbyists, the Obama legislative agenda has been a veritable full-employment program, with 2,500 working just on financial regulation alone.
 The results are often buried deep in the fine print.
 On Wall Street regulation, for instance, Mr. Podesta lobbied on 25 different issues for major players like Bank of America as well as smaller companies.
 He recently represented a ''person to person'' lender, Prosper Marketplace, which makes loans over the Internet. The company worried about the prospect of coming under the jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which insisted that Prosper should be treated as an investment firm.
 Mr. Podesta and lobbyists at his firm, including Israel Klein, a former top aide to Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, worked through a number of senior Democratic allies in both the House and the Senate.
 Among those they lobbied to resist the S.E.C.'s purview included Representative Barney Frank, the Financial Services Committee chairman; Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the banking committee chairman; Senator Barbara Boxer of California; and Mr. Schumer. Once the Podesta team realized it could not defeat the idea, it resorted to an old Washington standby -- delay by study.
 In the end, House and Senate negotiators agreed last week to a government study, delaying federal jurisdiction and possible S.E.C. oversight.
 ''It wasn't a total loss,'' Mr. Podesta said. ''We ended up in the middle.''
 On BP, Mr. Podesta has acted mainly as a liaison between Congressional investigators and the embattled company. For instance, the firm helped to work out a schedule to give BP more time to turn over corporate documents in the face of a dozen Congressional hearings.
 Mr. Podesta, a garrulous, gravelly voiced man known for his bold neckwear, is part of the elite group of lobbyists atop the industry who move easily between black-tie fund-raisers on Embassy Row and closed meetings on Capitol Hill. Despite the recession, lobbying scandals and frequent denunciation from President Obama about their outsize influence, lobbyists are more in demand than ever.
 ''The irony of it is that every time the president says we lobbyists have all this influence, people who don't have a lobbyist want one,'' Mr. Podesta said in an interview. ''He exaggerates our power, but he increases demand for our services.''
 Revenue for the more than 11,000 federal lobbyists rose 5 percent last year, to more than $3.5 billion, and fees at the Podesta Group have more than doubled since 2006, to $25.7 million last year, according to data from the Center for Responsive Politics.
 General Dynamics, the big military contractor, and Genzyme, the biotech company, pay half a million dollars or more a year for the firm's services. In four years, the Podesta Group has tripled its staff of lobbyists.
 Mr. Podesta waves his hand dismissively and chortles when discussing the criticism and new restrictions that lobbyists face from the White House.
 ''Whatever they're gonna do, they'll do,'' he said. ''They can ban lobbyists from having drivers licenses. We'll all get cars and drivers.''
 The obvious friction between Mr. Podesta and the White House has an added dimension; his brother and former partner, John Podesta, headed up Mr. Obama's presidential transition and is a crucial presidential ally.
 Some prospective clients, in fact, will contact Mr. Podesta because of his brother's ties to Mr. Obama. ''People approach us and say, 'Can you call your brother and get him to call the president,' and we'll say, 'No.' It's not what we do. We don't do access lobbying.''
 Mr. Podesta does some work with the White House despite the tension, but his lobbying is directed mainly on Congress, where debate has focused on huge and historic measures.
 In a capital fragmented by politics, the best lobbyists ''are able to work across fields and across branches of government -- and even across political parties,'' said Rogan Kersh, a New York University professor who studies lobbying.
 ''A Tony Podesta isn't going to wave a magic wand and make all of BP's problems go away,'' he said, ''but his clients are going to get a blueprint for how to succeed in official Washington.''
 Mr. Podesta's status has made him a target, too; advocates for campaign finance reform dressed as ''Founding Fathers'' picketed in the lobby of his building this week.
 They maintain that his coziness with lawmakers and his prolific fund-raising -- he has contributed more than $600,000 over the years to candidates and political committees and has hosted numerous fund-raisers as well -- corrupts the political process.
 ''He's symbolic in this debate because lobbyists and lawmakers have this interdependent relationship,'' said Mary Boyle, vice president for Common Cause, a government watchdog group that helped organize the demonstration.
 ''The lobbyists are the hired guns, opening doors and gaining access and influence for their clients.''
 Despite the popular conception of his trade, Mr. Podesta says he sees his main role as giving information to lawmakers rather than wielding influence.
 ''Members want to understand what they're doing,'' he said. ''It improves decision making for people to understand the consequences of what they're about to do. People draft language all the time and don't think about how it applies in different situations.''
 Washington's superlobbyists (and they are almost all men, with Mr. Podesta's wife, Heather, being a notable exception) usually make their names in other political fields before turning to lobbying.
 Some of the elite lobbyists, like Bob Dole, the former Senate majority leader, or Tom Downey and Vin Weber, former House members, started in electoral politics.
 Others worked behind the scenes in Congress, like Steve Elmendorf, who was a top aide to the former House majority leader, Richard Gephardt. Or they established themselves in the executive branch, like Jack Quinn, who was White House counsel to President Clinton.
 Mr. Podesta, 66, who worked as a lawyer for Rolling Stone magazine many years ago, got his start in electoral politics working for the presidential campaigns of Eugene McCarthy, George McGovern, Edward M. Kennedy, Walter Mondale, Michael Dukakis and Bill Clinton.
 Mr. Podesta has no plans to retire. He needs the work, he said with a laugh, to support his other passion -- collecting contemporary art from around the world.
 He and his wife pick up art the same way he picks up clients -- in great numbers. Their latest addition is a piece by the English sculptor Antony Gormley.
 After an obituary last month in The New York Times on the death of the sculptor Louise Bourgeois included a photo of one her steel-and-bronze works, friends inquired if the sculpture was the same one they had seen hanging from the Podestas' ceiling. (It was.)
 During an interview at his downtown office last week, Mr. Podesta was proudly showing off a collection of photo landscapes of New Mexico from his personal collection when he noticed the time and excused himself for a meeting on Capitol Hill to discuss a drug issue.
 A client, Amphastar Pharmaceuticals, is seeking federal approval to make a generic version of a multibillion-dollar blood thinner -- a tense situation covered in the news that same morning.
 ''I've got to go see Orrin Hatch about a Page B4 story in The Wall Street Journal today,'' he said. ''Got to run.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 9, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article last Friday about the lobbyist Tony Podesta described incorrectly the Securities and Exchange Commission's jurisdiction over Prosper Marketplace, a lender represented by Mr. Podesta. Under an administrative settlement with Prosper, notes issued by Prosper are already considered investments subject to S.E.C. registration; the company is not ''worried about the prospect of coming under the jurisdiction'' of the S.E.C. (As part of the financial regulatory overhaul, however, Congressional negotiators agreed to a one-year study examining how such lenders should be regulated.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''He exaggerates our power, but he increases demand for our services,'' Tony Podesta said of President Obama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Top Clients: Income at the Podesta Group has more than doubled since 2006, to $25.7 million last year, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. A look at the firm's top clients in 2009: 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); BAILOUTS (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); BARBARA BOXER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2010



45 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Credit Still Tightening, Fed Governor Says

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The level of outstanding credit in the American economy continues to fall as strong and weak banks alike pull back on lending, worsening the prospects for businesses and consumers to regain their footing, a Federal Reserve governor said Wednesday. 
 Credit has been slower to return to prerecession levels than in any downturn over the last 40 years, with the exception of the 1990-91 recession, Elizabeth A. Duke, one of five sitting governors on the Fed's board, said in a speech in Columbus, Ohio, citing new research by the central bank. 
 From the trough of that recession in the first quarter of 1991, it took three years for consumer credit to return, four and a half years for home mortgages, five and a quarter years for nonfinancial business credit and eight and three-quarters years for commercial real estate, adjusting for inflation, Ms. Duke said. She noted that that downturn, like the current one, was accompanied by a banking crisis -- the savings and loan collapse of the 1980s -- and significant regulatory changes.
 Total loans held by commercial banks fell by 5 percent, or more than $345 billion, last year, Ms. Duke said, and that trend, which began in the last quarter of 2008, has continued. Bank lending contracted in April and May at an annualized rate of about 7.75 percent, excluding the effects of an accounting change that added a significant volume of loans to bank balance sheets as of March 31. 
 ''There really is no single step that can be taken to quickly unclog all lending markets,'' Ms. Duke said in the speech at an Ohio Bankers Day event organized by the state's Commerce Department. ''Just as the causes for the decline in lending are multifaceted and complex and took time to evolve, the solutions will likely be equally difficult and will take time to fully work.'' 
 Past declines in bank lending ''could be traced almost exclusively to declines in the portfolios of weaker banks,'' but Fed researchers have found that ''something very different is happening this time,'' Ms. Duke said. Strongly capitalized banks are cutting back on lending, not just more fragile ones.
 Banks have cited an uncertain regulatory climate. Congress is finishing an overhaul of the nation's financial architecture, while international regulators are working on new bank capital standards through the so-called Basel process. They also say that they are under heightened scrutiny by newly energized Fed bank supervisors. 
 Since 2008, the Fed has issued a series of guidelines urging banks not to pull back lending indiscriminately, stressing the need to make prudent loans to creditworthy borrowers, including small businesses and owners of commercial real estate. 
 ''I can't stress this enough: we want to know if you believe that our supervisory actions are unnecessarily impeding the flow of credit,'' Ms. Duke said, echoing more bluntly a message that the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has also made. 
 Ms. Duke, a community banker who was named to the Fed's board by President George W. Bush in 2008, added: ''In no way do we want to return to the world where people could buy a house with no money down and no documentation. But where prudent loans can be made, we want to do everything we can to make sure those deals are struck.'' 
 The Fed's surveys of senior loan officers at banks suggest that businesses -- which responded to the crisis by reducing inventories and capital spending, paying down debts and hoarding cash -- have begun to inquire about new or increased credit lines, though small businesses say that credit is tighter than at any point since the early 1990s. 
 Ms. Duke said that consumers remained in a precarious state. About a fifth of mortgage borrowers are underwater, meaning their home is worth less than what they owe. Americans are saving more, but the household debt-service ratio -- the share of after-tax income obligated to repaying debts -- is still above its 30-year average of 12 percent. The ratio dropped recently to 12.5 percent from its peak of 14 percent in 2007, Ms. Duke said, as a result of what she called ''the largest annual decline in aggregate consumer credit outstanding in the nearly 70-year history'' of record-keeping for that statistic.
 ''Just looking at the statistics, it is not hard to construct a scenario in which consumer demand for credit remains sluggish for quite a while,'' she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); RECESSION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); ACCOUNTING (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



46 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: RV Business Revives, Spreading Economic Benefits Widely

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
ELKHART, Ind. -- Working so hard on the assembly line that his T-shirt was soaked, Clint Lehman hustled to build a camper trailer meant for someone else's vacation. He could not have been happier.
 ''It's great to be back,'' said Mr. Lehman, a stocky 29-year-old who had been laid off for eight months last year. Called back to work by a surge in demand in the recreation-vehicle industry, he is earning $30 an hour for Jayco, one of the largest manufacturers in Elkhart County.
People are returning to work at some of the best manufacturing wages in the region, but maybe more important, the humming production lines indicate an increased demand for parts suppliers and affiliated businesses in the Chicago area. Unemployment in the county has dropped to 13.7 percent from a high of about 20 percent in March 2009.
 During the 2008 presidential campaign, Elkhart, the nation's center of recreation-vehicle production, became a symbol -- ''the poster child of the recession,'' as a local catchphrase has it. In February 2009 President Obama used the city as a rallying stage to promote his economic stimulus plan. 
 Residents of Elkhart County, about 90 miles east of Chicago, now hope that improvement here augers a broader recovery. 
 ''The recreation-vehicle industry is a leading economic indicator for the nation,'' said Sid Johnson, the director of marketing for Jayco. ''We lead the country into recessions, and we lead the country out of recessions.''
 Across the street from the Jayco plant in nearby Middlebury, a new hotel is being built, a sign that good times are coming back.
 While the upturn might signal growing consumer confidence, leaders in the recreation-vehicle industry acknowledge that much of the increase in production has been driven by the need to replace inventory that dealers were hesitant to restock during the financial crisis.
 Officials in the region are unsure whether the new vehicles being produced and shipped to dealer lots will move quickly enough to encourage factories to hire even more workers.
 ''We're at a critical juncture,'' said Mike Yoder, a county commissioner in Elkhart County, which has a population of about 200,000. ''Everything depends on whether these actually sell.''
 Dealers say there is cause for optimism. At Camping World in Lincolnshire, just north of Chicago, the headquarters of the nation's largest chain of recreation vehicles, sales have improved significantly for some models.
 Marcus Lemonis, the chairman of Camping World, which owns 80 stores, said sales had increased 40 percent this year for the camping trailers that are towed behind a truck or car, models that cost an average of $28,000. Mr. Lemonis said sales were flat for luxury motor homes, the gleaming highway palaces that can cost $500,000 or more.
 ''The consumer has come back,'' he said, ''but in a more conservative way.''
 The ripples of the rebound are reaching Chicago. 
 Kevin McNamara, an economist at Purdue University, said that while production of recreation vehicles is centered in Indiana, ''some of the suppliers of the raw materials for those RVs are going to be coming out of the Chicago market.''
 Zip Dee, an Elk Grove Village manufacturer of expensive powered awnings for recreation vehicles, has increased production as demand has risen from plants in Elkhart County and elsewhere, said Jim Webb, the company president.
 ''It's getting stronger every month,'' said Mr. Webb. ''I'm optimistic, but I'm not jumping on any bandwagon. It's going to be a slow recovery.''
 In Elkhart, people say they are grateful for an increase in any kind of buyer.
 About one-quarter of the jobs in the county are tied to the recreation-vehicle industry, said Dorinda Heiden-Goss, the county's president of economic development. ''We're seeing positive signs,'' she said. ''We're just praying that it's sustained.''
 Nationwide, production in the industry is about 93 percent higher than a year ago, said Kevin Broom, a spokesman for the Recreation Vehicle Industry Association.
 Conditions in the industry had become disastrous. Nearly half of the 400,000 workers in the recreational-vehicle industry in the United States lost jobs during the recession, Mr. Broom said. 
 Paul Thomas, an 87-year-old businessman and the town historian in Elkhart, noted that two years ago many people in the county had already given up and moved away. United States Census Bureau figures show that Elkhart County saw a net out-migration of 2,366 people from 2008 to 2009, although a rising birth rate made up for the exodus and population figures remained relatively stable.
 Plenty of houses stand empty, and many others are being foreclosed or sold at fire-sale prices. 
 But on Main Street in Elkhart, the talk over coffee in the Old Style Deli is more upbeat these days.
 ''It feels like things are turning around,'' said Allen Knight, 59. ''There for awhile, it seemed like another company was closing its doors every day. People wondered, 'How long can this go on?' It doesn't feel so depressing now.''
 But no one believes Elkhart will see a return to the high-flying days of the 1970s, when it seemed like any entrepreneur with a dream and some gumption, and a few good workers, could go into the recreation-vehicle business and become a millionaire.
 The industry collapsed in 2008 when credit markets tightened significantly. Even when credit eased, banks looked skeptically at discretionary purchases of big-ticket items. 
 The problems with the economy, along with a period when gasoline prices topped $4 a gallon at the peak, left many dealers in ruins. Some 180 recreation-vehicle stores around the country closed last year, said Phil Ingrassia, a spokesman for the Recreation Vehicle Dealers Association.
 For now, comparatively low gas prices of less than $3 a gallon are helping the industry. Winnebago Industries, a maker of motor homes based in Iowa, earlier this month posted its first quarterly profit in more than a year.
 Jayco, which is privately held, expects shipments to dealers to increase by about 70 percent in 2010 compared with a year ago, Mr. Johnson said.
 Despite signs of an improving market, manufacturers said they were being conservative, protecting themselves against getting stuck with a glut of inventory.
 Mr. Yoder, the county commissioner, said many in the industry had been so badly hurt that they were reluctant to make brave predictions about success.
 ''When times are good, nobody ever thinks they'll go bad again,'' he said. ''And when times are bad, nobody ever thinks they will ever get good again. We're going through some of that psychology right now.''
 The same kind of caution is evident among workers on the assembly line. Mr. Lehman does not pretend to be an economic expert, but he knows that $30-an-hour jobs are coveted. He knows about layoffs and financial pressure. He has a young family to support.
 His shift starts at 5 a.m. He shows up early to pull on his tool belt, ready to sweat and grateful for the chance.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: People are returning to work at the Jayco recreational-vehicle plant in Middlebury, Ind., as camper sales increase. Unemployment in the county has dropped.
 Paul Thomas, talking to Walter Krumwiede, said times were so hard in Elkhart two years ago that many people moved away. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAMPER & TRAILER MFG (89%); RECESSION (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); CAMPING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); COUNTIES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



47 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Brokers' Entrance Into Market Bodes Ill for Renters

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco. sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
In Armistead Maupin's beloved novel ''Tales of the City,'' Anna Madrigal personified the archetypal San Francisco landlord -- a caring, free-spirited matriarch to the colorful residents of a quirky, old building.
 But the days of the Mrs. Madrigals are being replaced with a new reality, according to many real estate experts: brokers and agents have taken control of much of the city's apartment rental market. The shift has pushed home rentals toward a system that critics say would ultimately be more expensive and less friendly to tenants. 
And in a twist of unintended consequences, San Francisco's forceful protections of tenants' rights may be partially to blame.
 The clearest evidence of the trend can be found on Craigslist, the online classified Web site that for several years has been the dominant listings service for home rentals in the city. Brokers and agents now appear to control the majority of the site's apartment postings.
 An analysis of the 591 listings in ''apts/housing for rent'' in the San Francisco section of Craigslist on June 19 found that 315 rentals (53 percent) were clearly identified as represented by brokers or agents. The remaining 276 postings did not disclose whether a professional broker was involved.
 In some neighborhoods, brokers had a virtual lock on listings: 72 percent in North Beach, and 82 percent in South of Market.
 ''The trend has gone to broker representation,'' said a local real estate firm associate who analyzes the San Francisco rental market on a weekly basis but was not authorized to speak publicly. Interviews with several other brokers and real estate experts confirmed the shift. 
 In a slow home sales market, managing apartment rentals has provided agents with an expanded revenue stream -- and they forge relationships with prospective home buyers.
 But with broker fees typically 6 percent of a year's rent, why would property owners start paying middlemen? After all, San Francisco is one of the most expensive rental markets in the nation, and demand for housing is considered steady.
 Experts say the shift has to do with new buildings, the recession and the city's pro-tenant environment.
 Investors in new-construction condominiums tend to use agents, Gavin Coombs, one of the city's top leasing brokers, said. ''These newer owners' inclination is to go with professional assistance, as compared with the mom-and-pop type owners of the past who would take the do-it-yourself approach,'' Mr. Coombs said.
 The recession caused a drop in prices in late 2008. Rents have since rebounded in many neighborhoods, but the dip created a rare era of uncertainty in pricing. Because the city's strict rent control ordinances limit annual increases, property owners feel the need to secure the highest rents possible, and brokers claim to have the expertise to get them. 
 Because most residents in the city are renters, San Francisco has developed a tenants' rights culture that makes it difficult for landlords to evict. Brokers say they can help landlords navigate this system and offer screening services that are more likely to avoid bad tenants.
 The switch to an apartment market largely run by third-party professionals changes the tone for renters, Ted Gullickson, director of the San Francisco Tenants Union, said. ''Property managers tend to be more aggressive -- sometimes very aggressive -- at enforcing lease provisions,'' Mr. Gullickson said. 
 Mr. Gullickson said professional managers were more likely to actively search for lease violations as a pretext for removing long-term tenants protected by rent control. 
 Brokers have also found ways to remove apartments completely from the traditional market.
 In 2008 Andrew O. Dugas bought a studio apartment on Nob Hill as a rental investment; it was in a building that Mr. Dugas, as a writer, was thrilled to learn was once the home of the author Dashiell Hammett. He said he did not wish to pursue the risks involved with renting to a permanent, rent-control tenant, however, and turned the apartment over to a broker, who has leased it, short term, to vacationers.
 ''We get more money this way,'' Mr. Dugas said. The apartment brings in about $2,200 a month, he said, compared with the $1,400 a month a studio traditionally rents for in the same neighborhood.
 The only United States city where brokers already firmly control apartment rentals is New York, especially Manhattan. It is hardly nirvana for tenants.
 Diane Ly, who rents in Noe Valley, has a naturally ebullient personality, but ask her about renting in New York and she quickly turns incredulous. Ms. Ly moved to Manhattan to work there for a year and described the rental process as ''highway robbery.'' She said brokers had a stranglehold on apartments and charged tenants large fees to move in: 15 percent of the first year's lease, which in her case was $4,500. 
 In San Francisco, landlords pay those fees for now, and leasing agents are not nearly as powerful as they are in New York, but the recent shifts indicate a step in that direction.
 ''Everyone in New York hates it,'' Ms. Ly said of the broker-controlled situation. ''I can't imagine that San Franciscans will be as tolerant, especially when the market has been relatively open until now.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew O. Dugas, a writer, bought an apartment at 1155 Leavenworth and then used a broker to handle its rental. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); TRENDS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); ORDINANCES (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HOUSING STARTS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



48 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic Sets Agenda For Unions

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS

 BODY:
Jorge Ramirez proudly displays a set of boning knives and a sharpening stone in his office high above Millennium Park. The blades belonged to his father, Ruben, a butcher from Mexico who in the 1960s organized meatpacking plant workers in the Back of the Yards neighborhood and the Randolph/Fulton Market. 
 ''They're a reminder for me of what my dad did to get us here,'' Mr. Ramirez said.
 For Mr. Ramirez, ''here'' is the presidency of the Chicago Federation of Labor, an umbrella group for 300 unions representing more than 500,000 workers. On Thursday, in a demonstration of rising Hispanic power in local labor organizations, he became the first nonwhite president in the federation's 114-year history, replacing Dennis Gannon, who retired after eight years in office. 
 Mr. Ramirez, 39, hopes to combine the brawn of his blue-collar roots with the guile necessary to negotiate labor contracts in a weak economy. 
 This week, he recalled the situation for Hispanic immigrants in the meatpacking industry when his father came to Chicago from the Mexican state of Guanajuato. 
 ''Most of the Latinos were grunt labor, day labor,'' he said. ''You had white unions, you had black unions and you had Latinos, who got beat like a Ping-Pong ball.'' 
 A former linebacker at the University of Texas-El Paso, Mr. Ramirez lugged beef at the packing houses when he was home for the summers. ''It used to be a great workout, actually,'' he said. 
 He also attended Chicago-Kent College of Law while working at his father's union local as an organizer. But it was his doggedness and skill in political campaigns that helped propel him to the top ranks of organized labor in Chicago. Mr. Ramirez was a deputy director for Mayor Richard M. Daley's 2003 re-election campaign and three years later became secretary-treasurer of the federation. 
 In 2007, Mr. Ramirez campaigned in the Hispanic precincts of the 16th Ward for JoAnn Thompson, who unseated Alderman Shirley Coleman. That year, for the first time, the Federation of Labor did not endorse Mr. Daley and helped defeat several incumbents allied with him. 
 ''He's the kind of union leader who is a throwback, willing to roll up his sleeves,'' said Alderman Daniel Solis (25th). 
 Mr. Ramirez was deeply involved in the discussions that culminated last week when labor leaders announced that they had dropped their long-running opposition to plans by Wal-Mart, a nonunion company, for a second store in Chicago. The union leaders said they backed down after the retailer agreed to pay beginning employees 50 cents more than the minimum hourly wage. 
 Mr. Ramirez made clear he was not completely satisfied with that outcome.
 ''At the end of the day, 50 cents above minimum wage doesn't get you where it should in the city of Chicago,'' he said. ''It's a compromise, like anything else.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); POLITICS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%); ATHLETES (65%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); RETAILERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (95%); EL PASO, TX, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



49 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 CHINESE STATE NEWS AGENCY 
 Opens English Channel
 The Xinhua News Agency, China's dominant news service and the propaganda arm of the Communist Party, introduced a 24-hour English-language news channel and is preparing to open a newsroom in Times Square, part of a push to increase the reach and influence of the Chinese news media overseas. PAGE A4
 HAGUE SUBPOENAS MODEL 
 The model Naomi Campbell was summoned to appear at a special court in The Hague for a war crimes trial to state under oath whether she was given a handful of diamonds by Charles G. Taylor, the deposed president of Liberia. PAGE A4 
 MATHEMATICIAN REJECTS PRIZE
 The reclusive Russian mathematician, Grigory Perelman, who gained worldwide fame by apparently solving one of the world's greatest unsolved mathematical problems and then disappearing in St. Petersburg, said he had rejected a $1 million prize for the feat. PAGE A8 
 ABBAS REACHES OUT
 The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, made a rare effort to reach out directly to the Israeli public, calling on Israel's leadership to step up peace efforts while suggesting that his people were growing weary waiting for a state. PAGE A9 
 Obituaries
 ELLIOTT KASTNER, 80
 A producer whose affinity for literary writers and man's-man movie stars resulted in films like ''Harper,'' ''Where Eagles Dare,'' ''The Long Goodbye'' and ''Equus,'' he was known for drafting accomplished novelists and playwrights into the screenwriting trade. PAGE A19 
 National
 LACKING G.O.P. LARGESS, CRIST TURNS TO DEMOCRATS
 A lifelong Republican, Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida is making an unorthodox bid for the United States Senate as an independent, and his political future may well depend on his ability to make fast new friends and pick up large checks from Democrats. PAGE A10 
 PENN STATE CLEARS SCIENTIST
 An American scientist accused of manipulating research findings on climate science was cleared of that charge by his university, the latest in a string of reports to find little substance in the allegations known as Climategate. PAGE A12 
 GENETIC FINDING ON AGING
 Scientists studying the genomes of centenarians in New England say they have identified a set of genetic variants that predicts extreme longevity with 77 percent accuracy. The finding, if confirmed, might someday lead to a longevity test, though not a foolproof one. PAGE A12 
 NEW POLL ON HEALTH LAW
 President Obama gets high marks, even from some Republicans, for the way he has begun implementing the new health care law. And a new poll suggests a small increase in favorable views of the measure since May. PAGE A13 
 New York
 CITY ORDERED TO KEEP OPEN 19 POOR-PERFORMING SCHOOLS
 A state appellate court ruled unanimously that New York City must keep open 19 schools it wanted to close for poor performance, blocking one of the Bloomberg administration's signature efforts to improve the educational system. PAGE A17 
 Business
 ECONOMISTS ARE ON EDGE, AWAITING JUNE JOBS DATA
 Economists believe the Census Bureau eliminated about 235,000 federal temporary jobs in June, which would make the June unemployment report look dismal. But beneath the federal layoffs, glimmers of hope in the private sector might, or might not, emerge. PAGE B1 
 GOOGLE ACQUIRES COMPANY
 Google is hoping to improve upon a popular feature in Microsoft's Bing search engine that helps people easily search for air travel and to book travel plans. Google said it had agreed to acquire ITA, a flight information software company, for $700 million in cash. PAGE B1 
 A TEST OF JAPAN'S EXPERTISE
 Japan's Hayabusa space probe returned last month from a trip to an asteroid, giving a confidence boost to a country worried that its technological prowess might be waning. But did the mission accomplish its main objective? PAGE B1 
 COMMON MARKET IN AFRICA
 The world's newest common market was created when a regional bloc of five east African countries freed up the movement of people, products and capital across borders, furthering its dream of broad political unification. PAGE B2 
 Sports
 WILLIAMS MAKES THE FINAL, HER SERVE CLEARING A PATH
 Serena Williams used her serve -- which Pam Shriver, the Hall of Fame player, said might be the single greatest shot in the history of women's tennis -- to defeat Petra Kvitova in a semifinal at Wimbledon. Williams will face Vera Zvonareva, the 21st seed, in the final. PAGE B9
 Weekend
 WITH THE FIREWORKS: CONCERTS AND SUNSHINE
 The Fourth of July is approaching rapidly, and just behind it comes the deluge of summer shows. The pop-music writers for The New York Times selected a sampling of coming events that they are especially looking forward to (sweat is not optional). PAGE C1
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A21 
 Online
 SLIDE SHOW How to spend 36 hours in Bogota, a city that rewards intrepid travelers who hop across its archipelago of neighborhoods. 
 nytimes.com/travel

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (84%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TESTIMONY (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); LITIGATION (76%); MATHEMATICS (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); WRITERS (70%); WAR CRIMES (70%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); FILM (70%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (66%); LITERATURE (65%); THEATER & DRAMA (64%); CLIMATOLOGY (62%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (62%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (61%); HEALTH CARE LAW (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (54%); APPEALS (50%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (74%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (66%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LIBERIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NETHERLANDS (72%); ENGLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010



50 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Stoudemire Addition and Lee Subtraction Might Not Benefit the Knicks

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS

 BODY:
In extending the free-agent forward Amar'e Stoudemire a maximum contract offer for five years and nearly $100 million, the Knicks moved themselves deep into the free-agent pool, with the desire to add an All-Star capable of averaging 20 points and 10 rebounds. 
 But is he a more economical and safer option than David Lee, the All-Star turned afterthought, who averaged 20.2 points and 11.7 rebounds for the Knicks last season and will probably depart regardless of what happens with Stoudemire?
 Delving into the history of Stoudemire and Lee, a study facilitated because both played in Coach Mike D'Antoni's pick-and-roll-heavy system without a true center at their side, offered some interesting ideas.
 Stoudemire is the more dynamic and explosive of the two by a wide margin. He averaged 23.1 points and 8.9 rebounds last season. Stoudemire, though, played on Phoenix teams that had Steve Nash at point guard. Nash generated a large dose of Stoudemire's offense through pick-and-rolls, and defenses had to respect Nash's jump shot and ability to penetrate. 
 Lee, meanwhile, scored his points while playing with Chris Duhon at the point. Duhon struggled with his jump shot through much of his tenure with the Knicks, which allowed defenses to key on his drives and Lee's rolls. In response, Lee developed a reliable jump shot.
 In economic terms, Stoudemire will make $20 million a season if he joins the Knicks. Lee found a timid market last off-season, when he was a restricted free agent, and ended up staying with the Knicks for about $7 million. He is due for a raise with another organization, but will not approach Stoudemire's figure.
 If Stoudemire arrives, he will bring along a history of injuries that have raised questions about the potential longevity of his career. In 2005, Stoudemire underwent microfracture surgery on his knee and played only three games. A detached retina in the 2008-9 season limited him to 53 games, and The Arizona Republic reported that Stoudemire's contract cannot be insured because of the injuries, which caused Phoenix to hesitate in offering him a long-term commitment.
 Lee played in 81 games each of the last three seasons, but his Knicks career may be over without a meeting. Several teams have expressed interest in him, including the Bulls, the Nets and the Heat, according to his agent, Mark Bartelstein.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (70%) ARIZONA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



51 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: What Recovery? For the Unemployed, the Pain Gets Worse

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND. 
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IF my columns last year had a theme, it was, not surprisingly, learning to live in a recession. I wrote about job hunting, how to talk to friends who had been laid off, cutting back on spending and coping with uncertainty.
 This year, it's quite literally a different story. It seemed sort of, well, done. When a banker friend of mine landed a desirable job last month after 18 months of unemployment, his success symbolized, for me, an end to the recession. 
 But then last week, another friend found herself jobless after widespread layoffs at her publishing company. And come to think of it, a neighbor remains underemployed a year after losing her job at a bank, and the husband of yet another friend is still looking for a position in marketing; it's been almost two years since he was gainfully employed.
 The truth is, the suffering is far from over. Jobless figures released on Friday show the nation lost 125,000 jobs in June. But many of us have moved on. 
 ''People who are unemployed see the stock market coming back and people spending and they feel forgotten,'' said Cliff Zukin, a professor of public policy and political science at Rutgers University. 
 My friend Vicky Casagrande, her husband, Russell Sicklick, and their three children are feeling that pain. They were supplementing her income as a dental hygienist with Russell's unemployment benefits over the 19 months he had been jobless. But that ended last month, when Congress failed to agree to extend subsidies for the long-term unemployed, subsidies that had allowed the jobless to receive up to 99 weeks of aid. 
 Russell, 50, was one of more than 1.3 million Americans who lost access to additional benefits at the end of June.
 ''By now, he just has to get any job,'' Vicky said. He was recently hired to work temporarily for the United States Census, and is hoping that a forthcoming interview, in his field of financial marketing and branding, will pan out. 
 ''It's hard to be optimistic,'' Vicky said. ''I feel like we're going backwards. We had two cars, and now we have one. We have less health care.''
 A survey co-directed by Professor Zukin and Carl E. Van Horn, a professor of public policy and director of the John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at Rutgers University, shows that my friend has a lot of company. In August 2009, they conducted a survey of 1,200 people who had been unemployed for a period of time within the previous year, of whom about 900 -- from all sorts of professions -- remained unemployed. When the professors returned to the 900 workers last March, only one in five had found a job. Half had searched for at least seven months.
 Even more sobering is another statistic: more than half of the newly re-employed had accepted pay cuts, and more than a third had changed careers. Only 12 percent of those over age 50 found full- or part-time work, compared with 29 percent of respondents 18 to 29.
 One friend, who asked not to be named, was laid off when her magazine folded in 2007. After about a year, she found another job, but was hit by a round of layoffs at her new employer last month. 
 ''It feels different this time,'' she said. ''Last time, all of us lost our jobs. This time, only some of us did. You can say, 'Don't take it personally,' all you want, but it feels personal.''
 My friend doesn't feel as if things are looking up. ''If it took me a year to find a full-time job before the recession, then what about now, when things have gotten so much worse?''
 Arthur H. Goldsmith, a professor of economics at Washington and Lee University, who has written on the psychological impact of unemployment, agreed that the newly jobless might have a harder time now.
 ''If you're in the first wave of the recession, you can say it's external -- the whole economy collapsed, and there's nothing I can do,'' he said. ''If you lose your job now, you are more likely to blame yourself. You think, 'I should have been able to help the firm avoid layoffs,' or 'I should have avoided it myself.' ''
 Professor Goldsmith also noted that although it appeared that the economy had bottomed out, ''employers are going to be slow to rehire. They're going to want to see if this is really a recovery.'' Right now, he said, ''it's recovery for firms, but not for humans.''
 Then there are the unemployed and the underemployed. According to the Rutgers survey, only 13 percent of those unemployed last August had found full-time jobs by March. A friend who asked to be identified only by her middle name, Katharina, is one of those who is working until something better comes along.
 Fluent in several languages, she has taught part time at Berlitz since losing her job last October as a marketing officer at a bank. 
 ''I don't get good pay or any benefits,'' she said, but she enjoys the work and it's a way of networking. ''It keeps you on a schedule and it has its interesting moments,'' she said. And being around others is ''sort of like an antidepressant.''
 Katharina, who has also asked a headhunter to help her sharpen her interview skills, is doing exactly what Robert Leahy, director of the American Institute for Cognitive Therapy, suggests to make unemployment more bearable. His list includes developing a daily plan of action and trying not to isolate yourself.
 He also said that it was important to acknowledge how difficult this time of unemployment was and, no matter how much talk of recovery there is, recognize there was still far to go to return to economic normalcy.
 ''A lot of people were unemployed in the last couple of years and a lot will be unemployed for several years to come,'' Mr. Leahy said. ''This is a long, deep period. What's recovered is your 401(k), not your job.''
 Katharina doesn't need any studies to tell her that.
 ''I don't know the statistics,'' she said, ''but of all the people I know who lost jobs, I know only one person who has gotten a job. The rest are unemployed.''
 My friend who was recently laid off decided, a few days after her dismissal, to try something new. Instead of crawling into bed, she threw herself an ''Optimist Cocktail Party.'' Admission was free, the invitation said, to anyone who had been laid off. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vicky Casagrande, Russell Sicklick and their children, from left, Noah, Alex and Julia. Mr. Sicklick had received unemployment benefits for 19 months. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INTERVIEWS (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%); PUBLISHING (55%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



52 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Urban Artisans: A Collective Thrives in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
A proclamation from Marty Markowitz, the excitable Brooklyn borough president, is no rarity. But receiving it under the head of a quasianimatronic wolf-creature, while, around the corner, a guy upholsters a seat cushion in brown argyle, and another blends cocktails by bike -- that is something special.
 At a party for its fourth anniversary last month, 3rd Ward, the arts and design collective in Bushwick, received a commendation from Mr. Markowitz for its program giving free bicycles to members. But 3rd Ward hardly needed the boost: hundreds of people had come to its brightly painted labyrinthine space to celebrate. Outside were bands and burgers; inside there were demonstrations of screen-printing, woodworking, weaving, designing jewelry and welding, as well as vodka-spiked strawberry lemonade. (A bike was powering the blender.) 
 Since its inception, 3rd Ward has become something of a D.I.Y. utopia. When Jason Goodman, 31, and his partner, Jeremy Lovitt, 30, conceived of it, it was as a continuation of the facilities and atmosphere they had had as students at the School of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston: a grown-up art campus. Instead 3rd Ward has evolved into an art and design incubator, where members pay a fee for access to wood and metal shops, photo studios, media labs and other spaces. It attracts hobbyists and professionals alike, as well as dabblers who sign on for a class at a time. As a one-stop network for the creative set, it has managed to be profitable even in a down economy, with annual revenues of about $1.5 million, Mr. Goodman said. It has expanded to a second location, in Williamsburg, and, as of this month, opened a restaurant, Goods, out of a converted trailer nearby. 
 As a model for the development of a creative business sector, 3rd Ward has attracted attention from other entrepreneurs, community leaders and cities. Six months ago Mr. Goodman and Mr. Lovitt were finally able to quit their day jobs as freelance designers and contractors to focus on 3rd Ward full time. 
 ''We've changed a lot,'' Mr. Goodman said. ''When we opened, because we came from art backgrounds, we were thinking, like, artist, artist, artist, but really it's like designer, designer, designer, artist. We have way more inventors, furniture makers, cabinet makers, commercial photographers, hackers, than we do what you would originally conceive of like an artist.''
 Their success came in identifying a market and tailoring to it. ''The industry here that's really exploding right now, and it's really underserved, is this freelancing creative industry,'' Mr. Goodman said. 
 Chiun-Kai Shih, 34, creative editor for Conde Nast China, has been a 3rd Ward member for three years, commuting there several times a month from his home on the Upper West Side. He parks his assistant there full time; hired a 24-year-old woodworking teacher, Becky Carter, to build sets for a photo shoot; and, more than a studio, considers 3rd Ward a resource for young talent. 
 ''I just went to the front desk and said, 'Do you know any great graphic designers,' and they said, 'Yes, we'll give you names,' '' he recalled. 
 Mr. Shih holds casting sessions there too. ''Even supermodels who don't like to travel for casting, I drag them out to 3rd Ward,'' he said -- via car service, of course. 
 In September 2005, when Mr. Goodman and Mr. Lovitt signed a lease on a 20,000-square-foot shell of a warehouse on a desolate block in Bushwick, they had no business plan. By the time they opened their doors in May 2006, nothing had changed. While they built their clientele and space, they sustained themselves by hosting lavish rent parties in partnership with underground promoters. 
 The raucous till-dawn affairs, with rooftop fire spinners and marching bands in the hallways, often attracted the attention of the police. After about a year, the parties had to end. If you want professionals to come work during the week, Mr. Goodman said, ''you can't trash a place every weekend.'' 
 Not that 3rd Ward has become a party-free zone: it is still home to art receptions, concerts, barbecues and the occasional blowout. (The underground promoter William Etundi is now on the payroll.) 
 But the focus has shifted: there's a staff of 17, along with several dozen freelance teachers, in spaces that have expanded to a total of 35,000 square feet. (The collective pays about $15 a square foot in rent.) It offers 100 classes a quarter, all lavishly described in a course catalog that more closely resembles a magazine, with interviews and features, which Mr. Goodman oversees. 
 There are courses in children's book illustration, digital textile design, plastic fabrication and professional development for performance artists. Demand was so great that last year 3rd Ward opened its overflow space in Williamsburg, across from where its Goods restaurant now sits.
 That, too, was a lesson: Mr. Goodman and Mr. Lovitt bought a 1946 trailer from a junkyard upstate, restored it to its chrome glory and converted the interior to a kitchen. Stripping off six layers of paint and removing several hornets' nests was the easy part; dealing with the many city agencies that governed the empty lot where they wanted to put it took more than a year. (The seating is all outdoors; the New Orleans-born chef, Alex McCrery, plans to serve artisanal takeout food, and beignets, year-round.) Much of the design for Goods was contributed by Michael Byrnes, a 3rd Ward member.
 3rd Ward -- named for the district it was in back when Williamsburg was its own city -- now has about 750 members, up 15 percent this spring, Mr. Goodman said. Their fees range from $49 a month for a basic membership with limited access, to $499 a month for all the services and perks (free shop and conference-room use, free bicycles, free Intelligentsia coffee). Last November Sara Feinberg, 29, a Brooklyn public defender, paid $3,200 upfront to become a lifetime member.
 ''It was an agonizing decision,'' she said. ''It was the single largest purchase I've ever made.'' 
 But, she added, on a break from her woodworking class on Monday night, ''It was worth it.'' So far she's also taken classes in sculpture using alginate, a seaweed derivative; wood finishing; and circuitry, ''which was amazing -- we're making a robot!'' 
 Growth during the recession came because 3rd Ward offered options: for photographers looking to scale down from studios in Manhattan, say, or small-business owners hoping to scale up in expertise or space. Businesses rent one desk, then two, then expand to their own storefronts. 
 After making a few tote bags at a regular monthly workshop on Monday, Pamela Moore, 48, the owner of a vintage clothing, accessories and furniture company, was registering for a course in Illustrator, a design program. 
 ''When I was a graphic designer, it was before you were using computers,'' she said. ''I need to bring my skills into the 21st century.'' Ms. Moore and her partner, Ignacio Quiles, 57, who operate their business out of their East Village apartment, joined 3rd Ward in April to take classes and use its conference rooms and wood shop.
 ''So far it's exceeded my expectations,'' she said. ''If I had had this when I was starting out, I probably wouldn't still be managing a retail store.'' 
 Though there are other collective design centers in Brooklyn, Carl Hum, the president and chief executive of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce, praised 3rd Ward for its membership-driven business model. ''True to their mission, they created a real community,'' he said.
 For Mr. Goodman, keeping that going is creative challenge enough. ''I'm not like a working artist, but this is my big sculpture,'' he said. ''It's the complexity of this that's so intriguing for me.''
 And for Ms. Feinberg, the defense lawyer, the appeal is also in reaching beyond the routine. Going to 3rd Ward, she said, made her feel like ''a very complete person.''
 ''Everyone else in my office just gets drunk to deal with the stress of the job,'' she added, ''and I do woodworking.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, a bicycle ballet at 3rd Ward, the arts and design collective in Bushwick. Below, from left, Brooke Smith, Charlie Mirisola and Jason Goodman. (C1)
 Top, Becky Carter, left, a woodworking teacher in the collective 3rd Ward, and Sara Feinberg, center, a member, with another student. Far left, Jeremy Lovitt, one of the founders, making burgers. Above, guests at the group's anniversary party using a stationary bicycle. Near left, Yotam Zohar, an artist. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIOTR REDINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (85%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (65%); FURNITURE MFG (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



53 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: The Great Debt Reset

BYLINE: By CARL RICHARDS

 BODY:
Carl Richards is a certified financial planner and the founder of Prasada Capital.
 In early 2009, I was already sick of hearing the media, our elected officials and most economists call what we were experiencing a recession. Recession calls to mind a temporary slowdown and hints that we will get back to where we were before it all started. 
 How many times have we heard about the need for policies to ''revive the economy'' and ''get the consumer spending again?''
 I must be missing something, but it just doesn't make sense to me to try to get back to the 2005-7 version of ''normal.'' 
 We all had that sick feeling in our guts that the path we were on back then was unsustainable. How long could we continue spending at a level that required our houses to increase in value so we could use the equity as an A.T.M. machine? If that is ''normal,'' does it make sense to get back there?
 Getting back to that version of normal would require us to spend at unsustainable levels, and all the Real People I know aren't spending like that because we either learned a lesson or no one will lend to us. Businesses aren't spending because most business owners are Real People. So, who is left? The government.
 So then we get really smart people like David Levy of The Jerome Levy Forecasting Center saying in a recent interview that not only is deficit spending a good idea but that we should continue until we ''revive the economy.''
 I know that the alternative is some really tough medicine, but it seems to me that we'll have to take that medicine either take now or later, and taking it later will be much worse.
 What we need is a great reset. We need to stop spending more than we earn, pay down our debt and then rebuild from there.
 Nassim Taleb (of Black Swan fame) never has a problem with telling it like it is, and he compares the idea that we should fix a debt problem by throwing more debt at it to giving a heroin addict more heroin because he doesn't want to deal with the withdrawals.
 Whenever I get worked up about this, I have to take a step back and remind myself what I can do about it. The key for me is to focus on my personal economy. Continue my own personal austerity plan (in the real world we call that spending less than you make), pay down my debt, save as much as I can and never forget the lessons of the great reset.
 This is a more complete version of the story that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTERVIEWS (71%); HEROIN (64%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



54 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ST. HELENA JOURNAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: As Fireworks Go, So Goes the Economy

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
ST. HELENA, Calif. -- On Friday afternoon, as a steady stream of S.U.V.-loving chardonnay sippers inched along Highway 29, the dutiful members of local American Legion post were proudly pursuing a far more sober mission: selling sparklers, snappers and smoke bombs at a roadside fireworks stand, just as they have since Nixon -- another patriotic Californian -- was president. 
 St. Helena, you see, is the only city in Napa County to allow fireworks, and the American Legion stand -- a weeklong Fourth of July fund-raising enterprise -- is both an annual duty for members and a moment to reflect on the state of their nation.
 ''We sell fireworks, so that proves that St. Helena is the last bastion of sanity in the whole crazy county,'' said Dave Curtin, 63, a former investigator with the St. Helena Police Department and a Tea Party fan. ''But we're outnumbered here.'' 
 Indeed, Mr. Curtin and several other stand workers identified themselves as the few conservative grapes in an otherwise largely liberal valley, which sits about 40 miles north of San Francisco. And not surprising, their estimation as to the nation's condition was largely pessimistic.
 Ed Chaix, 85, used an especially colorful -- and spectacularly unprintable -- descriptive to sum up his opinion. ''All the Democrats want to do is spend money, spend money,'' said Mr. Chaix, who owns a 35-acre vineyard. ''You have to use a little common sense.'' 
 Despite its reputation as a destination, Napa has not been immune to economic troubles. Residents say sales of wine are down, and Mr. Chaix says he has had to take a cut in what he gets for his cabernet grapes.
 Nor had anyone bought the stand's biggest ticket item yet: the Big Bang, a $543 box of explosive everything that stands four feet tall.
 ''People are hurting,'' said Robert Taylor, 65, a Vietnam veteran and retired business executive who was on the morning shift. ''Somebody who used to buy $100 worth is buying $50 now.'' 
 All of which was worrying to the post's leaders, who depend on fireworks sales -- California law strictly limits when fireworks may be sold -- to support all manner of activities, including memorials for fallen members. 
 Ramona Decker, a widow of one of those members, said she had been touched by their care and was helping out at the stand to show her thanks. ''It took me a while to come back,'' said Ms. Decker, 83, whose husband, Leland, died in 2006. ''I miss him. But they're a good group of guys.'' 
 On Friday, though, business seemed good, as fledging pyromaniacs stocked up. Mr. Chaix said he had always loved fireworks -- and the Fourth -- despite having once served as a volunteer fire chief in a neighboring city in a valley where wildfires are a constant threat.
 ''I like the noise and the smoke and everything,'' Mr. Chaix said with a devilish smile. ''I was always a renegade, I guess.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREWORKS SHOPS (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); POLICE FORCES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



55 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: Looks and Sounds Like a Bank, but Isn't, Quite

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
If you're setting out to reinvent basic savings and checking accounts, one way to get attention is to create a service that's truly different.
 In the last year or two, companies and services like Kasasa, PerkStreet and SmartyPig have accomplished this, offering interest rates and rewards that leave many bank products in the dust.
 The companies haven't stopped there, though. They're also trying to appeal to consumers' fury after the financial crisis by one-upping one another in the nasty things they say about big, old-fashioned banks.
 ''We couldn't help noticing that millions of Americans were getting very little from their banks,'' the PerkStreet Web site says. 
 ''Why settle for just a measly interest rate?'' asks the SmartyPig site.
 ''Our mission is to win the war against megabanks,'' Gabriel Krajicek, chief executive of Kasasa's parent company, BancVue, said in an interview.
 And then there's the blog for the coming BankSimple service, whose founders include a former McKinsey consultant and one of the early employees at Twitter. It includes headlines like ''How Not to Suck at Bank Marketing.''
 Them's fightin' words, or at least they sound that way. But behind the scenes lies an uncomfortable truth: it's awfully hard to restyle a bank product without a bank partner. And every one of these start-ups works directly with banks that sit in the background and store the money.
 So who are these start-ups, and why would any consumer (or bank partner, for that matter) want to work with them?
 SAVINGS SmartyPig's headline offering is a savings account that earns a 2.15 percent annual percentage yield, about as good as you can get at the moment.
 There are a few catches, though. You have to allow SmartyPig to pull a deposit in from a bank account each month, and if you have more than $50,000 in the SmartyPig account, the rate falls to 0.50 percent.
 The high rates on smaller deposits are tantalizing enough that SmartyPig has signed up 40,000 customers in just over two years and has about $250 million on deposit. But it is not a bank, and it needs somewhere to put the customers' money. That's where BBVA Compass, a bank based in Birmingham, Ala., comes in.
 But what's in it for the bank, which pays no more than a ''measly'' 0.75 percent to its own savings account customers? The bank likes having another source of deposits. The bank also learns about social media and Web strategy from SmartyPig.
 Then, there are the cross-selling opportunities for things like mortgages. After all, SmartyPig asks users to name goals, say a down payment for a home. ''A lot of times, people are saving for what I would call a bank product, but what they would call a house,'' said Rick Claypoole, a senior vice president with BBVA Compass.
 Here's how SmartyPig is not like a bank, though. In April, it infuriated a number of customers when it lowered the interest rate on the larger accounts. Why? Because it doesn't really want people leaving lots of money lying around indefinitely, unlike a bank. 
 SmartyPig's only source of revenue is money it earns from retailers (not its partner bank). If you're saving for a home improvement project, SmartyPig will encourage you to take, say, the $1,000 you've saved and put it on a Lowe's gift card (though you can always transfer your savings back into a checking account someplace else instead of putting it on a card). Once you have that Lowe's card, Smarty Pig will throw an extra $30 on it.
 Lowe's sells SmartyPig that gift card for less than $1,000, so SmartyPig makes its profit on the difference. The more people spend, the more it makes. And the problem with people who have six-figure accounts is that they're generally not getting ready to go to Lowe's with most of it.
 CHECKING On the checking side, there is PerkStreet, which recently decided to offer 2 percent rebates via gift cards to customers on all debit card purchases where customers sign for their transactions or do not use a PIN. PerkStreet teams with the Bancorp Bank for basic checking account infrastructure.
 Kasasa, which is a made-up word, is out to make life miserable only for the big banks. It helps smaller banks and credit unions offer checking accounts with interest rates of as much as 4 percent (or free music or rebates for customers to donate to nonprofit groups).
 The pitch to banks is that these accounts bring in new customers with higher balances. Plus, account holders must make a certain number of debit card transactions each month to get the good deals, generating income from merchant fees for the bank.
 Meanwhile, Kasasa takes a chunk of the fees that banks pay to it and channels them into a single marketing campaign promoting the Kasasa brand. ''Kasasa is a brand for the product, not the institution,'' said Mr. Krajicek of BancVue. ''All the research we've done indicates that the community bank brand in general has pretty good street cred.''
 Where customers doubt local banks and credit unions, Mr. Krajicek added, is in their ability to deliver products as robust as the ones from national banks. That's where Kasasa is trying to play, and about 70 institutions have adopted its products, though hundreds more offer similar rewards checking products from BancVue.
 Another area where banks tend to fail is in technology, according to the founders of BankSimple. While the service isn't running yet, the idea for it was born in part out of the irritation that Josh Reich, a co-founder, had with his inability to reconcile transfers between various accounts as he and his wife earned and spent money and paid their bills. 
 He was also seeking a system that would automatically push and pull money between debt and interest-earning accounts at precisely the right moments. Ideally, he would pay the lowest possible amount of money toward fees or loan interest while earning the highest possible amount on balances.
 That's not the kind of account that most banks want to offer, though, given that they've earned an increasing amount of money on fees from overdrawn accounts in recent years. ''There's a fundamental misalignment between what customers want and what a bank wants,'' Mr. Reich said. ''Banks want you to be confused. They make more money by making people confused.''
 Mr. Reich promises a spartan checking account Web site at the start, with a mobile application that will notify you when you've swiped your debit card. He and his partners are betting that a no-fee, no-worry account that moves money efficiently will trump the not necessarily world-beating interest rates that BankSimple plans to pay when it introduces its service later this year or in 2011. ''What they gain from us is not getting hit by fees and peace of mind that the bank is aligned with their interest,'' he said.
 Mr. Claypoole of SmartyPig's partner, BBVA Compass, finds this kind of talk a bit distasteful. ''When the laughter dies off, where's the substance?'' he said of the companies that are poking fun at banks. ''One reason people go to SmartyPig is because they don't want to go to a bank. But what's one of the first questions they ask after they've had their laughter? Whether it is F.D.I.C. insured.'' It does have the insurance, by the way, and PerkStreet and Kasasa accounts do, too.
 Indeed, BankSimple is in search of a bank partner, and F.D.I.C. protection, though it's not clear how many institutions will want to work with the company given its bombast. BankSimple does not want to be a bank itself, because acquiring a charter takes years, many millions of dollars and lots of lawyers, the opposite of the lean, service-focused start-up it is striving to be.
 Green Dot, which offers reloadable prepaid cards to people poorly served by traditional banks, began just over a decade ago with a similar chip on its shoulder (and a bank partner in the background). It still promotes the virtue of its product vs. a traditional checking account. Green Dot does not require a background check (unlike a bank account) and doesn't let you spend more than you have (unlike many bank accounts).
 But earlier this year, as the company prepared to go public, it had become worried about its ability to control costs related to its bank partnership and to quickly introduce new card products. It needed more flexibility to pursue ideas for expansion, too. And so, Green Dot did the unthinkable.
 It made an announcement that it was acquiring a bank. And it wouldn't surprise me if some of these other start-ups also became banks one day.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); SOCIAL MEDIA (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (51%) ALABAMA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



56 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Reports Job Growth Lagged in Private Sector

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL; Peter Baker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The train that is the nation's economic recovery has slowed noticeably, unable to generate enough jobs in the last two months to keep pace with population growth, much less reduce the vast numbers of unemployed Americans.
 The United States added just 83,000 private sector jobs in June, according to the monthly statistical snapshot released by the Labor Department. The unemployment rate declined to 9.5 percent, from 9.7 percent in May. But that was a largely illusory decline, as 652,000 Americans left the work force. 
 Over all, the nation lost 125,000 jobs in June, but those losses came as temporary federal Census workers headed for the exits. 
 With the economy slowing -- housing sales plummeted, while earnings and hours worked ticked downward last month -- the stakes grow larger, economically and politically. The next few monthly unemployment reports will unfold during the run-up to the midterm Congressional elections this fall. Incumbents feel particularly precarious, and major economic decisions about financial reform, unemployment benefits, and aid to states still sit on their desks. 
 ''We may have seen the best of employment for some time,'' said Paul Kasriel, chief economist at Northern Trust. ''In general the economy is downshifting, maybe to stall speed, or just above stall.''
 Even longtime optimists pulled in their horns a touch. While they pointedly distanced themselves from those economists who worry about a double-dip recession, or a stagnant and lost decade, enthusiasm was hard to detect.
 ''Obviously, it was a disappointing report,'' said Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group. ''And it comes on top of a whole lot of other economic indicators that painted a bleak picture for the country.''
 Mr. Baumohl predicted, as others did, that this jobs report would add fuel to the fiery debate between deficit hawks and pump-primers in Washington. He favored government intervention, but he tends toward the view that it no longer makes as much difference.
 ''Government spending prevented the U.S. economy from tipping into a depression,'' he said. ''But beyond that, the government cannot, short of war, get private companies to increase hiring if they don't want to.''
 Just as May's jobs report appeared deceptively robust, swollen by 411,000 workers hired by the federal government to help with the Census, so the June report appears deceptively anemic, as the government shed 225,000 of those workers. 
 Signs of strength could be spotted. The 83,000 private sector jobs created in June more than doubled the count in May. In the first six months of 2009, the nation lost 3.7 million private sector jobs; during the first six months of this year it gained 590,000. Manufacturing continued a modest revival, as plants added 9,000 jobs, bringing the total for such jobs to 136,000 since January (manufacturing shed two million jobs early in this recession). Amusement, gambling and recreation businesses added 28,000.
 Health care inched up 9,000, for a 12-month gain of 217,000 jobs. And professional firms continued to add temporary workers, 21,000 last month. In past recessions, such hiring often was a precursor of permanent hires.
 President Obama offered restrained applause for the jobs report even as he acknowledged the economy remained weak. 
 ''Make no mistake -- we are headed in the right direction,'' Mr. Obama told reporters before boarding Air Force One to fly to West Virginia for the funeral of Senator Robert C. Byrd. ''We're not headed there fast enough for a lot of Americans. We're not headed there fast enough for me either.'' 
 Indeed, the economy needs to add about 130,000 jobs each month just to keep pace with new workers entering the market. The labor pool is packed with 15 million Americans looking for work, and state and local governments cut another 10,000 jobs in June, cuts likely to accelerate this summer.
 The weeks leading up to Friday's report offered a grim rat-a-tat-tat of statistics pointing to a slowing economy. Auto sales fell, housing sales plunged and unemployment claims rose to a peak higher than is normal for an economic recovery. 
 And Friday's labor data offered many more signs of slippage. The labor-force participation rate -- that is, the number of workers counted as participating in the national economy -- fell by 0.3 percentage point. And the picture remained unyieldingly grim for the long-term unemployed. The median duration of unemployment rose to 25.5 weeks in June, from 23.2 in May.
 More and more Americans are being left behind. In June, about 2.6 million people were marginally attached to the labor force, a rise of 415,000 from a year earlier. This means they are not counted in the unemployment numbers, but they have looked during the last year and want a job.
 The overall unemployment rate, incorporating all such Americans, stood at 16.5 percent.
 ''This economic recovery does not have enough momentum to sustain on its own without government help,'' said Sung Won Sohn, an economist at California State University, Channel Islands, and a former chief economist at Wells Fargo. ''Businesses are reluctant to hire for fear of a double-dip recession. Without jobs, the economy can't grow, limiting job growth and spending.'' 
 Christina Romer, chairwoman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, described the economy as a ship on stormy global waters. European nations are slashing budgets, China's economy has cooled and the stock markets are caught between indigestion and serious worries. Yet the United States labor force is larger than a year ago, she said, and the jobless rate is lower.
 ''Two months ago, the world was getting giddy and it was better than anyone expected,'' she said in an interview. ''In the past two weeks, the news is on the other side, worse than expected.''
 This is not, she said, a normal recovery ''because it was not a normal recession. There are some strong headwinds.''
 The velocity of those headwinds, particularly around jobs, could imperil Democratic control of the Senate and House. Several weeks ago, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. christened this ''Recovery Summer,'' emphasizing the jobs created by the $787 billion economic stimulus measure passed in February 2009. 
 Now some wonder if those gains can be sustained. 
 The national economy looks like a slack muscle. Prices and wages are dormant or falling, banks are holding tight to credit, consumers appear fatigued and the stock market is tumbling. And 3.2 million workers are losing their unemployment benefits because Congress turned down President Obama and declined to authorize an extension.
 Paul Krugman, the economist and New York Times columnist, warned recently of the risk of another Great Depression. Many economists disagree with that view, saying the sluggishness will end this fall or winter. 
 Others, however, join Mr. Krugman in warning that stagnation could loose another wolf: deflation. ''In the winter of 2009, I said the risks are for inflation, not deflation,'' Mr. Kasriel noted. ''In the summer of 2010, I think the risks are now tilted toward deflation. We run the risk of entering a really bad environment.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Change in jobs (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A1)
The Labor Picture in June: Unemployment rate
DEMOGRAPHICS
DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT
Employment
SHARE OF POPULATION
'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT
UNEMPLOYMENT BY EDUCATION LEVEL
TYPE OF WORK
AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CENSUS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (53%)

COMPANY: NORTHERN TRUST CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



57 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: A Jobs Program That Works

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Is it possible that there is a federal stimulus program that is putting many thousands of struggling individuals to work and is getting rave reviews not only from Democrats but from officials in conservative states like South Carolina and Mississippi?
 It may be hard to believe, but it's true. The program, part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, allows states to use federal dollars to temporarily subsidize the salaries of individuals placed in private- and public-sector jobs. More than 30 states are participating. 
 The program, though small, appears to be working exceptionally well. States expect to have placed more than 200,000 individuals by this coming autumn. Some of those workers would otherwise have landed on welfare. 
 The catch -- there is always a catch -- is that the program will expire at the end of September if Congress does not act to extend it.
 The U.S. is trapped in an agonizing period of sky-high unemployment and the latest data from the Department of Labor offers no cause for optimism. A program that is actually putting people to work, and thus helping families fend off destitution, ought to be looked at closely for what it can teach us about employment expansion. It makes no sense to simply let it die. 
 States have embraced the subsidy program with tremendous enthusiasm. ''It has been amazing,'' said Linda Martin, director of South Carolina's Division of Family Assistance. ''I think at this point we're kind of astounded at how well it's working.''
 The federal money is made available through the $5 billion TANF (Temporary Assistance for Needy Families) Emergency Fund. States can use the money in a variety of ways, and many have found the subsidized employment approach to be the most efficient and effective. 
 South Carolina uses the money to cover 20 hours a week of employment at the minimum wage for each individual who is placed in a job. The subsidy lasts for six months.
 To the surprise of state officials, private employers across a wide front have welcomed the program. The employers sign an agreement to keep the workers on after the subsidy runs out if there are no serious problems with the workers.
 ''We are placing people in the kinds of jobs we were never able to crack before,'' Ms. Martin told me. ''They're getting jobs with a large grocery chain, and with McDonald's, Wal-Mart, CVS pharmacy. We actually have more employers asking for placements than we have eligible folks to be in those jobs.''
 This is not the kind of job creation that will break the back of the nation's employment crisis, but it has succeeded in bringing down the welfare rolls in South Carolina, which were heading straight up at the height of the recession. It is keeping food on the tables of seriously strapped families. And it is offering work experience to some people who have not had a lot of it.
 Other states have adopted a different approach. Mississippi has made it a priority to find jobs at small businesses. The subsidy there covers the full salary for the first two months and then gradually declines to one-fourth of the worker's salary in the sixth and final subsidized month.
 Gov. Haley Barbour has called for an extension of the program, which he said has provided ''much-needed aid during this recession.''
 LaDonna Pavetti, who monitors the program for the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, described it as the ''best-kept secret'' of the federal stimulus effort. Illinois, she said, is placing 500 people a day in jobs under the program. The crush of job-seekers trying to get in has been so great that state officials have had to stop taking applications.
 In Los Angeles alone, 10,000 people have been placed. There have even been 600 job placements in Montana.
 Ms. Pavetti's worry is that without more attention being paid to this effort, it will vanish at the end of September. That, said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics, would be ''particularly inopportune given that unemployment will likely still be in or near double digits, and more workers will have exhausted their benefits.''
 He recommended extending the program for another year.
 There has been a peculiar reluctance in this country to move full speed ahead on all feasible ways to increase employment, which is what is needed to get the economy back in shape, to begin reducing budget deficits, and, most important, to alleviate the suffering that so many individuals and families are enduring.
 I asked Ms. Martin of the Division of Family Assistance in South Carolina what would happen in her state if the job subsidy effort were allowed to lapse. She didn't hesitate: ''It would really just kill us if we had to shut this down,'' she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY SERVICES (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



58 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: Conflict-Free Minerals

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Death by Gadget'' (column, June 27), Nicholas D. Kristof paints a picture of continuing conflict in Congo that unfairly accuses the consumer electronics industry of complicity in this humanitarian crisis. Far from trying to hush up the issue, the technology industry has shown its willingness to move aggressively toward solutions. 
 Mining activities that fuel conflict are unacceptable, and the technology industry is committed to doing its part to ensure transparency and responsible sourcing. Through industry groups like the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition and the Global eSustainability Initiative, the high-tech sector is working to ensure conflict-free sourcing of minerals, including the development of a smelter validation plan, support for pilot projects and due diligence guidelines for the mining sector.
 The Consumer Electronics Association, on behalf of its 2,000 member companies, has also supported legislation that would promote conflict-free sourcing.
 The problems arising from armed groups and lack of civil society in Congo are vast and complex. Rather than oversimplifying the issue and scapegoating specific industries, we need to address this issue through the combined efforts of the United States government, the European Union, the United Nations and the nongovernmental organization communities. The tech industry will continue to be an active part of that effort.
 Gary Shapiro President and C.E.O. Consumer Electronics Association Arlington, Va., June 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MINES & MINING (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); LEGISLATION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



59 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PAYBACK TIME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2040 words

HEADLINE: Illinois Stops Paying Its Bills, But Can't Stop Digging Hole

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Even by the standards of this deficit-ridden state, Illinois's comptroller, Daniel W. Hynes, faces an ugly balance sheet. Precisely how ugly becomes clear when he beckons you into his office to examine his daily briefing memo.
 He picks the papers off his desk and points to a figure in red: $5.01 billion. 
 ''This is what the state owes right now to schools, rehabilitation centers, child care, the state university -- and it's getting worse every single day,'' he says in his downtown office. 
 Mr. Hynes shakes his head. ''This is not some esoteric budget issue; we are not paying bills for absolutely essential services,'' he says. ''That is obscene.'' 
 For the last few years, California stood more or less unchallenged as a symbol of the fiscal collapse of states during the recession. Now Illinois has shouldered to the fore, as its dysfunctional political class refuses to pay the state's bills and refuses to take the painful steps -- cuts and tax increases -- to close a deficit of at least $12 billion, equal to nearly half the state's budget. 
 Then there is the spectacularly mismanaged pension system, which is at least 50 percent underfunded and, analysts warn, could push Illinois into insolvency if the economy fails to pick up.
 States cannot go bankrupt, technically, but signs of fiscal crackup are easy to see. Legislators left the capital this month without deciding how to pay 26 percent of the state budget. The governor proposes to borrow $3.5 billion to cover a year's worth of pension payments, a step that would cost about $1 billion in interest. And every major rating agency has downgraded the state; Illinois now pays millions of dollars more to insure its debt than any other state in the nation.
 ''Their pension is the most underfunded in the nation,'' said Karen S. Krop, a senior director at Fitch Ratings. ''They have not made significant cuts or raised revenues. There's no state out there like this. They can't grow their way out of this.''
 As the recession has swept over states and cities, it has laid bare economic weakness and shoddy fiscal practices. Only an infusion of federal stimulus money allowed many states to avert deep layoffs last year.
 Cuts in Work Forces
 The federal dollars are nearly spent. Last month, local governments nationwide shed more than 20,000 jobs. Should the largest struggling states -- like California, New York or Illinois -- lay off tens of thousands more in coming months, or default on payments, the reverberations could badly damage a weakened economy and push housing prices down still further.
 ''You're not seeing these states bounce back, and that could be a big drag on the national economy,'' said Susan K. Urahn of the Pew Center on the States. ''It could be a very tough decade.''
 In Illinois, the fiscal pain is radiating downward.
 From suburban Elgin to Chicago to Rockford to Peoria, school districts have fired thousands of teachers, curtailed kindergarten and electives, drained pools and cut after-school clubs. Drug, family and mental health counseling centers have slashed their work forces and borrowed money to stave off insolvency.
 In Beardstown, a small city deep in the western marshes, Ann Johnson plans to shut her century-old pharmacy. Because of late state payments, she could not afford to keep a 10-day supply of drugs. In Chicago, a funeral home owner wonders whether he can afford to bury the impoverished, as the state has fallen six months behind on its charity payments, $1,103 a funeral. 
 In Peoria -- where the city faced a $14.5 million gap this year and could face an additional $10 million budget hole next year -- Virginia Holwell, a trainer of child welfare caseworkers, lost her job when the state cut payments to her agency. She sits in her living room high above the Illinois River and calculates the months of savings left before the bank forecloses on her house. 
 ''I've got enough to last until the end of August,'' she says, matter-of-factly. ''I'm 58 and I'm pretty good at what I do, and I got to tell you, I'm pretty devastated.''
 Public colleges and universities occupy a fiscal sickbed all their own. This year they muddled through without $668 million expected from the state; the University of Illinois has yet to receive 45 percent of its state appropriation. Legislators made no pretense of promising to pay this bill soon. Instead they authorized colleges to borrow against the expected state payments.
 ''The big fear is that next year we'll be down twice as much,'' said Randy Kangas, an associate vice president of the university. ''No one knows how to make the cash flow work.''
 Illinois legislators tend to plead victim to economic circumstance, and the state's maladies are considerable. In 2006, the Illinois unemployment rate stood below 5 percent; now it is near 11 percent, and the percentage of long-term unemployed exceeds the national average. Major manufacturers have eliminated thousands of jobs, and the state ranks in the top 10 nationally in foreclosures.
 Five years ago, the Chicago suburb of Tinley Park issued about 650 home building permits; last year it processed one. The city of Rockford plans to close fire stations and lay off firefighters, and in Decatur, 180 impoverished seniors have lost their delivered meals. The lakeshore condo towers in Chicago bespeak affluence, but there are so many foreclosures on the bungalow blocks of southern and western Chicago that ''for sale'' signs sprout like sunflowers. 
 Few budget analysts are surprised to see Illinois, with a limping economy and broken political culture, edge close to the abyss. Two of the last six governors have served jail terms, and a third is on trial.
 ''We are a fiscal poster child for what not to do,'' said Ralph Martire of the Center for Tax and Budget Accountability, a liberal-leaning policy group in Illinois. ''We make California look as if it's run by penurious accountants who sit in rooms trying to put together an honest budget all day.''
 Stopgap Solutions
 The Community Counseling Centers of Chicago is another of those workaday groups that are like the stitches on a baseball, holding together poor and working-class neighborhoods. With an annual budget of $16 million, the agency tends to families torn by crime and violence as well as people who are psychologically stressed and abusing drugs.
 On any given Monday morning, the agency's chief administrative officer, John J. Troy, 61, has no idea how he is going to keep its doors open until Friday. He said the state had not come through with an expected $2.2 million, which is about six months of arrears. He has laid off and recalled employees three times in the last two years.
 ''Two weeks ago, I had days to meet my $420,000 payroll and all I was looking at was a $200,000 line of credit from a bank,'' recalled Mr. Troy. ''I drove down to Springfield and said, 'Hey, you owe us $3 million.' They said: 'Oh, that's nothing. We owe another agency $10 million.' '' 
 ''The fact of the matter is,'' he added, ''I don't sleep much these days.''
 Illinois's fiscal practices are thoroughly fractured. Large agencies survive from one payday to the next. Small agencies seek high-interest loans from out-of-state finance companies. 
 The state pension system is a money sinkhole and the most immediate threat. The governor and legislature have shortchanged the pensions since the mid-1990s, taking payment ''holidays'' with alarming regularity. 
 The state's last elected governor, Rod R. Blagojevich, is on trial for racketeering and extortion. But in 2003, he persuaded the legislature to let him float $10 billion in 30-year bonds and use the proceeds for two years of pension payments. 
 That gamble backfired and wound up costing the state many billions of dollars. Illinois reports that it has $62.4 billion in unfunded pension liabilities, although many experts place that liability tens of billions of dollars higher. 
 Legislators this year raised the retirement age and slashed benefits. Though changes apply only to future employees, the legislature claimed immediate savings.
 ''Savings upfront and reforms down the road,'' said Mr. Hynes, the state comptroller. ''It's just bad habits and bad practices.''
 More broadly, Illinois is caught between blue state convictions about social safety nets and a red state aversion to taxes. For years, the Democratic-controlled legislature has passed budgets that are, in effect, in deficit. Lawmakers routinely skip around the state's balanced-budget law, with few consequences. (Republicans are near monolithic in voting against any tax increases and borrowings. When one broke ranks to try to keep the pension solvent, he was stripped of a committee position, reducing his pay and pension.)
 ''The pension move was Enron-esque,'' said Mike Lawrence, a press secretary to the former Republican governor Jim Edgar, who was the last governor to sign an income tax increase. ''Blagojevich was not a tax-and-spend governor; he was a spend-and-borrow governor.'' 
 The state's income tax burden is not terribly high -- Illinois ranks in the bottom half of states -- and its government is not terribly large. (The budgets in New York and California, per capita, are much larger). Even if the state cut out all family and human services spending, more than half of the budget deficit would remain.
 As comptroller, Mr. Hynes has trained his attention on the public and nonprofit agencies that rely on state money; he tends to roll his eyes at the notion that slashing alone is a solution.
 ''Only the most delusional people think you can solve this without raising taxes,'' he said.
 The legislature has a different instinct: to borrow. In good times, that leads to unsightly imbalances. In bad times, it becomes catastrophic. This year, leaders gave the governor authority to move money around and left town to campaign.
 ''Each budget has gotten historically worse during this recession,'' said Laurence Msall, president of the Civic Federation, a policy research organization. ''We've borrowed more and pushed larger unpaid bills into the future.''
 'Everything Is Triage'
 So where is the exit door from this crisis? In Illinois, it depends on whom you ask. The state representative Barbara Flynn Currie, one of the Democratic leaders in the statehouse, sees salvation in the economic cycle. ''In the long run, we'll muddle our way through,'' she said. 
 Perhaps, but many analysts, liberal and conservative, warn of a potentially far grimmer reckoning -- Greece by Lake Michigan. Borrowing costs are rising, nonprofits that depend on taxpayer money are dropping contracts, and the state's pension costs and unpaid bills balloon each month. 
 Newspaper reports offer stories of hundreds of young teachers moving out of state. Sounding as if she had been punched in the stomach, Ms. Johnson, 53, the pharmacist in Beardstown, said she was going to work at Wal-Mart. Mr. Troy keeps logging on to the comptroller's Web site to see whether money might soon flow to his counseling centers. 
 And Ms. Holwell has joined Illinois People's Action, which challenges banks and foreclosures. With a raspy voice, she talks of her irritation with ''the people who just yammer.'' 
 ''We've helped save four houses,'' she said. ''Now I wonder: can I save my own?''
 For now, Illinois spends a minor fortune papering over its budget holes. Last year, the comptroller's office paid $55.3 million just in interest on two short-term borrowings to pay the state's bills. 
 Mr. Hynes walked into his child's elementary school recently and learned that kindergarten hours were being cut because of the state budget. 
 ''Everything is triage now,'' he said. ''We work to avoid outright disaster.''
 In past years, when nonprofits needed credit lines to see themselves through tough budget times, the comptroller issued letters assuring banks that vendors would be paid. Not anymore. 
 ''I don't feel comfortable doing that,'' he said, adding with a shrug, ''I mean, who knows, right?''
 Payback Time: Articles in this series are examining the consequences of, and attempts to deal with, growing public and private debts. ONLINE: Previous articles in this series. nytimes.com/paybacktime

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ann Johnson is closing the pharmacy in Beardstown, Ill., where she has worked since 1983, partly because the state is months behind on reimbursements.
Virginia Holwell was a trainer of child welfare caseworkers, until the state cut payments to her agency.
''Only the most delusional people'' think the state can avoid raising taxes, said Daniel Hynes, the comptroller. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) CHARTS: As Illinois's financial situation has deteriorated . . .
 . . . the state is taking longer to pay its bills. (Source: Illinois Comptroller) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (86%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); HOUSING MARKET (68%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (68%); REAL ESTATE (67%); TAX LAW (66%); CREDIT BUREAUS (63%); LAYOFFS (60%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



60 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1741 words

HEADLINE: Hearings That Aren't Just Theater

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
''We've gotten our sea legs,'' said Phil Angelides. 
 It was late Thursday afternoon, and Mr. Angelides, the chairman of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, was calling from Washington. He sounded tired but energized. The commission, formed last year to investigate the root causes of the financial crisis, had just finished two very long days of hearings. They had been devoted to -- drum roll, please -- ''The Role of Derivatives in the Financial Crisis.''
 Sure enough, the hearings had been book-ended by a handful of regulators and academics who did indeed testify about The Role of Derivatives in the Financial Crisis. But the bulk of the commission's time was focused on a real-world example of the havoc wrought by derivatives: the unrelenting demand for additional collateral that Goldman sought from the American International Group beginning in the summer of 2007. Those collateral calls, which have been the subject of a series of articles by Gretchen Morgenson and Louise Story in The New York Times, didn't let up until that fateful weekend in September 2008, when A.I.G., on the brink of collapse, had to be rescued by the federal government. And, of course, Goldman Sachs no longer had to fight for collateral: it was paid off at 100 cents on the dollar. 
 Were the collateral demands the work of a ruthless predator, acting, as Mr. Angelides suggested in the hearing, like a ''cheetah chasing down a weak member of the herd''? Or were they, as Goldman insists, an example of Goldman Sachs's willingness to look unblinkingly at the deteriorating market for subprime securities -- even as its counterparty, A.I.G., remained in denial? 
 Were A.I.G.'s credit-default swaps -- which were supposed to be insuring billions of dollars worth of AAA subprime securities -- fatally flawed? Did the collateralized debt obligations -- those infamous C.D.O.'s -- that Goldman was creating and A.I.G. was insuring offer anything of value to the larger society, or were they simply a means by which Wall Street made giant, useless, bets? Given that the taxpayers have put out $185 billion to prop up A.I.G., these are certainly questions worth asking.
 There were no big ''gotcha'' moments during the hearings. As a result, perhaps, the hearings didn't get the big treatment on CNBC. (I watched them on the F.C.I.C. Web site.) Nor was the country riveted the way it had been a few months ago, when Senator Carl Levin waved around a Goldman e-mail message that used vulgar language to describe one of its own deals.
 What these hearings offered instead were intelligent questions, a refusal to be snookered by witnesses, and a kind of understated pointedness that was more effective than a dozen angry diatribes. The commissioners may not have gotten all the answers they sought, but they were genuinely trying to get answers, instead of preening for the cameras. There was a seriousness of purpose about their effort that has been lacking in most of the hearings in Washington that have tackled the financial crisis. 
 Will wonders ever cease?
 Let's be honest: the record of Congressional hearings seeking answers about the financial crisis has been pretty awful. How many hearings were spent ''investigating'' the government's efforts to push Bank of America to complete its acquisition of Merrill Lynch? Three? There was plenty of heat, but very little light. Angelo Mozilo, who founded Countrywide, and E. Stanley O'Neal, the former chief executive of Merrill Lynch, were berated for their gaudy compensation, rather than their mismanagement. Richard Fuld, who led Lehman Brothers into the abyss, was batted around like a pinata -- a cathartic exercise, but not an illuminating one. 
 Then there was the most gruesome hearing of all, the one in which Ed Liddy, then the chief executive of A.I.G., was called on the carpet because A.I.G.'s traders were due to get big bonuses that had been negotiated before he arrived. Mr. Liddy, whom the Treasury Department had asked to take over A.I.G. -- and whose salary was $1 -- never recovered from the trauma of that hearing. He retired a few months later.
 Mr. Angelides's commission didn't exactly get off to a roaring start either. Its first day of hearings, in January, included helpings of self-serving pablum from the usual suspects, including Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman and Jamie Dimon, the head of JPMorgan, which commission members lapped up uncritically. 
 But then, as Mr. Angelides put it, the commission got its sea legs. It sharpened its investigative focus, and to a remarkable extent, it has shined its light on the darkest, most difficult-to-understand corners of finance. In recent months, it has heard testimony from whistle-blowers who worked at the rating agencies and saw firsthand how the agencies sold their credibility for market share. It has explored the interconnection between corrupt subprime originators like New Century and an eager Wall Street, which bought its loans no matter how bad they were. It has explored the failure of risk management at institutions like Citicorp. 
 It helps that there are only 10 commissioners -- instead of the 50 or more lawmakers who populate the important Congressional committees. It also helps that none of them are sitting members of Congress, and don't view their time on stage as a re-election tool. (Most of the time, they even remain in the hearing room when it's not their turn to ask questions!) Most of all, though, it helps that they actually understand what the witnesses are talking about.
 This was never more evident than in their questioning of the A.I.G. witnesses on the first day of this week's hearing, including Joseph J. Cassano, the former head of A.I.G.'s Financial Products, the unit whose derivative business helped bring down the parent company. Mr. Cassano, who was speaking publicly about A.I.G. for the first time since the crisis began, kept insisting that his division had carefully studied the underlying collateral and even now argued that the AAA securities A.I.G.'s credit-default swaps insured would ultimately retain their value. (The government now owns the securities.) 
 But the flaw in this argument was obvious -- and the commissioners quickly saw through it. It didn't matter how good the underlying collateral ultimately was. Because Mr. Cassano had agreed to collateral triggers, all that mattered was what the securities did on a day-to-day basis. And he simply had not prepared the company for the possibility that they might decline -- and that A.I.G. would have to pay its counterparties billions of dollars as they did.
 Most shocking of all was the testimony of Martin Sullivan, who had been chief executive of A.I.G. during this period. Even as Mr. Cassano was negotiating the collateral calls with Goldman Sachs, Mr. Sullivan had no knowledge that they even existed, he said. He didn't discover the problem until months after Goldman first came knocking on A.I.G.'s door. Neither did Robert E. Lewis, the company's chief risk officer. Or Steven J. Bensinger, the former chief financial officer. Or Elias F. Habayeb, who was the chief financial officer for A.I.G.'s financial services divisions. No one at the parent company realized that collateral calls were part of A.I.G.'s credit-default swap contracts.
 Although none of them explained this lack of knowledge, it seems plain that Mr. Cassano never bothered to tell them -- and they never bothered to ask. It was an astonishing failure of risk management, and explained a lot about why A.I.G. failed. 
 ''It is stunning that your risk management was so siloed that your C.F.O. didn't know about the collateral calls, which is the most fundamental liquidity event possible,'' said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a well-known economist who serves on the commission. 
 As Mr. Sullivan's testimony came to its merciful close, Mr. Angelides turned to Mr. Sullivan and said, ''We will debate on this panel many, many issues, but I do not think that the failure of leadership and effective management at A.I.G. will be of much debate by this commission.'' It was impossible to disagree.
 (As for Goldman Sachs, the commission was never able to figure out, at least on this day, whether, in marking down the value of its subprime securities far more aggressively than anyone else on Wall Street, Goldman was acting as predator or as clear-eyed realist. Nor was it able to confirm that Goldman was paying collateral to counterparties at the same time it was demanding collateral from A.I.G. As it turns out, despite repeated requests by the commission, Goldman had failed to hand over information that would have shown how the firm arrived at its marks and to whom it was paying collateral. Why is this not a surprise?)
 The hard question, of course, is whether the work of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission is going to matter in the end. It is often compared to the famous Pecora investigation of the 1930s, which made daily headlines by rooting out much of the wrongdoing that had taken place on Wall Street in the years leading up to the Crash of '29. Its work helped pave the way for the passage of laws creating the Securities and Exchange Commission and Glass-Steagall, which separated commercial banks from investment banks.
 But this time around, the financial reform law is close to being enacted -- and Mr. Angelides's commission still has six months before its final report is due. Mr. Angelides, not surprisingly, is convinced that the commission's work still has a chance to make a difference. He pointed out that most of the bill essentially required regulators to do the heavy lifting. They'll be the ones deciding which derivatives will go on exchanges and which will be exempt, for instance. ''If we do our job, we can help inform their thinking,'' he said.
 He added: ''I have been taken aback at the extent to which our financial markets, in addition to their traditional role, became betting parlors. I have also been struck by the way we built up a shadow banking system that was subject to enormous runs. And by the absolute failure of the regulatory mechanism. And how, with so many of our witnesses, when it comes to assessing responsibility, all fingers point away from themselves. And the way we forgot some fundamental lessons about balance between private enterprise and public good.'' 
 If nothing else, the commission's final report should be a doozy. For once, I think we're all going to learn something.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: One witness questioned on derivatives was Joseph J. Cassano, whose unit at A.I.G. contributed to the parent company's crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Phil Angelides, chairman of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, which has sharpened its focus in recent hearings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (68%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (58%); JOE CASSANO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



61 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: China Raises Estimate of Economic Growth in 2009 to 9.1%

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
BEIJING (AP) -- China's economy grew even faster in 2009 than previously reported, adding to concern that the flood of stimulus spending and loans that drove its rebound left a dangerous glut of unneeded factories and other assets.
 The government raised its estimate of 2009 growth on Friday from 8.7 percent -- already the fastest among major economies -- to 9.1 percent, raising China's economic output to the equivalent of $4.98 trillion. That suggested Japan clung to its title as the second-largest economy with just under $5.1 trillion in output. 
Beijing propelled its recovery from the global slump with a 4 trillion renminbi ($590 billion) stimulus and record 2009 bank lending of 9.6 trillion renminbi ($1.4 trillion). But communist leaders worried that the stimulus drove overspending on factories and other facilities, which could lead to economic problems if producers were forced to slash prices in glutted markets or could not repay bank loans.
 ''There definitely are risks of overcapacity from all this investment,'' said Ken Peng, a Citigroup economist. He said Beijing was likely to have to step in and repay at least some debts for overextended state companies or local governments.
 Makers of steel and textiles are likely to be hit hardest because they have the biggest oversupply and foreign demand for their goods is weak, said Lu Zhengwei, senior economist for Industrial Bank in Shanghai.
 Steel producers, which expanded output as demand from stimulus-financed construction projects surged, have 16 million tons of unsold stock, state television said Friday. It said mills were selling steel at prices below cost.
 ''The problems in the steel and textile industries will have a clear negative impact on the Chinese economy,'' Mr. Lu said.
 Business groups have cautioned that China might face a protectionist reaction from the United States, Europe and other trading partners if its overcapacity leads exporters to cut prices at a time of weak global demand.
 The government also has warned of overcapacity in cement, glass, polysilicon used for solar panels and wind power equipment. It says new facilities must meet higher environmental standards and it will shut down small steel mills.
 The cabinet is trying to promote industrial consolidation and the closure of outdated steel mills and other facilities, and announced Thursday that it would promote mergers among Chinese companies. Authorities said they wanted companies to use stimulus money to improve technology and were trying to force older facilities to close, often precipitating resistance by local leaders who object to job losses.
 ''Of course when you have newer, better capacity, the old capacity might not go offline, so I think the government is trying to stamp that out,'' Mr. Peng said.
 Beijing routinely revises economic growth estimates, and the National Bureau of Statistics said Friday's figure was the result of data gathered since its initial announcement in January.
 The bulk of the increase came from service industries, a positive sign for government efforts to reduce reliance on manufacturing to drive growth.
 Last year's heavy spending prompted fears of a surge in inflation. But that has turned to concern about slowing growth as the effect of the stimulus wears off and Beijing imposes lending curbs to cool a sharp rise in housing prices.
 Economic growth surged to 11.9 percent over a year earlier in the first quarter of the year and inflation hit 3.1 percent in May, exceeding the official full-year target of 3 percent. But indicators of manufacturing and investment show activity slowing and inflation pressure easing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); STATISTICS (78%); TEXTILE MFG (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MERGERS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CLOSINGS (73%); FABRIC MILLS (73%); TEXTILES (70%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (68%); PRICE CUTTING (67%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (67%); EXPORT PRICES (67%); WIND ENERGY (60%); SOLAR ENERGY (60%); CONSTRUCTION (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



62 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Spend or Scrimp? Economic and Political Teams Debate

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Not since the first years of the Clinton administration has a White House had to debate whether to give precedence to stimulating the economy or reducing budget deficits. Now, as the recovery shows signs of faltering, that debate is playing out within the Obama administration, with a twist compared to the 1990s: the economic and political teams have switched sides.
 While President Bill Clinton's political advisers favored more spending and tax cuts coming out of the recession of the early 1990s and his economic team pushed to start reducing deficits, in President Obama's circle the opposite is true. Political advisers are channeling the widespread public anger at deficits while the economic team argues that the government should further spur the economy to avert another recession. 
 In Mr. Clinton's day, the economic team, asserting that a credible commitment to fiscal responsibility would reassure financial markets and lead to greater long-term growth, won the argument in favor of deficit reduction, helped by moderate Democrats in Congress. These days, the Obama political team has the edge, again in the cause of emphasizing deficit reduction and with an assist from Congressional Democrats nervous about the midterm elections.
 Even so, the proponents of additional stimulus got more ammunition on Friday with the government's release of disappointing jobs numbers for June, confirming that private sector hiring has slowed from earlier this year. The evidence of the shaky recovery underscored the stakes in the continuing debate in the White House and Congress, especially as states and cities are raising taxes and cutting tens of thousands of public employees to balance their budgets, and debt-laden European governments are retreating from stimulating their economies.
 ''We still have a great deal of work to do to repair the economy and get the American people back to work,'' Mr. Obama said on Friday. Yet the steps he highlighted to show the government's concern -- some public works projects -- are part of the two-year stimulus package he won a month after taking office, rather than new initiatives. Over the last few weeks, Democrats in the Senate have failed to muster enough votes to pass a new package of measures to address the economic weakness, reflecting what some of them see as the political perils of further deficit spending. 
 Within the White House, all of the Obama advisers, along with many outside economists, agree that both things are needed -- additional stimulus this year and, before long, a clear sign that the government will soon take actions on taxes and entitlement spending, phased in over time, to reduce a debt that mounted during the recession to the highest levels since World War II. The advisers' debate is over the timing and scale of any stimulus or deficit reduction.
 Those pressing for more stimulus measures include Christina Romer, the chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers; Jared Bernstein, economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.; and the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, who took that message internationally to the Group of 20 summit meeting of developed nations last weekend in Canada. Lawrence H. Summers, who as director of the National Economic Council tries to broker what he calls the ''brakes-versus-accelerator'' debates, nonetheless makes the economic arguments for an additional stimulus, officials say.
 More focused on deficits -- or at least on positioning Mr. Obama to show his concern -- are his chief strategist, David Axelrod, other political advisers and Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, according to Democrats. Their lone supporter among the top economic aides is Peter R. Orszag, the budget director, who will leave the administration this month.
 Mr. Axelrod, in an interview, said he often argues for emphasizing deficit reduction in part because ''it's my job to report what the public mood is.'' He added, ''I've made the point that as a matter of policy and a matter of politics that we need to focus on this, and the president certainly agrees with that.''
 But Mr. Axelrod said that he and Mr. Obama are also concerned that cutting the budget too soon could retard the recovery or even provoke a relapse like in the Depression era, when the government's premature turn from stimulus to cutting deficits spawned another recession in 1937.
 So while the administration is pursuing ''a long-term strategy for reining in these deficits,'' Mr. Axelrod said, ''I'm very much allied with the economic group, because even as a political matter it would be very shortsighted to take steps that would send us backward.''
 Critics on the left, however, say that Mr. Obama has hurt the current effort to pass a final spurt of stimulus spending and tax cuts by his rhetorical emphasis on cutting future deficits, along with recent policies for a three-year freeze on domestic appropriations, more power to rescind spending and his bipartisan fiscal commission to recommend ways to shrink the long-term debt.
 Mr. Obama's antideficit talk has stoked a skittishness among Democratic lawmakers about adding to the deficit, the critics say, while his failure to campaign consistently for the stimulus measures he proposed in his State of the Union address and in the subsequent budget have allowed those proposals to languish in Congress.
 The president and his advisers ''want economic stimulus but they fear the politics, especially in the Senate, are working against them,'' said Roger Hickey, co-director of the liberal group Campaign for America's Future. ''But I think they've contributed to that climate of fear about deficits.''
 Last weekend at the G-20 conference, however, Mr. Obama and Mr. Geithner made a strong pitch for stimulus measures and took issue with Europeans' plans to cut spending and raise taxes instead. According to administration officials, the president and his Treasury secretary figured the political risk back home of being seen as arguing against slashing deficits was less than the economic risk of another global downturn.
 In the United States, the administration's ambivalence about promoting legislation to help create jobs, given public opposition to rising debt, reflects a shift from late last year when the economy, while recovering, was still shedding jobs. 
 Then, officials say, it was the political advisers who told the economic team to come up with a big package of new and extended stimulus proposals. By February, in his annual budget Mr. Obama outlined $266 billion in ''temporary recovery measures'' to save or create jobs.
 But as antideficit fever built, and senators grew more nervous about another high-cost stimulus package, the White House advertised only about $100 billion of that. Now the entire agenda is in doubt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); CHRISTINA ROMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



63 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1797 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times Mean More Revenue for Europe's Hollywood on the Danube

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

 BODY:
BUDAPEST -- This picturesque capital in the heart of Central Europe has played many roles over the years. 
 It doubled for the sultry streets of Buenos Aires in the 1996 film ''Evita,'' directed by Alan Parker; provided the ambiance of terrorist menace and revenge in 2005 for Steven Spielberg's ''Munich''; and is currently standing in for Rome in ''The Rite,'' a thriller to be released next year in which Anthony Hopkins plays a priest mentoring a young seminary student in the dark arts of exorcism. 
 Yet for all of Budapest's versatility as a film set, it is economic hard times that are helping to turn Hungary into Hollywood on the Danube.
 Dozens of foreign film and television productions are choosing Budapest over Prague, Paris, London or Sofia for shooting in Europe, drawn largely by a 20 percent rebate on production costs, a weak local currency and low wages for crews. 
 ''Every penny you can save and put on the screen is a huge boon for filmmakers,'' said Steve Auer, the Budapest-based director of operations for Raleigh Studios, one of the largest independent film studios in the United States. 
 In April, Raleigh -- drawn in part by the rebate program -- opened a sprawling new 16-hectare, or 40-acre, complex on the outskirts of Budapest. The $75 million facility contains a 3,700-square-meter, or 40,000-square-foot, sound stage that is among the biggest in Europe or the United States. 
 The studio's back lot is being used to replicate the opulent Hotel de Paris in Monaco for the film ''Monte Carlo,'' co-produced by Nicole Kidman and set for release next year, in which three Texas teenagers are catapulted into the life of the uberrich when one is mistaken for a British heiress on vacation in Paris.
 A co-producer of ''Monte Carlo,'' Denise Di Novi -- a Hollywood veteran whose previous credits include ''Batman Returns'' and ''Edward Scissorhands'' -- said that the studio was saving millions of dollars by filming primarily in Hungary, rather than in France. 
 ''Hungary has crews who have the same expertise as those in Hollywood, but it is much cheaper to shoot here,'' she said, noting that she had not shot a film in Los Angeles in 17 years. 
 The gradual exodus of film production from Hollywood started with the establishment of so-called runaway studios in the 1980s in places like Utah, Texas and Tunisia. 
 The new studios -- some backed by companies in the film industry, others by real-estate developers -- offered filmmakers locations and facilities to rival those in southern California but at a much lower cost, largely because of right-to-work laws that discouraged union labor. 
 Since that time, cities like Toronto and Prague have marketed themselves aggressively as film sets, backing up their pitches with generous financial incentives.
 With the collapse of communism 20 years ago, more countries across Eastern and Central Europe have been jockeying to become Hollywood's poorer but more economical cousin -- a quest that has gained urgency as the global financial crisis has caused a scramble for new sources of revenue to help fill depleted public coffers and pay down spiraling public debt.
 Hungary has a film tradition more than a century old. It has produced industry titans like Adolph Zukor, the founder of Paramount Pictures; Sir Alexander Korda, the founder of London Films and producer of ''The Third Man,'' among other film classics; and Michael Curtiz, the director of ''Casablanca.'' 
 But the country began to gain a financial edge in 2004 when the government approved a 20 percent rebate for foreign and domestic film productions. The Hungarians sweetened the incentive in 2008 by extending the rebate to some production expenses incurred outside of Hungary. 
 A foreign film production in Hungary receives the 20 percent discount through a partnership with a local production company, which typically supplies everything from lighting to crews. The local production company gets the rebate from teaming up with a registered Hungarian company that provides the financing and can deduct the contribution from its income taxes. 
 Other former East Bloc countries have taken notice, and are fighting back. 
 In June, the European Union approved the Czech Republic's request for a rebate program similar to the Hungarian one that will give film producers 20 percent of their costs back. 
 Nu Image/Millennium Films, owner of the former Bulgarian national film studio, has recreated a New York street on a back lot in Sofia, complete with yellow taxis and diners offering pancakes, in hopes of turning the poor Balkan capital into a simulated Manhattan for penny-pinching directors.
 There is a lot of money at stake. Since Hungary first introduced its rebate in 2004, revenue from foreign film and co-productions has increased more than tenfold, to 126 million, or $157 million, in 2009, according to the Hungarian National Film Office.
 Beyond the income generated from being host to films, marketing experts and government officials contend, the glamour and allure of becoming a film center can also help burnish a country's global reputation and attract tourism dollars and foreign investment. 
 ''You could spend a country's entire gross domestic product on P.R. and still not achieve the kind of exposure that Hollywood coming here can bring,'' said Geza Szocs, state secretary for cultural affairs in Hungary. 
 Of course, not all foreign film productions bring cachet. Villagers in Glod, Romania, are still reeling after the British comedian Sacha Baron Cohen used their remote mountain outpost to represent the impoverished Kazakh home of his character Borat for the satirical film ''Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan.'' The villagers of Glod complained that they had been grossly misrepresented as backward peasants who kept cows in their homes, and sued the producers; one U.S. case was thrown out because the charges were too vague.
 For Hungary, which in late 2008 appealed to the International Monetary Fund and the European Union for $25 billion in emergency financing, the arrival of stars like Robert Pattinson -- the ''Twilight'' heartthrob who came to Budapest this spring to shoot the film ''Bel Ami,'' to be released next year -- is a welcome diversion from the less-than-flattering headlines it has been generating lately for its economic problems. 
 Hungary's profile as a film center recently got a lift when Budapest was chosen as host for ''The Borgias,'' a sumptuous 10-episode television show that will be presented on the American cable channel Bravo! in 2011. The series stars Jeremy Irons as Rodrigo Borgia, the patriarch of the powerful and corrupt 15th-century Italian family who became Pope in 1492.
 Bruno Peter Gyorgy, a producer at Korda Studios in Budapest, where ''The Borgias'' is being filmed, said the $1.6 million cost of reproducing Renaissance Rome on a back lot in Budapest -- complete with the entrance to St. Peter's, a 15th-century palace and the garden of Vatican City -- was still lower than filming on location in Rome. 
 The collapse of the Hungarian construction industry, he added, meant that the production could afford to employ a small army of builders.
 Indeed, low wages for experienced Hungarian crews are proving to be a boon to the local industry, along with a post-communist work ethic that includes 12-hour working days and no premiums for overtime.
 And because the film industry in Hungary is largely nonunionized, everyone can be employed as an independent contractor, saving on the benefits and other charges that can add 30 percent or more to labor costs in Paris, London or Los Angeles. 
 For all of Hungary's economic advantages, however, filmmakers say several challenges remain. Bureaucratic red tape can be daunting, they say, and the general homogeneity of the population means that a film that requires a multiethnic cast may incur some extra costs. 
 ''If you want to make a ghetto movie about African-Americans, it won't be easy to find them in Budapest and you will have to import them,'' said Mr. Gyorgy of Korda Studios. Or pay them more: Because of their scarcity, African extras in Budapest command hourly wages of more than 100 -- twice the going rate for Caucasians, producers say. 
 Some producers are also increasingly jittery about the Hungarian rebate system itself, since it is essentially financed by Hungarian companies, many of which have become unprofitable during a steep economic downturn and may no longer be able to subsidize foreign production. The Czech rebate, by contrast, is financed from the state budget. 
 There are also growing pains. Beau Flynn, producer of ''The Rite,'' said that Hungary's relative inexperience as a host for international productions had led to his spending 16 weeks scouting locations and assessing the crew's abilities, instead of the 12 weeks it would have taken in Los Angeles. 
 Yet he stressed that this problem had been more than offset by Budapest's advantages, including the possibility of filming at sites throughout the city without being overrun by tourists.
 Gabor Koltai, a Hungarian producer who has worked on big-budget foreign productions, said that some Hungarian filmmakers suffered from a socialist hangover, especially when it came to money. 
 ''In the socialist era if you ran out of money, you went to the Communist Party and asked for more money, and if the movie didn't offend the socialist sensibility, then the authorities would say, 'Yes, how much money do you need?''' he said. ''But in Hollywood you need to stay on budget and you have to account for every penny.'' 
 He also lamented that the due diligence Hollywood demanded was not always up to scratch. On a recent film he produced, the script called for an adolescent boy to appear awestruck as he sees a young beautiful woman rising naked out of a river. The riverbed was covered with jagged rocks, prompting the young actress to fall on her face as the cameras rolled, and the leading man to burst into laughter. The solution was to lower a wooden boat beneath the surface for the girl to step on, delaying the shooting for hours.
 Andras Rez, a leading Hungarian film critic, noted that foreign producers also faced resistance from some local filmmakers who feared that a Hollywood invasion was polluting popular culture in a country already considered slavishly pro-American in some quarters. 
 But he said that, over all, Hungarian filmmakers would benefit from the dozens of foreign productions.
 ''In the 1960s, there was a film made in Budapest called, 'Why are Hungarian films so boring?''' Mr. Rez said. ''So this country can learn something from Hollywood.'' 
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The British actress Kristin Scott Thomas in Budapest on the set of the film ''Bel Ami,'' which is scheduled to be released next year. Left, Robert Pattinson, also one of the stars of ''Bel Ami.'' ( PHOTOGRAPHS BY BELA SZANDELSZKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); MOVIE FILMING (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); FILM GENRES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (72%); REAL ESTATE (70%); SALES REBATES (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (54%)

PERSON: ROBERT PATTINSON (79%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (72%); ALAN PARKER (57%); NICOLE KIDMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (95%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) HUNGARY (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MONACO (58%); CZECH REPUBLIC (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



64 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Failure of State Soda Tax Plan Reflects Power of an Antitax Message

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
To understand why Gov. David A. Paterson's proposed tax on sugary sodas has apparently gone down the drain -- despite strong support from good-government groups, editorial pages and health advocates -- it is only necessary, political analysts say, to compare these two advertising campaigns:
 First, this radio ad from the Alliance for a Healthier New York, a name that only a health teacher could love. A pediatrician talks about diabetes, cancer and obesity, and says, ''Helping New Yorkers lose weight is a matter of life and death.''
 Next, this TV ad from New Yorkers Against Unfair Taxes, a name calculated to make the blood boil. A mother unpacks groceries in the kitchen as her son mixes a powdered lemonade, one of the drinks that would be taxed. ''Tell Albany to trim their budget fat and leave our groceries alone,'' the mother says. 
 New York's proposed penny-an-ounce tax on soda and other sweet drinks has been a model for similar, though largely failed, proposals across the country. Now that it has been dropped from the state revenue bill, it has become a case study in the power of the antitax message. 
 It is too early for a final tally of the money spent on advertising and lobbying by either side in New York. But by most accounts, the beverage industry has outspent the pro-tax side and has succeeded in painting the soda tax as a naked money grab cleverly disguised as a health policy.
 ''I think Senator Savino probably capsulized it fairly early on brilliantly,'' James D. Featherstonhaugh, a longtime lobbyist for Pepsi bottlers, said this week, speaking of State Senator Diane J. Savino, a Democrat who represents parts of Staten Island -- home to a Coca-Cola distribution center -- and Brooklyn.
 ''She called it a dubious health policy wrapped in a really regressive tax,'' Mr. Featherstonhaugh said, ''and that resonated pretty well across Albany.'' 
 Similar proposals have been floated and gone nowhere in at least 10 other cities or states, including Philadelphia, Vermont, Mississippi, Kansas and Alaska, according to the American Beverage Association. 
 ''The beverage industry takes the position that you can't allow this to happen anywhere at any time, based on the slippery-slope theory,'' Michael A. Nutter, Philadelphia's mayor, who has proposed a 2-cents-an-ounce tax, said this week. ''They're successful the old-fashioned way. They pay for it.'' 
 Washington State imposed a 2-cents-per-12-ounce tax on carbonated beverages for three years, and Washington, D.C., and Colorado removed sugared beverages from the list of groceries that were exempt from sales taxes, But Christopher Gindlesperger, a spokesman for the American Beverage Association, said the industry did not consider the sales tax, which touches an array of products, as bad as a per-ounce levy on soda. 
 The opposition managed to put a negative spin on Governor Paterson's idea almost from its inception in the 2009 budget proposal.
 The tax that the governor's allies referred to somewhat awkwardly as a ''sugary beverage tax'' immediately became known in the vernacular as ''the fat tax,'' which sounded like a rebuke to anyone who has ever stood on a bathroom scale and winced. The governor quickly threw in the towel that first year, when he still aspired to run for election in 2010. 
 When the governor submitted this year's budget proposal, he said the tax would go to offset health care cuts, a proposal that helped rally two powerful forces to his side: 1199 S.E.I.U., the health care workers' union, and the Greater New York Hospital Association, the trade group for hospitals in the New York City area. The groups' financial and strategic support became the mainstay of the pro-tax lobby, the Alliance for a Healthier New York. 
 The governor also deputized Richard F. Daines, the state health commissioner, to tour the state stumping for the tax. Dr. Daines argued that it would be good for society, especially children and teenagers who would be deterred from a lifelong soda habit. He often equated the campaign against sugary drinks to the campaign against tobacco. 
 The Legislature apparently did not see the parallel, because while it turned down a 12-cent tax on a can of Coke, it added $1.60 to the cost of a pack of cigarettes. 
 The health message resonated with public-spirited groups like the New York Academy of Medicine and editorial writers. Enter New Yorkers Against Unfair Taxes, set up by the beverage industry, grocers and the Teamsters, who work as drivers and in production. The organization's Web site describes it as a humble coalition of ''hard-working individuals, struggling families and already burdened small businesses,'' like Benny's Pizza and Kay's Deli.
 But behind the scenes, much of the strategic work came from Goddard Claussen, the public affairs company whose ''Harry and Louise'' commercials helped defeat President Bill Clinton's health care overhaul efforts. The company was retained by the American Beverage Association to lobby against the New York tax.
 Goddard Claussen took credit on its Web site for the New Yorkers Against Unfair Taxes campaign. ''As part of a comprehensive outreach effort, we recruited over 10,000 citizens and 158 businesses to join New Yorkers Against Unfair Taxes,'' the agency said before the page was removed from its online portfolio on Friday. Calls to agency executives about the deletion were not returned.
 Ignoring academic studies showing that sugar-sweetened beverages are a big source of excess calories in the American diet, the antitax forces argued that the tax was based on dubious science, because obesity is a matter of how many calories people consume, not where those calories come from.
 ''If what you want to do is tax calories, why don't you tax all calories?'' Mr. Featherstonhaugh said, noting that he had just eaten a Reese's Peanut Butter Cup. ''Let's start with those peanut butter cups, or perhaps potato chips, or McDonald's, Krispy Kreme.''
 The idea that the soda tax would cut into the income of poor New Yorkers while doing nothing to improve their access to exercise or fresh, affordable, healthful food was echoed by some advocacy groups for the poor. For example, Triada Stampas, the director of government relations for the Food Bank of New York City, testified against the tax before a Senate committee.
 PepsiCo's world headquarters is in Purchase, N.Y., and lawmakers in the Westchester County area and in districts with bottling companies of all kinds quickly lined up against the tax. The economic argument resonated even with some Democrats who otherwise tend to favor taxation. 
 But Mr. Featherstonhaugh said PepsiCo had specifically instructed its representatives not to raise the threat of job loss, because, he said, Pepsi wanted to be a good corporate citizen. 
 State Senator Jeffrey D. Klein, a Democrat whose Bronx and Westchester district includes a large Pepsi distribution plant, voted for last year's bottle bill, which mandated 5-cent deposits on bottled water. He said he did so because it supported the environment, even though beverage companies complained that it would hurt their bottom line. But he said, ''Having another hit like this, I think, would devastate the industry.
 Some opponents suggested that New Yorkers would try to evade the tax by buying soda on Indian reservations, where some smokers go to find tax-free cigarettes, or by crossing the border to New Jersey, harming New York retailers. 
 Kevin Finnegan, the political director of 1199 S.E.I.U., had a simple explanation for the soda tax defeat: money. ''We were outgunned,'' he said. ''I think that their marketing was really sophisticated and effective. Obviously it was a tax. But taxes have served many purposes to discourage or encourage behavior.''
 Final lobbyist filings are not yet in, but estimates of the amount spent by the Alliance for a Healthier New York range from $2.5 million, by Mr. Finnegan's count, to $5 million, by the beverage industry's count. 
 The American Beverage Association spent $9.4 million in the first four months of the year to oppose New York's soda tax, according to a search of public lobbying records by the New York State Healthy Eating and Physical Activity Alliance. All but $120,000 went to Goddard Claussen for ''strategic advocacy.'' 
 ''I think, at the end of the day, this was a fair fight,'' said Michael McKeon, an organizer with New Yorkers Against Unfair Taxes. ''When you consider they had the union resources and all the time and money that government put in, that money should count in the final calculation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Quincy Lemmon unloading a PepsiCo delivery truck with a sign against a tax on sugary beverages. The proposal was dropped from the state revenue bill. (A14)
 The penny-an-ounce tax was dropped after the beverage industry outspent the pro-tax side in advertising about the proposal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEITH BEDFORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BEVERAGE MFG (89%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (78%); SALES TAX (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); OBESITY (77%); RADIO ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); DIABETES (56%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (53%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



65 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: House Democrats vs. White House

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The debate in Congress over an $82 billion war spending bill has opened up a war of a different sort -- a fierce clash between House Democrats and the Obama White House over two highly sensitive issues: the nation's huge budget deficit and the lingering wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 To help entice liberal Democrats to approve $33 billion for military operations overseas that they do not support, House leaders added more than $20 billion in new domestic spending to the bill, including $10 billion to save teachers' jobs. In the process, the House also voted to cut $800 million from President Obama's marquee education initiatives. 
 House Democrats, led by Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, the departing chairman of the Appropriations Committee, said redirecting the education money, including about $500 million from the competitive grant program called Race to the Top, was a small price to pay to avert as many as 140,000 teacher layoffs this year.
 But with the bill about to hit the floor, the White House threatened a veto, startling some Democratic lawmakers who said the administration had been slow to engage on the teacher job cuts. Administration officials said Mr. Obey had opposed Race to the Top from the outset and wanted to undermine the program before he retires. 
 The battle illustrates a jam that the White House finds itself in four months before the midterm elections as it tries to show that it has the backbone to reduce the deficit, while trying to avoid getting bogged down in a protracted debate about the wars and simultaneously maneuvering to protect one of Mr. Obama's signature programs. 
 At a time when Congressional Democrats are bracing for a possible Republican onslaught in November and high unemployment is a major political liability, it was the cantankerous Mr. Obey whom the White House seemed to view as a more immediate threat on Thursday. 
 ''We will be spending, in this fiscal year, $167 billion on the war in Iraq and Afghanistan,'' Mr. Obey declared on the House floor. ''It is obvious to any but the most obtuse that that expenditure is killing our ability to finance a recovery of our own economy.'' 
 He also rejected the administration's complaints about cuts. 
 ''People need to ask themselves one question: Are they interested in simply standing by and allowing teachers to be fired day after day for the next three months all around the country or are they willing to do something about it?'' he said. House Democrat leaders, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, lined up behind Mr. Obey's plan. 
 Aides said that party leaders considered a number of other spending offsets proposed by the administration but that many proved problematic. Mr. Obey, they said, found ways to pay for saving the teacher jobs, as well as for Pell grant scholarships, border security, energy loans and the Gulf Coast oil spill response. 
 With Democrats arguing among themselves, Republicans excoriated them for larding the war bill with domestic spending. 
 Tommy Vietor, a White House spokesman, said that Mr. Obama had made clear his commitment to the Race for the Top program, and that House Democrats were posing a false choice. 
 ''We also agree that keeping teachers in schools and classrooms is critical,'' Mr. Vietor said. ''That's why our team has proposed a number of different offsets that pay to keep teachers in the classroom. But we don't think we need to rob Peter to pay Paul.'' 
 Mr. Vietor declined to identify the administration's proposed offsets. 
 Administration officials also noted that the House bill had little chance in the Senate -- a point reinforced by a dozen Democratic senators who criticized Mr. Obey's cuts in a letter on Friday to Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii and chairman of the Appropriations Committee. 
 ''Although we commend the effort to provide funding for cash-strapped school districts so they may save educator jobs, this should not be done at the expense of these vital programs,'' they wrote. 
 And while those objections came from Democrats, a spokesman for the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, blamed Republicans for blocking the teacher aid. ''This proposal is contained in a package that is not going to get any Republican votes,'' said the spokesman, Jim Manley. 
 Senior White House officials have made clear that they want the House to approve the Senate version of the war spending bill, without adding new domestic initiatives, and to pursue separate legislation to prevent the teacher layoffs. 
 Teachers' unions, which have long been skeptical of the Race to the Top program, said they were stunned by the White House veto threat, which they said showed the administration favoring programs that benefit a few states over saving teacher jobs nationwide.
 ''The issue here is the immediate need to avert draconian cuts,'' said Randi Weingarten, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, ''versus saving and preserving and insulating every single cent of a new discretionary program.'' 
 Joel I. Klein, the chancellor of the New York City school system, which is competing for Race to the Top money, said Congress should save the $800 million elsewhere, even if it meant cutting federal aid for schools with high-poverty students. ''Here's a chance with Race to the Top to really change the game,'' he said. ''Why would you take the money out of that?'' 
 Mr. Obey, however, said the cut approved by the House would leave $3.2 billion for the favored programs. ''To suggest we are being unduly harsh is a joke,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); VETO (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (74%); POLITICS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); BORDER CONTROL (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); DAVE OBEY (79%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



66 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Bombers Hit U.S. Aid Compound in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- Six militants armed with suicide bombs stormed the compound of an American contractor working for the United States Agency for International Development in the northern city of Kunduz on Friday, killing four security officers in an assault that left all the attackers dead, according to Afghan officials and the aid contractor.
 The security officers killed included one Briton, one German and two Afghans who worked for Edinburgh International, the firm guarding the Kunduz compound of D.A.I., a consulting company that contracts with the American development aid agency to help bolster governance, development and economic growth in other countries. 
 The Kunduz assault was the latest in a string of Taliban attacks on foreign workers and compounds, especially those doing development work, in what has seemed to be a response to American and NATO forces increasing the pace of their military operations throughout the country.
 Many of these attacks have come in Kandahar, the hub of southern Afghanistan, where militants have been killing political leaders, foreign workers and their Afghan colleagues, including a young Afghan woman who worked for D.A.I. who was gunned down in April just a few hundred yards from her office as she drove home in a motorized rickshaw.
 Kunduz, one the country's major northern cities, is less volatile than Kandahar. But Kunduz Province has become increasingly contested over the past year as Taliban leaders have tried to consolidate their control of areas that until recently had been considered relatively safe. 
 The Taliban quickly took credit for the attack, which began around 3 a.m. when the first bomber exploded his car at the gate of the compound. Five other suicide bombers raced inside the building, where they began firing rifles, said the governor of Kunduz Province, Mohammed Omar. 
 He said at least 23 people were wounded, including police officers, guards and civilians. D.A.I. said several Edinburgh International and D.A.I. employees were wounded.
 The five other attackers all eventually died inside the building, according to the governor, but he did not make it clear whether they had been shot during a six-hour firefight or had blown themselves up.
 ''The building has been destroyed,'' Mr. Omar said. He also said six American employees trapped inside along with four security guards had been rescued by Afghan forces.
 There were unconfirmed reports that some employees fled to the roof of the building during the battle.
 The chief executive of D.A.I., James Boomgard, issued a statement praising Edinburgh International's defense of the compound as ''nothing short of heroic.''
 The attack came before Gen. David H. Petraeus, the new American military commander in Afghanistan, arrived in Kabul on Friday evening along with Mark Sedwill, the former British ambassador to Afghanistan who now serves as the senior NATO civilian official in the country.
 General Petraeus, who led American troops in Iraq during the so-called surge in Iraq and had been the commander of the United States Central Command, was picked by President Obama last week to assume command in Kabul. The move followed the abrupt firing of Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal after a Rolling Stone magazine article in which the general or members of his staff criticized Obama administration officials.
 German troops have been the major Western military force in the Kunduz region, but new American troops have been arriving in northern Afghanistan to bolster the NATO presence in Kunduz and other northern provinces.
 A NATO statement said the Kunduz attack ''was an attempt to intimidate Afghans and members of the international community trying to improve the lives of all Afghans.'' It said NATO troops were helping Afghan forces at the site and treating injured civilians at a nearby military base.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (87%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (87%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (91%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



67 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: $800 Million in Stimulus Will Expand Broadband

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- President Obama on Friday announced nearly $800 million in loans and grants for building broadband networks to reach homes, schools and hospitals. 
 The grants and loans, which will be matched by $200 million in private investment, are part of Mr. Obama's $800 billion federal stimulus package, which includes $7.2 billion for broadband expansion projects.
 Mr. Obama said 66 new infrastructure projects would directly create 5,000 jobs and encourage economic development in some of the nation's hardest-hit communities.
 ''Once we emerge from the immediate crisis, the long-term economic gains to communities that have been left behind in the digital age will be immeasurable,'' Mr. Obama said at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland.
 The Agriculture and Commerce Departments are administering the grants and loans for projects in 50 states and Washington.
 Increasing broadband access to rural and low-income families and small businesses is a major part of the National Broadband Plan issued by the Federal Communications Commission early this year.
 The F.C.C. plan set several goals, among them increasing the number of people who have subscribed to high-speed Internet, providing greater access to families and institutions that lack broadband, and helping wireless companies expand their bandwidth to meet the expected growth in wireless devices.
 The projects Mr. Obama announced will include laying communications lines to homes, hospitals and schools and adding computers in libraries, community colleges and other public areas.
 The White House said that with Friday's projects, more than $2.7 billion in broadband grants and loans will have been awarded to more than 260 projects across the country since December 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (93%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); BANDWIDTH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); FAMILY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (67%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%); ARMED FORCES (54%); AIR FORCES (54%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



68 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: More Blacks See Hope In Economy

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
The Great Recession hit American blacks harder than it did whites. Blacks were more likely to lose their jobs, and those who kept them were more likely to have their pay or hours reduced. Black homeowners are also far more likely than whites to own homes that are no longer worth what they owe on the mortgage. 
 And yet blacks are far more upbeat about the economy than whites. They are more likely to view economic conditions as good now, and more likely to think that improvement is on the horizon.
 The Pew Research Center this week released a report, ''How the Great Recession Has Changed Life in America,'' based largely on polling data. It found that few Americans said they believed the recession had ended, although a much larger proportion said they thought the economy was starting to recover.
 A slight majority of blacks -- 53 percent -- say they believe the economy is at least starting to recover, while just 40 percent of whites agree.
 The Pew study explains the ''seemingly counterintuitive patterns'' by pointing to the 2008 election of Barack Obama as president. That ''appears to have put his most enthusiastic supporters, -- especially blacks, Democrats and young adults -- in a more positive frame of mind about many aspects of national life, including their perceptions of economy.''
 The increasing partisanship of American life is also reflected in the numbers. During the administration of Bill Clinton in the 1990s, Democrats and Republicans had similar views of how the economy was doing, Pew reported. But during the administration of George W. Bush, Republicans tended to see the economy in a much more favorable light. Now it is the Democrats whose lenses are more rose-colored.
 The accompanying charts show the perceptions of blacks and whites about how the economy was doing from 2004 through May of this year. The proportion of whites who see the economy as good or excellent -- as opposed to poor or only fair -- has risen to 13 percent from a low of 3 percent in early 2009. But 25 percent of blacks see the economy as good or excellent, the highest figure since 2006, well before the recession began.
 The job figures for June, released Friday, showed an unemployment rate of 8.6 percent for whites and 15.4 percent for blacks. The chart shows the 6.8 percentage point difference between the two figures. That is down from a peak of 7.8 percentage points in January, but is far above the difference when the recession began. 
 The Pew study reported that 54 percent of employed blacks took a pay cut, had work hours reduced or were forced to take unpaid leave during the recession, compared with 37 percent of white workers. Among homeowners with mortgages, 35 percent of blacks say their homes are worth less than they owe, about double the 18 percent figure for whites. 
 Despite such results, blacks see a brighter future than do whites. Asked if America was still a land of prosperity, 81 percent of blacks said yes, compared with 59 percent of whites. Blacks are more likely than whites to think they are better off than their parents, and more likely to think their children will live better than they do.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Percentage of white and black Americans who said the nation's economy was either ''excellent'' or ''good,'' as opposed to ''only fair'' or ''poor''
Number of percentage points by which unemployment rate for blacks exceeded rate for whites (Sources: Pew Research Center
 Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STATISTICS (88%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (70%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



69 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: July Fourth Weekend Quiz

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
I. Know your states:
 A) Which of the following did NOT happen in Arizona this year?
 1. Senator John McCain claimed illegal immigrants were deliberately causing fatal car crashes on Arizona highways.
 2. Gov. Jan Brewer claimed illegal immigrants were beheading people and leaving the corpses in the desert.
 3. Strapped for cash, the state sold its public buildings, including the Capitol. 
 4. State Legislature voted to require all schoolchildren to be able to recite the Second Amendment to the Constitution.
 B) Which of the following did NOT happen in South Carolina this year?
 1. Two Republican consultants claimed they had had sex with the Republican gubernatorial candidate.
 2. Gov. Mark ''Appalachian Trail'' Sanford announced that he is reuniting with his ex-wife and becoming a Sikh.
 3. Lieutenant governor compared government assistance to the poor with feeding stray animals.
 4. Winner of Democratic Senate primary turned out to be an unemployed man facing felony charges who had never campaigned.
 *****
 II. Know your Congress:
 A) Which of the following did NOT happen in the Senate this year?
 1. Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama held up confirmation votes on more than 70 Obama administration appointees because he wanted two defense contracts for his home state.
 2. Senator Jim Bunning of Kentucky held up the confirmation of the deputy U.S. trade representative out of pique over a Canadian law banning the sale of flavored tobacco.
 3. Harry Reid, the majority leader, accidentally voted No on health care bill.
 4. Senate dining room had all-shrimp menu in support of gulf fishermen.
 5. Republicans invoked a rule prohibiting committee meetings from running past 2 p.m.
 *****
 III. Match the lovebirds:
 A) ''We had several drinks. We went to dinner. We went to a couple of bars. ... It just happened.''
 B) ''Nobody likes that, but it may be one of the tough-love things that has to happen.''
 C) ''Not only did I grope him, I tickled him until he couldn't breathe and four guys jumped on top of me.''
 D) ''Yes, they're both available!''
 E) ''I'm actually a little nervous.''
 1. Representative Eric Massa, describing his 50th birthday party with office aides.
 2. Newly elected Senator Scott Brown of Massachusetts, introducing his unmarried daughters to the crowd.
 3. Glenn Beck on his first meeting with new Fox commentator, Sarah Palin.
 4. Rand Paul, the Kentucky gubernatorial candidate, on why he opposes extending unemployment benefits.
 5. South Carolina Republican political consultant, claiming he had a one-night stand with a candidate for governor.
 *****
 IV. Match the apologies:
 A) ''I simply misremembered it wrong.'' 
 B) ''I have made mistakes, and I am sorry.''
 C) ''If anything I said this morning has been misconstrued ... I want to apologize for that misconstruction.''
 D) ''I made an insensitive comment.''
 1. Representative Joe Barton, a Texas Republican, on his apology to BP for President Obama's ''shakedown.''
 2. Mark Kirk, a Senate candidate in Illinois, on war record.
 3. Richard Blumenthal, a Senate candidate in Connecticut, on war record.
 4. Louisiana state representative who called a black campaign volunteer ''Buckwheat.''
 *****
 V. Who said the following?
 A. ''That's gonna leave a mark.''
 1. Representative Anthony Weiner after being gored in the hand by a goat at a press conference opposing mohair goat subsidies.
 2. BP executive, examining oil-soaked pelicans.
 3. The House minority leader, John Boehner, describing a recent tanning bed accident.
 B. ''We care about the small people.''
 1. BP chairman stressing his company's commitment to oil spill victims.
 2. Basketball star LeBron James, on his attachment to the fans in Cleveland.
 3. Vice President Joe Biden, announcing a new jobs program for short unemployed workers.
 C. ''So yesterday.''
 1. John McCain on his previous opposition to fence-building as a solution to the illegal immigration problem.
 2. Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina, urging reporters to get over the whole Appalachian Trail business
 3. Carly Fiorina, Senate candidate in California, on Barbara Boxer's hair.
 D. ''I am an outsider.''
 1. Jeff Greene, a Florida billionaire and Senate candidate. 
 2. Linda McMahon, a multimillionaire yacht-owner and Senate candidate in Connecticut. 
 3. Tom Foley, a multimillionaire yacht-owner and former ambassador who is the Republican candidate for governor of Connecticut.
 4. All of the above.
 *****
 ANSWERS: I: A-4, B-2; II: A-4; III: A-5, B-4, C-1, D-2, E-3; IV: A-2, B-3, C-1, D-4; V: A-1, B-1, C-3, D-4.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); CHILDREN (71%); FELONIES (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (51%)

PERSON: JAN BREWER (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); RICHARD SHELBY (73%); JIM BUNNING (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); RAND PAUL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (58%); SCOTT BROWN (58%); ERIC MASSA (56%); GLENN BECK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



70 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Despite Furor Over Flotilla Raid, Israel and Turkey Mostly Do Business as Usual

BYLINE: By DINA KRAFT

 BODY:
TEL AVIV -- Since the deadly Israeli raid on the Gaza flotilla, Turkey has recalled its ambassador from Jerusalem and banned Israeli military planes from the country's airspace, while its prime minister has called the Jewish state ''a lying machine.'' Israel, for its part, has warned its citizens not to travel to Turkey.
But in most other respects, it is still business as usual between the longtime allies. 
A military and government delegation from Turkey is in Israel right now, its officers and soldiers rumbling through the sands of the Negev learning how to operate the same pilotless aircraft often used by Israel to hunt Palestinian militants in Gaza. They are there, said an Israeli official, who was not authorized to speak publicly about the deal, because the Israeli instructors who were training them in Turkey were called home after the flotilla raid.
Still, the $190 million deal for the drones has not been canceled. Nor have most of the civilian business dealings, from textiles to irrigation systems, that accounted for almost $3 billion in trade last year, business analysts said. ''Everything is according to schedule,'' the Israeli official said. ''There are no changes. It's business as usual.''
''There are good business contacts,'' said Soli Ozel, a professor of international relations at Istanbul Bilgi University. ''The business community would like to see that continue.''
The investment and trade that continue beneath the surface are reminders of the deep and interconnected ties that Turkey and Israel have forged over the years as regional misfits -- Israel as the Jewish state and Turkey as a Muslim country that straddles Europe and Asia. When the investments are years in the making, as most of the weapons deals are, and with Turkey relying on Israeli technical support, the ties are not so easily broken.
Hard figures are difficult to come by when it comes to defense contracts, but Lale Sariibrahimoglu, the Turkey correspondent for Jane's Defense Weekly, says that Turkish military sources said that military trade between the countries totaled around $1.8 billion in 2007. Israel, she says, was second only to the United States as a source of military technology for Turkey.
Turkey maintains that full reconciliation with Israel is possible only if Israel apologizes for the raid on the Turkish ship, provides compensation for the wounded and the families of those killed and agrees to an independent international inquiry.
So far, Israel has resisted the idea of an independent investigation, but the Israeli government has tried its best to tone down the crisis and patch up relations. This week, for example, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sent Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, a cabinet member who has cultivated close ties with the Turks, to a secret meeting with the Turkish foreign minister, Ahmet Davutoglu.
''It is not in the interest of Israel, or even Turkey, that this relationship continue to deteriorate,'' Mr. Netanyahu said in an interview with Channel 1, the state television station, on Friday. ''Israel cannot apologize because its soldiers had to defend themselves to avoid being lynched by a crowd.'' He added, ''We regret the loss of life.''
Israel has a free trade agreement with Turkey that no one has spoken of rupturing, and shortly before the flotilla raid Turkey helped ensure Israel's inclusion in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
But problems are starting to crop up. Turkish officials are concerned that the Israelis will cancel a $141 million contract to enhance the intelligence gathering abilities of Turkey's warplanes for fear that the new systems might be used against Israel, Ms. Sariibrahimoglu said.
''I am sure we are much more sensitive about sharing sensitive material with them out of fear it will get to the Iranians,'' said Efraim Inbar, an expert in Turkish-Israeli relations and director of the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies at Bar-Ilan University.
Israel's ties with Turkey had begun to fray well before the flotilla raid, starting with the election in 2003 of an Islamist prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who began to tilt Turkey toward new relations with two of Israel's most serious foes, Iran and Syria. Relations with Israel took an especially icy turn in early 2008, when Mr. Erdogan lashed out at Israel over its killing of civilians in its offensive on Gaza.
Israel's growing wariness of Turkey goes back several years, as evidenced by its decision not to sell the Turks its Ofek spy satellite, Israeli officials said, again speaking on condition of anonymity. On the civilian side the main fallout from the damaged diplomatic ties is easily visible on Turkey's beaches, once a favorite vacation destination of Israelis who this year canceled en masse.
Menashe Carmon, the chairman of the Israel Turkey Business Council, said that although long-time cooperation between Israeli and Turkish businesses had not stopped, partnerships and investment ventures that were in their initial stages had slowed. ''They have decided to wait and see what will happen politically,'' he said, referring mostly to Israeli companies.
His office in a building overlooking the harbor in Jaffa features the Turkish and Israeli flags -- a rare sight in Israel. He says he remains hopeful that better times lie ahead. He is busy at work planning a trip for Turkish businesspeople in Israel.
''The Turkish are regular visitors to Israel. This will be nothing new,'' he said.
Correction: July 8, 2010, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Saturday about the underlying strength of Israel-Turkey business and military ties despite Turkish outrage over the Israeli military's deadly raid on a Gaza aid flotilla on May 31 misspelled part of the name of a Turkish school where a Soli Ozel, a professor quoted in the article, teaches international relations. It is Istanbul Bilgi University, not Istanbul Biligi University. The article and an accompanying picture caption also misstated the name of a trade group that had reported a slowdown in some partnerships and investment ventures between the two countries after the flotilla raid. It is the Israel Turkey Business Council, not the Israeli Turkey Business Council.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Menashe Carmon, the chairman of the Israeli Turkey Business Council, said some ventures between the countries had slowed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RINA CASTELNUOVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); MAY 2010 GAZA FLOTILLA RAID (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); ARMS TRADE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) ISRAEL (99%); TURKEY (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010



71 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: World Focus Is Gaining Favor in High Schools

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
CUMBERLAND, Me. -- SAT, ACT, A.P. ... I.B.?
 The alphabet soup of college admissions is getting more complicated as the International Baccalaureate, or I.B., grows in popularity as an alternative to the better-known Advanced Placement program.
 The College Board's A.P. program, which offers a long menu of single-subject courses, is still by far the most common option for giving students a head start on college work, and a potential edge in admissions.
 The lesser-known I.B., a two-year curriculum developed in the 1960s at an international school in Switzerland, first took hold in the United States in private schools. But it is now offered in more than 700 American high schools -- more than 90 percent of them public schools -- and almost 200 more have begun the long certification process.
 Many parents, schools and students see the program as a rigorous and more internationally focused curriculum, and a way to impress college admissions officers. 
 To earn an I.B. diploma, students must devote their full junior and senior years to the program, which requires English and another language, math, science, social science and art, plus a course on theory of knowledge, a 4,000-word essay, oral presentations and community service.
 Here in Cumberland, Greely High School adopted the I.B. this year to make students more aware of the world beyond the United States.
 ''When our grads would visit from college, they'd tell us that while Greely gave them great academic preparation, they'd had no idea there was a big wide world out there,'' said David Galin, Greely's I.B. coordinator.
 To that end, Greely's I.B. 11th graders read literature from India (''God of Small Things''), South Africa ( ''Master Harold ... and the Boys'' ), what is now the Czech Republic (''The Metamorphosis''), Chile ( ''The House of the Spirits'' ), Egypt ( ''Midaq Alley'' ) and Colombia ( ''Chronicle of a Death Foretold'' ).
 ''Our students don't have as much diversity as people in some other areas, so this makes them open their eyes,'' said Deb Pinkham, the program's English teacher.
 The I.B. program is used in 139 countries, and its international focus has drawn criticism from some quarters.
 Some parents say it is anti-American and too closely tied to both the United Nations and radical environmentalism. From its start in 1968 until 1976, the program was financed partly by Unesco. It is now associated with the United Nations Economic and Social Council, and until recently it endorsed the Earth Charter, a declaration of principles of sustainability that originated at the United Nations.
 ''When there is a program at the school with a specific agenda, which in this case is the United Nations agenda, I have a problem with it,'' said Ann Marie Banfield, who unsuccessfully opposed the adoption of the I.B. program in Bedford, N.H.
 Others object to its cost -- the organization charges $10,000 a year per school, $141 per student and $96 per exam -- and say it is neither as effective as the A.P. program nor likely to reach as many students.
 ''We have 337 kids, and 80 of them take at least one of our 16 A.P. classes,'' said John Eppolito, a parent who opposes the planned introduction of the I.B. in Incline Village, Nev. ''If we switched to the I.B., the district estimates that 15 kids would get a I.B. diploma in two years.''
 I.B. opponents have created a Web site, truthaboutib.com, to serve as a clearinghouse for their views.
 Many schools, and many parents, see the I.B. partly as a way to show college admissions offices that students have chosen a rigorous program, with tests graded by I.B. examiners around the world.
 ''I don't think there is anyone who does not respect the I.B.,'' said Panetha Ott, an admissions officer at Brown.
 Fewer colleges give credit for the I.B. than for A.P., but dozens give students with an I.B. diploma sophomore standing and some offer special scholarships.
 The I.B. is also being offered now in some struggling urban schools where educators say it helps put low-income students on par with their richer peers.
 Last fall, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation gave the program a three-year $2.4 million grant to prepare low-income and minority students to participate in the I.B.
 California and Florida have the most I.B. schools, and New England the fewest.
 In Cumberland, some parents questioned the I.B.'s cost, but none complained about the program's content, according to Chris Mosca, Greely's principal.
 ''No question, the people who founded the I.B. were sitting in Geneva, post-World War II, thinking about how to ensure world peace, so the clear philosophical bent is that by integrating learning and understanding issues from multiple perspectives, we can promote global thinking,'' he said. ''But what sold me on the program was that it's good pedagogy, that it really shows kids how things go together.''
 Still, Mr. Mosca has no plans to eliminate the school's Advanced Placement offerings.
 ''A.P. is great for content-based traditional learning,'' he said. ''It's great for kids who like to memorize. But for more creative kids, who want to make those connections, there's nothing like the I.B.''
 On a spring Tuesday, Greely's I.B. history class was working in small groups, analyzing the Suez crisis with original source documents from Israel, Egypt, the Soviet Union, the United States and the United Nations.
 Emily Hill, presenting a document from the Soviet foreign office's Middle East desk, reminded the group that it was a secret memo, translated several times.
 Emily, who said she was bored with school last year, said the I.B. program had been more interesting and challenging.
 Because it is so rigorous, the I.B. is not for everyone. At Greely, only 21 juniors started the full program this year, and three subsequently shifted to a mix of I.B. and regular classes.
 But those who stayed with it seemed enthusiastic.
 ''It's like a little club of scholars,'' said Maggie Bower, a junior. ''It seems more real-world than how we used to learn, and it's changed how we look at the world.''
 Down the coast, where Kennebunk High School just graduated its first group of I.B. students, Sue Cressey, the I.B. coordinator, said that most of the students in the program the first year had thought about dropping out.
 ''There was a bad period after everybody flunked a biology exam,'' she said. ''I had to send a letter home to parents, reassuring them. It's a new way of thinking, but the kids grew into it. I feel better about sending these kids to college than any group I've ever sent.''
 The graduates, too, say they feel well prepared.
 ''In our Theory of Knowledge class, when we debated health care, my role was to take Rush Limbaugh's position, which couldn't be further from my own,'' said Michael Tahan, one of the graduates.
 ''I.B. taught us how to think through a position, and support it,'' he added. ''And while I understand why some parents might worry that the program is international-based, I think it's good for America for students to learn how others nations think.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 7, 2010, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Saturday about the rising popularity of the International Baccalaureate, a two-year curriculum for high school students, misspelled the surname of a student participating in the program at Greely High School in Cumberland, Me. The student, a junior, is Maggie Bower -- not Bauer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andy Tureff working with International Baccalaureate students at Greely High School in Maine. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG DILGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); PARENTS (74%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ACT (84%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (68%); CZECH REPUBLIC (67%); SWITZERLAND (57%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



72 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Beyond New Deal

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
Elena Kagan's confirmation hearings this week were the first of the Tea Party era. When Republicans pressed Ms. Kagan on the Constitution's commerce clause and whether she was a legal progressive, they were speaking not just about academic abstractions, but about the very ideas that animate the rebellious, conservative movement.
 The Tea Party is often called ''loosely organized,'' but the unifying philosophy for groups across the country is a belief that the nation can solve its problems -- primarily its economic problems, which is what its supporters care most about -- if lawmakers stick to a strict interpretation of the Constitution.
Tea Party groups hand out pocket-size copies of the Constitution like party favors at their rallies and meetings. Many supporters take classes about it on weekends, in the evenings or online, sponsored by groups like As a Mom, a Glenn Beck-inspired ''Sisterhood of Mommy Patriots,'' or the Campaign for Liberty, which Representative Ron Paul created after his unsuccessful run for president in 2008. 
 They can recite parts of the Constitution by heart and refer to it, by article and section, in casual conversation. They campaign for candidates who promote themselves as ''constitutional conservatives.''
 The party has found as its tribune Rand Paul, the Republican candidate for Senate in Kentucky and the congressman's son, who argues that Congress could balance the budget if it just got rid of all the programs that are not authorized by the Constitution. In the strict interpretation being taught in Tea Party groups, that would include just about all the legislation passed since the New Deal -- Medicaid and Medicare, Social Security and student financial aid.
 Mr. Paul says he would not vote for any legislation not specifically authorized by the Constitution. Similarly, the Contract From America, a Tea Party manifesto created by thousands of people voting online, would require every piece of legislation to identify ''the specific provision of the Constitution that gives Congress the power to do what the bill does.''
 The center of the Tea Party argument is that Congress has usurped powers it was never granted in Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution, which contains what is commonly referred to as the commerce clause. The section mentions roughly 20, including the power to collect taxes, to pay debts, to ''provide for the common defense and welfare of the United States,'' and to regulate commerce ''with foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes.''
 The framers also declared that Congress had the power ''to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this Constitution in the government of the United States, or in any department or officer thereof.''
 In the Tea Party view, everything went out of control with the New Deal as Congress, trying to ease the pain of the Great Depression and prevent another, passed legislation that progressives had been pushing for years, which included the regulation of banks and the establishment of a minimum wage and Social Security.
 The Supreme Court struck down much of the initial legislation as unconstitutional, until President Franklin D. Roosevelt threatened to increase the size of the Supreme Court to 15 and pack it with appointees who supported his agenda.
 Under that threat, Justice Owen J. Roberts reversed himself on a minimum wage case, called ''the switch in time that saved nine,'' beginning a tide of decisions that supported the New Deal legislation.
 Those decisions led to a broader understanding of what Congress can do under its powers to tax and spend and under the commerce clause. They have been the basis for the vast expansion of federal law in the last 80 years.
 Tea Party constitutionalists argue that the commerce clause in particular has been pushed beyond recognition; originalist legal scholars agree. And The Wall Street Journal said on its editorial page this week that ''if Ms. Kagan believes the commerce clause can justify nearly any Congressional decision, this is reason alone to justify a vote against her confirmation.''
 The Tea Party's more hands-off view of Congress's power helps explain why Sharron Angle, the Senate candidate backed by grass-roots supporters in Nevada, has argued to phase out Social Security and Medicare, and why Mr. Paul in Kentucky argued that the Americans With Disabilities Act was an example of federal overreach.
 It is not that they want no government regulation; Tea Party supporters believe that much of what the federal government regulates should be left to the states, where voters hold a shorter leash.
 For this reason, they embrace a strict interpretation of the 10th Amendment, which says that the powers not delegated to the federal government by the Constitution ''are reserved to the states respectively, or to the people.'' And some believe that the 17th Amendment, commonly known as one of the ''progressive'' amendments, was wrong when it assigned the election of United States senators directly to the voters. The Constitution put that power with the state legislatures.
 While giving that power back to state legislatures would seem to go against the Tea Party's grass-roots nature, supporters argue that if senators were beholden to state legislatures, they would not, for instance, have passed President Obama's health care overhaul, which requires the expansion of state Medicaid programs.
 Lori A. Ringhand, an associate professor of law at the University of Georgia who has analyzed what kind of questions have been asked at hearings for Supreme Court nominees over the last 70 years, said that in the past, senators on the left and right have asked about the commerce clause, concerned that the court would strip away congressional power.
 This time around, when senators on the right asked, Ms. Ringhand said, ''The concern seemed to be a desire for judicially imposed restraint.''
 For her part, Ms. Kagan tried to avoid answering any questions in a way that might jeopardize her confirmation. So, when Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, asked whether Congress could pass a law under the commerce clause requiring Americans to eat three fruits and vegetables a day, Ms. Kagan answered the hypothetical by saying she thought it was a ''dumb law.''
 But she did note that she believed the Supreme Court had said in decisions in 1995 and 2000 that Congress could not regulate noneconomic activity -- a nod, perhaps, to the antigovernment mood in the land.

CORRECTION-DATE:  July 7, 2010, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Saturday with an article about Tea Party supporters' adhering to a strict interpretation of the Constitution reversed the identifications, in some editions, for two Tea Party supporters shown at a rally for gun rights in Washington in April. Kevin Grantz was at the left and Gerry Notare at the right.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kevin Grantz, left, and Gerry Notare with a Tea Party supporter, Nighta Davis, at a rally for gun rights in Washington in April. Below, Samantha Johnson at a Tea Party event this year in Arizona. Left, a common sight at gatherings held by the movement. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES
ROSS D. FRANKLIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS FILE
 WIN McNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); BUDGETS (75%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); MEDICARE (63%); MEDICAID (50%)

PERSON: ELENA KAGAN (89%); RON PAUL (78%); RAND PAUL (58%); GLENN BECK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



73 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 IN MEXICO, UNLIKELY ALLIES HOPE TO DEFEAT INCUMBENT
 A decade ago, Mexico ended more than 70 years of control by the Institutional Revolutionary Party and elected an opposition president. But in Oaxaca State, the party has held fast. The other parties believe the only way to dislodge the PRI, as the party is known, is to unite across ideological lines against it. PAGE A4 
 TURKISH-ISRAELI TIES PERSIST
 Since the deadly Israeli raid on the Gaza flotilla, relations between Turkey and Israel have appeared severely strained. But beneath the surface, investment and trade between the countries continue, a reminder of their deep ties. PAGE A4 
 MCCHRYSTAL KEEPS 4 STARS
 The White House permitted Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal to retire with all of his four stars, but the general's most important mentor described him as ''crushed'' during the shock of a transition from commanding American troops in Afghanistan to exile on the Potomac. PAGE A4 
 GATES TIGHTENS RULES
 Nine days after a four-star general was relieved of command for comments made to Rolling Stone magazine, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates issued a three-page memorandum tightening the reins on officials dealing with the news media. PAGE A7 
 VERDICT IN SOUTH AFRICA
 Jackie Selebi, the former police commissioner of South Africa and once a signal figure in international law enforcement, was found guilty in Johannesburg of corruption. Mr. Selebi was accused of providing favors to a drug trafficker in exchange for gifts and designer clothing. PAGE A7 
 Obituaries
 DON CORYELL, 85
 As the San Diego Chargers' coach, he became an architect of pro football's modern passing game with his spectacular offense known as Air Coryell. He led his team to the playoffs four times, twice to the A.F.C. championship game. PAGE B8 
 RAMMELLZEE, 49
 An early graffiti writer, hip-hop pioneer and performance artist, he was a self-mythologizing figure who cast himself as an urban philosopher, and his style influenced the Beastie Boys and Cypress Hill. PAGE B8 
 National
 IN CONFIRMATION HEARINGS, ECHOES OF THE TEA PARTY
 Elena Kagan's Supreme Court confirmation hearings were the first of the Tea Party era. When Republicans pressed Ms. Kagan on the Constitution's commerce clause and whether she was a legal progressive, they were speaking about the very ideas that animate the rebellious conservative movement. PAGE A9 
 TRIBUTE TO SENATOR BYRD
 Hundreds of West Virginians, two United States presidents and dozens of family members and friends gathered in Charleston, W.Va., to pay tribute to Robert C. Byrd, the longest-serving senator in history, and his humble roots, voracious appetite for knowledge, inspiring oratory and fierce devotion to his home state. PAGE A11 
 OBAMA AND DEMOCRATS CLASH
 The debate in Congress over an $82 billion war spending bill has opened a war of a different sort -- a fierce clash between House Democrats and the Obama White House over two highly thorny issues: the nation's huge budget deficit and the lingering wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. PAGE A11 
 MOYNIHAN PAPERS RELEASED
 In 90,000 pages of letters and memorandums released by the Nixon Presidential Library, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, counselor and assistant to the president for urban affairs, prodded the White House to deliver on a domestic agenda and expressed exasperation over the government's entropy. PAGE A11 
 New York
 COYOTE ATTACKS ON GIRLS 
 Put a Suburb on the Alert
 In Rye, N.Y., life has been upended by mangy intruders: coyotes. Two young girls playing outside their homes were attacked in separate episodes, officials said. The attacks have prompted a wide-ranging response that has included helicopter searches, errant gunfire and an endless stream of gossip. PAGE A14 
 STATEMENTS BY SPY SUSPECTS
 Two more suspected Russian agents arrested last weekend have given statements to the F.B.I. admitting being Russian citizens who lived under false identities in the United States, federal prosecutors in Manhattan said. PAGE A15
 Business
 G.M. IS SAID TO CONSIDER PUBLIC OFFERING IN AUGUST
 General Motors, which emerged from bankruptcy last July, is aiming to file an initial public offering of stock in mid-August, taking its biggest step yet toward repaying the federal government, people briefed on the matter said. PAGE B1
 MORE THAN JUST THEATER
 Hearings held by the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission offered intelligent questions, a refusal to be snookered by witnesses, and a kind of understated pointedness that was more effective than a dozen angry diatribes. Talking Business, by Joe Nocera. PAGE B1 
 HOLLYWOOD ON THE DANUBE
 In this tough economy, dozens of film and television productions are choosing Budapest over Prague, Paris and London for shooting in Europe, drawn largely by a 20 percent rebate on production costs, a weak local currency and low wages for crews. PAGE B3 
 SLOVAKIA SLOWS EUROPE PLAN
 The huge financial safety net for the euro zone was supposed to become operational. But Slovakia, a country of about 5.4 million people, has yet to sign off on it because of the politics surrounding a change in government. PAGE B3 
 MARKETS ON A LOSING STREAK
 Stocks ended the week lower after the government's jobs report showed another month of weak employment. The major stock gauges declined every day of the week for the first time since the midst of the financial crisis. PAGE B6 
 China Raises Estimate of Growth B2 
 Sports
 WADE AGAIN VISITS BULLS; KNICKS PURSUE STOUDEMIRE
 Dwyane Wade, Miami's superstar guard, met for a second time with Bulls officials, sending shudders through South Beach. Wade also met with Knicks officials, who were busily trying to lock up another free agent, Amar'e Stoudemire, with a $100 million offer. PAGE D1
 AN APOLOGY TO MARADONA
 Many scoffed when Diego Maradona was named Argentina's coach, but his team's performance at the World Cup has vindicated the unorthodox decision. On Soccer, by Rob Hughes. PAGE D6 
 Arts
 'MAMBO KING' AUTHOR RETURNS TO HIS MUSE
 In ''Beautiful Maria of My Soul,'' the newest book by Oscar Hijuelos, a son of Cuban immigrants who won the Pulitzer Prize in 1990 for ''The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love,'' Mr. Hijuelos shows once again that he is a careful, distant observer, whose Cubanness comes from sitting in the audience, not performing center stage. PAGE C1
 BROOKLYN COLLECTIVE THRIVES
 Since its inception, 3rd Ward, the arts and design collective in Bushwick, has evolved into a thriving art and design incubator. It celebrated its fourth anniversary last month and received a commendation from Marty Markowitz, the Brooklyn borough president. PAGE C1 
 Adventure-Racing Video Game C1 
 Traditional Hip-Hop in 2 Flavors C1 
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A19 
 CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A19
 Online
 PHOTOGRAPHS Readers are sharing their stories and photos of barbecues and recipes as part of a summer series, ''Around the Grill.''
 nytimes.com/nyregion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); SPORTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); ATHLETES (68%); HIP HOP CULTURE (67%); WRITERS (66%); POLICE FORCES (66%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); CORRUPTION (64%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (64%); RAP MUSIC (62%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

COMPANY: ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT BYRD (77%); ROBERT M GATES (77%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (69%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ELENA KAGAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (74%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (74%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) ISRAEL (94%); MEXICO (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010



74 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: The Rebbe of Graceland

BYLINE: By BEN MARCUS. 
Ben Marcus's new novel, ''The Flame Alphabet,'' will be published next year.

 BODY:
THE FROZEN RABBI
 By Steve Stern
 370 pp. Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill. $24.95
 Bernie Karp, the teenage hero of ''The Frozen Rabbi,'' Steve Stern's new novel, is an overfed 15-year-old, scorched to the core from too much television. While searching for a slab of meat in his parents' basement freezer, the better to simulate the real thing during his compulsive acts of self-love, Bernie finds instead an old rabbi, frozen in a block of ice.
 Bernie's father, who has yet to discover the cash advantage of a cryonically preserved religious elder, can hardly be bothered to explain. ''Some people got taxidermied pets in the attic, we got a frozen rabbi in the basement. It's a family tradition.''
 Tradition is too modest a word for the extraordinary story behind the icebound rabbi's journey, across several countries and a century of time, to their home. The adventure, recounted by Stern with manic virtuosity, starts in a small Polish village, where Rabbi Eliezer is so blissed out during a pond-side meditation that he doesn't notice a storm lifting the waters around him. In one of the effortless liberties the master fabulist Stern takes with reality, the rabbi survives underwater until winter comes and he's encased in ice. 
 This all happens before Page 7, testament to how rapidly this book chews through plot, characters, decades and continents. The voracious pace lets Stern spill a hundred years of vivid Jewish history onto the page. But it doesn't keep him from revealing, with depth and subtlety, the yearning and agony of all the characters who are lucky (or unlucky) enough to have their fates lashed to that of the frozen rabbi.
 Stern ricochets back and forth across history, as the rabbi, ever on the verge of melting, is stewarded by a string of Bernie's ancestors through Poland, across the water to the Lower East Side of Manhattan then finally by train to a Jewish community in Memphis.
 Here the book settles down to explore what happens when the rabbi, under Bernie's stupefied care, accidentally defrosts during a blackout. After a marathon session of TV in the Karps' rumpus room, the rabbi asks Bernie, in the hilarious Yinglish that sprinkles the book, ''When they shimmy, these daughters in their supple skins in the orgies of the MTV, do not their fathers say already Kaddish for them?''
 It doesn't take long for the rabbi to conclude that his advanced spiritual skills are a marketable commodity in the economy of personal shame. With the help of Bernie's businessman dad, he sniffs out the career possibilities for his last spree among the living, a flock of helpless seekers just waiting to be told what to think. And also to be groped. Preferably by a super-old wizard of the Talmud.
 Soon the rabbi's scandalous juggernaut is underway in a temple of practical kabbalah that not so gently mocks society's talent for transforming even the most abstract religious guidance into swag and merch. At the temple you can buy ''Heroes of Kabbalah'' trading cards along with the rabbi's new, ghostwritten book, ''The Ice Sage.''
 The rabbi's plunge into corruption is matched by Bernie's rise into piety. Like his ancestors before him, charged to watch over the well-being of the rabbi, Bernie is an imperfect candidate for his own destiny. But the rabbi has a way of bringing out the best in his caretakers, and once he defrosts, only Bernie recognizes the trouble that's coming.
 Throughout ''The Frozen Rabbi,'' Stern demonstrates an alchemical power to transform lumpen failures like Bernie, barely curious enough to gaze at their own navels, into young men and women with noble missions. He does this by heaping impossible responsibilities on their shoulders; their subsequent maturation is so rapid they seem subjected to some kind of ferocious growlight.
 After a self-administered crash course in the most obscure tenets of Jewish mysticism, Bernie sheds his baby fat almost overnight to become an expert on kabbalah and an adept of astral flight. In a recurring comic conceit, Bernie regularly leaves his body just before consummating his relationship with his girlfriend, his desire endlessly thwarted by a higher spiritual calling. As the rabbi gathers groupies and seeks to make up for a hundred years of erotic inactivity, Bernie climbs to loftier religious summits, functioning as the agonized conscience for the cheapening of religious meaning the rest of his family is party to. It is Bernie's fervid embrace of the family tradition, snuffed out now in his parents, along with his potential martyrdom, that lends a chilling gravity to ''The Frozen Rabbi.''
 Stern's intimacy with Jewish mysticism does not seem to come from Internet research. He writes with piercing zeal about religious concepts that are, by their very definition, impossible to describe -- impossible, perhaps, even to understand. (I'd always heard that if you understand kabbalah, you've probably got it wrong.) Yet Stern brings the esoteric ideas handily to life and lodges them, often hilariously, in the unlikely body of Bernie Karp, holy teenager of Memphis.
 Memphis is a familiar stomping ground for Stern, whose previous books include ''The Angel of Forgetfulness'' and ''The Wedding Jester.'' He may well be the poet laureate of the Tennessee Jews. But it's difficult for Memphis, as a narrative big top, to compete with the grim ghettos of Poland and the neighborhoods of the Lower East Side that Stern so painstakingly brings to life. This novel's alternating structure does not favor the current-day settings, which tend to lack the gorgeous illumination Stern casts on the long-ago scenes in Poland and New York. Indeed, throughout ''The Frozen Rabbi'' the present struggles to escape the shadow of the marvelous past that's always just a few scenes away.
 Even the rabbi's various caretakers in the past, beginning with young Bernie's great-great-grandfather Salo Frostbite, who drags the icebound mystic to Lodz, trading his horse for a wife along the way, brim with more feeling than their benumbed descendants.
 This decline in the Karp bloodline may well be the point. Certainly the ancestral countdown is one of Stern's more stirring portraits, even if it culminates in present-day characters who are mere shells of consumption. Stern shows how tragically easy it is, after only one generation, to forget the struggles of your forebears, if you ever know about them at all. Bernie's dad doesn't seem to know, for instance, about the sacrifices of his grandmother Jocheved, Salo's daughter, who suffers so profound a disgrace in Lodz that she must cross-dress to smuggle the frozen rabbi across the ocean to America, afflicting herself with a permanent masculinity even after she sheds her disguise. Countless stories like these crowd the pages of ''The Frozen Rabbi,'' which results in a near encyclopedia of struggles as one family moves from harm to safety.
 Stern suggests that safety brings its own bitter sacrifices and compromises. It's hard to feel entirely glad for the Karps when their epic struggles come to an end in Memphis, where the family is assimilated at last. Yet along with the difficult question of just what is lost when assimilation is gained, Stern also raises the hope that even the most unwitting among us cannot fully escape the passions of our ancestors.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SABRINA JONES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); FAMILY (76%); RELIGION (74%); TRAINS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) TENNESSEE, USA (67%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) POLAND (70%); UNITED STATES (67%)

TITLE: Frozen Rabbi, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



75 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 846 words

PERSON: Elise Boulding 

HEADLINE: Elise Boulding, 89, Sociologist and Leader in Field of Peace Studies

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Elise Boulding, a sociologist, pacifist feminist and scholar who wrote extensively about conflict resolution in both personal and global relations and who helped establish the academic field known as peace studies, died June 24 in Needham, Mass. She was 89.
 The cause was liver failure, her daughter, Christine, said; her mother also had Alzheimer's disease, she said. 
 Ms. Boulding (pronounced BOWL-ding) taught at the University of Colorado and at Dartmouth and was the author of numerous books that explored factors inherent in building a less martial world.
 A Norwegian-born Quaker, she was nominated for the 1990 Nobel Peace Prize by the American Friends Service Committee, the service arm of the Quaker faith, which was a co-recipient of the Nobel in 1947.
 She came late to academia and a life of letters, receiving her Ph.D. from the University of Michigan in 1969 only after rearing five children. Her experience as a mother and a homemaker, she often said, informed much of her work.
 Ms. Boulding advocated for the greater inclusion of women at the highest levels of diplomacy. She argued that strong families and the early education of children in nonviolent problem-solving were significant assets in humanity's defense against a trigger-happy future.
 She delineated the importance of nongovernmental organizations -- from the Girl Scouts to Unesco -- in creating cross-cultural communities that mitigate the belligerent effects of national rivalries. She pleaded for the greater consideration of and respect for the cultures of third world and primitive societies. She promoted environmentalism as a precept that gave individuals a stake in the perpetuation of a peaceable planet. And she pointed out time and again that though the world's attention was most often focused on humankind's penchant for conflict and violence, an equivalent, perhaps even more powerful, penchant for peaceable behavior existed in human beings as well.
 ''A richer and more diversified peace culture than any of us can now easily imagine, an international global peace culture, is there to be built out of the languages and lifeways and knowledge and experience worlds of the '10,000 societies' now spread across the 185 states of today's world,'' she wrote in ''Cultures of Peace: The Hidden Side of History'' (2000), a book considered to be the culmination of her life's work.
 Elise Marie Biorn-Hansen was born in Oslo on July 6, 1920. At age 3 she moved with her parents to northern New Jersey, where her father, Joseph, worked as an engineer for Carrier, the air-conditioning manufacturer, and her mother, Birgit, who had trained to be a nurse, was a massage therapist. She graduated from Douglass College (now part of Rutgers University). After moving to Syracuse, where her family had resettled, she met and married Kenneth Boulding, an economist and poet, in 1941.
 The marriage lasted more than half a century, until Mr. Boulding's death in 1993. In addition to her daughter, who lives in Wayland, Mass., she is survived by four sons: Russell, of Bloomington, Ind.; Mark, of Englewood, Colo.; Philip, of Olalla, Wash.; and William, of Durham, N.C.; 16 grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
 For much of the first 25 years of their marriage, the couple and their children moved to accommodate Mr. Boulding's academic travels.
 Among other places, they lived in Nashville and in Ames, Iowa, where Ms. Boulding completed an M.A. at Iowa State, and spent many years in Ann Arbor, Mich. There, in the early 1960s, when peace studies -- an interdisciplinary field that examines violent and nonviolent behavior in personal, political and historical contexts and the sources and resolution of conflict -- was emerging as a legitimate program of inquiry, she helped found the scholarly organization the International Peace Research Association. She also pursued a doctorate at the University of Michigan and ran unsuccessfully for Congress as an opponent of the Vietnam War.
 While she was working on her dissertation, the family moved to Boulder, Colo., and in 1968 Ms. Boulding became the leader of the Women's International League of Peace and Freedom, the antiwar group whose first president was Jane Addams. At the University of Colorado at Boulder, she founded the program in peace studies, and later, after she moved to Dartmouth, she helped build the program there as well.
 Ms. Boulding's other books include ''The Underside of History: A View of Women Through Time'' (1975, revised 1992); ''Women in the Twentieth Century World'' (1977); and ''Children's Rights and the Wheel of Life'' (1978).
 She often said her path in life was determined by World War II. When she was a girl, she recalled, her mother had been homesick for Norway, and young Elise conceived of that country as a haven, a place to hold in reserve as a retreat, where she would always be safe. That vision was shattered in 1940 by the Nazi invasion of Norway.
 ''And that was when I realized that there was no safe place on earth,'' she said. ''And I knew that I had found my life's mission.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elise Boulding (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY WASSERMAN, 1980) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); SOCIOLOGY (91%); CHILDREN (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); WRITERS (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (72%); LIVER DISEASE (72%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); MARRIAGE (68%); HVAC & REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MFG (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (57%); AMERICAN FRIENDS SERVICE COMMITTEE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (57%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORWAY (79%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism, Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



76 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Fails To Complete, Or Cuts Back, Iraqi Projects

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS; Duraid Adnan contributed reporting from Baghdad, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Anbar, Diyala and Babil Provinces.

 BODY:
FALLUJA, Iraq -- After two devastating battles between American forces and Sunni insurgents in 2004, this city needed almost everything -- new roads, clean water, electricity, health care. 
 The American reconstruction authorities decided, however, that the first big rebuilding project to win hearts and minds would be a citywide sewage treatment system.
 Now, after more than six years of work, $104 million spent, and without having connected a single house, American reconstruction officials have decided to leave the troubled system only partly finished, infuriating many city residents. 
 The plant is just one of many projects that the United States has decided to scale back on -- or in some cases abandon -- as American troops who provide security for reconstruction sites prepare to leave in large numbers. 
 Even some of the projects that will be completed are being finished with such haste, Iraqi officials say, that engineering standards have deteriorated precipitously, putting workers in danger and leaving some of the work at risk of collapse. 
 The American officials give many reasons for their decisions to scale back or drop some projects before more troops leave, including that they discovered in some cases that the facilities diverged from Iraq's most pressing needs, or that the initial work -- overseen by American contractors and performed by Iraqi workers -- was so flawed that problems would take too long to fix. 
 Reconstruction officials point out that they have completed the vast majority of the $53 billion in projects they planned throughout Iraq, from bridges to honey-bee farms.
 And the officials, along with the United States Embassy in Baghdad, say they are aware of only isolated concerns about the quality of reconstruction work now under way in the country, or about projects being left undone. 
 ''I am not aware of the Iraqis having any sort of hard feelings that we will not finish current projects and award projects we said we would,'' Col. Dionysios Anninos, head of the Army Corps of Engineers office in Iraq, wrote in an e-mail message. ''We will finish strong!'' 
 But some Iraqis have compared the current hurried reconstruction effort to the haphazard American withdrawal from Vietnam in 1975. In Diyala Province, northeast of Baghdad, Iraqi officials said they found that construction standards had slipped so drastically that they ordered an immediate halt to all American-financed projects, even though American inspectors had deemed the work to be adequate. 
 The Americans had told local authorities they were speeding up projects because a nearby United States Army base was scheduled to close this summer.
 Shaymaa Mohammad Ameen, who works with reconstruction officials as a liaison for the Diyala Provincial Council, said American officials frequently threatened to leave when Iraqis questioned engineering standards and brought up other safety issues.
 ''They constantly tell us that if we do not approve, they can always move the allocated funds to projects in other provinces,'' she said.
 In Baghdad and Salahuddin Provinces, local officials say Americans have simply walked away from partly completed police stations, schools, government buildings and water projects during the past several months without explanation. 
 And in Dhi Qar and Babil Provinces, there are complaints that roads and buildings recently completed by the Americans do not meet basic construction standards. 
 In Hilla, the capital of Babil Province, extensive cracking has been cited in a $7.4 million road built less than a year ago. Reconstruction officials say the cracking is not out of the ordinary and presents no safety hazard.
 ''Since its opening, it has reduced congestion in the capital, made the roads safer by providing an alternative for large trucks to transit and spurred economic development along the new route,'' Robert Wong, an American rebuilding official in the province, wrote in an e-mail message.
 Here in Falluja, in Anbar Province, the sewage treatment system has left some of the city's busiest streets lined with open trenches for more than three years and engendered widespread resentment. The news that it will be left unfinished has provoked anger.
 ''I told the Americans if they want to leave a good impression on Falluja and to erase the bad feelings about the United States from the war, that they should finish this project completely and properly,'' said Hamed Hashim, president of the Falluja city council. ''It was supposed to be finished in two years, then five years, and it still isn't complete. There's been no benefit to us.'' 
 Reconstruction officials say that the project has been hindered by myriad problems, including the area's continuing violence, which has interrupted work for periods of time. 
 The project was conceived to treat waste for all of Falluja's 200,000 residents and to build in additional capacity for the city to grow by 50 percent. 
 But the new, diminished system will serve only 4,300 homes, or about one-sixth of Falluja's population, according to American and Iraqi officials. 
 Further, because both the project's scope and efficiency have been reduced so dramatically, American officials acknowledge that the system may emit a foul odor if it ever does become functional.
 For now, the situation that prompted American officials to give the sewage system top construction priority in 2004 continues to exist: Falluja remains dependent upon septic tanks that leak raw waste into streets and down storm drains and eventually into the Euphrates River, a main source of drinking water in Falluja and cities downstream.
 The Army Corps of Engineers, which is overseeing the project, said the scaled-down version of the system would have only facilities considered essential, including the treatment plant and three pump stations.
 ''I think the project was too ambitious -- and then to transplant it to a war zone,'' Colonel Anninos said. ''It took awhile, but we are on the right track now, and we will leave behind a pretty good legacy once we get commitments from the government to provide fuel and chemicals.''
 But after years of negotiations with the Americans, the Iraqi government has guaranteed neither. As an alternative, American planners said the system might need to rely heavily on backup generators for power, which creates its own set of problems -- including that the treatment plant and pumps will require as much as 250 gallons of fuel each hour to operate in a country where fuel shortages remain commonplace. 
 The project is riddled with other unresolved questions as well, including whether the $3 million American officials had pledged for Iraq to link the system to houses was sufficient: American planners say it is; Iraqi engineers say it is not.
 Four Iraqis have died during construction, including at least one person overcome by toxic fumes, according to workers at the site. Iraqi engineers also say they have complained to Americans about the poor quality of some of the work, but have been ignored.
 There are also concerns about the system's sustainability once American engineers leave. American planners say training for Iraqi engineers to learn to operate and maintain the system would require at least several months, but a proposed yearlong training program has not been financed.
 ''This project was supposed to be a mercy,'' said Ali Abed al-Karim, the owner of a store where an open trench out front prevents most customers from entering. ''But it has been nothing but a curse.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers at a water purification plant outside Falluja, part of a $104 million sewage treatment system that so far has not been connected to a single home.
 The water purification plant, left, and a worker at the plant. American reconstruction officials have decided to leave the system unfinished, though they portray it as a success. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ARMIES (89%); ENGINEERING (88%); ARMED FORCES (88%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); APICULTURE (73%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



77 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; CULTURAL STUDIES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: Hey, Small Spender

BYLINE: By LIESL SCHILLINGER. 
Liesl Schillinger is a frequent contributor to The New York Times.

 BODY:
THE rich are always with us. But sometimes they keep a lower profile than others. In an era of global economic recession -- an unshaven whisker's edge from Depression -- as the unemployment rate in the United States shuffles around 10 percent, as former fat cats like the faux-financier Bernard L. Madoff languish behind bars and as second homes and pleasure boats clot the ''For Sale'' columns of want ads, conspicuous consumption is out. Pitchfork populism is in. The hour of bling has blung. And yet... Bottega Veneta dares to sell tie-dyed T-shirts for $330 each, while Apple has sold three million iPads in 80 days (at $499, minimum) to somebody. Who has the money? Nobody's telling. 
Only a few years ago, ostentation was uncomplicatedly chic. Bottle service, Frette sheets, Kelly bags and corporate accounts were staples, not perks, of the unexamined luxurious lifestyle. But lately, as we read in the July issue of Details magazine, high fliers have moved their revels underground. Jeff Gordinier writes: ''The notion that people have crawled into a bunker stocked with canned beans is a bit of a myth. Pleasure-seeking has stubbornly continued.'' An owner of a high-end personal-concierge company told Mr. Gordinier, ''Unless you unfortunately lost your job, nobody stopped,'' adding, ''People just aren't as in-your-face about it.''
Still, some former big spenders seem to genuinely regret their past excesses and are rushing to eat crow, putting their ortolan-munching days behind them. A recent example is LuAnn de Lesseps, the former Wilhelmina model and countess who appears on the Bravo reality show ''The Real Housewives of New York City.'' Ms. De Lesseps's catchphrase on the program is, ''I never feel guilty about being privileged.'' But the new austerity seems to have pricked her conscience. This spring she released a rock video in which she struts past four boy-toys, picks their pockets, throws their cash to the floor and rasps to a techno beat, ''Money can't buy you class, elegance is learned.'' A fistful of money-wise new books attest to a growing vogue for thrift.
Spent: Memoirs of a Shopping Addict (Little, Brown), by Avis Cardella, is a contrite account of her 30 years as a shopaholic. Ms. Cardella, a magazine writer (and a former hairdresser, model and flight attendant) grew up in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, in the '70s, long before it was gentrified. She bought her first pair of Calvin Klein jeans in 1981 (soon after Brooke Shields modeled them commando-style), and wore them to Studio 54. There she met the first in a series of image-conscious older men who fed her taste for labels and luxe. (Ms. Cardella now lives in Paris with her second husband, who is ''not a shopper.'') She describes her overpowering urge to shop (oniomania is the clinical name, as if it were a sordid crack habit) and called this recently departed era of her life ''my big sleep,'' a trance in which she shopped ''like someone on autopilot.'' She writes: ''I awoke one day to find my closet filled with the right kinds of suits -- Prada, Armani, Calvin Klein, Jil Sander -- and the right kinds of shoes with heart-stabbing heels.'' Her bathroom cabinet contained ''the Laszlo Night Serum, the Creme de la Mer, the regenerating fluid, the Clinique soap, the vitamin C rejuvenating gel.'' Her billfold contained a an array of maxed-out credit cards. She rationalizes, ''I was part of a generation groomed to think nothing of paying on credit, a generation caught up in the whirlwind of instant gratification.''
That generation remains very much alive, though not exactly ''well.'' If you tune in to MTV's ''My Super Sweet 16'' (who can forget Audrey Reyes's tantrum, when her mother chose the wrong moment to give her a Lexus), you'll see that the spending spree hasn't slackened for everybody. And although workers at Goldman Sachs tightened their belts last year, receiving a smaller portion of company earnings than usual for their bonuses, the total still came to $16 billion, leaving none of them scrounging for change. But when people living paycheck-to-paycheck splash out on plastic to buy themselves the material trappings of the rich and famous -- or even the modest comforts of the merely solvent -- their emulation can cost them 18 percent interest or more. As of this spring, two years after the demise of ''irrational exuberance'' on Wall Street, Americans had amassed more than $800 billion in credit card debt. Children whose role model was Kay Thompson's Eloise (the little girl who lived in the Plaza Hotel, and could say ''Charge it,'' before she could do long division), now must pay the bills for their acquisitive fantasies.
These days, Ms. Cardella, her oniomania in remission, is recovering from her protracted buying binge in Paris, aided in her shopping sobriety by her distance from Manhattan's ''candyland of retail opportunities.'' (Warning to Ms. Cardella: keep far, far from the Avenue Montaigne.)
Most people who are reining in their spending lately do so not for reasons of mental health, but because they must. They resemble the character Walter Matthau played in the Elaine May comedy ''A New Leaf'' -- a millionaire who's blown through his inheritance and finds himself suddenly penniless. He takes a melancholy drive in his Ferrari past the landmarks of his past prosperity, mournfully stroking the awning of Lutece, waving goodbye to the racquet club, to his polo ponies, his tailor. His wish is not to reform his spendthrift ways, but to resume his lavish life. He rescues his fortunes by marrying a nerdy, orphaned millionaire. But how can cash-strapped thousand-aires pull through in a marketplace lacking in gullible heiresses and jobs?
Anna Johnson, a cost-conscious magazine writer who lives in Sydney and New York City, provides a program for living liberally under straightened circumstances in her book, Savvy Chic: The Art of More for Less (Avon). Want to travel? Fly coach and stow gourmet teabags in your purse, she urges, because ''there is nothing that makes cramped economy seats better than drinking Mariage Freres tea.'' And forget Paris: try Lviv, Ukraine, which ''offers five-dollar opera every night,'' and looks like Vienna, only with hotel rooms for $25.
Ms. Johnson advises hosts to spare their bottom lines by entertaining friends not with opulent dinners, but with cozy breakfast parties. ''It is festive, intimate, and the most inexpensive way to entertain,'' she writes, adding, ''Anyone who doesn't like scrambled eggs and toasted muffins is the sort of hopeless snob you don't want to know anyway.'' Ms. Johnson also drafts a spirit-boosting letter for readers to tailor to their needs with upbeat headings like '' I Am Not What I Earn,'' ''I Have Dignity'' and ''Plan. Don't Panic.'' She writes, ''Many times when my bank balance goes cold I just freeze, burrowing into a hole of self-pity.'' Rather than weeping on the front stoop, she recommends going for a run. It's good practice for fleeing debt collectors.
A certain portion of the populace may feel guilty satisfaction watching the struggles of our society's aspirational segment to keep climbing as the escalator heads down. These are the no-nonsense people for whom living within their means is second nature. In her practical bargain-shopping guide, Never Pay Retail Again (Gallery), the magazine and television fashion maven Daisy Lewellyn describes how she would journey to Tijuana as a teenager to take advantage of the sales at the Guess outlet. As an adult, she shops for clothes at vintage stores, consignment shops and flea markets, haggling as she goes, and snaps up aviator sunglasses at truck stops. ''Truck drivers need their sun protection, and fashion girls need style,'' she reasons.
But Jeff Yeager, the author of The Cheapskate Next Door: The Surprising Secrets of Americans Living Happily Below Their Means (Broadway), doesn't care how he looks, and wants his book to bring out everyone's ''inner miser.'' Believing that ''money really has very little to do with true happiness,'' he traveled across the country to meet likeminded skinflints, a journey he tracked on his blog, the Green Cheapskate. Everywhere he found contented families who prospered on small incomes. Parsimonious parents -- loving but never lavish -- let their kids know early on that they'd be paying their own way through college. Others made paper from dryer lint or stretched grocery dollars by turning dumpster scraps into canapes. All of them adhered to a strict household budget. The result of Mr. Yeager's wanderings is a compendium of shrewd steps toward financial security that surely would work for anyone capable of obeying his principal rule: ''Figure out what your take-home pay is, and then make it a point to spend less than that every month.''
Wise words, but reading them can provoke the rebellious desire to shout, ''Charge it,'' and face the consequences later. (Particularly if you're someone who has no take-home pay at the moment.) Prosperity, they say, is around the corner. For some, it never left.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 18, 2010, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Cultural Studies column on July 4, about a recent series of books advocating thrift, misstated the name of a show on the Bravo cable network. It is ''The Real Housewives of New York City,'' not ''The Real Wives of New York City.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BUYING SPREE: A scene from the movie ''Confessions of a Shopaholic.'' For some, it's a biopic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT ZUCKERMAN/TOUCHSTONE PICTURES/JERRY BRUCKHEIMER FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (71%); WRITERS (67%); REALITY TELEVISION (63%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (56%); JERRY BRUCKHEIMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



78 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SPOTLIGHT JERSEY CITY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Come for Art, Stay for the Golf

BYLINE: By TAMMY LA GORCE

 BODY:
FOR reasons ranging from fashion to sky-high club fees, artists and golf courses generally don't mix. Miniature golf, however, is a different story, at least in Jersey City. 
 Through Sept. 6, a combination art exhibition/miniature golf course called the Golden Door, presented by the Jersey City Museum and the Liberty National Golf Club, will be open to players of all ages, seven days a week, from 10 a.m. until dusk; a $5 admission ($4 for museum members) at the entrance to the nine-hole outdoor course will benefit the financially strapped museum.
 ''Basically what happened was there was this empty lot'' with no immediate construction plans, ''so the owners contacted the museum,'' said Christina Vassallo, 30, of Brooklyn, the exhibition's curator, referring to the real estate developers Paul and Eric Silverman. ''They said, 'You can use this space. We'd love for you to do something this summer.' ''
 Better still, they had an idea of how the roughly 10,000-square-foot piece of land -- around a quarter of an acre -- might benefit the museum, which recently scaled back its operating hours as a result of financial difficulties.
 Noting that the Montclair Art Museum had a similar exhibition years ago, Ms. Vassallo said, ''The concept isn't unique.''
 But the Golden Door, which opened June 23 in the Hamilton Park neighborhood, is distinctive in being collaborative and theme-specific. Its artists were asked to design holes that make reference to immigration, economic mobility and the obstacles of new citizenship. One hole, for example, features a ramp covered with suitcases.
 In all, six artists from New Jersey and five from New York participated to create the nine holes, plus a bonus hole. (One hole was created by a team of two artists.) The artists worked with Risa Puno, the exhibition's designer, to ensure that their concepts became feasible holes for the course.
 ''We had weeks and months of conversation about this, and the result is this highly visible, high-profile exhibition children and adults can climb all over,'' Ms. Vassallo said.
 ''For such a fun and quirky game, it's a pretty serious exhibition,'' she added. ''If people think, 'Is it a sculpture, or is it a golf hole?,' we feel we've done our job.'' 
 The Golden Door Mini Golf Course is at 232 Pavonia Avenue, Jersey City. Information: jerseycitymuseum.org or (201) 413-0303. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TAKING AIM: A visitor tackles the ''Stairs of Separation'' by the artist Victoria Calabro at the Golden Door, an art exhibit and miniature golf course. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); GOLF (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



79 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Bidder Beware

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IT'S a shareholder's worst nightmare. A company is in play, with two potential acquirers circling it, but the board of directors and others running the enterprise -- who are supposed to snare top dollar for shareholders -- favor bidders who are dangling the biggest rewards for directors and senior executives.
 It is hard to know how often events like these have played out at public companies over the years, given that details surrounding corporate board deliberations are typically kept under wraps.
 But facts turned up in a lawsuit brought by shareholders of Intermix, the parent of the social networking pioneer MySpace, suggest that something like this may have occurred when the News Corporation bought Intermix five years ago. 
 The case, which is being heard by Judge George H. King in United States District Court for the Central District of California, centers on a few days in mid-July 2005 when executives and directors at Intermix were juggling two different suitors: the News Corporation and Viacom. 
 Over the course of a frenzied weekend of deal-making, Intermix sold itself to the News Corporation for $580 million, or $12 a share. Testimony and documents in the case indicate that Viacom was excluded from the bidding process and did not have the opportunity to top the News Corporation offer before Intermix accepted it. 
 In announcing the Intermix deal on July 18, 2005, the News Corporation called MySpace ''the leading lifestyle portal for networking online.'' The News Corporation boasted that during the previous month, more than 8 percent of all Internet advertisements had appeared on the site. 
 The deal closed in September 2005, but Intermix investors sued the company's eight directors in federal court the next year. The suit contended that the board, which included Richard Rosenblatt, Intermix's chief executive, had breached its fiduciary duties to shareholders by selling to the News Corporation when a higher bid from Viacom was imminent. 
 The shareholders also argued that Intermix made five significant omissions in proxy materials that investors relied upon before voting on the deal. Among the omissions, the shareholders contended, was a set of internal financial projections for Intermix extending through 2009. 
 More recently, the directors asked Judge King to throw out the suit; in a June 17 ruling, he declined, allowing much of the case to go forward.
 IN his opinion on the matter, the judge cited evidence and testimony that has emerged in the case. Some of it points to Mr. Rosenblatt favoring the News Corporation bid because he anticipated receiving a big job there if the deal went through.
 In an e-mail message dated Friday, July 15, 2005, and sent to Ross Levinsohn, an executive who would soon head Fox Interactive Media, a newly created unit within the News Corporation, Mr. Rosenblatt rhapsodized: ''So, we create the Fox Internet group, all our units (myspace, alena, grab) fall under it, plus all new acquisitions, and you are CEO Fox Internet and I am Fox Internet grand Puba!!!!'' 
 He also laid out what he expected to get for sacrifices he was making to get the deal done. As excerpted in the judge's written opinion, the e-mail said: ''Am burning some real equity with every major media company by getting [the deal] done. ... u have no idea the pain I will suffer on Monday. U better have a good job for me cause I ain't gonna work in this town again. ...'' 
 Later in the same message, he wrote: ''I would like to discuss my specific role and structure whenever you are ready. It is no rush unless Peter and Rupert want me to sign an employment agreement by Sunday,'' July 17, 2005, he wrote, referencing a former News Corporation executive, Peter Chernin, and, of course, the steward of all things News Corporation, Rupert Murdoch.
 Judge King wrote that evidence in the lawsuit ''raises the inference that Rosenblatt had a strong interest in seeing a merger transaction with News Corp. completed and had made up his mind that Intermix would be sold to News Corp. as of July 13.'' 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Rosenblatt was dodging Viacom's advances, the judge's ruling shows. On July 15, 2005, a female executive from MTV, a Viacom unit, alerted Mr. Rosenblatt that Viacom would produce a bid early the following week. The judge said, ''Rosenblatt replied evasively, failing to correct her mistaken impression that the auction would still be ongoing after Monday.'' 
 Moreover, on Sunday, July 17, Van Toffler, another MTV executive, wrote to Mr. Rosenblatt, telling him that his team was working nonstop to produce a bid. ''Is there anything I can do to help the process for both of us as this is clearly on the fast track?'' Mr. Toffler asked. 
 Mr. Rosenblatt replied that the C.E.O. of MySpace would call Viacom that day if he already hadn't. ''We like you and your guys a ton also,'' Mr. Rosenblatt wrote. 
 Viewed as a whole, Judge King wrote, the evidence indicates that ''there are at least triable issues of fact'' about whether Mr. Rosenblatt acted in good faith or tilted the auction in favor of the News Corporation ''for a purpose other than maximizing shareholder value.''
 A trial might also determine if the rest of the Intermix board improperly put Mr. Rosenblatt in charge of the auction process and then turned a blind eye to his actions, the judge concluded.
 Rick Stone, a partner at Hogan Lovells, represents six Intermix directors, including Mr. Rosenblatt. Mr. Stone said: ''All the directors firmly believe they did absolutely nothing wrong and significantly benefited the shareholders. They look forward to their day in court.'' 
 James N. Kramer, a partner at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe who represents the two other Intermix directors, said: ''I have absolute confidence that when we get in front of a jury they will find the board did an exceptional job and that this was an extraordinary result for the shareholders of Intermix.'' 
 But G. William Kennedy, a financial expert hired by the plaintiffs in the case, estimated that Intermix was worth $22.50 to $26 a share at the time of the buyout. A competing bidder would have likely agreed to pay as much as $300 million more than the News Corporation did, the expert said. Using a cash-flow analysis, the expert witness concluded that Intermix shareholders suffered economic damages in the News Corporation bid of $506 million to $667 million. 
 As is typical in merger deals, the News Corporation indemnified the Intermix directors from lawsuits when it took over the company. It may therefore be responsible for damages if the plaintiffs win the case. 
 A News Corporation spokeswoman declined to comment about the ruling or the company's potential liabilities.
 RANDALL BARON, a partner at Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd who represents the Intermix shareholders, said: ''This is a warning as to what can happen when directors are not minding the store. It would be karmic justice for News Corp. to actually have to pay shareholders what the company was worth.'' 
 A postscript: The News Corporation did not hire Mr. Rosenblatt after the deal was done, except as a consultant. Internet Grand Poobah status was not meant to be.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Rosenblatt was the chief executive of Intermix. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM WHITE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (BU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (69%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); EVIDENCE (68%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (64%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); FOX INTERACTIVE MEDIA INC (60%); VIACOM INC (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (60%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (60%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



80 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1881 words

HEADLINE: The Great Rupture

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
IN a musty coffee shop in the suburbs of Portland, Ore., a dozen people occupying scruffy couches peer into laptop computers, their screens casting a blue glow across pasty faces. They scroll through online job listings, availing themselves of free Wi-Fi, as they pass another drizzly afternoon in the temporary office of the age.
 You run across this scene in town after town these days, from doughnut shops tucked into strip malls in Charlotte to vegan cafes in Austin. It has become commonplace, along with possessions piled curbside in front of foreclosed homes. Here is gloomy evidence of a national hunger for paychecks, fresh sign of the everyday calamity coloring much of the American experience.
And yet the same scene suggests the endurance of a psychic strength that Americans like to claim for ourselves, at least in the mythologized version of our history: Hard times create a collective response. The worst economic downturn since the Depression, its depth underscored by weak job numbers released Friday, has turned coffee shops into grassroots unemployment offices. People exchange tips on who is hiring and where to post resumes. They watch one another's belongings. They share limited electrical outlets, rationing resources in the sort of mutually beneficial fashion that typically eludes elected representatives in Washington. 
 Over the past three years, as I have explored the downturn's consequences in hard-hit areas of the country from the Pacific Northwest to South Florida, I have been struck again and again by the contradictions at play, competing visions of division and solidarity. Two hundred and thirty-four years into an American experiment launched in the name of the common good, it often feels, to me on the road, as if a battle is underway for the nation's identity, a jockeying over the values that will govern whatever follows the Great Recession.
 A great many people have lost faith in powerful institutions, from Congress to Goldman Sachs. Yet beneath the bitterness coloring national affairs -- down at the level of neighborhood, family, coffee shop, tavern -- a tenuous belief in the collective good remains, perhaps moderating national dismay.
 Who are we? This question has grown resonant as Americans try to secure satisfying answers for themselves, reclaiming identities stripped by the downturn. The recession turned creditworthy homeowners into delinquents and commuting professionals into the jobless.
 ''I just want to get my life back.'' Different versions of this sentence have landed frequently in my notebook -- in Cleveland, where a former homeowner told me of camping in her car after she lost the place to foreclosure; in Newton, Iowa, where a man who had earned middle-class wages turning steel into refrigerators broke into tears as he described his inability to provide medical care for a sick child after he lost his job; in Portland, where an unemployed marketing executive struggled to imagine how she would send her teenage daughter to college.
 Another regular notebook entry: ''I never saw myself as the sort of person who would land on public assistance.'' So said a laid-off sales clerk in Tucson who was thinking about applying for welfare. She echoed a former mortgage consultant now frying bacon bits at a Red Robin restaurant in Northern California.
 So much is so clearly in disarray that disaster seems almost banal. In front of vacant Southern California strip malls that once held furniture showrooms and mortgage offices, people in gorilla suits wave signs at passing cars, advertising the lone growth industry: CASH FOR GOLD. In Phoenix, freeway billboards advertise BANKRUPTCY BY PHONE, the expunging of debt apparently as unexceptional as ordering a pizza.
 In Boise, Idaho, Elias Campos, a laid-off carpenter, remembers getting a call from his bank last year promising to lower his credit card's interest rate. He just needed to provide a recent paycheck. ''I say, 'Well, I don't have one.' ''
 In Cape Coral, Fla., where irrepressible marketing aimed to turn hundreds of miles of canals into a modern-day Venice on the Gulf of Mexico, a sign updated the story: PRICELESS REALTY, FORECLOSURES.
 Foreclosed homes so fully dominate local offerings that agents have organized bus tours devoted to buying such properties. The mere existence of that enterprise underscores how badly the American proclivity for development has led the economy astray, while also affirming the sheer ingenuity of that proclivity.
 Americans are prone to excess. This much seems inarguable now. We are prone to buying into toxic fantasies -- the unfathomable wealth offered up by the New Economy; the unlimited rewards of real estate. Yet we are pragmatists and opportunists, in the best and worst senses, a people inclined to turn the remains of past folly into something better.
 You see this in the once-forsaken downtowns of major American cities, a realm that has improved in reaction to the wasteful reach toward suburbia. Denver may be synonymous with Western sprawl, yet old brick warehouses downtown have lately been transformed into condos and eateries clustered around one of the loveliest ballparks in the land.
 In Detroit, city leaders talk of razing whole neighborhoods lost to decline, while seizing on an opportunity to re-imagine the place. Urban villages may be linked by bicycle paths, elevating the role of two-wheeled transport in a city whose development (and subsequent unraveling) has long been tethered to the auto industry.
 In Toledo, Ohio, a city that grew by making glass for the auto industry, factories are shifting into something with a potentially more lucrative future: manufacturing solar panels.
 Faith in huge institutions oft-implicated in recent misfortune -- the Federal Reserve, credit rating agencies -- has clearly eroded. Yet in many communities, smaller institutions are taking matters into their own hands.
 In Columbia, S.C., the police got tired of trouble at houses abandoned to foreclosure: teenagers drinking, vagrants camping out. They wearied of trying to persuade the legal owners -- banks in Seattle and New York -- to clean up the mess. So they went in themselves with plywood and nail guns, boarding up the strongest magnets for activity.
 In San Mateo, Calif., near San Francisco, an aid organization called Samaritan House recognized that people were turning up at homeless shelters simply because they could no longer pay rent. The agency began handing out rent contributions. Later, the federal government began its own program, generating fresh funds.
 On a March afternoon, Sameh Girgis arrived at Samaritan House to apply. A gentle man of 50 with a warm glow to his cheeks, he earned a master's degree in mathematics in Egypt. He was sheepish about asking for a handout, but the alternatives included the street. A taxi driver now with too few fares, he was behind on his $950-a-month rent.
 Mr. Girgis considered a homeless shelter. But he was raising a 16-year-old daughter alone, his wife having died of cancer.
 ''If it's by myself, I don't care,'' Mr. Girgis said. ''The problem is, I have a teenager. She wants to have a shower. She needs to clean herself. I love my daughter. She's all my life.''
 The details of his life were not easily contained within the boxes on the forms the federal government required.
 ''What's your race?'' a caseworker asked Mr. Girgis, who considers himself Egyptian.
 ''What's that mean?'' he said. ''I'm black? I'm white? I don't know.''
 ''Are you a veteran?''
 ''In my country,'' he said. ''I was an officer.''
 Current housing?
 ''A one-bedroom apartment,'' Mr. Girgis said. The neighborhood was infested by gangs. His daughter slept in the bedroom, he on a fold-out in the living room.
 ''Does the apartment have a pool?'' the caseworker asked, and Mr. Girgis's face now brightened with amusement. Did it have a recreation room? A fireplace?
 ''No,'' he said, elongating the word, absorbing the cheap pleasure of irony.
 Such questions could only be dreamed up by a faraway bureaucracy, not someone seated in front of him, taking in the sight of his sweat-stained T-shirt, his exhausted mien. He and his case worker sorted it out, securing a check to his landlord for a month's rent.
 But in some communities, the downturn has torn at the social fabric, heightening divisions. At a job center in Orange County, Calif., six people gathered early this year to discuss the looming expiration of their unemployment benefits. Most had worked in the white-collar world. One had been a stockbroker with a $250,000 annual income. Another had earned $60,000 a year as an executive assistant at a Jaguar dealership. Several were homeowners. Nearly everyone agreed that illegal immigrants deserved much of the blame for their failure to land another job.
 What sorts of jobs had they been seeking?
 ''I would take a gardening job,'' said a 58-year-old woman who had earned $24 an hour as an office manager. ''I would clean toilets if I could, but I can't take that job. Millions of people in California are illegal and they're taking our jobs.''
 A long list of factors went into explaining what had happened to the American economy so that former professionals conversant in spreadsheets and mutual funds were now chagrined to be denied the opportunity to scrub toilets. To a student of macroeconomics, the arrival of illegal immigrants seemed far down the list, somewhere after weak long-term job growth and the near collapse of the financial system.
 But to unemployed people trying to divine a cause through the miasmatic haze of their own situations, the presence of illegal immigrants was the explanation they could see most clearly. You could spot them on street corners, waiting for work. You could see them crammed into rental homes, or hear their music blaring from pickup trucks. Joblessness was disorienting. Illegal immigrants formed the only putative cause that lived next door.
 And yet to travel the United States in this age of insecurity, with the basic bargain of middle-class life seemingly under assault, is to marvel at the persistence of faith in some larger system; belief that hard work must be rewarded, if only out of common decency.
 At a Duane Reade drugstore on Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn, an African-American cashier in his early 20s working the night shift complained that he and his coworkers had not been told in advance that the chain had decided to sell itself to Walgreen's. ''We didn't even hear about it until it was on the news,'' he said, sounding hurt.
 Companies today change hands like poker chips at a casino, in response to millionaire investment bankers indulging words like ''synergy.'' Low-wage workers are generally no harder to acquire or unload than a crate of paper towels. Yet despite all that, despite economic dysfunction and narrow corporate interests, this young man was aggrieved because he had assumed something else: an almost familial relationship with his employer, a bond of mutual concern.
 It was hard to know whether to feel sad in the face of this sentiment --pained that a pawn in a larger drama saw himself as important enough to warrant inclusion -- or perhaps inspired that even at the lowest depths of the American workforce, faith in a shared enterprise remains.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL KLINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (WK1)
Antonio Moore of San Mateo, Calif., once a $75,000-a-year consultant, now earns $10 an hour.
In Colorado, a ''Job Hunters Boot Camp'' set up by a congressman drew hundreds.
An Arizona woman moved in with her aunt in Missouri
a California agency helps people stay in homes.
A bus tours foreclosed homes in Florida, and a car has become a Cleveland woman's home.
An eviction team removes belongings from a foreclosed home in Aurora, Colo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP: JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
SECOND FROM TOP: JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES
CENTER, LEFT: STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CENTER, RIGHT: JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
SECOND FROM BOTTOM, LEFT: RICHARD PERRY, THE NEW YORK TIMES
SECOND FROM BOTTOM, RIGHT: DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BOTTOM: JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) (WK4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEPHEN DOYLE) (WK1)
CHARTS: How They're Hurting: A Rutgers survey of 1,200 jobless last year found most suffered from financial strain, depression and low expectations. Seven months later, in March, about three-quarters were re-surveyed. Just 21 percent had jobs
67 percent were still looking
12 percent had given up. Below, more numbers from the March survey, with photographs of locales around the country, whose subjects were not included in the poll.
Sacrifices to Find Work: One in five of those jobless in 2009 found work by March 2010. Of those re-employed:
The Emotional Toll: Of those who remained jobless:
The Financial Toll: Of those who remained jobless:
 Who Found Work (Source: Heldrich Center for Work Force Development, Rutgers University/Knowledge Networks) (WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RECESSION (88%); VEGETARIAN RESTAURANTS (78%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); FORECLOSURE (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); RETAIL BAKERIES (73%); RETAILERS (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (72%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



81 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SPOTLIGHT BELLMORE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: A Film Festival With Repeat Showings

BYLINE: By AILEEN JACOBSON

 BODY:
The Long Island International Film Expo, now in its 13th year, is welcoming back at least 15 filmmakers who have previously shown their work at the festival, which will run July 8 to 18 at the Bellmore Movies. It will include panels, parties and the screening of 156 films, including 37 from filmmakers with a connection to Long Island and 38 foreign films from 19 countries. 
 Debra Markowitz, the festival's director, said the number of returning filmmakers was growing. ''We're very filmmaker-friendly and go the extra mile,'' including getting distributors to attend, said Ms. Markowitz, who is also director of the Nassau County Film Office, which co-sponsors the festival with the Long Island Film/TV Foundation.
 Stevan Mena, who grew up in Westbury and now lives in Bellport, said that after his first film, a horror movie called ''Malevolence,'' was named best feature at the 2003 expo, ''I got a distribution deal, and it was in theaters in 2004. That made my career.''
 He is back this year with ''Bereavement,'' a prequel to his first film, about a serial killer of young women who abducts a 6-year-old boy to witness his crimes. Unlike his initial shoestring venture, the new movie, to premiere July 16, is a multimillion-dollar production, he said, which has had ''six companies battling to distribute it.''
 Rick Bieber also is back with his second feature, ''The 5th Quarter,'' which he wrote, directed and produced. He said Ms. Markowitz has ''always been extremely generous'' in helping his career. The first movie he wrote and directed, ''Crazy,'' won best feature in 2008.
 His new film, a $6 million production based on a true story, already has a distributor, said Mr. Bieber, a graduate of Plainedge High School and Hofstra University who lives in Los Angeles. It stars Andie MacDowell and Aidan Quinn as parents of a son killed in an auto accident. Another son, wearing his brother's jersey number, helps lead Wake Forest University's football team to its most successful season. ''The 5th Quarter'' is the opening night film on Friday.
 The festival is about the same size as the one last year, though only 400 films were submitted, compared with 450 last year. ''This year the economy caught up with filmmakers,'' Ms. Markowitz said.
 New this year are two free panels, one hosted by a group called Directors 'n' Actors, the other by New York Women in Film and Television. There will also be the usual question-and-answer sessions with filmmakers after screenings, panels on film distribution and scriptwriting, an opening reception, a breakfast with filmmakers and a closing ceremony, which honors the actor Armand Assante.
 The Long Island International Film Expo runs July 8 to 18 at the Bellmore Movies, 222 Pettit Avenue, Bellmore. Tickets, $7 to $60. For more information: (516) 783-3199 longislandfilm.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'THE 5TH QUARTER': Andie MacDowell and Aidan Quinn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); HORROR FILMS (73%); HOMICIDE (71%); MURDER (71%); WOMEN (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



82 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: Living History at National Landmarks

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH, JOHN LELAND, KATHARINE Q. SEELYE, and MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
Bunker Hill Monument Championing an Unsung Hero
 BOSTON -- Richard Tourangeau, a veteran ranger at the Bunker Hill Monument, dutifully answers a daily torrent of questions about the famous battle that unfolded there. But he would much rather talk about Sarah Josepha Hale.
Mrs. Hale was a 19th-century magazine editor who wrote ''Mary Had a Little Lamb,'' lobbied to make Thanksgiving a national holiday and made sure the 221-foot obelisk that commemorates the Battle of Bunker Hill got built. She is something of an obsession for Mr. Tourangeau, below, a blunt 63-year-old who sent red roses to Mrs. Hale's grave on her birthday last year.
 ''It's mind-boggling what this woman was able to do,'' Mr. Tourangeau said last week from his post beside the monument, whose spiral staircase leads 294 steps up to a heady view of Boston and its harbor, though it will close this summer for repairs.
 Mr. Tourangeau is not one for climbing those stairs; when he is not relaying highlights of the 1775 battle -- how the British won, for example, and that bit about the whites of their eyes -- he seeks to shine a light on Mrs. Hale. 
 The partly built monument was languishing, and the men behind it were out of cash, when Mrs. Hale stepped in. It was 1840, and her magazine, Godey's Lady's Book, was a national sensation.
 Mrs. Hale, whom Mr. Tourangeau calls ''Oprah and Martha Stewart combined,'' organized a giant craft fair at Quincy Market, exhorting readers to donate to help get the obelisk built. They did, and the fair raised over $30,000, more than enough to get the project moving again and finished by 1843.
 Mr. Tourangeau bristles at the oft-repeated tale -- ''So ridiculous,'' he said -- that the $30,000 came from a bake sale. Refreshments were sold, he said, but they brought only a fraction of the profit.
 ''I had to convince some of the bus tour guides to stop talking that up,'' he said. ''It's kind of a put-down, really. Like, 'Oh, women can only bake.' ''
 Like Fenway Park and Faneuil Hall, Bunker Hill is a must-see for Boston tourists. They came in droves the other day: children in tricorn hats, a high school group from Oregon and a tour group on Segways, to name a few. But Mr. Tourangeau, who has worked for the National Park Service here for 26 years, is selective in mentioning Mrs. Hale.
 ''You've got to know who you're talking to,'' he said, conceding that his passion glazes the eyes of battle fanatics. Get him started, though -- mentioning the bake sale is a sure way -- and you might find yourself rapt.
 ''Sarah was an amazing person from any perspective,'' Mr. Tourangeau said. ''She's got to get her due.'' ABBY GOODNOUGH 
 Gettysburg National Military Park Casino Plan at Center of Modern-Day Battle
 GETTYSBURG, Pa. -- This weekend for the 23rd consecutive year, Union re-enactors will defeat their Confederate counterparts here, commemorating the Civil War's bloodiest battle and Americans' continuing fascination with military dress and retro facial hair.
 At the end of three days of fighting, on July 3, 1863, nearly 8,000 soldiers were dead and Gen. Robert E. Lee ended his invasion of the North.
 But the new battle of Gettysburg, fought with lawyers and news releases rather than muskets, is being waged over a proposal to open a casino near the battlefield.
 On Wednesday, 277 historians, including the Pulitzer Prize winners James McPherson and Garry Wills, sent a letter to the state gambling board opposing the application by Mason-Dixon Resort & Casino to bring 600 slot machines and 50 table games to an existing hotel a half-mile from the battlefield's southern edge. Five years ago the board rejected the company's more ambitious plan to build a larger casino. But like many Civil War battles, this one appears unlikely to die.
 ''In my gut, I feel Gettysburg and casino are two words that don't belong together,'' said Mindy Crawford, executive director of Preservation Pennsylvania, a nonprofit group. But she said that many local residents favored the casino because they think it will bring jobs to the area, where unemployment rose to 8.5 percent in May.
 ''If you build a casino, they will come,'' said David La Torre, a spokesman for the developer, who said the casino would create 350 jobs and would not be visible from the 6,000-acre national park.
 ''We're being targeted by a small group of opponents who are making it a national issue to intimidate the gaming board,'' Mr. La Torre said. ''It's very easy nationally for people to sweep in and say it's a bad idea. But it's five miles from the center of the battlefield.''
 Among visitors to the historic site last week, opinion ran decisively against the casino.
 Across the street from a store window showing Civil War statuettes and novelty underwear, Tim Daniel, 44, called Gettysburg ''the most hallowed ground in America'' and said a casino would dishonor the site. Mr. Daniel, of San Diego, has come to Gettysburg for 12 consecutive summers. This year his son, Brodee, 8, was cast in the re-enactment to carry the flag for the Confederate Gen. George E. Pickett, whose disastrous charge on the battle's third day left thousands dead.
 ''General Pickett asked him,'' Mr. Daniel said with pride. ''He's turned down sports to do this.'' JOHN LELAND
 The Liberty Bell A Tourist Favorite, Especially Its Flaws
 PHILADELPHIA -- Its surface is pockmarked. Carbuncles sprout from its sides. When it was cast, hot metal oozed down and hardened in a misshapen molten mass near the lip. It has not rung in more than 150 years. And, of course, it is cracked.
 Still, the Liberty Bell attracts 5.2 million visitors a year, about 8,000 every day during the summer; 12,000 are expected on Sunday, the Fourth of July.
 For many visitors, the focal point is the jagged crack. They gape and pose in front of it, rotating in and out for photos as if choreographed in an endless ''Project Runway.''
 To Eric Gantwerk, 41, visiting the other day from South Carolina, too much attention is paid to the gash and not enough to the bell's history.
 ''The crack is like the hot fudge on a sundae,'' Mr. Gantwerk said. ''Everyone really wants the hot fudge, but if you're not eating the ice cream, you're missing out.''
 Wittiker Schlauch, 11, visiting from Houston, did not feel he was missing out. ''I think the crack is cool,'' he said, thinking ahead to where it may lead.
 ''They may have to reforge that part of the bell if the crack gets too serious,'' Wittiker added, ''or the bell might break apart.''
 Which raises the question: If the bell were reforged, would it still be the Liberty Bell? And since it has already been recast twice, both times to try to improve the sound, is this the real thing?
 Yes, says Karie Diethorn, above, chief curator for Independence National Historical Park, which oversees three million artifacts, only one of which is the iconic bell.
 In each recasting, the same metal was used, Ms. Diethorn said, which contributed to the ''metal fatigue'' that caused the crack in the first place. She likened the process to rolling out dough for a pie.
 ''Every time you handle the dough, you weaken the elasticity,'' she said. Two laser scans of the bell in the last six years have revealed that the recasting has taken a toll.
 No one knows exactly when this third casting cracked. But in 1846, it was ''fixed'' by removing metal from both sides of the crack, creating a one-inch-wide, 23-inch-long gap that is now perceived as the crack but is actually the repair. The real concern is a hairline fracture above it.
 Ms. Diethorn offered this ominous bit of news: ''The bell hasn't finished cracking.''
 Still, the National Park Service turns down those who periodically offer to patch it up.
 ''We say, 'Gee, thanks, but no thanks,' '' Ms. Diethorn said. ''The crack is essential to the bell's identity, a representation of the flawed yet strong nation.'' KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 
 Ronald Reagan Birthplace 2 Towns Claim Reagan as Their Favorite Son
 TAMPICO, Ill. -- Visitors climbed a steep staircase here the other day and crowded into a second-floor apartment-turned-museum. This was the simple bedroom where Ronald Reagan's mother gave birth to him.
 Here was the neighbors' window he was handed through when the Reagans needed a baby sitter. Out another window, across Main Street in this western Illinois village of 800, was the store where the future president's father sold shoes.
 For all but the most studious Reagan followers, though, there comes a moment of confusion. Was he truly from here or was he from Dixon (a city 30 minutes away and almost 20 times as big)?
 In that town, on the very same day, visitors were touring a different home-turned-museum -- a grander one, in truth, complete with an admission fee, a film and a sculpture of Reagan.
 The answer seems simple enough -- Tampico was his birth town, and Dixon was where he lived from age 9 -- but, in a way, the question looms larger. What is home anyway?
 Tampico advocates say a birthplace is finite, while Dixon fans say his ''formative years,'' making friends and working as a lifeguard, happened there. If this all sounds like fodder for a tussle between towns, particularly now as all involved are planning for the 100th anniversary next February of Reagan's birth, it certainly is a polite one.
 ''People go to Dixon first,'' acknowledged Joan Johnson, volunteer coordinator of the Tampico museum. ''It's not as far off the beaten path.'' When Ms. Johnson gets caught up in the Tampico-Dixon question, she said others calm her with a reminder: ''This is Bethlehem. That is Nazareth.''
 But for the Reagans, there were actually other homes, too. Many. Between Tampico and Dixon, the family stayed in Monmouth, Galesburg and elsewhere. In Dixon alone, though there is one official boyhood home museum, there were actually four other Reagan family homes.
 Even here in Tampico, down the street from the apartment where Reagan was born, away from the R and B Dutch Diner, through Ronald Reagan Park, Marti Wood was riding a lawnmower outside the house her family has owned for decades. When the former president was about 4 months old, people here agree, the family moved here, a place that now bears its own, less-polished sign: 1911-1914 Ronald Reagan Boyhood Home.
 Ms. Wood has another sign outside, too: FOR SALE. She is hoping for at least $150,000, she said, so that someone can transform this into a museum. ''This is history,'' Ms. Wood said.
 So far, no takers. MONICA DAVEY 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUNKER HILL MONUMENT: A park ranger here credits Sarah Josepha Hale with this obelisk's completion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
GETTYSBURG NATIONAL MILITARY PARK: Some are worried that a plan for a casino in the area would harm the Civil War flavor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KALIM BHATTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE LIBERTY BELL: Some 5.2 million visitors find themselves admiring the Liberty Bell every year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 RONALD REAGAN BIRTHPLACE: Joe Wulff of North Canton, Ohio, visited Reagan's birthplace in Tampico, Ill. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); HISTORY (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); THANKSGIVING (71%); FUNDRAISING (68%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (64%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (74%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



83 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: China's Daughter

BYLINE: By STACY SCHIFF. 
Stacy Schiff's new book, ''Cleopatra: A Life,'' will be published in November.

 BODY:
PEARL BUCK IN CHINA
 Journey to ''The Good Earth''
 By Hilary Spurling
 Illustrated. 304 pp. Simon & Schuster. $27
 In 1929, an American woman traveled from her home in China to settle her severely impaired daughter in a New Jersey institution. She did so with borrowed money, as she could not afford the fees. The parting was excruciating; she was, she recalled, ''nearly destroyed by grief and fear.'' The house felt empty on her return to Nanjing, but she knew precisely what to do: ''This I decided was the time to begin really to write.''
 While her younger daughter was at nursery school, she chained herself every morning -- another madwoman in the attic -- to a battered typewriter. (The 9-year-old she left in America had made a sport of flinging porridge and dirt at the keys.) She felt her story already formed, at the tips of her fingers, and so it must have been: Five months later, a completed manuscript sailed to America. Published in 1931, ''The Good Earth'' spent two years at the top of the best-seller list and won its author a Pulitzer Prize. Pearl Buck later became the first American woman to win a Nobel for literature. 
 Buck lived in interesting times, and in interesting places. The child of a Presbyterian missionary to China, she grew up amid bandits, beggars, lepers, typhoons, floods, rebellions, famine, sinister mobs, marauding soldiers, opium clouds. Hers was a fairy-tale childhood of the bleak and semi-tragic variety. Before her birth, her mother had lost a child each to dysentery, cholera, malaria. As Pearl explored the backyard, she stumbled upon tiny limbs and mutilated hands, the remains of infant daughters left to die. ''Where other little girls constructed mud pies,'' Hilary Spurling writes evenly, ''Pearl made miniature grave mounds.'' She was 8 years old before she saw running water.
 Buck's father, Absalom Sydenstricker, was a fanatical man with a healthy martyr complex, ''proud of his ability to whip up quarrels with himself at the center.'' Daily he ventured out to save souls. Daily he was spit upon, cursed, stoned in the street. He produced few converts but plenty of frustration. While he devoted himself to God, Buck's mother gave herself over to grief and rage. It did not help that her husband never really believed that women had souls, or that the Chinese were people. Money was tight, the more so as Sydenstricker refused to spend any on his wife or daughters. There was every reason why young Pearl should throw herself into the pages of Dickens, her narcotic of choice and her sole link to the Anglo-Saxon world. Well before she was 10 she determined to be a novelist, as enchanted by ancient Chinese epics as by the Western canon, of which she made quick work. For a period of her childhood she reread all of Dickens annually.
 A blond-haired, blue-eyed Chinese girl, Pearl grew up an oddity and remained one. She had no place in the colonial caste system of her adopted country. English was her second language; even as an adult she thought in Chinese. In 1910, she enrolled as a freshman at Randolph-Macon Woman's College in Virginia. Everything about her was wrong, from the cut of her jacket to the braids down her back. ''Girls came in groups to stare at me,'' she remembered a half-century later. As alien as she seemed to it, Randolph-Macon must have felt like a cloister to her; she was fresh from a volunteer job teaching ex-brothel workers and sex slaves.
 She drew crowds again after her marriage in 1917 to John Lossing Buck, an American agricultural economist stationed in China. With him she ventured into the interior of the country, the first white woman the villagers had seen. They mobbed around her, peeped under her doors, tore at the sides of her sedan chair. Much from those trips would, Spurling notes in ''Pearl Buck in China,'' ''be absorbed and distilled a decade later in the magical opening sequence of 'The Good Earth.''' For Lossing, Buck cooked without running water or heat or light. And with Lossing, she went to seed. As the marriage dissolved, the Bucks endured several exiles, including a hair-raising one in 1927 when Nationalist soldiers drove them as refugees to Japan. The house to which they would return was in shambles; its kitchen had served as a stable. Buck set about restoring it to order. Throughout these pages she does an astonishing amount of housework.
 Her wrenching trip to America with her daughter, and its improbable aftermath, occur more than three-quarters of the way through this sparkling biography. Spurling's is very much the story of what turned an American missionary's daughter into a writer; of how literature is extracted from life; of what a woman (and a mother) must do to perform that operation; of what fueled Buck's astonishing output (39 novels, 25 works of nonfiction, short stories, children's books, translations and countless magazine articles). The American years and the fate of ''The Good Earth'' mostly fall outside Spurling's purview, which is just as well: the end is not a pretty one, as opulent and disillusioning as the early years were indigent and fantastical. (You really don't want to hear about the white mink or the limo with the silver-monogrammed door.) A revelation to America, ''The Good Earth'' would be an embarrassment to China, which banned it. Like many political innocents, Buck caused her share of dust-ups. Accused in the United States of being a Communist, she was denounced by the Communist Chinese as an imperialist. Time magazine banned her from its pages. China forbade her return, with Nixon, in 1972.
 From her evangelical childhood Buck emerged with an abiding faith in the power of fiction. She also subscribed to a selective amnesia: ''I have the habit of forgetting what I do not care to remember,'' she conceded. (Nor did she believe in reading over what she had written. That was what husbands were for.) There was plenty to obliterate, from the Boxer Rebellion to the years Buck lived in the same house with her feuding father and husband, as well as two small children, one of them compromised. The amnesia also came in handy on the page: her portrait of her mother reads, Spurling notes, ''more like a biography of the Statue of Liberty than an actual human being.''
 The author of widely praised biographies of Henri Matisse and Sonia Orwell, Spurling is left to contend not only with a great body of Buck's unreliable autobiographical works, but also with a dearth of documentary evidence and an absence of intimates. Working within those confines, she has fashioned an extraordinary portrait, rich in detail, ambitious in scope, with a vast historical backdrop that informs but never overwhelms its remarkable subject. Precisely and vividly she restores the ordeals Buck preferred to forget. There were a great number of them, both before and after the seismic publication of ''The Good Earth.'' Unsurprisingly, Buck's marriage would fall apart. More surprisingly, she would fall in love with and marry her publisher. The girl who collected mutilated body parts would, late in life, adopt four additional children, then three more.
 Spurling makes no outsize claims for Buck, who was prescient about China's ascent as early as 1925. Nor does she make great claims for Buck's work, with the exception of ''Fighting Angel,'' a life of her father, which Spurling believes ''has the makings of a 20th-century classic.'' Throughout her gripping account, Spurling's touch is sure, light and nuanced. Generally she acknowledges the ''heavy, cumbersome, potentially toxic baggage'' Buck carried with her but leaves us to unpack it. We are to connect the dots between the boorish husband and the fictional scenes of marital rape; the doctrinaire father and Buck's fierce aversion to racism, sexism and, for that matter, missionaries. Vested early on in the power of narrative, Buck waged her own battle against ignorance and superstition, powerfully bridging two cultures that seemed mutually incomprehensible. In effect, she turned her father's mission on its head.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM THE NEW YORK TIMES PHOTO ARCHIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); TYPHOONS (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (69%); TROPICAL DISEASES (68%); BESTSELLERS (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); OPIUM (64%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JIANGSU, CHINA (58%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Pearl Buck in China: Journey to ''The Good Earth'' (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



84 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: The Choices That Pay Us Back

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank is an economist at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.

 BODY:
IT'S been a banner summer for the champions of fiscal austerity. 
 At the recent Group of 20 conference in Toronto, for example, world leaders solemnly pledged to enact big spending cuts over the next several years. In Washington, deficit hawks in the Senate blocked an extension of benefits for the long-term unemployed. And at the state and local levels, revenue shortfalls have activated balanced-budget requirements, forcing extensive layoffs and spending cuts.
 But as the nation struggles to emerge from the most severe downturn since the Great Depression, such cuts are the last thing we need. There is no conflict -- absolutely none -- between our twin goals of putting the economy back on its feet and reducing long-term deficits. On the contrary, government could take many steps that would serve both goals simultaneously. 
 For example, it could create a program to restructure consumer debt. Although rates on 10-year Treasury bonds are only about 3 percent, many consumers still carry tens of thousands of dollars of credit card debt at 20 percent or more. This burden has been a continuing drag on spending. The federal government could reduce it by borrowing at 3 percent and lending to consumers at 8 percent under a one-time debt-restructuring plan. 
 With their debt service payments cut by more than half, consumers could increase spending immediately. And the five-percentage-point spread on money lent under the program would help cover its administrative costs, and maybe even relieve short-run government budget pressure.
 (Banks might complain, but because the money owed to them would be repaid in full, and because they insist that their high interest rates barely cover their costs, such complaints would ring hollow.) 
 Another useful measure would be a carbon tax -- or its approximate equivalent, a cap-and-trade system -- scheduled for a gradual phase-in after the economy has again reached full employment. This would stimulate an immediate, huge jump in private investment without the government having to spend a penny. 
 Why? Investment is currently depressed because companies can already produce much more than people want to buy. But once a carbon tax was announced, the design of nearly every existing machine or structure that uses or produces energy would be rendered suddenly obsolete. Motor vehicle engines, electric power plants, refrigerators, air-conditioners, furnaces -- all would have to be redesigned for greater efficiency. 
 The resulting flood of research and investment would enhance our ability to cope with future energy shortages and would serve another crucial purpose. Taxing carbon could eliminate the catastrophic risk of vastly rising global temperatures by the end of this century; it would be a prudent act, quite apart from its utility as an economic stimulus. 
 The tax would generate no revenue until its phase-in, so it wouldn't reduce the current deficit. But deficits are a long-run problem, and its enactment alone would increase creditors' confidence that we are committed to solving it.
 Another productive measure would be to increase public investment in infrastructure. When road repairs are deferred for just two to three years, total maintenance expenses can more than double -- even if we ignore the cost of accidents and vehicle damage caused by potholes. Spending an extra dollar now to save two dollars three years from now is an investment with an annual rate of return of more than 18 percent.
 Making that investment with money borrowed at 3 percent would not only put people to work immediately, but would also help balance government budgets. And after decades of infrastructure neglect, there are many other public investment opportunities that promise returns even higher than 18 percent. 
 Here's a final example, which I've long advocated: The government could enact a progressive surtax on extremely high levels of consumption, with a phase-in beginning once the economy recovers. This would reduce long-run deficits while stimulating extra spending immediately. And, like the other examples, it would be a step worth taking even apart from those effects.
 Because incomes of the wealthy have been growing sharply in recent decades, luxury consumption has also been rising rapidly. But beyond a certain point, additional consumption raises the bar that defines what counts as adequate, without any increase in objective measures of well-being. And because savings would be untouched by this surtax, it would help steer resources away from keep-up-with-the-Joneses spending races and into productive investment. That would increase productivity growth. 
 Under a consumption surtax, people would report their incomes and their annual savings to the I.R.S., as many now do for tax-exempt retirement accounts. A household's annual consumption would be calculated as the difference between its income and savings. Congress might apply the surtax only to annual consumption beyond $500,000.
 THE resulting revenue would reduce deficits after the phase-in. In the meantime, just the knowledge that the surtax was on the way would stimulate a temporary surge in consumption, as wealthy families rushed to build additions to their mansions and make other purchases before the tax took effect.
 In short, the government could take many steps that immediately bolster spending and employment, while also addressing deficit worries. But that's not where we appear to be headed, as big spending cuts are being proposed in the name of fiscal responsibility. 
 But as almost 10 percent of the labor force remains unemployed, such cuts would instead be the height of fiscal irresponsibility.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (84%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (72%); BONDS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (64%); POWER PLANTS (60%); LAYOFFS (58%); TREASURY SECURITIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



85 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: The Hamptons For Procrastinators

BYLINE: By SARAH MASLIN NIR

 BODY:
SUMMER is in full swing in the Hamptons. On the beaches, surfers and piping plovers vie for sand space, and at the Bridgehampton Polo Club the games have begun. In East Hampton, the fresh lobster salad at Claws on Wheels is selling briskly at $60 a pound. Every weekend, the parade of cars from the city snags horribly in Water Mill. And renters have returned in large numbers to snap up houses from Southampton to Montauk.
For those who wish to join this sun-bleached and sandy set, it is not too late to rent a place: options are still available in every price range. And this year they are down from prerecession heights, and owners are being more flexible on the lengths of rentals.
Brokers said they were relieved to see a return to a ''normal'' market just one year after the post-Lehman summer of 2009, which some referred to as ''catastrophic.'' Some houses stood empty of renters all season long. 
''What a difference a year makes,'' says Judi Desiderio, the president of Town and Country Real Estate. She described 2009 as the worst Hamptons rental season she had experienced in 28 years in the business. And she says her company has done three times the number of rentals it did last summer.
Prices have also rebounded, which is undoubtedly a disappointment for the people who last year were renting at half price from desperate homeowners.
Rentals are up between 10 and 20 percent this year compared with the dismal market of last year, said Rick Hoffman, the regional senior vice president of the Corcoran Group for the East End. But these prices are still lower than those that homeowners could command in the high-flying years before the recession. Many rentals are also for sale.
''From the banner year -- being 2007 for rentals -- the market is still down around 20 percent,'' Mr. Hoffman said. And ''2010 is shaping up to be much better than last year, and even 2008.''
Alan Wiener, 63, a real estate agent in Manhattan, has rented a summer place for his family in the Hamptons for several years. This year, on the advice of his broker at Town and Country, Mr. Wiener waited until just before Memorial Day to bid on three rentals in East Hampton, each offer representing a significant discount.
''Ten days before Memorial Day, they hadn't rented -- forget for the summer, not even for the month,'' he said. ''We made an offer that was in the area of 20 to 25 percent below the asking price.''
Two of the homeowners said no and one said yes. The Wieners ended up with a four-bedroom house on two and a half acres in the Northwest Woods, with a pool and room for their two grown daughters and their families. Mr. Wiener would not say how much he was paying for the house, but he secured it for the entire season.
''Compared to last summer we paid a little bit more,'' he said, ''but for a lot more house.''
As for availability, brokers say the old rules still apply on top properties -- like those directly on the ocean or those south of the Montauk Highway, which traverses the Hamptons from east to west. Such places were rented long ago.
What's left tends to be far from the beach, to lack an amenity like a pool, or to be a bit snug for a gang of friends who want to share. These are also the places that cost less.
Perhaps the biggest change in the market this year is in the willingness of owners to rent their houses for shorter periods.
Stuart Epstein, an owner of Devlin McNiff Real Estate in East Hampton, says that in the past, most owners were determined to rent their houses for the entire season -- Memorial Day to Labor Day -- and not by the week or the month. But last year many homeowners, fearful of being left with an empty house, agreed to abbreviated stays.
That trend seems to be persisting this summer.
''People are just optimizing,'' says Amadeus Ehrhardt, an associate broker at the Engel & Volkers agency in Southampton. ''Before, it was always, 'Got to get that best house before somebody else does.' '' Now, he says, renters are focused on finding the right house for the time that best fits their schedule.
Mr. Hoffman of Corcoran agreed. ''In the good old days,'' he said, ''we did nothing less than a full summer rental.''
Gary DePersia, an associate broker and senior vice president of the Corcoran Group Real Estate in East Hampton, said that although he had done fewer partial-season rentals this year than last, the number was still higher than in prerecession days.
''Now even if they have that money,'' he said, ''they want to be a little more frugal, but they don't want to necessarily rent a lesser house. So if you don't want to rent an inferior house, you rent the same house for a lesser period of time.''
''A lot of the marginal houses have still not rented,'' Mr. DePersia said. He defines marginal as ''a house that's not in a sexy location,'' adding, ''It could be in the woods; it doesn't have the latest amenities; it doesn't have the latest furniture.''
In an area of hot spots, the towns that make up the Hamptons fluctuate in popularity. Time was when Montauk might as well have been in Montana, but not anymore.
''There's virtually nothing left in Montauk,'' Ms. Desiderio says. That's because of a paucity of housing stock in and around the outlying surfer village, which has become shabby chic.
The central towns of Watermill and Wainscott, Mr. DePersia said, do better with rentals than the ''the bookends'' of Amagansett to the east and Southampton to the west. The Shinnecock Canal separates Southampton from communities like Westhampton and Hampton Bays, which brokers say constitute a somewhat separate market because of their distance from the favored and more easterly Hamptons.
But for renters who don't require the latest in decor and amenities, or the most with-it address, there are many properties that are fine for stringing up a hammock.
Houses without pools, says Maryanne Horwath, an agent at Prudential Douglas Elliman, linger longer on the market. Of the 30 or so rentals she has done this season, she said, only one did not have a pool.
Prudential Douglas Elliman has a three-bedroom house without a pool in a part of Southampton north of the Montauk Highway listed for the relatively low price of $9,000 a month. It is surrounded by trees, in a development with communal tennis courts.
In the Springs section of East Hampton, Victoria Van Vlaanderen, an agent with Town and Country, is listing an Adirondack-style three-bedroom house with a heated pool and views of Hog Creek.
The house has a double-height peaked ceiling over the living room, which is paneled entirely in rough cedar. But two of the bedrooms are in the partially sunken lower level that opens onto the backyard. The pool, set away from the house, is surrounded by woods. The remainder of the season at the house will cost $25,000.
In Southampton, Mr. Ehrhardt is showing a four-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath house with two fireplaces on Heady Creek Lane. Several of the bedrooms have extra beds to accommodate weekend guests. It has a screened-in porch and a small pool.
The house is near Hill Street, a main thoroughfare of Southampton, which can bring some street noise, but shade trees and hedges block out any unsightly views. The rent is $25,000 for this month and $35,000 for August.
Mr. DePersia is seeking a renter for one of the more upscale houses still available: a six-bedroom seven-bath shingle-style mansion on Fithian Lane within walking distance of East Hampton's main street. It is not on the water, a deal-breaker for some high-rolling renters, but it does have a pool and a pool house. The rental price for this month and August combined is $225,000, and Mr. DePersia said the owners might consider shorter-term rentals.
Almost right, but not quite? Although at this point most of the ultra-high-end places are gone, there are still opportunities to indulge in the ultimate Hamptons dream house.
In Watermill, Mr. DePersia has a place fit for a professional athlete (or those with the income of one). It has 7 bedrooms, 10 bathrooms, 4 fireplaces and a vast wine cellar. There's an elevator, which is uncommon in the Hamptons but useful if you sprain your ankle on the sunken tennis court.
The two gated acres are also home to a pool and pool house, complete with a hot tub, as well as a large guesthouse with a separate hot tub for when the guests are your in-laws. There's a basketball court and, for the Tiger Woods in you, a putting green. The place is available for select weeks in July and August, at $75,000 a week.

CORRECTION-DATE:  July 18, 2010, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on July 4 about the summer rental market in the Hamptons rendered incorrectly the name of one of the hamlets popular with renters. It is Water Mill, not Watermill.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (RE1)
$225,000 FOR THE SEASON, WALK TO TOWN: It's not on the water, but a house on Fithian Lane does have a pool and a pool house, as well as six bedrooms and seven baths.
$35,000 FOR AUGUST: A four-bedroom house in Southampton has a screened-in porch and a small pool. There are extra beds in some of the bedrooms for weekend guests.
$9,000 A MONTH: A three-bedroom house north of the Montauk Highway in Southampton (left and above left) comes with access to tennis, but no pool.
 A $25,000 SEASON: In the Springs section of East Hampton, a three-bedroom house (right and above right) has a pool and views of Hog Creek. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); BEACHES (78%); HOME PRICES (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



86 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Same Kind of Crime, Different Accent

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

 BODY:
PITY the ''Law & Order'' purist. Now that the mother ship has been canceled after 20 seasons, what are you supposed to do if ''SVU'' leaves you cold, ''Criminal Intent'' bores you, and the thought of this fall's ''Law & Order: Los Angeles'' scares the hell out of you? If only the real thing will do -- and if you've seen every rerun on TNT and USA at least twice -- there is still one place to turn. 
 It's a place where the people are represented by two separate yet equally important groups: the police who investigate the crime and the Crown Prosecutors who prosecute the offenders. It's called London, and it's the setting of ''Law & Order: UK,'' the ''L&O'' spinoff that remains most faithful to the original show. 
 Perhaps ''faithful'' is an understatement. To some extent ''Law & Order: UK'' is the original show, with British accents and detective superintendents rather than captains or lieutenants. Through its first 13 episodes on the British network ITV, the series has based each of its stories on an episode drawn from the first seven seasons of the American ''Law & Order,'' changing details but staying true to the outlines of the case and its resolution, and keeping the famous sound cue between scenes. (Other European spinoffs use a similar strategy but with different models: the French version draws on ''Law & Order: Criminal Intent'' and the Russian on ''Law & Order: SVU.'')
 The British series has not been broadcast in the United States, but a DVD of the first season (shown in two chunks in Britain, in 2009 and 2010) is available through Target; it's currently on sale at target.com for $29.99. Some Americans who live close enough to the Canadian border can also see it on the Canadian network Citytv. The show has been a hit in Britain, averaging more than six million viewers, and a large part of that can be attributed to good bones. It's hard to go wrong when hand-picking scripts from the early seasons of ''Law & Order.'' 
 For an American fan, watching those scripts relocated to the Old Bailey and the banks of the Thames is an experience both familiar and disorienting. The British team, led by the writer and producer Chris Chibnall (''Torchwood,'' ''Life on Mars''), has done a frighteningly thorough job of replicating the pace, rhythm and look of the original. Inveterate rerun watchers familiar with the American episodes in question will notice, however, that the ambience the British show captures is that of the latter-day ''Law & Order,'' more brightly colored and theatrical than the relatively somber, low-key early seasons. 
 A head-to-head comparison of American and British episodes reveals additional differences that probably have less to do with a cultural gap than with the gap between 2010 and the early 1990s, when the American episodes were made.
 The British pilot, ''Care,'' was based on ''Cradle to Grave'' from the second American season. A 9-month-old boy is abandoned at a hospital, dead of carbon monoxide poisoning in the British version and hypothermia in the American; the investigation eventually leads to the owner of the apartment building where the child died. 
 In ''Care'' the roles of the boy's mother and the apartment owner are both expanded, with the mother becoming more sympathetic and the landlord less so. The effect is to make the issues more black and white and the tone more moralistic, a shift captured in the closing arguments of the prosecutors. Michael Moriarty's Ben Stone, in New York, shrugs and says, ''Putting them in jail is the only remedy we have.'' Ben Daniels's James Steel, in London, squares his shoulders and declares, ''We all have a duty of care to one another, and no breach shall go unpunished.''
 A similar dramatic inflation takes place in ''Buried,'' based on the American second-season episode ''... In Memory Of.'' The same character is revealed as the killer in both versions, but the American case is resolved with a plea agreement, almost in passing, while the British case requires a dramatic courtroom confession. The British episode also ends with charged encounters outside the courthouse, a scene entirely absent from the original.
 Normally a British adaptation of an American show could be expected to have an advantage in terms of acting, but again, the bar set by ''Law & Order,'' particularly in its first five seasons, was so high that the best the new series can do is a close second. Mr. Daniels, Jamie Bamber (''Battlestar Galactica'') and the much-honored stage actress Harriet Walter are fine but no match for their models, Mr. Moriarty, Chris Noth and Dann Florek. The fine Scottish actor Bill Paterson seems uncomfortable as the chief prosecutor, the role Steven Hill filled effortlessly for 10 seasons.
 The standouts so far are Bradley Walsh (''Coronation Street''), who gets the right blend of humor and resignation in the Paul Sorvino-Jerry Orbach veteran detective slot, and Freema Agyeman (Martha Jones of ''Dr. Who''), who covers several bases as the junior prosecutor. She's both the minority idealist, played for three seasons by Richard Brooks, and the hot babe who often solves the case, played by a succession of actresses (none hotter than Ms. Agyeman).
 The format adopted for ''Law & Order: UK'' makes these sorts of comparisons to ''Law & Order'' unavoidable, if not entirely fair. If you haven't seen the originals, the new series will certainly stand on its own as a superior crime drama. If you have seen them, you'll probably still enjoy their British adaptations, even if their primary effect is to remind you that ''Law & Order,'' in its heyday, was a superlative crime drama. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Ben Daniels, right, next to Freema Agyeman in a scene from ''Law & Order: UK.'' Left, Bradley Walsh, far left, and Jamie Bamber, who play detectives. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN ROGERS
 JOHN ROGERS AND LAURENCE CENDROWICZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); WRITERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CANADA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



87 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Tweaks in Mobile-Home Loans

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
MOBILE homes may not be a staple of the New York City housing market, but nationally last year they made up nearly a quarter of all new homes sold for less than $200,000, according to an industry trade group, making them an important component of the affordable-housing sector. 
 Many of these homes have features similar to those found in site-built conventional houses, like natural wood finishes, eat-in kitchens and even skylights. But financing a mobile home is often far from conventional. 
 There are two types of loan available to borrowers. For those who do not secure the loan with land (perhaps because they are leasing a spot in a mobile home park), the most common is a personal property, or ''chattel,'' loan. These represent at least 60 percent of the lending activity for this housing category, according to Thayer Long, the executive director of the Manufactured Housing Institute, in Arlington, Va.
 Borrowers who own the underlying land have the option of taking out a conventional mortgage, though lenders will often charge fees that can add as much as three-quarters of a percentage point to the interest rate. The fees are passed down by the lenders from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which buy the loans and typically regard these borrowers as riskier than conventional borrowers, even when their credit profiles are otherwise identical.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled companies that set lending guidelines, do not buy chattel loans, which means that few lenders now make these loans. But changes last month in lending rules by the Federal Housing Administration, which insures mortgages, are expected to widen the range of lenders who can offer chattel loans. 
 The F.H.A. said it would insure 90 percent of the lender's losses on each loan, thereby making it less likely that lenders will lose money on loans for mobile homes. The agency also raised the maximum chattel loan amounts that it will insure to nearly $70,000 from $48,600, and a combination loan on the home and the land to $92,900 from $64,800.
 ''These changes should help to open up the market,'' for low- to moderate-income buyers, said Lemar Wooley, an F.H.A. spokesman. He noted that the last time the agency changed lending limits for the manufactured-housing category was in 1992. 
 Don Glisson Jr., the chief executive of Triad Financial Services of Jacksonville, Fla., which makes loans to owners of manufactured homes, agreed that the F.H.A.'s policy shift would help more people qualify for financing. 
 ''It will allow us to make loans we wouldn't make before, especially to customers who were borderline,'' Mr. Glisson said, referring to borrowers with weaker credit. ''With F.H.A. insuring 90 percent of the loan, it'll entice us to make that loan.'' 
 Mr. Glisson, whose company lends to mobile-homeowners in most of the nation, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, said a typical customer paid about $60,000 for a home and made a down payment of 17 percent. He added that although many of his clients owned the land beneath the home, for various reasons they often chose not to mortgage it. 
 IN recent years, interest rates for chattel loans fluctuated from 7 to 10 percent, Mr. Glisson said. Late last month rates reached the bottom of that range for borrowers with credit scores of at least 750 and down payments of at least 20 percent. The maximum term length for a chattel loan is 25 years.
 Borrowers can secure loans with down payments of 5 percent and credit scores of 660, but their rates tend to be at least one percentage point higher. 
 ''We don't see a whole lot of business in Connecticut,'' Mr. Glisson said, ''but New Jersey is pretty good. New York is good too, as long as you get outside Manhattan.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); TRAILER PARKS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%)

ORGANIZATION: MANUFACTURED HOUSING INSTITUTE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



88 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Lauren Oppenheimer, Joshua Shiffrin

 BODY:
Lauren Oppenheimer and Joshua Barnett Shiffrin are to be married in Montreal Sunday by Rabbi Susan N. Shankman at the Sofitel Montreal Golden Mile hotel. 
 Ms. Oppenheimer, 31, will keep her name. She works in Washington as the deputy chief of staff and the legislative director for Representative Paul W. Hodes, Democrat of New Hampshire. She graduated from the University of Toronto and received a master's in economic history from the London School of Economics.
 She is the daughter of Joan Oppenheimer and Robert Oppenheimer, who live and work in Montreal. The bride's father is a professor of management at the John Molson School of Business at Concordia University. Her mother is a research coordinator for Dr. J. Christopher Perry, who studies people with recurrent depression. 
 Mr. Shiffrin, 31, is an associate at Bredhoff & Kaiser, a Washington law firm, where he specializes in labor and employment law. He graduated summa cum laude from Cornell and received a law degree, cum laude, from Harvard. 
 He is the son of Robin B. Shiffrin and Brian Shiffrin of Rochester. The bride's mother is a marriage and family therapist in private practice and an instructor of family therapy and counseling at Nazareth College in Rochester. His father is a partner in Easton Thompson Kasperek Shiffrin, a Rochester law firm. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FAMILY SERVICES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); FAMILY (78%); COUPLE COUNSELING (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%)

PERSON: PAUL W HODES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



89 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; WHEELS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: THE BLOG; A Perfect Car for the Next Parade

BYLINE: By PAUL STENQUIST

 BODY:
Antti Rahko and his wife, Eini, could have made their last trip from their home in Palm Beach, Fla., to Ontario, Canada, in their famously fantastic Finnjet. That's because Mr. Rahko is about to put the Finnjet up for sale again. 
 In an interview by phone, Mr. Rahko, 70, said that the 7,500-pound 29-foot-long Finnjet would be listed on eBay on Thursday.
 Mr. Rahko, a native of Finland who emigrated to the United States in 1984, said he began building the massive machine 10 years ago by joining two Mercedes-Benz station wagons, numerous parts from a 1962 Chrysler Imperial and various components from more than 40 other vehicles.
 Today, the machine's meticulously detailed exterior is tastefully trimmed with 86 lights, 36 mirrors and a couple of jet engine housings, through which the exhaust is routed.
 When asked how long it took to complete the machine, Mr. Rahko said that the process was never really completed. He just kept adding parts.
 The interior has seating for 10, a stove, microwave, freezer, television and two air-conditioning units. In a nod to his Finnish roots, Mr. Rahko also outfitted the passenger cabin with a functional sauna. Three batteries and three alternators provide the juice necessary to keep everything humming.
 No trailer queen, the Finnjet is quite drivable and relatively economical, achieving about 25 m.p.g. on the highway, Mr. Rahko said. A fuel-stingy Mercedes turbodiesel power plant drives a dual-wheel rear axle mounted in the center of the chassis. A total of eight wheels helps ensure that tires and suspension components are not overtaxed
 When asked how he could negotiate corners in such a lengthy machine, Mr. Rahko said that the Finnjet handled well, thanks to steerable rear wheels, which turn the opposite way of the front wheels. The rear axle is from a Chevy pickup truck and is installed backwards.
 In addition to those trips to Canada, Mr. Rahko said he has used the vehicle to pick up visitors at the airport and has driven the occasional bride and groom from wedding to reception.
 While the Finnjet is easy pickings for punsters, it's held in esteem by the art-car world and earned first-place honors in two Houston Art Car Parades and ''people's choice'' awards in Florida events.
 Mr. Rahko decided to part with his automobile due to failing health, but hoped that it would be bought by someone who would enjoy it as much as he had.
 That someone will have very deep pockets. The Finnjet was originally offered on eBay with a $950,000 reserve. The car failed to meet the reserve and will be relisted on Thursday.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PARTS CAR: Antti Rahko's Finnjet has pieces from over 40 cars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JORMA PURANEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



90 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3135 words

HEADLINE: They Did Their Homework (800 Years of It)

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
THE advertisement warns of speculative financial bubbles. It mocks a group of gullible Frenchmen seduced into a silly, 18th-century investment scheme, noting that the modern shareholder, armed with superior information, can avoid the pitfalls of the past. ''How different the position of the investor today!'' the ad enthuses.
 It ran in The Saturday Evening Post on Sept. 14, 1929. A month later, the stock market crashed. 
 ''Everyone wants to think they're smarter than the poor souls in developing countries, and smarter than their predecessors,'' says Carmen M. Reinhart, an economist at the University of Maryland. ''They're wrong. And we can prove it.'' 
 Like a pair of financial sleuths, Ms. Reinhart and her collaborator from Harvard, Kenneth S. Rogoff, have spent years investigating wreckage scattered across documents from nearly a millennium of economic crises and collapses. They have wandered the basements of rare-book libraries, riffled through monks' yellowed journals and begged central banks worldwide for centuries-old debt records. And they have manually entered their findings, digit by digit, into one of the biggest spreadsheets you've ever seen.
 Their handiwork is contained in their recent best seller, ''This Time Is Different,'' a quantitative reconstruction of hundreds of historical episodes in which perfectly smart people made perfectly disastrous decisions. It is a panoramic opus, both geographically and temporally, covering crises from 66 countries over the last 800 years.
 The book, and Ms. Reinhart's and Mr. Rogoff's own professional journeys as economists, zero in on some of the broader shortcomings of their trade -- thrown into harsh relief by economists' widespread failure to anticipate or address the financial crisis that began in 2007.
 ''The mainstream of academic research in macroeconomics puts theoretical coherence and elegance first, and investigating the data second,'' says Mr. Rogoff. For that reason, he says, much of the profession's celebrated work ''was not terribly useful in either predicting the financial crisis, or in assessing how it would it play out once it happened.''
 ''People almost pride themselves on not paying attention to current events,'' he says.
 In the past, other economists often took the same empirical approach as the Reinhart-Rogoff team. But this approach fell into disfavor over the last few decades as economists glorified financial papers that were theory-rich and data-poor. 
 Much of that theory-driven work, critics say, is built on the same disassembled and reassembled sets of data points -- generally from just the last 25 years or so and from the same handful of rich countries -- that quants have whisked into ever more dazzling and complicated mathematical formations.
 But in the wake of the recent crisis, a few economists -- like Professors Reinhart and Rogoff, and other like-minded colleagues like Barry Eichengreen and Alan Taylor -- have been encouraging others in their field to look beyond hermetically sealed theoretical models and into the historical record.
 ''There is so much inbredness in this profession,'' says Ms. Reinhart. ''They all read the same sources. They all use the same data sets. They all talk to the same people. There is endless extrapolation on extrapolation on extrapolation, and for years that is what has been rewarded.''
 ONE of Ken Rogoff's favorite economics jokes -- yes, there are economics jokes -- is ''the one about the lamppost'': A drunk on his way home from a bar one night realizes that he has dropped his keys. He gets down on his hands and knees and starts groping around beneath a lamppost. A policeman asks what he's doing.
 ''I lost my keys in the park,'' says the drunk.
 ''Then why are you looking for them under the lamppost?'' asks the puzzled cop.
 ''Because,'' says the drunk, ''that's where the light is.''
 Mr. Rogoff, 57, has spent a lifetime exploring places and ideas off the beaten track. Tall, thin and bespectacled, he grew up in Rochester. There, he attended a ''tough inner-city school,'' where his ''true liberal parents'' -- a radiologist and a librarian -- sent him so he would be exposed to students from a variety of social and economic classes. 
 He received a chess set for his 13th birthday, and he quickly discovered that he was something of a prodigy, a fact he decided to hide so he wouldn't get beaten up in the lunchroom.
 ''I think chess may be a relatively cool thing for kids to do now, on par with soccer or other sports,'' he says. ''It really wasn't then.'' 
 Soon, he began traveling alone to competitions around the United States, paying his way with his prize winnings. He earned the rank of American ''master'' by the age of 14, was a New York State Open champion and soon became a ''senior master,'' the highest national title. 
 When he was 16, he left home against his parents' wishes to become a professional chess player in Europe. He enrolled fleetingly in high schools in London and Sarajevo, Yugoslavia, but rarely attended. ''I wasn't quite sure what I was supposed to be doing,'' he recalls.
 He spent the next 18 months or so wandering to competitions around Europe, supporting himself with winnings and by participating in exhibitions in which he played dozens of opponents simultaneously, sometimes while wearing a blindfold. 
 Occasionally, he slept in five-star hotels, but other nights, when his prize winnings thinned, he crashed in grimy train stations. He had few friends, and spent most of his time alone, studying chess and analyzing previous games. Clean-cut and favoring a coat and tie these days, he described himself as a ragged ''hippie'' during his time in Europe. He also found life in Eastern Europe friendly but strained, he says, throttled by black markets, scarcity and unmet government promises.
 After much hand-wringing, he decided to return to the United States to attend Yale, which overlooked his threadbare high school transcript. He considered majoring in Russian until Jeremy Bulow, a classmate who is now an economics professor at Stanford, began evangelizing about economics. 
 Mr. Rogoff took an econometrics course, reveling in its precision and rigor, and went on to focus on comparative economic systems. He interrupted a brief stint in a graduate program in economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to prepare for the world chess championships, which were held only every three years. 
 After becoming an ''international grandmaster,'' the highest title awarded in chess, when he was 25, he decided to quit chess entirely and to return to M.I.T. He did so because he had snared the grandmaster title and because he realized that he would probably never be ranked No. 1. 
 He says it took him a long time to get over the game, and the euphoric, almost omnipotent highs of his past victories.
 ''To this day I get letters, maybe every two years, from top players asking me: 'How do I quit? I want to quit like you did, and I can't figure out how to do it,' '' he says. ''I tell them that it's hard to go from being at the top of a field, because you really feel that way when you're playing chess and winning, to being at the bottom -- and they need to prepare themselves for that.'' 
 He returned to M.I.T., rushed through what he acknowledges was a mediocre doctoral dissertation, and then became a researcher at the Federal Reserve -- where he said he had good role models who taught him how to be, at last, ''professional'' and ''serious.''
 Teaching stints followed, before the International Monetary Fund chose him as its chief economist in 2001. It was at the I.M.F. that he began collaborating with a relatively unfamiliar economist named Carmen Reinhart, whom he appointed as his deputy after admiring her work from afar. 
 MS. REINHART, 54, is hardly a household name. And, unlike Mr. Rogoff, she has never been hired by an Ivy League school. But measured by how often her work is cited by colleagues and others, this woman whom several colleagues describe as a ''firecracker'' is, by a long shot, the most influential female economist in the world.
 Like Mr. Rogoff, she took a circuitous route to her present position.
 Born in Havana as Carmen Castellanos, she is quick-witted and favors bright, boldly printed blouses and blazers. As a girl, she memorized the lore of pirates and their trade routes, which she says was her first exposure to the idea that economic fortunes -- and state revenue in particular -- ''can suddenly disappear without warning.''
 She also lived with more personal financial and social instability. After her family fled Havana for the United States with just three suitcases when she was 10, her father traded a comfortable living as an accountant for long, less lucrative hours as a carpenter. Her mother, who had never worked outside the home before, became a seamstress.
 ''Most kids don't grow up with that kind of real economic shock,'' she says. ''But I learned the value of scarcity, and even the sort of tensions between East and West. And at a very early age that had an imprint on me.''
 With a passion for art and literature -- even today, her academic papers pun on the writings of Gabriel Garcia Marquez -- she enrolled in a two-year college in Miami, intending to study fashion merchandising. Then, on a whim, she took an economics course and got hooked. 
 When she went to Florida International University to study economics, she met Peter Montiel, an M.I.T. graduate who was teaching there. Recognizing her talent, he helped her apply to a top-tier graduate program in economics, at Columbia University. 
 At Columbia, she met her future husband, Vincent Reinhart, who is now an occasional co-author with her. They married while in graduate school, and she quit school before writing her dissertation to try to make some money on Wall Street.
 ''We were newlyweds, and neither of us had a penny to our name,'' she says. She left school so that they ''could have nice things and a house, the kind of things I imagined a family should have.'' 
 She spent a few years at Bear Stearns, including one as chief economist, before deciding to finish her graduate work at Columbia and return to her true love: data mining. ''I have a talent for rounding up data like cattle, all over the plain,'' she says. 
 After earning her doctorate in 1988, Ms. Reinhart started work at the I.M.F.
 ''Carmen in many ways pioneered a bigger segment in economics, this push to look at history more,'' says Mr. Rogoff, explaining why he chose her. ''She was just so ahead of the curve.''
 She honed her knack for economic archaeology at the I.M.F., spending several years performing ''checkups'' on member countries to make sure they were in good economic health. 
 While at the fund, she teamed up with Graciela Kaminsky, another member of that exceptionally rare species -- the female economist -- to write their seminal paper, ''The Twin Crises.'' 
 The article looked at the interaction between banking and currency crises, and why contemporary theory couldn't explain why those ugly events usually happened together. The paper bore one of Ms. Reinhart's hallmarks: a vast web of data, compiled from 20 countries over several decades. 
 In digging through old records and piecing together a vast puzzle of disconnected data points, her ultimate goal, in that paper and others, has always been ''to see the forest,'' she says, ''and explain it.'' 
 Ms. Reinhart has bounced back and forth across the Beltway: she left the I.M.F. in Washington and began teaching in 1996 at the University of Maryland, from which Mr. Rogoff recruited her when he needed a deputy at the I.M.F. in 2001. When she left that post, she returned to the university.
 Despite the large following that her work has drawn, she says she feels that the heavyweights of her profession have looked down upon her research as useful but too simplistic. 
 ''You know, everything is simple when it's clearly explained,'' she contends. ''It's like with Sherlock Holmes. He goes through this incredible deductive process from Point A to Point B, and by the time he explains everything, it makes so much sense that it sounds obvious and simple. It doesn't sound clever anymore.''
 But, she says, ''economists love being clever.''
 ''THIS TIME IS DIFFERENT'' was published last September, just as the nation was coming to grips with a financial crisis that had nearly spiraled out of control and a job market that lay in tatters. Despite bailout after bailout, stimulus after stimulus, economic armageddon still seemed nigh. 
 Given this backdrop, it's perhaps not surprising that a book arguing that the crisis was a rerun, and not a wholly novel catastrophe, managed to become a best seller. So far, nearly 100,000 copies have been sold, according to its publisher, the Princeton University Press.
 Still, its authors laugh when asked about the book's opportune timing.
 ''We didn't start the book thinking that, 'Oh, in exactly seven years there will be a housing bust leading to a global financial crisis that will be the perfect environment in which to sell this giant book,' '' says Mr. Rogoff. ''But I suppose the way things work, we expected that whenever the book came out there would probably be some crisis or other to peg it to.''
 They began the book around 2003, not long after Mr. Rogoff lured Ms. Reinhart back to the I.M.F. to serve as his deputy. The pair had already been collaborating fruitfully, finding that her dogged pursuit of data and his more theoretical public policy eye were well matched. 
 Although their book is studiously nonideological, and is more focused on patterns than on policy recommendations, it has become fodder for the highly charged debate over the recent growth in government debt.
 To bolster their calls for tightened government spending, budget hawks have cited the book's warnings about the perils of escalating public and private debt. Left-leaning analysts have been quick to take issue with that argument, saying that fiscal austerity perpetuates joblessness, and have been attacking economists associated with it.
 Mr. Rogoff, because of his time at the I.M.F., has also come under fire. 
 In the years before and during Mr. Rogoff's tenure, critics including the prominent economist Joseph Stiglitz accused the I.M.F. of having a cold-hearted, doctrinaire approach to its work in poorer countries. Some of that criticism still clings to Mr. Rogoff. For his part, he contends that the I.M.F. did what it could for countries with intractable problems, and that the critics' approaches would have made troubled economies even weaker.
 Perhaps because ''This Time Is Different'' is empirical rather than proscriptive, it has defied categorization.
 The New York Times Op-Ed columnist David Brooks, for example, praised the book as ''the best explanation of the crisis'' but referred to it as a history book, rather than a work of economic analysis, since it is ''almost entirely devoid of theory.'' (The implication being, of course, that genuine ''economic analysis'' must be hypertheoretical.)
 Of course, it's not as if history is an entirely new ingredient in economic study. There have been other vibrant historical recountings of financial crises, including ''Manias, Panics and Crashes,'' the 1978 book by Charles Kindleberger. Such books have typically been narrative, though, unlike the data-intensive ''This Time Is Different.'' 
 But even in its quantitative perspective and breadth, the book still stands on the shoulders of an economic classic, ''A Monetary History of the United States: 1867-1960,'' written by another great male-and-female pair of economists, Milton Friedman and Anna Jacobson Schwartz.
 ''What Friedman and Schwartz did for the U.S. was heroic,'' says Ms. Reinhart. ''Ken and I have benefited from the use of the Internet to track down books, sources and experts to help us with our work. Friedman and Schwartz did not.''
 While Professors Reinhart and Rogoff may have had technological advantages in their research, they weren't able to outsource much of the number-crunching to graduate students -- in part because they wanted to be able to stay close to the data themselves, but also because few students are interested in or trained for that kind of work. 
 The economics profession generally began turning away from empirical work in the early 1970s. Around that time, economists fell in love with theoretical constructs, a shift that has no single explanation. Some analysts say it may reflect economists' desire to be seen as scientists who describe and discover universal laws of nature.
 ''Economists have physics envy,'' says Richard Sylla, a financial historian at the Stern School of Business at New York University. He argues that Paul Samuelson, the Nobel laureate whom many credit with endowing economists with a mathematical tool kit, ''showed that a lot of physical theories and concepts had economic analogs.''
 Since that time, he says, ''economists like to think that there is some physical, stable state of the world if they get the model right.'' But, he adds, ''there is really no such thing as a stable state for the economy.''
 Others suggest that incentives for young economists to publish in journals and gain tenure predispose them to pursue technical wizardry over deep empirical research and to choose narrow slices of topics. Historians, on the other hand, are more likely to focus on more comprehensive subjects -- that is, the material for books -- that reflect a deeply experienced, broadly informed sense of judgment. 
 ''They say historians peak in their 50s, once they've accumulated enough knowledge and wisdom to know what to look for,'' says Mr. Rogoff. ''By contrast, economists seem to peak much earlier. It's hard to find an important paper written by an economist after 40.''
 MICROECONOMICS -- the field that focuses on smaller units like households and workers, as opposed to big-picture questions about how national economies function -- has embraced real-world data-mining. (Think ''Freakonomics.'') 
 Macroeconomics has been slower to change, but the popular success of ''This Time Is Different'' and related work seems to be changing how macro practitioners approach their craft. 
 It has also changed how policy makers think about their own mission.
 Mr. Rogoff says a senior official in the Japanese finance ministry was offended at the suggestion in ''This Time Is Different'' that Japan had once defaulted on its debt and sent him an angry letter demanding a retraction. 
 Mr. Rogoff sent him a 1942 front-page article in The Times documenting the forgotten default. ''Thank you,'' the official wrote in apology, ''for teaching the Japanese something about our own country.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Many economists build careers on only a few decades' worth of data. Not Kenneth Rogoff and Carmen Reinhart. For ''This Time Is Different,'' they studied eight centuries of financial crises. (BU1)
 Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff at Ms. Reinhart's Washington home. They started their book around 2003, years before the economy began to crumble. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: This Time Is Different (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



91 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; METRICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Where BP's Money Is Landing

BYLINE: By AMY SCHOENFELD

 BODY:
AS the Gulf of Mexico continues to fill with oil this summer, condos and restaurants will sit empty, fishing boats will stay docked, and beaches -- even those without a single tar ball -- will attract fewer tourists. 
 Economists estimate that more than seven million businesses will suffer from both the spill and the tarnished reputation it has brought to the region. 
 BP has now begun reimbursing businesses that rely on the gulf for their revenue. Since May, it has paid just under a third of the more than 90,000 claims it has received, with the checks totaling more than $144 million.
 About 80 percent of the payments have gone to self-employed workers -- including shrimpers, charter boat captains and beachfront condo owners -- who can clearly show that the spill has affected their ability to make a profit. Fewer large businesses have been compensated because their claims are more complex and take longer to process.
 So far, payments have been fairly small, averaging about $2,500 a month for a deckhand or $5,000 for a fisherman. BP estimates that about 13,000 people are receiving prepayments, often 30 days in advance. 
 The total bill is sure to grow exponentially, with more than 2,000 applications coming in each day. After negotiations with President Obama last month, BP promised to set aside $20 billion to continue to pay business claims and handle requests from local governments to cover cleanup and administrative costs. 
 The company has also set aside $100 million to assist oil rig workers who cannot find work because of the moratorium on drilling in the gulf.
 Even so, federal, state and local officials say the payments from BP have fallen short. Checks have been too small, and the company has not disbursed money quickly enough to workers who are desperate to pay bills, critics say. Lawmakers say they are also concerned that the system of tracking claims has not been transparent. 
 BP says it is doing the best it can to keep up with the sheer volume of claims, which it says it could not have anticipated when it wrote the first check on May 3.
 ''I'm not sure anybody in this kind of situation meets all expectations, but we're trying,'' said Patricia Wright, a BP spokeswoman. Lawmakers say they are optimistic that improvements will come in August, when Kenneth R. Feinberg, the lawyer known for handling compensation claims for Sept. 11 victims, takes over BP's claims system. 
 Mr. Feinberg, who was selected by the Obama administration and BP and will be paid by BP, will work closely with a team already contracted by the oil company. The group consists of some 950 claims adjusters in 35 offices across the region.
 One of Mr. Feinberg's biggest challenges is to determine whether people requesting compensation for indirect effects of the spill will be eligible. 
 At a Congressional hearing last week, Representative Lynn A. Westmoreland, a Georgia Republican, asked Mr. Feinberg how he would compensate homeowners for depressed real estate values along the gulf's shores.
 ''On the one hand, those people are suffering; they deserve some help,'' Mr. Feinberg responded. ''On the other hand, there's not enough money in the world to pay every homeowner wherever they live on the Gulf Coast who says my property is down because of the oil spill.''
 While Mr. Feinberg has acknowledged that many questions remain about the claims system, he has publicly promised officials that he will provide more transparency and speed up payments. He also wants to provide larger emergency checks -- such as a six-month lump sum instead of a single month's pay. 
 Eventually, Mr. Feinberg says, he plans to write much larger checks to businesses, once his team is able to calculate the total loss an eligible claimant has faced.
 But as long as the oil keeps flowing into the gulf, officials say that there is no way to know how much money businesses will lose or how much financial assistance will ultimately be needed.
 ''It sure would help if the oil would stop,'' Mr. Feinberg said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) CHARTS: Making Up For Lost Paychecks: Since May, BP has paid more than $144 million in claims, primarily to individuals to compensate for income losses. BP says it has started to process more complicated commercial claims. (Source: BP) (BU1)
GRAPHICS (Sources: BP
U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary Committee
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
 U.S. Census Bureau) (GRAPHICS BY AMY SCHOENFELD, JOE BURGESS AND ERIN AIGNER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); BEACHES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (70%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (69%); US PRESIDENTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (59%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



92 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION WESTCHESTER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Retooling the Short-Stay Market

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
BEFORE the recession set in, corporate jets regularly zipped in and out of Westchester's airport, and the extended-stay hotel business flourished in the county, home to Fortune 500 companies like MasterCard and I.B.M., and in adjacent Fairfield County, also the site of many large firms. 
 But in 2009, as many of those companies tightened their belts, furnished apartments leased for corporate relocations and other business-related short-term stays languished. 
 The situation was so grave that Louis R. Cappelli, a developer who built 32 extended-stay units at the Ritz-Carlton in White Plains just before the economy tanked, was recently forced to sell at a loss when occupancy rates at his Atelier Suites failed to meet expectations. 
 In a short sale on May 17, the buyer, NuVerse Advisors, an investment firm with offices in New York City and Lugano, Switzerland, bought the luxury units for $11.65 million, far less than the $28.25 million mortgage on them. 
 ''The high-end market was especially hard hit,'' said Joseph V. Apicella, an executive vice president of Cappelli Enterprises. The fully furnished 1,000-square-foot units, on four floors of one of two residential towers built by Mr. Cappelli next to the hotel, had leased for about $500 a night.
 Some smaller extended-stay residences were better able to ride out the storm. In New Rochelle, the 124-unit Marriott Residence Inn, also a Cappelli Enterprises venture, found another source of clients for its moderately priced efficiency apartments of 400 to 600 square feet.
 Built on Long Island Sound near beach clubs that do a brisk wedding business all year long, the 10-year-old inn benefited from what Mr. Apicella described as ''a surprising market that that company had not anticipated'': family members and other wedding guests, willing to pay $170 a night for ''less than a five-star hotel, but one that's clean, basic and practical in this economy.'' 
 Package deals for even longer stays, along with extras like free breakfasts and social networking evenings, have drawn yet another group of noncorporate clients: divorced persons and temporarily displaced homeowners. Since a low point last year, occupancy rates have rebounded to 95 percent, in large part because of the broader client base, Mr. Apicella said.
 Arthur Collins, the owner of Hudson Park, a group of 560 luxury apartments on the Hudson River in Yonkers, has done well with the 19 units he set aside three years ago as extended-stay residences. That venture bested the record of the regular apartments at Hudson Park, only 87 percent of which were leased during the economic downturn. Occupancy rates for the one- and two-bedroom temporary-stay units held at 99 percent.
 ''For us,'' Mr. Collins said, ''the corporate side has held steady in spite of some really heavy hits in the economy last year.'' He leases furnished short-stay units for $2,400 to $3,000 a month to transient medical workers, and construction crews working on the revitalization of the Yonkers downtown area.
 Over all, large apartment complexes like Hudson Park fared better in the extended-stay sector than hotels, said Adam Sherer, the president of the Corporate Housing Providers Association, a trade association in Indianapolis. ''As the world was coming apart last year,'' he said, ''apartment owners could remain flexible with their inventory in a way that hotels could not. They could take unoccupied apartments as needed and furnish them for corporate use.'' 
 Although some owners were nimble enough to ride out the bumpy economy, Mr. Sherer added, much of the extended-stay market suffered as conventions and meetings dwindled along with corporate relocations.
 At this point, he said, extended-stay residences across the nation are cultivating a broader client base as they work to stay viable. For instance, border patrol personnel and workers assigned to deal with the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico are increasingly filling the void left by large corporations. 
 NuVerse Advisors' high net-worth client pool is to some extent immune to the ups and downs of the economy. Ariel Salama, a partner in NuVerse, described the units as a ''natural fit'' for his company's well-heeled domestic and foreign clients, explaining that they lease for $4,500 to $6,000 a month, for a minimum of three months.
 Nevertheless, the company's first step after acquiring Atelier Suites will be to broaden its client base, Mr. Salama said. It has commissioned Houlihan Lawrence to ''reintroduce'' 10 unoccupied units to other consumers -- for example, people who live in the South during the winter and return to Westchester and its golf clubs for three or four months in the warmer weather.
 ''If you're looking for a luxurious short-term stay,'' Mr. Salama said, ''there are not that many options in the Westchester-Fairfield market.''
 To Mr. Sherer at the Corporate Housing Providers Association, that approach makes sense. Although many owners of extended-stay units are optimistic that the effects of a revitalized economy will soon kick in, the nation is only at the beginning of a recovery, he said. Those who diversify their client base stand the best chance of surviving. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FOR A WHILE: One of 32 furnished apartments at the Atelier Suites at the Ritz-Carlton in White Plains. The venture, beset by a decline in corporate business, just changed hands. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); WEDDING & NEWLYWEDS MARKET (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (72%)

COMPANY: RESIDENCE INN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) TINCINO, SWITZERLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



93 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: As Oil Industry Fights a Tax, It Reaps Subsidies

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
When the Deepwater Horizon drilling platform set off the worst oil spill at sea in American history, it was flying the flag of the Marshall Islands. Registering there allowed the rig's owner to significantly reduce its American taxes. 
 The owner, Transocean, moved its corporate headquarters from Houston to the Cayman Islands in 1999 and then to Switzerland in 2008, maneuvers that also helped it avoid taxes. 
 At the same time, BP was reaping sizable tax benefits from leasing the rig. According to a letter sent in June to the Senate Finance Committee, the company used a tax break for the oil industry to write off 70 percent of the rent for Deepwater Horizon -- a deduction of more than $225,000 a day since the lease began.
 With federal officials now considering a new tax on petroleum production to pay for the cleanup, the industry is fighting the measure, warning that it will lead to job losses and higher gasoline prices, as well as an increased dependence on foreign oil. 
 But an examination of the American tax code indicates that oil production is among the most heavily subsidized businesses, with tax breaks available at virtually every stage of the exploration and extraction process. 
 According to the most recent study by the Congressional Budget Office, released in 2005, capital investments like oil field leases and drilling equipment are taxed at an effective rate of 9 percent, significantly lower than the overall rate of 25 percent for businesses in general and lower than virtually any other industry. 
 And for many small and midsize oil companies, the tax on capital investments is so low that it is more than eliminated by var-ious credits. These companies' returns on those investments are often higher after taxes than before. 
 ''The flow of revenues to oil companies is like the gusher at the bottom of the Gulf of Mexico: heavy and constant,'' said Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, who has worked alongside the Obama administration on a bill that would cut $20 billion in oil industry tax breaks over the next decade. ''There is no reason for these corporations to shortchange the American taxpayer.''
 Oil industry officials say that the tax breaks, which average about $4 billion a year according to various government reports, are a bargain for taxpayers. By helping producers weather market fluctuations and invest in technology, tax incentives are supporting an industry that the officials say provides 9.2 million jobs. 
 The American Petroleum Institute, an industry advocacy group, argues that even with subsidies, oil producers paid or incurred $280 billion in American income taxes from 2006 to 2008, and pay a higher percentage of their earnings in taxes than most other American corporations.
 As oil continues to spread across the Gulf of Mexico, however, the industry is being forced to defend tax breaks that some say are being abused or are outdated. 
 The Senate Finance Committee on Wednesday announced that it was investigating whether Transocean had exploited tax laws by moving overseas to avoid paying taxes in the United States. Efforts to curtail the tax breaks are likely to face fierce opposition in Congress; the oil and natural gas industry has spent $340 million on lobbyists since 2008, according to the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics, which monitors political spending. 
 Jack N. Gerard, president of the American Petroleum Institute, warns that any cut in subsidies will cost jobs. 
 ''These companies evaluate costs, risks and opportunities across the globe,'' he said. ''So if the U.S. makes changes in the tax code that discourage drilling in gulf waters, they will go elsewhere and take their jobs with them.''
 But some government watchdog groups say that only the industry's political muscle is preserving the tax breaks. An economist for the Treasury Department said in 2009 that a study had found that oil prices and potential profits were so high that eliminating the subsidies would decrease American output by less than half of one percent. 
 ''We're giving tax breaks to highly profitable companies to do what they would be doing anyway,'' said Sima J. Gandhi, a policy analyst at the Center for American Progress, a liberal research organization. ''That's not an incentive; that's a giveaway.''
 Some of the tax breaks date back nearly a century, when they were intended to encourage exploration in an era of rudimentary technology, when costly investments frequently produced only dry holes. Because of one lingering provision from the Tariff Act of 1913, many small and midsize oil companies based in the United States can claim deductions for the lost value of tapped oil fields far beyond the amount the companies actually paid for the oil rights. 
 Other tax breaks were born of international politics. In an attempt to deter Soviet influence in the Middle East in the 1950s, the State Department backed a Saudi Arabian accounting maneuver that reclassified the royalties charged by foreign governments to American oil drillers. Saudi Arabia and others began to treat some of the royalties as taxes, which entitled the companies to subtract those payments from their American tax bills. Despite repeated attempts to forbid this accounting practice, companies continue to deduct the payments. The Treasury Department estimates that it will cost $8.2 billion over the next decade. 
 Over the last 10 years, oil companies have also been aggressive in using foreign tax havens. Many rigs, like Deepwater Horizon, are registered in Panama or in the Marshall Islands, where they are subject to lower taxes and less stringent safety and staff regulations. American producers have also aggressively exploited the tax code by opening small offices in low-tax countries. A recent study by Martin A. Sullivan, an economist for the trade publication Tax Analysts, found that the five oil drilling companies that had undergone these ''corporate inversions'' had saved themselves a total of $4 billion in taxes since 1999. 
 Transocean -- which has approximately 18,000 employees worldwide, including 1,300 in Houston and about a dozen in Zug, Switzerland -- has saved $1.8 billion in taxes since moving overseas in 1999, the study found. 
 Transocean said it had paid more than $300 million in taxes so far for 2009, and that its move reflected its global scope, with only 15 of its 139 rigs located in the United States. ''Transocean is truly a global company,'' it said in a statement. 
 Despite the public anger at the gulf spill, it is far from certain that Congress will eliminate the tax breaks. As recently as 2005, when windfall profits for energy companies prompted even President George W. Bush -- a former Texas oilman himself -- to publicly call for an end to incentives, the energy bill he and Congress enacted still included $2.6 billion in oil subsidies. In 2007, after Democrats took control of Congress, a move to end the tax breaks failed. 
 Mr. Menendez said he believed the Gulf spill was devastating enough to spur Congress into action. But one notable omission in his bill shows the vast economic reach of the industry. While the legislation would cut many incentives over the next decade, it would not touch the tax breaks for oil refineries, many of which have operations and employees in his home state, New Jersey.
 Mr. Menendez's aides said the senator thought it was legitimate to allow refineries to continue claiming a manufacturing tax credit that he wants to eliminate for drillers because refining is a manufacturing business and because refineries do not benefit from high oil prices. Mr. Menendez did not consult with New Jersey refineries when writing the bill, his aides said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On Friday, cleanup workers in Grand Isle, La., positioned absorbent material to block oil from washing onto the beach. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HISTORY (78%); OIL & GAS LEASES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INCOME TAX (75%); MINING OUTPUT (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); FUEL TAX (58%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); GASOLINE PRICES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); BOB MENENDEZ (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) GULF OF MEXICO (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



94 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1619 words

HEADLINE: A Rapper's Long Battle To Go It Alone

BYLINE: By DAVID PEISNER

 BODY:
ATLANTA 
 ON a Thursday night in late May the rapper Big Boi was onstage inside the Yaarab Shrine Center here. Wearing a red Atlanta Braves hat, a black sweatshirt and sunglasses, he stalked back and forth as he worked briskly through songs from his coming album, ''Sir Lucious Left Foot: The Son Of Chico Dusty,'' the first under his own name after selling more than 17 million as half of the rap duo OutKast.
 The crowd was appreciative, but the sound was terrible. Very little beyond speaker-rattling bass and distorted vocals could be discerned during the operatic ''General Patton.'' The synth-heavy, rock-tinged ''Follow Us'' sounded similarly garbled until it reached the sing-songy hook. When Big Boi shifted to older material, the video screen behind him flashed reminders of what feels like a distant past: a younger, slimmer Big Boi alongside his OutKast partner, Andre Benjamin, in the gritty clip for their first single, ''Player's Ball,'' from 1993; the duo mugging exuberantly through audacious, high-concept videos for ''B.O.B (Bombs Over Baghdad)'' (2000) and ''Ghetto Musick'' (2003). 
 At 35, Big Boi (his original name is Antwan Patton) is no longer a trim teenager, and although he plans to film videos for every song on ''Sir Lucious Left Foot,'' changes in music industry economics make it unlikely any will be as elaborate as those for ''B.O.B. (Bombs Over Baghdad)'' or ''Ghetto Musick.'' He's without Mr. Benjamin to lean on these days too.
 ''It's me, standing alone,'' Big Boi said five days after the show, as he sat on a black leather couch at his Stankonia recording complex on the city's West Side. ''OutKast is a part of who I am. But this album is just me.''
 That's not entirely by choice. OutKast hasn't broken up -- the group is on hiatus while both members release solo albums -- and ''Sir Lucious Left Foot'' was slated to include one tune, ''Lookin' 4 Ya,'' which features a verse from Mr. Benjamin.
 But in June Jive Records blocked the song's inclusion on the album, the latest blow in a years-long battle with the label that has repeatedly delayed its release. Big Boi had been signed to Jive until March when he moved to Def Jam, which will release the album on Tuesday, but OutKast is still under contract to Jive.
 Jive ''had no involvement in the songs I recorded with Mr. Benjamin,'' Big Boi said. ''It's frustrating to know somebody half your life then have some strangers try to dictate to you how to make music.''
 Big Boi's clash with Jive has essentially been an update on the oldest of music business disputes -- between a label's commercial concerns and an artist's creative ones, tensions that have become more acute as the industry grapples with its current financial straits.
 ''Sir Lucious Left Foot'' has been largely finished since 2008, Big Boi said, but Jive never showed much enthusiasm for it. ''They said, 'This is a piece of art, and we don't know what to do with it,' '' he said.
 Jive declined to comment beyond the following statement: ''We believe Big Boi is a tremendously creative and gifted artist and wish him well on his upcoming solo album. We also very much look forward to working with him again on the next OutKast album.''
 Big Boi's move to Def Jam reunites him with Island Def Jam's chairman, Antonio Reid, known in the industry as L.A. In 1992 Mr. Reid was running LaFace Records and signed OutKast to its first recording deal while its members were in high school. The first five OutKast albums went platinum, each outselling the one before it. 
 The group was largely seen as a fusion of Big Boi's streetwise lyricism and Mr. Benjamin's artistic whimsy. Their willingness to venture outside the bounds of hip-hop orthodoxy helped them grow from a regional phenomenon into global superstars. The 1998 song ''Rosa Parks'' includes a countrified harmonica breakdown, ''B.O.B. (Bombs Over Baghdad)'' features frenetic dance beats and wailing electric guitars, and the melodic ballad ''Ms. Jackson'' from 2000 mostly eschews bravado in favor of contrition.
 For the 2003 album ''Speakerboxxx/The Love Below'' the pair packaged two solo albums together under the OutKast banner. Hits like the '70s soul homage ''The Way You Move'' and the ubiquitous pop confection ''Hey Ya!'' made it hugely successful, selling 5.7 million copies domestically.
 The next year LaFace's parent company, BMG, merged with Sony Music. In the ensuing corporate shuffle Mr. Reid and most of those who had worked closely with OutKast left the company. The group was transferred to Jive, a label that had gained prominence with teen-pop stars like Britney Spears and 'N Sync.
 OutKast's first project for Jive was ''Idlewild,'' the soundtrack to a film of the same name starring the duo. The project was riddled with complications and sold barely more than 500,000 copies, leaving both artist and label seemingly wary of each other.
 Big Boi had started work on ''Sir Lucious Left Foot'' by the time ''Idlewild'' was released in 2006. In early 2008, frustrated by what he perceived as the label's foot dragging, he leaked the song ''Royal Flush,'' stirring rumors the album was imminent. Months later a second, politically themed single, ''Sumthin's Gotta Give,'' followed, and Jive made plans for an Election Day release. ''I was like: 'No! Everyone is going to be at the polls, watching what's going on.' '' Big Boi said. ''I got scared then.'' The Election Day release never happened. Two more songs surfaced in 2009, but the relationship between Big Boi and Jive continued to deteriorate.
 As Big Boi recalled: ''They kept saying, 'O.K., we're going to put it out.' 'We're not going to put it out.' 'The album is coming this day!' 'No, it's not.' Or when I was going out of town to shoot videos, they were like, 'No, the budget's not cleared.' ''
 David Lighty, who was senior director of A&R at Jive until January 2009, said the label was never an ideal home for Big Boi. ''Jive doesn't have a history of late of pushing hip-hop artists,'' Mr. Lighty said in a telephone interview. ''A lot of it is R&B and pop. They also didn't feel he had the right single to launch the album. They were looking for a street radio hit.''
 To that end, Big Boi said Jive asked him to record his take on Lil Wayne's 2008 hit, ''Lollipop.'' ''For them to suggest I go make records like records that are already out was a slap in the face,'' Big Boi said. ''They just don't understand what made OutKast OutKast. It's not following trends, shooting for the radio. They thought my album was too artsy but that's the identity of the group I'm from.''
 To be fair, ''Sir Lucious Left Foot'' doesn't seem particularly artsy or abstruse. Its most creative flourishes -- rock guitars, Latin beats, spacey synths -- are less risque than the left-field tangents on ''Stankonia,'' from 2000, or ''Speakerboxxx.'' But there's also nothing on it as instantly memorable as ''The Way You Move.'' The single ''Shutterbug,'' which rides a stuttering, multi-note synth line and a sharp beat, comes closest, and there is plenty to recommend about the deep, thumping funk of ''Fo Yo Sorrows,'' and the slinky, rumbling ''Tangerine.'' If anything, the album doesn't venture far enough from the OutKast template.
 Ray Murray, part of Organized Noize, a production team that has worked with Big Boi since OutKast's early days and produced two tracks on the new album, said he sensed Jive's growing impatience. ''Jive was like, 'We need music turned in more timely and we need something that's fitting in with what's going on right now,' '' he said in a phone interview. ''But Big was defining himself outside of OutKast, so that took a minute. I don't think he ever really thought of himself as 'Me, by myself, in my 30s.' ''
 Mr. Lighty said he thinks eventually Jive just got fatigued. ''After spending so much money, after a while it gets monotonous,'' he said. ''It costs money to continue to go in the studio. Those bills tally up. When they get to a certain point, the label either has to put their foot down or play the luck of the draw.''
 Big Boi said he's convinced that Jive's aim was to frustrate him into either reworking his solo album into an OutKast album or packaging it with an album from Mr. Benjamin under the OutKast name as they'd done on ''Speakerboxxx/The Love Below.''
 ''The way Jive was like, 'Either put the song out with you and Andre on it or take your album elsewhere' -- there were a lot of Jedi mind tricks going on,'' Big Boi said. Talks to move to Def Jam got serious in 2009, but Big Boi said Jive was ''holding the deal up, trying to wait something out that wasn't going to happen,'' adding, ''They almost tried to kill my career with that waiting.''
 Mr. Lighty contends that Big Boi's suspicions were valid: ''I don't think Jive looked at Big Boi as a top-caliber artist without his partner. They wanted an OutKast album so bad that when it didn't happen, they were more disappointed than anything.''
 Albums that get delayed this long often carry a stigma in the marketplace, but Mr. Reid, of Island Def Jam, appears unconcerned. ''If he sells five million copies or five, it doesn't matter,'' he said. ''It's more important he makes the statement he wants to musically. This has nothing to do with record business economics or Def Jam's bottom line. As long as I have a job, he'll always have a record deal.''
 Mr. Reid admitted he would love to bring OutKast to Def Jam too, but right now the group is still Jive's to lose. After such a contentious ordeal with ''Sir Lucious Left Foot,'' Big Boi remains open to the possibility of having to work with Jive again.
 ''I'm a firm believer in karma,'' he said. ''So I've got to try not to hold no grudges.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Right, the rapper Big Boi in Atlanta in May, photographed alongside a mirror. Below, Big Boi, left, and Andre Benjamin, the duo called OutKast, in 1998. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RAHAV SEGEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (89%); BASEBALL (78%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



95 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Loan Giants Opt to Block Energy Programs

BYLINE: By TODD WOODY

 BODY:
Two government-chartered mortgage finance companies are unlikely to accept loans on homes that are part of a special program that lets homeowners repay the cost of energy improvements through a surcharge on their property tax bills, according to Energy Department officials.
 The Obama administration has allocated $150 million in stimulus money to support the financing technique, called Property Assessed Clean Energy, or PACE, and 22 states have authorized such programs. In a separate stimulus effort, President Obama on Saturday announced nearly $2 billion in loan guarantees for solar energy production. 
 Through the PACE program, loans to install solar panels and make other energy improvements would be repaid through 20-year special assessments on property tax bills and secured through a lien.
 On May 5, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which buy and resell most home mortgages, notified lenders that such liens could not take priority over a mortgage but did not offer guidance on how to handle such loans. The uncertainty has frozen many PACE programs and led some energy companies to furlough workers.
 On Friday, Cathy Zoi, an assistant secretary at the Energy Department, called officials in Boulder County, Colo., to inform them that the administration had been unable to persuade the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to accept mortgages with PACE liens. 
 The liens, like other property tax assessments, would be paid first if a homeowner defaults.
 ''She said in light of the circumstances we should look at other ways of financing energy efficiency with the stimulus money,'' said Ben Pearlman, a commissioner in Boulder County. 
 ''We're very concerned,'' Mr. Pearlman said. ''It's a powerful program and a powerful idea. We need to find an easy way for people to make those investments.''
 Those homeowners who already carry energy liens on their property may find it difficult to refinance their mortgages. In Sonoma County, Calif., some lenders have declined to issue new loans for homes with such liens unless the assessment is paid off.
 Ms. Zoi also called Cisco DeVries, president of Renewable Funding, a company in Oakland, Calif., that devises and administers PACE programs for local governments. ''She indicated that the agencies had decided not to accept the liens and the administration needed to begin contingency planning on what to do with stimulus funding allocated for PACE,'' Mr. DeVries said. 
 Dan Leistikow, the Energy Department's director for public affairs, confirmed the calls. ''We expect to get more written guidance from the regulators this week,'' he said on Saturday.
 A spokeswoman for the Federal Housing Finance Agency said it would address the issue soon.
 The Energy Department's action, which was first reported by Grist, an online magazine, comes as Congressional leaders and state officials have been pressing the mortgage agencies to allow PACE programs to proceed. 
 On Friday, Representatives Henry A. Waxman and Barney Frank sent a letter to top administration officials urging them to act quickly on the issue.
 ''The response among the cities is something close to outrage,'' Mr. DeVries said. ''There may need to be a legislative solution, maybe litigation.''
 While one energy effort appeared to fizzle over the weekend, the president announced nearly $2 billion in Energy Department loan guarantees for two solar power companies.
 Mr. Obama made the announcement on Saturday in his weekly address, a day after an unemployment report showed weak job growth in June and stoked concerns that the nation's recovery was weakening. He said the companies' projects would create more than 5,000 jobs, part of a wider push on clean energy.
 ''That's one of the reasons why we're accelerating the transition to a clean energy economy and doubling our use of renewable energy sources like wind and solar power -- steps that have the potential to create whole new industries and hundreds of thousands of new jobs,'' he said.
 Abengoa Solar, a unit of a Spanish company, will receive a $1.45 billion loan guarantee to build a solar plant in Arizona. And Abound Solar of Loveland, Colo., was awarded a $400 million guarantee to expand a solar-panel factory in Longmont, Colo., and to open a factory in Tipton, Ind.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); PROPERTY ASSESSED CLEAN ENERGY (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TAX ASSESSORS (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (75%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); HENRY WAXMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



96 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; STATE IN PLAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Rougher Road for Democrats Without Obama Atop Ticket

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Ben Werschkul contributed reporting, and Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
CINCINNATI -- The congressman was dripping with sweat, and his face was as red as a tomato as he moved through a crowded park here, passing out dozens of plastic cups bearing his name.
 ''Hi, I'm Steve Driehaus,'' he said, leaning down to shake a woman's hand. ''I'm your congressman, and I need your help in November.''
 While all candidates ask voters for support, the pitch from Mr. Driehaus is more pointed than most. He is among the class of Democrats who face the challenge of running in difficult districts without the same enthusiasm and expected voter turnout that helped the party expand its Congressional majorities when Barack Obama led the ticket two years ago.
 The race highlights a central question of this election cycle: What chance do Democrats have of defending House districts, like the one here in Cincinnati and a dozen more across the country, where, by narrow margins in 2008, they captured seats held by Republicans? 
 To hold these seats and to protect others that are vulnerable, Democrats are trying to re-create the Obama campaign machinery and expand turnout beyond a typical midterm election to compete with a particularly motivated Republican base.
 The prospects for Democrats holding on to the House, and perhaps even the Senate, could rest with whether legions of first-time or occasional voters who supported Mr. Obama, including a high percentage of African-Americans, return to the polls this year.
 The contest in Ohio's First Congressional District offers one of the best case studies in the country. The campaign is among a dozen rematches in this election cycle: Steve Chabot, who was first elected in the 1994 Republican sweep, lost his seat to Mr. Driehaus by four percentage points -- 14,772 votes -- and is fighting to win it back.
 ''I think people are ready for a change from the change,'' Mr. Chabot said in an interview at his storefront headquarters, decorated with signs and banners from his previous races. ''The change that they've seen isn't what a lot of people had in mind.''
 If Republicans are to win control of the House, party leaders are relying on candidates like Mr. Chabot to whittle away the 39-seat Democratic majority. Their strategy is rooted in the belief that the Republican base is significantly more energized than it was two years ago, particularly because of the influence of Tea Party activists and at least a share of independent voters who have soured on the leadership of Democrats.
 Mr. Chabot is seeking to make the race a national referendum on every major element of the Democratic agenda, from health care to the economic stimulus plan to the growth of federal spending. Mr. Driehaus is working to localize the race, telling voters how they have benefited from the health care law and reminding them that road projects and development along the banks of the Ohio River are their own piece of the $787 billion stimulus package.
 Their arguments have yet to hit the airwaves -- both sides are rationing money for an aggressive fall campaign -- but they previewed familiar lines of attack last weekend as they met voters at neighborhood fairs and sat for separate interviews.
 In short, Mr. Chabot hopes to tie his opponent to the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, whom he calls ''extremely unpopular here,'' while Mr. Driehaus believes he can be seen as his own man, a product of the West Side, who lives in his old neighborhood and still works the summer festival alongside fellow parishioners at St. Teresa of Avila Catholic Church.
 ''But when the electorate is angry, when the electorate is anxious, they're going to look for somebody to blame,'' Mr. Driehaus said. ''And that would be us.''
 As some Democratic candidates balance how closely to align themselves with the president, Mr. Driehaus believes that his best path to winning a second term is to remind voters who remain loyal to Mr. Obama of the consequences of the midterm election. He declared to a group of Hispanic voters, ''I was happy to run with President Obama on the ticket.''
 Later, at the opening of a local office of Organizing for America, the outgrowth of the Obama campaign that works to increase voter turnout, Mr. Driehaus said: ''If you believed in hope in 2008, if you believed in change in 2008, this election is about delivering on that change. It's just that simple. We can keep moving forward or we can go back.''
 The Congressional race, which includes most of Cincinnati and several suburbs and townships, offers a laboratory on how Democrats are working to hold their majority in the House. Two years ago, 53 percent of voters here in Hamilton County selected Mr. Obama, the first time a Democratic candidate for president won in 44 years.
 Now, four months before Election Day, Democratic campaign workers are trying to follow the road map from 2008, right down to selecting the same office headquarters along Springfield Pike and at the Jordan Crossing Center on Reading Road, the first shopping mall in the largely black neighborhood of Bond Hill. The first task: re-creating their get-out-the-vote teams, block by block.
 ''Our job is to make sure people don't take a pass on the midterm,'' said Ken Shewmon, a management consultant who volunteers as a Democratic neighborhood team leader. ''We know who they are, we know where they are, we know their phone numbers.
 ''We're a little bit early now,'' he said, ''but if we don't see a lot of volunteers by August, that's a problem.''
 Mr. Chabot said he was impressed by the Democratic Party's get-out-the-vote operation, particularly the absentee ballot program, which he plans to try to replicate. He conducted a precinct-by-precinct analysis of the 2008 race, which he said found an ''unusually skewed turnout'' with margins that increased by 30 percent in Democratic areas and dropped by 10 percent in Republican areas.
 ''It would have been different if I would have gotten voted out on some kind of scandal or if we'd lost touch with the district, but that didn't happen,'' Mr. Chabot said. ''Republicans were not particularly pleased with the nature of the national ticket, and they weren't very excited.''
 This time, as much as the race may be affected by the national mood, along with a 9.4 percent unemployment rate here, it also could be determined by hyperlocal statistics. Will Mr. Driehaus and his Democratic organization repeat the voter turnout of more than 70 percent in the city's largely black Seventh Ward? Will voters be motivated to stand in line for hours -- often wrapping around the county election headquarters on Broadway Street -- to cast early ballots?
 Lincoln Ware, who hosts a daily radio show with a large African-American audience that is a regular stop for political candidates, wonders whether the enthusiasm among voters in this midterm election year can measure up.
 ''I just don't think we're going to have that voter turnout, especially on the Democratic side because Obama's not running this term,'' Mr. Ware said. ''It's going to be real tough for Driehaus to come back. Chabot is real serious about taking that seat back.''
 There are several factors that could influence the race in new ways, particularly the rise of the Tea Party. While conservative groups have rejected many establishment Republicans, Mr. Chabot has been embraced by local Tea Party organizers, in part because he voted in 2008 against legislation to bail out the banking industry. Several Republican candidates across the country who supported the measure have lost primary campaigns this year to Tea Party-backed candidates.
 ''There's a lot of frustration in the Tea Party movement with career politicians, but it's really only because of those people who go to Washington and change,'' said Mike Wilson, the founder of the Cincinnati Tea Party. ''It's not so much that people are happy with Republicans right now, it's that they are very angry with the Democrats.''
 STATE IN PLAY: This is part of a series of articles looking at House and Senate races in the battleground state of Ohio and other developments there that highlight the forces shaping politics in the 2010 midterm campaign.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 11, 2010, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption last Sunday with an article about the challenges that some Democratic candidates are facing in the November elections without President Obama on the ballot misspelled the name of one city in Ohio and misidentified another Ohio city where two candidates were shown campaigning. Representative Steve Driehaus, a Democrat, was at a picnic in Sharonville -- not Sharonsville -- and his Republican opponent, Steve Chabot, was shown greeting voters in Cheviot, not Cincinnati.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Steve Driehaus, top, campaigned last weekend at a picnic for Prospect House, a substance abuse treatment center in Sharonville, Ohio. His Republican opponent, Steve Chabot, whom he defeated in 2008, greeted voters at the WestFest street festival in Cheviot. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SPEAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) MAPS: 'The Obama Effect' in an Ohio District: Strong turnout in Democratic areas around Cincinnati helped Representative Steve Driehaus win Ohio's First Congressional District in 2008. He defeated Steve Chabot, his Republican opponent, by four percentage points. (Source: Ohio Secretary of State's Office) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICS (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (71%); REFERENDUMS (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); CASE STUDIES (64%)

PERSON: STEVE DRIEHAUS (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); STEVE CHABOT (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2010



97 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: No Place for Jingoism

 BODY:
The contrast in tone between the new national space policy unveiled by President Obama last week and the policy adopted by the Bush administration four years ago is striking. The Bush policy was jingoistic, unilateral in approach, and resistant to arms control in space. The Obama policy is cooperative, international in approach, and open to a verifiable arms control treaty to restrain the development of space weapons. 
 The idea of an arms race in space or a space-based conflict is not science fiction. China knocked down one of its own satellites in 2007, and the United States did the same the following year. (Beijing offered no explanation for smashing a weather satellite; Washington said it needed to destroy the disabled spy satellite before it tumbled to earth and vented its toxic fuel.) 
 The United States has a clear strategic interest in curbing the spread of weapons that could destroy satellites from the ground or from perches in space. A treaty is the best hope of doing that. The military relies heavily on communication and intelligence satellites -- more so than other nations' militaries. The American economy is also hugely dependent on satellite communications. 
 The new policy states that Washington will consider arms control measures that are ''equitable, effectively verifiable and enhance the national security of the United States and its allies.'' Those are important conditions that should be possible for negotiators to meet. The policy also calls for ''openness and transparency'' in conducting operations in space, and for responsible behavior by all nations to help prevent ''mishaps, misperceptions and mistrust'' that could lead to conflict.
 Any hawks who fear the administration may shrink from defending American interests in space ought to be mollified by assertions that all nations have the right to use space for national security activities and that the United States stands ready to defend its space systems.
 The new policy calls for wider international cooperation in exploring space, studying climate change, and tracking and removing orbital debris that poses a risk to spacecraft passing through.
 It reinforces President Obama's plan to rely more heavily on commercial companies to carry cargo and astronauts into low earth orbit, abandon another landing on the moon, and develop new technologies to send astronauts to an asteroid by 2025 and to the orbit of Mars by 2035. Many members of Congress are resistant, and the president will need to persuade them.
 Despite its welcome call for international cooperation, the paper does not invite other nations to join in those trips to distant worlds. Any policy that purports to promote peaceful collaboration in space ought to enlist other nations in these challenging and costly missions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SPACE WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SPACE LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AEROSPACE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (78%); ARMS RACE (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (75%); ESPIONAGE (74%); CLIMATE CHANGE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); WEATHER (70%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (57%) EARTH'S MOON (79%); MARS (79%); EARTH (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



98 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: The Coveted But Elusive Summer Internship

BYLINE: By HILARY STOUT

 BODY:
IT'S been a rough summer so far for the Baltimore Orioles, Miley Cyrus and (it goes without saying) BP. Now, summer interns may have joined the list.
 Between the sputtering economy and updated federal guidelines governing the employment of unpaid interns, many students have had a tougher time than they anticipated in landing resume-enhancing experience this summer. 
 Tales of frustration abound. One junior at Penn State had his paid corporate internship offer revoked during the last week of classes this spring. A journalism student in Washington had to walk away from three internship opportunities because she wouldn't receive academic credit. After an ''awesome'' internship at a venture capital firm last summer, a student in an M.B.A. program in Los Angeles struggled to find 15 hours a week of unpaid work this time around. And at ESPN, Howard Hamilton, a vice president of human resources, said that 10,000 people applied this summer for 90 paid internship spots. 
 The internship culture has grown markedly in the last two decades. A survey by the National Association of Colleges and Employers in 2008 found that 50 percent of graduating students had held internships, a striking increase from 17 percent in 1992. Forget burger flipping or ice cream scooping -- now even high school students seem anxious to obtain a few weeks of summer experience with ''real'' employers, fearing that colleges will look askance at applicants without substantive professional experience on the students' lists of summer activities. 
 As a result, the big-name internship has become coveted capital -- a reality that was showcased in the extreme when the Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights recently auctioned media internships to help raise money for its cause. The opportunity to work -- unpaid -- went for some pretty big amounts: $2,900 at Vanity Fair, $9,000 at the Huffington Post -- and an eye-popping $42,500 at Vogue. 
 But the willingness of many young people to sacrifice pay for experience has led a number of states as well as the federal government to take a close look at the legality of hiring young people to work free. In April, the Obama administration issued a fact sheet listing six criteria aimed at preventing employers from violating the Fair Labor Standards Act with their unpaid internship programs. Among the stipulations: that the training the intern receives must be similar to training that can be obtained in an educational setting, that unpaid interns don't displace a paid employee, and that the employer does not derive any ''benefit'' from the intern's work.
 The guidelines, from the Labor Department, have left employers scrambling to bulletproof their internship programs, said Camille Olson, a management-side employment attorney, who represents companies who have been dealing with this issue. Some employers, she said, have converted to paid internships but in the process have cut back on the number of posts they can offer. Others have abandoned their programs altogether.
 Oscar Michelen, a labor lawyer in New York, said his son, a junior at Penn State, had secured a paid internship for the summer, but during his last week of classes the company suddenly pulled back the offer. ''Companies were cutting back on the number,'' he said. ''They said we can only offer paid positions to rising seniors.'' (The young man was able to find a six-week paid position at another firm.)
 Dave Phillipson, the organizer of CEO Space, a California-based network of entrepreneurs, said he had been working on starting an internship program this summer but abandoned it ''because of this silly ruling.'' 
 ''I was an unpaid intern and I had no problem with it,'' he said.
 The Atlantic Media Company, which publishes The Atlantic Monthly magazine and other print and digital publications, decided this spring to start paying its interns immediately -- and even compensate last year's interns retroactively. Many employers, however, especially those who have long-established unpaid internships, were reluctant to comment about whether they have instituted changes. 
 But at least one employer has been outspoken. John Stossel, a former anchor on ABC's ''20/20'' who now hosts his own show on the Fox Business Network, has been sounding off about the issue all over print, the airwaves and cyberspace. He even donned a police uniform for an appearance on the Fox News program ''America Live'' to ridicule the crackdown.
 ''I've built my career on unpaid interns,'' he said in the interview, ''and the interns told me it was great -- I learned more from you than I did in college.'' (Asked why he didn't pay them if they were so valuable, he said he didn't have the money.)
 Many people believe a focus on unpaid internships is an important effort to protect young people from economic exploitation, as well as to even the intern playing field so students who can afford to work without pay aren't the overwhelming beneficiaries of internship experience. But some worry that the crackdown may actually limit their opportunities.
 Sarah Green, a 20-year-old art history major at Emory University, landed a prestigious internship last summer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. This year she hoped to return to the New York art world. She applied to every auction house and museum she could find for both paid and unpaid spots. Every place turned her down, with some explaining they'd cut back on the number of interns they now hire. The experience may have been a career-changer for Ms. Green. ''I took this as a sign that I was not meant to work in the fine arts,'' she said. Instead she enrolled in summer courses in graphic design and advertising and has now decided to apply to a graduate program in art direction for advertising.
 Most employers aren't entirely eliminating their unpaid internship programs but are instead becoming sticklers, requiring that schools grant credit to any person they hire for an unpaid internship. That can be difficult for some students. Alyssa Wolice, a journalism major at American University in Washington, had to walk away from three promising internship opportunities -- one at a sports organization and two at news organizations -- because all three employers insisted she obtain credit from her university. 
 There were two problems with that stipulation for Ms. Wolice. First, she had already been granted the maximum number of credits that American allows for internships in her degree program. But even if she hadn't, she says she couldn't afford the estimated $1,000 she would have had to pay American for the credits. She's already planning to graduate a semester early to save on tuition. She ended up finding a part-time paid internship, but it's not in journalism; it's a post at the federal Food and Drug Administration. 
 Emily Lennox, a 25-year-old M.B.A. candidate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles, said the academic credit requirement hadn't arisen last summer when she took an unpaid internship at a venture capital firm, a position she said provided a valuable ''quick immersion'' into the business world. ''This year it was more difficult,'' she said. She finally found two part-time unpaid internships, though she said she has since quit one out of dissatisfaction. But, she added, she is learning a lot in the other -- a 15-hour-a-week stint at a start-up retail firm.
 Other students are finding ways to get around the federal requirements. ''Kids don't necessarily have to go back to their university to get the credit,'' said Jill Tipograph, the founder and chief executive of Everything Summer, which works with families to help them find camps and summer internships. 
 Kathryn Ciano, a law student at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., who aspires to become a legal journalist, worked through a group called the Institute for Humane Studies, which helped place her in an unpaid internship at Fox Business News in New York and awarded her a $3,200 stipend. But Fox still required her to obtain a letter showing she was receiving academic credit for the work. Her law school wouldn't grant credit for a journalism internship, however. So she found a community college in Los Angeles that would award her credit and furnish the required letter for $200 -- much less than she would have had to pay George Mason.
 Ms. Ciano's internship sounds like the type of post the new rules might call into question -- 40 to 50 hours a week working on the development of a new show. But Ms. Ciano said the hands-on experience has been terrific. ''It's really wonderful,'' she said. ''They're really nurturing, great mentors.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: REDIRECTED: Sarah Green's internship trouble led to a change in plans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
LEARNING EXPERIENCE: Emily Lennox, above, interns at Smiling Planet in Marina del Rey, Calif. Kathryn Ciano, left, is an intern at Fox. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES ) (ST7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); BASEBALL (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%); LAWYERS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (84%)

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (73%); BARACK OBAMA (52%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



99 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: The Coveted But Elusive Summer Internship

BYLINE: By HILARY STOUT

 BODY:
IT'S been a rough summer so far for the Baltimore Orioles, Miley Cyrus and (it goes without saying) BP. Now, summer interns may have joined the list.
 Between the sputtering economy and updated federal guidelines governing the employment of unpaid interns, many students have had a tougher time than they anticipated in landing resume-enhancing experience this summer.
 Tales of frustration abound. One junior at Penn State had his paid corporate internship offer revoked during the last week of classes this spring. A journalism student in Washington had to walk away from three internship opportunities because she wouldn't receive academic credit. After an ''awesome'' internship at a venture capital firm last summer, a student in an M.B.A. program in Los Angeles struggled to find 15 hours a week of unpaid work this time around. And at ESPN, Howard Hamilton, a vice president of human resources, said that 10,000 people applied this summer for 90 paid internship spots. 
 The internship culture has grown markedly in the last two decades. A survey by the National Association of Colleges and Employers in 2008 found that 50 percent of graduating students had held internships, a striking increase from the 17 percent shown in a 1992 study by Northwestern University. Forget burger flipping or ice cream scooping -- now even high school students seem anxious to obtain a few weeks of summer experience with ''real'' employers, fearing that colleges will look askance at applicants without substantive professional experience on the students' lists of summer activities.
 As a result, the big-name internship has become coveted capital -- a reality that was showcased in the extreme when the Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights recently auctioned media internships to help raise money for its cause. The opportunity to work -- unpaid -- went for some pretty big amounts: $2,900 at Vanity Fair, $9,000 at the Huffington Post -- and an eye-popping $42,500 at Vogue.
 But the willingness of many young people to sacrifice pay for experience has led a number of states as well as the federal government to take a close look at the legality of hiring young people to work free. In April, the Obama administration issued a fact sheet listing six criteria aimed at preventing employers from violating the Fair Labor Standards Act with their unpaid internship programs. Among the stipulations: that the training the intern receives must be similar to training that can be obtained in an educational setting, that unpaid interns don't displace a paid employee, and that the employer does not derive any ''benefit'' from the intern's work.
 The guidelines, from the Labor Department, have left employers scrambling to bulletproof their internship programs, said Camille Olson, a management-side employment attorney, who represents companies who have been dealing with this issue. Some employers, she said, have converted to paid internships but in the process have cut back on the number of posts they can offer. Others have abandoned their programs altogether.
 Oscar Michelen, a labor lawyer in New York, said his son, a junior at Penn State, had secured a paid internship for the summer, but during his last week of classes the company suddenly pulled back the offer. ''Companies were cutting back on the number,'' he said. ''They said we can only offer paid positions to rising seniors.'' (The young man was able to find a six-week paid position at another firm.)
 Dave Phillipson, the organizer of CEO Space, a California-based network of entrepreneurs, said he had been working on starting an internship program this summer but abandoned it ''because of this silly ruling.''
 ''I was an unpaid intern and I had no problem with it,'' he said.
 The Atlantic Media Company, which publishes The Atlantic Monthly magazine and other print and digital publications, decided this spring to start paying its interns immediately -- and even compensate last year's interns retroactively. Many employers, however, especially those who have long-established unpaid internships, were reluctant to comment about whether they have instituted changes.
 But at least one employer has been outspoken. John Stossel, a former anchor on ABC's ''20/20'' who now hosts his own show on the Fox Business Network, has been sounding off about the issue all over print, the airwaves and cyberspace. He even donned a police uniform for an appearance on the Fox News program ''America Live'' to ridicule the crackdown.
 ''I've built my career on unpaid interns,'' he said in the interview, ''and the interns told me it was great -- I learned more from you than I did in college.'' (Asked why he didn't pay them if they were so valuable, he said he didn't have the money.)
 Many people believe a focus on unpaid internships is an important effort to protect young people from economic exploitation, as well as to even the intern playing field so students who can afford to work without pay aren't the overwhelming beneficiaries of internship experience. But some worry that the crackdown may actually limit their opportunities.
 Sarah Green, a 20-year-old art history major at Emory University, landed a prestigious internship last summer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. This year she hoped to return to the New York art world. She applied to every auction house and museum she could find for both paid and unpaid spots. Every place turned her down, with some explaining they'd cut back on the number of interns they now hire. The experience may have been a career-changer for Ms. Green. ''I took this as a sign that I was not meant to work in the fine arts,'' she said. Instead she enrolled in summer courses in graphic design and advertising and has now decided to apply to a graduate program in art direction for advertising.
 Most employers aren't entirely eliminating their unpaid internship programs but are instead becoming sticklers, requiring that schools grant credit to any person they hire for an unpaid internship. That can be difficult for some students. Alyssa Wolice, a journalism major at American University in Washington, had to walk away from three promising internship opportunities -- one at a sports organization and two at news organizations -- because all three employers insisted she obtain credit from her university.
 There were two problems with that stipulation for Ms. Wolice. First, she had already been granted the maximum number of credits that American allows for internships in her degree program. But even if she hadn't, she says she couldn't afford the estimated $1,000 she would have had to pay American for the credits. She's already planning to graduate a semester early to save on tuition. She ended up finding a part-time paid internship, but it's not in journalism; it's a post at the federal Food and Drug Administration.
 Emily Lennox, a 25-year-old M.B.A. candidate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles, said the academic credit requirement hadn't arisen last summer when she took an unpaid internship at a venture capital firm, a position she said provided a valuable ''quick immersion'' into the business world. ''This year it was more difficult,'' she said. She finally found two part-time unpaid internships, though she said she has since quit one out of dissatisfaction. But, she added, she is learning a lot in the other -- a 15-hour-a-week stint at a start-up retail firm.
 Other students are finding ways to get around the federal requirements. ''Kids don't necessarily have to go back to their university to get the credit,'' said Jill Tipograph, the founder and chief executive of Everything Summer, which works with families to help them find camps and summer internships.
 Kathryn Ciano, a law student at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., who aspires to become a legal journalist, worked through a group called the Institute for Humane Studies, which helped place her in an unpaid internship at the Fox Business Network in New York and awarded her a $3,200 stipend. But Fox still required her to obtain a letter showing she was receiving academic credit for the work. Her law school wouldn't grant credit for a journalism internship, however. So she found a community college in Los Angeles that would award her credit and furnish the required letter for $200 -- much less than she would have had to pay George Mason.
 Ms. Ciano's internship sounds like the type of post the new rules might call into question -- 40 to 50 hours a week working on the development of a new show. But Ms. Ciano said the hands-on experience has been terrific. ''It's really wonderful,'' she said. ''They're really nurturing, great mentors.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 11, 2010, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about summer internships for students referred imprecisely to the source of two statistics used in comparing student participation in internships in 1992 and 2008. While the National Association of Colleges and Employers did indeed conduct a survey in 2008 that found that 50 percent of graduating students had participated in internships, it did not conduct a survey in 1992 that found that 17 percent of graduating students had held internships. The 1992 study was by Northwestern University. The article also misstated the name of the organization that provided an internship to Kathryn Ciano, a George Mason University law student. It is the Fox Business Network, not Fox Business News.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: REDIRECTED: Sarah Green's internship trouble led to a change in plans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
LEARNING EXPERIENCE: Emily Lennox, above, interns at Smiling Planet in Marina del Rey, Calif. Kathryn Ciano, left, is an intern at Fox. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES ) (ST7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); BASEBALL (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%); LAWYERS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (84%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (73%); BARACK OBAMA (52%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2010



100 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: TAKING QUESTIONS GAY YOUTH; New Challenges for a New Generation

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Following is the third and final set of responses from Kai Wright, the author of ''Drifting Toward Love: Black, Brown, Gay and Coming of Age on the Streets of New York'' (Beacon Press, January 2008), who is responding to readers' questions about gay youth in New York City, the challenges they face and the future lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community they are creating.We are no longer accepting questions for this feature.
 To try a more positive tack: Mr. Wright, perhaps you could address how you see gay experiences as being inflected by race and class, and why you chose to write about the subset of the gay youth population that your title implies? 
 - Posted by Jean in Brooklyn 
 Race and class inform everything about American life, so it's only natural they impact sexuality and sexual politics, too. That means many things, but I think two big points are worth noting. 
 The first is the paradox of gay politics, culture and community today. By any measure, gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people have opened up remarkable space for themselves in the years since Stonewall. There are gay neighborhoods, publications, community centers and artists (who actually get funded) in places ranging from New York to Alabama. Federal laws lag, but in many localities and private-sector industries we are protected from official bias and our relationships are treated equally. Many of these things were unthinkable little more than a generation ago. 
 That said, the space they've carved out may be deep, but it is not wide. As I mentioned in previous answers, for instance, there's a huge difference between the support available for a gay student in a well-funded, achieving school and a student in one of our nation's many overwhelmed, underfunded public schools. Race and class -- and gender, for that matter -- profoundly impact how much access a person has to all the new gay space we've created. And that's particularly true for a young person. I wrote about young men of color because it's one of the groups that gay politics and community building need to serve better. (Though, I should note Queers for Economic Justice here in N.Y.C. It's one of few groups I know with an explicit mission of confronting both race and class as part of gay politics.)
 The second big point is that, as a black gay man, I was moved to tell stories about the crossing of race and sexuality. Whatever happens within gay politics, the black community has much work to do in learning to support and love everyone in the community. This is by no means to say black communities are more or less homophobic than any other. Relativity doesn't matter. What matters is that more black gay people bring our whole, honest selves forward in our communities and our families. The young men in ''Drifting Toward Love'' did that, with great struggle, and I wanted to profile their journeys. 
 Gay youth receive so much negative cultural feedback: condemnation by religion, exclusion from the military, stigma from blood banks, more limited employment and educational opportunities, no expectation to marry, lack of representation in entertainment media. What exemplary role models are there for this audience? 
 - Posted by Jeff Atwood 
 You are correct that there are few role models for this community to look up to, which brings us back to the importance of gay adults finding ways to engage and support gay youth. One researcher I interviewed in ''Drifting Toward Love'' described a survey of 500 Chicago youths in which his team asked, among other things, whether the youths had ''someone they look up to.'' The gay-identified youths disproportionately said they did not, and those who said they did most often listed celebrities like Beyonce and Oprah Winfrey -- people who were neither gay nor actually involved in their lives. 
 That said, one important source of mentoring and role modeling for gay youth is other gay youth. Here in New York City, certainly, the gay youths of color who fill the Christopher Street piers (when not being chased away by police) and who revel in the storied, underground ball scene have created remarkable networks of alternative families. Older youths take younger kids as ''sons'' and ''daughters'' to support and mentor. In recent years, public health officials and community organizers have begun using these networks to spread positive information about sexual health, among other things. We need more of that!
 We often focus on the difficulties that gay youths face. What advantages do you think being gay provides to a teenager or a young adult? 
 - Posted by Emily
 It's not so much that being gay offers an advantage, but it opens doors to meet other remarkable, dynamic gay young people who are building healthy, exciting lives that never make it into the headlines or broadcasts. 
 I do believe there is something positive that, while not unique to gay youth, is at least a quintessential part of the gay experience: having to step forward and make an active choice about building the life you want rather than the one you've been told you should lead. The debate over whether sexual orientation is a choice makes this a delicate point, but it's an important one nonetheless. You do, in fact, have a choice as a gay person, of any age. It's the choice between living honestly versus trying to suppress or conceal your sexuality. In my opinion, society pushes hard against making the former choice, particularly if you're a young person who is still materially (and emotionally) dependent on family. Even before getting to the external barriers, there are many internal ones: the fear of being singled out, of being alone, of taking a step with no idea about what comes next. Someone who nonetheless chooses to build the life that feels true to them has been through a remarkable rite of passage.
 What is the state of the shelter system for LGBT youth, especially during the current economic climate? Where are some places that one could volunteer one's time and skills (tutoring, college preparedness)?
 - Posted by John Mac It's a timely question. Homeless service providers are working now to boost city funding for shelters and housing programs that explicitly welcome lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender youth. A City Council study of homeless youths found that roughly 3,800 gay youths spend the night homeless on any given day. These are kids who were, in all likelihood, either chased out of their homes or ran away from their homes because of being lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender. The broader youth shelter system is notoriously difficult for them, particularly those who are transgender or just femme boys and butch girls. They report facing harassment and violence in shelters and complain about adults' not protecting them. At minimum, they receive little meaningful support in dealing with the complexity that sexuality adds to the already difficult process of rebuilding their lives. That's why the handful of shelters that explicitly reach out to gay youths exist. But there are at best a couple of hundred beds between them (I have not attempted a tally in a few years). 
 I offered a list on Wednesday of three places people could volunteer: the Ali Forney Center, LiveOutLoud and the Hetrick-Martin Institute. These are three places that I spent time with while reporting ''Drifting Toward Love'' and that either myself or friends have volunteered for, but I encourage others with ideas to chime in.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OUT: On Christopher Street during last week's pride parade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); RACE & RACISM (89%); WRITERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); MEN (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



101 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Little Shops Of Horrors

BYLINE: By BEN FOUNTAIN. 
Ben Fountain is the author of the story collection ''Brief Encounters with Che Guevara.''

 BODY:
Dallas
 WITH more shopping centers per capita than any other place in the country, is Dallas the most American city? 
 Shopping is the primeval activity here in the Queen City of the Southwest, which began as a lonely trading post on the banks of the Trinity River but never really took off until the Texas and Pacific Railroad crossed the Houston and Texas Central, and a critical mass of ''terminal merchants'' -- dry-goods dealers, many of them Jewish, who followed the railroads west -- set up permanent shop. Mr. Marcus, Mr. Neiman, the Sanger brothers: their savvy helped build the great American economy, which relies for soul and substance on that perennial workhorse made up of you, me and everyone else we know, i.e., the retail consumer. In other words, if we didn't shop, life as we know it would come to an abrupt and gruesome end.
 Curious to see how retail was holding up against apocalyptic derivatives and credit-default swaps, I went to Rich Hippie, a boutique straddling two upscale neighborhoods, Preston Hollow and University Park. The owners, Nikki Solomon and Mindi Kahn, both moms, both locally born with sales in their blood, call themselves ''just one little store in Dallas, Tex.,'' but they've shown how to survive and thrive in difficult times. 
 Their business model for the subprime era was sublimely basic: serve the customer, be at the store every day, build relationships with vendors and pay the bills on time. Nikki and Mindi also upped their inventory of everyday wear while maintaining the splurge stuff, the python handbags and the vavoom cocktail dresses with all manner of breathtaking scoops and hollows. Those luxury items scrape the upper price points (''That's why it's not Poor Hippie,'' they told me), but there was, among them, a striking absence of big designer brands. 
 That got me thinking: There is much pleasure to be had in wearing attractive, well-made clothes, but designer-label lust speaks to the high-anxiety regions of the brain. Social status is a contact sport in Dallas, upward mobility as much a reflex as slapping mosquitoes, yet one wonders about the psychological wear and tear of all this aspirational shopping. ''I think the economy gave a lot of our new customers an excuse to break from name designers,'' said Mindi. ''Maybe some of them still buy designer, but now they're buying us, too.''
 So is the rumored, much-longed-for, often-disputed-by-the-numbers recovery real? ''It's hard to know whether you're feeling it or hearing it,'' Mindi said. ''People are definitely spending more. Our customers hear it on the news every day just like we do, the economy's coming back.''
 Good news can be self-fulfilling, but there's a line out there called reality, and beyond that line good news becomes puff, and puff becomes a bubble, and bubbles, well, any underwater mortgagor can tell you the rest. 
 Next, I ventured down the road to Highland Park Village, established in 1931, where no fewer than three historical plaques note its distinction of being the first suburban shopping center in the world. This smallish, pleasant compound of Spanish Mission-style buildings was once full of homegrown institutions like the S & S Tea Room, where Miss Willie would tell you over the loudspeaker to leave if she felt you'd lingered at your table too long. But such flavorful funk has long since been replaced by Prozac parking jobs (anywhere but between the lines) and the relentless ritzification of American taste. Here among the world-famous brand names, I continued my search for the consumer-led recovery. 
 Inside Jimmy Choo I encountered, hmm, no customers. In the antiques store down the way, two. Loro Piana, zero. Escada, zero. Hermes, one. Chanel, zero. According to every sales clerk queried at these fine establishments, business was great, super, fantastic or any one of a number of other perky superlatives. Yet the longer I hung around, the more I sensed the torpor of a dusty Catalan village that time has passed by. 
 O.K., so it was a Monday. There was slightly more activity the following Thursday, then a less-than-effervescent hum on Saturday. But as my fashion-sensible daughter told me as we stood outside Ralph Lauren admiring the psycho-preppie window displays, you can't expect hordes of customers in the high-end shops: ''Different market, Dad.'' Then again, maybe Nikki and Mindi are right. Maybe there's nothing like a recession to bring on designer fatigue. Meanwhile, average debt per Dallas resident ranks second in the country, with the lowest consumer credit quality of the nation's largest metro areas.
 Leverage, too, is a long and durable strand in Dallas's DNA. Le Grand Hotel opened in 1875, boasting a 30-foot chandelier in the main lobby, frescoed walls, gas jets, elegant rooms and a restaurant and bar unsurpassed in the city. The railroads had arrived a mere three years before and, with them, the terminal merchants who would make retail history. Tom Smith, the proprietor of Le Grand, was later quoted as saying that when the hotel opened, nothing in it was paid for.
 The latest economic indicators are bleak: the nation lost a net 125,000 jobs in June, new unemployment claims continue to rise, and home sales continue to drop. What does the economy look like around the country? The Op-Ed editors asked four writers to find out. Here are their first dispatches.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BATIA KOLTON)
 GRAPHIC: HOME ECONOMICS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); CLOTHING LABELS (71%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (67%); SUBPRIME LENDING (67%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (67%); BRAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



102 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: After Foreclosure, It's Optimism In the Round

BYLINE: By STEVEN McELROY

DATELINE: BEVERLY, Mass. 

 BODY:
 WHEN ''Memphis'' won the Tony Award for best musical last month, Randy Adams, one of the producers, thanked several regional theaters that were instrumental in the development of the show, including the North Shore Music Theater. Fortunately North Shore was open for business when phones at its box office here rang busily the next day, because just a few months ago this place was deserted. 
 North Shore, where ''Memphis'' had its premiere in 2003, was shuttered after a foreclosure last year, but will reopen with ''Gypsy,'' starring Vicki Lewis as Mama Rose, on Tuesday. At a time when many regional theaters have struggled and often folded -- the Pasadena Playhouse, American Musical Theater of San Jose and Madison Repertory Theater in Wisconsin are a few recent casualties -- a formerly thriving house getting a second chance is a rare occurrence. 
 North Shore opened in 1955, and was once the largest nonprofit theater in New England, drawing as many as 350,000 visitors annually for musical revivals and regional and world premieres. But at the end of 2008 it was $10 million in debt. A fire was partly to blame -- repairs cost several million dollars -- but there was at least one ill-advised artistic decision too. In 2008 the long-standing annual production of ''A Christmas Carol'' was jettisoned for ''High School Musical 2,'' which sold poorly. 
 The economic downturn also took a toll -- with a drop in donations and ticket sales -- and at a foreclosure auction in October, Citizens Bank bought back its own note, leaving the theater's future doubtful.
 Much has changed. Bill Hanney, who grew up on the South Shore of Boston, was at that auction. He didn't bid, he said, because bidding drives prices up, but waited and then bought the 28-acre property from the bank for $3.6 million. In a recent interview in the cavernous 1,500-seat theater Mr. Hanney, lean and energetic, sounded determined to create a stronger North Shore, this time as a for-profit venture. 
 Though he refused to blame the theater's previous managers -- the longtime artistic director, Jon Kimbell, who stepped down in 2007 after 25 years, and his successor, Barry Ivan, who was in charge at the collapse -- Mr. Hanney did suggest that operations could have been tightened.
 ''I don't know how they got $10 million in debt, to be honest with you, but I do know one thing, they were very, very top-heavy,'' he said. ''The assistants had assistants.''
 Joining him in the empty house was Evans Haile, the theater's new artistic director. Mr. Haile will be wearing two hats, as he is also the artistic director of the Cape Playhouse, a 580-seat professional summer theater in Dennis, Mass., that presents an annual season of plays and musicals and has, in its 84-year history, drawn Broadway performers from Basil Rathbone to Hunter Foster (who will appear in ''Boeing-Boeing'' this summer). 
 Mr. Hanney is taking a financial risk, but he is not naive. Since teaming up with a partner to buy a movie theater at the age of 19, he has bought, rebuilt and redesigned many others. Today he owns Entertainment Cinemas, a string of 10 multiscreen theaters in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut and New Hampshire.
 Live theater is not new to him either. Mr. Hanney also owns Theater by the Sea, a 77-year-old, 499-seat barn theater in Matunuck, R.I., that had been dark for several years before he bought it and the surrounding grounds in 2007. The Matunuck theater has been presenting full summer seasons again since 2008. ''It was a big deal for the town when we were able to see the theater reopened,'' said Stephen A. Alfred, the town manager of South Kingstown, which includes Matunuck. ''It was a major plus for the community.'' Mr. Alfred paused, then added, ''And the shows have been excellent.'' 
 At North Shore, Mr. Hanney and Mr. Haile have a full season planned. Following ''Gypsy'' are ''Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat,'' ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels,'' ''A Chorus Line'' and, in December, the return of ''A Christmas Carol,'' adapted and directed by Mr. Kimbell. 
 They have goals for the future too that stretch beyond the stage in Beverly.
 ''Bill having Theater by the Sea and me having the Cape Playhouse and then both working together on North Shore I think gives an opportunity that hasn't been seen in a very long time for these theaters that actually used to share,'' Mr. Haile said. If they have a successful start, they eventually hope to move shows around, as in the days of the straw-hat circuit when theaters would share shows, each saving money on rehearsal time, sets and costumes.
 But sharing presents complications -- theater size being a considerable one. Since you could practically fit the Cape Playhouse and Theater by the Sea inside the North Shore Music Theater, productions would not simply be interchangeable. 
 At Theater by the Sea, Amiee Turner, the producing artistic director, and Joel Kipper, the managing producer, said they were interested in the idea of sharing shows, at least in theory. ''It's difficult,'' Mr. Kipper said. ''We're not talking about two carbon copy theaters. We're talking about a 499-seat barn proscenium-arch theater versus a 1,500-seat, in-the-round theater.'' Therefore, Mr. Kipper said, ''I can't foresee a show where we would ever be able to share the set.'' There are other complications too, Ms. Turner said, including different contract terms with Actors' Equity, the union. 
 But Mr. Hanney hardly seems the type to give up easily. This is a man who is renovating the lobby and the landscaping at North Shore with barely enough time to finish before audiences show up, who has racked up about 50,000 miles on his car in the past year and who is already planning future renovations for both theaters. 
 Minutes before he jumped into his car for the 120-mile drive to Theater by the Sea, Mr. Hanney showed off a model of the set of ''Memphis'' from its 2003 North Shore run, discovered during the recent cleanup. While North Shore is days away from reopening, the idea of developing new musicals -- another ''Memphis,'' say -- is on his mind. ''Oh, I'm definitely doing that, without a doubt,'' Mr. Hanney said. ''That's part of the theater's history.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bill Hanney, below left, the new owner of the North Shore Music Theater, with Evans Haile, the new artistic director. The 1,500-seat space, top, will reopen with ''Gypsy'' on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); AUCTIONS (86%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); INTERVIEWS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (75%) NORTHEAST USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



103 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Ingredients for a New City

BYLINE: By ANN HOOD. 
Ann Hood is the author, most recently, of ''The Red Thread.''

 BODY:
Providence, R.I.
 IN 1992, when my husband, Lorne, tried to convince me to marry him and move to Rhode Island, he took me to a big hole in downtown Providence. ''Someday,'' Lorne said with a sweep of his hand, ''there will be a beautiful river here with bridges and people.'' 
 I looked at the bulldozers and the pile of mud in front of me -- all part of a $60 million project to uncover the city's paved-over rivers -- and thought: I am never moving here. I had grown up in West Warwick, a mill town about 14 miles away, and I had left as soon as possible. Supposedly, Providence was having a renaissance. But the downtown still had mostly empty buildings and deserted streets. 
 That night, Lorne took me to dinner at a tiny restaurant called New Rivers. Owned by Pat and Bruce Tillinghast, the two-year-old restaurant had twinkly white lights, paintings of pears and a menu that used local ingredients. When Lorne finally succeeded in wooing me to Providence, it became our place for romantic dinners.
 Bruce, now 63, is boyish-looking despite his salt-and-pepper hair. With his tortoise-shell glasses and madras shirt, he could be a character in one of the 1950s sitcoms that he watched growing up in nearby Lincoln, where his family shared a double-decker house with his grandparents. He describes his suburban middle-class childhood as charmed, with his mother creating Halloween costumes that always won him and his sister first prize at school and his father taking him on a search for the then-unusual ingredient of leeks to make vichyssoise. 
 He met Pat in 1974 when he was working as a waiter at Harrah's in Lake Tahoe, Nev., where she was a hostess. ''Here was this absolutely gorgeous auburn-haired woman with broad, tanned shoulders -- in April! -- floating through the room,'' Bruce said. ''I was a goner at first glance.'' 
 They eventually moved to Rhode Island, married and decided to pursue Bruce's dream of opening a restaurant. A Rhode Island School of Design graduate, he had fallen in love with cooking. ''It became a new form of creativity,'' he told me. With Pat at the front of the house and Bruce in the kitchen, Providence grew to love New Rivers and the Tillinghasts. 
 But it wasn't until Pat died in 1999 that Bruce realized just how vital the restaurant was to the community. ''We built this business together and it was important not to let it slip away,'' he said. That commitment to keeping New Rivers going has been challenged again and again. 
 ''I can't tell you the number of times people have asked me, 'Are you going to close?' '' Bruce said, shaking his head. They asked him that when the basement flooded in 2005 during Brown University's parents' weekend, one of the busiest times for Providence restaurants. Bruce put on a pair of waders, grabbed a flashlight and went down to retrieve wine. The flood knocked out his point of sale system and he had to handwrite all the credit card slips, only to find out two weeks later that the banks would accept only electronic transactions. 
 They asked him again a year-and-a-half later when the kitchen caught fire and Bruce had to take out a home-equity loan to bring it up to code. That time, the restaurant was closed for six months. 
 When the economy tanked in 2008, Providence restaurant owners were scratching their heads trying to figure out how to survive. That's when Bruce took the incredible leap of expanding New Rivers. He had long dreamed of moving into the space next door where a small cafe had been. ''All these windows!'' Bruce exclaimed, marveling at his renovated restaurant, which he unveiled seven months ago. Despite the still struggling economy, on a good weekend night, Bruce and his chef du cuisine, Beau Vestal, serve more than 100 dinners. 
 On one such sultry summer evening, I sat gazing out those big windows. The steeple of the First Baptist Church shone to the east. Below was the river Lorne promised me all those years ago. On the menu, there was bluefish from Block Island Sound and blueberries from nearby Seekonk, Mass. And there was Bruce himself in his customary bow tie, blue eyes sparkling. ''It will come together again,'' he said hopefully. ''Just in a different way.''
 The latest economic indicators are bleak: the nation lost a net 125,000 jobs in June, new unemployment claims continue to rise, and home sales continue to drop. What does the economy look like around the country? The Op-Ed editors asked four writers to find out. Here are their first dispatches.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BATIA KOLTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); LAKES (73%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (50%); HALLOWEEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (96%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%); NEVADA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



104 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OPINIONATOR: EXCLUSIVE ONLINE COMMENTARY FROM THE TIMES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 205 words

 BODY:
LIVING ROOMS As we find ourselves in an era of diminishing resources, could ''less'' become ''more'' again? If so, the mid-20th-century building boom might provide some inspiration. 
 Economic austerity was only one of the catalysts for the trend toward efficient living. The phrase ''less is more'' was actually first uttered by a German, the architect Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, who like other people associated with the Bauhaus emigrated to the United States before World War II and took up posts at American architecture schools. These designers, including Walter Gropius and Marcel Breuer, came to exert enormous influence on the course of American architecture, but none more so than Mies.
 Mies's signature phrase means that less decoration, properly deployed, has more impact than a lot. Elegance, he believed, did not derive from abundance. Like other modern architects, he employed metal, glass and laminated wood -- materials that we take for granted today but that in the 1940s symbolized the future. Mies's sophisticated presentation masked the fact that the spaces he designed were small and efficient, rather than big and often empty.
 -- JAYNE MERKEL, 
 from ''When Less Was More''
 For more, nytimes.com/opinionator

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); TRENDS (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



105 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Getting Rich on Fungus

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DOERR. 
Anthony Doerr is the author of the forthcoming story collection ''Memory Wall.''

 BODY:
McCall, Idaho
 ''THE brakes on the Volvo are screeching,'' reports my wife, a fitting way to begin a Monday. Front pads, rear pads, rear rotors: the first bid comes in at $1,234, the second at $760. 
 I go for a walk. ''I think that I cannot preserve my health and spirits,'' Thoreau wrote in his essay ''Walking,'' ''unless I spend four hours a day at least -- and it is commonly more than that -- sauntering through the woods and over the hills and fields absolutely free from all worldly engagements.'' 
 Four hours a day? I'll have to settle for 30 minutes. Unfortunately, even in Valley County, Idaho, hiking along a forested ridge above the glittering, cloud-swept 5,000 acres of Payette Lake, worldly engagements prove hard to shake. At 14.3 percent, county unemployment is the highest in the state, foreclosure notices routinely fill five pages of the local newspaper and Tamarack, the once chic ski resort in nearby Donnelly, has been in default since 2008. 
 During my half-hour stroll, it snows, then hails, then becomes fabulously, luxuriously sunny. I'm watching a wet fox sun himself on a rock, steam rising from his back, when I notice a morel mushroom, like the hat of a little forest gnome, poking up out of leaf litter. Within a minute, I've found four more. 
 These honeycombed, wrinkled treasures are famously elusive, famously delicious -- and famously expensive. Recently, morels were selling for $15 a pound at the Capital City Public Market in Boise. Sometimes, around here, it's as high as 30 bucks a pound. That's for about only 40 medium-size mushrooms. 
 In other words, I was standing in a shaft of sunlight seeing Volvo brakes growing from the ground; I was seeing gold.
 I head out the next day, and again the following weekend. I saunter through the woods and over the hills and fields; I see a wood frog in a hole, a doe curled up for a nap and a clutch of oyster mushrooms growing beneath a fallen aspen. I find exactly zero morels.
 ''Oh, they don't call morels elusive for nothing,'' Claudia Nally tells me later. She is an employee in the governor's office who has been picking mushrooms in these mountains for almost three decades. ''Some people look for years but just don't develop the eyes for them.'' Of course, two breaths later she's telling me a story about how she once found a patch of morels so big she filled a 33-gallon trash bag and had to turn her shirt into a sack to fit the rest.
 It's my eyes, I think. I haven't developed them yet. I peer into the ground harder than ever. Do they favor ridgelines? Rotting stumps? ''I'm not sure if you have ever found a large amount of morels, but it's sort of like a gold-rush feeling,'' enthuses 27-year-old Clay Tuck, a student at Boise State University who was laid off from a factory job last August. ''Especially when you plan on selling them.''
 On my third morel hunt, I stumble on two, each no bigger than my thumb. Maybe even the mushrooms are in a recession.
 But on my last excursion, I discover 11 mushrooms growing among some purple trillium. Before I return home that day, I find 14 more scattered across the hillsides. 
 Twenty-six: maybe enough for $8. My plans of becoming a mushroom millionaire will have to wait. I bring home my sackful of fungi, wash them, slice them, dunk them in beaten egg, roll them in crushed saltines and fry them in butter. My wife and I eat them outside with glasses of cold beer. 
 They taste like pine trees, like weather, like triumph. And here's the real gift: For those afternoons that I went walking in the mountains, my eyes on the forest floor, my cellphone out of range, I felt the joy of being fully present, of paying attention to the world. For a few hours, I was finally away from oil spills and foreclosures and layoffs, free from all but the simplest of worldly engagements.
 The latest economic indicators are bleak: the nation lost a net 125,000 jobs in June, new unemployment claims continue to rise, and home sales continue to drop. What does the economy look like around the country? The Op-Ed editors asked four writers to find out. Here are their first dispatches.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BATIA KOLTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WALKING & JOGGING (77%); HIKING (77%); MOUNTAINS (74%); GOVERNORS (72%); MUSHROOMS (70%); FORECLOSURE (67%); SKIING FACILITIES (67%); SKIING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (79%) IDAHO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



106 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: How American Elites Opened the Door

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''The Triumphant Decline of the WASP'' (Op-Ed, June 28), Noah Feldman underscores the relaxation of religious divisions in American society during the second half of the last century, evidenced in the acceptance of Catholics and Jews in positions of national leadership. But he attributes far too much significance to the cultural views of elite white Protestants as the explanation.
 Privileged groups have strong incentives to maintain their advantages. In 1950, this applied to middle-class white Protestants, too. After more than a century of resistance to Catholic and Jewish advance, it is not clear why an ethos of fair play and a belief in equality suddenly took such powerful hold. 
 What Mr. Feldman does not mention is the enormous structural opening of America's economy and society after World War II, the fruit of a period of uncommon prosperity and public investment. For instance, between 1940 and 1970, the number of people attending colleges and universities quintupled, mainly as a result of the expansion of public higher education.
 This made it possible for non-Protestants to move up in large numbers without appearing to threaten the chances that white Protestants took for granted for themselves and their children.
 The resulting social convergence has rippled through American institutions ever since.
 Richard Alba Stephentown, N.Y., June 28, 2010
 The writer, a professor of sociology at the Graduate Center, CUNY, is the author of ''Blurring the Color Line.''
 To the Editor:
 It's true that over the last half-century, the old Protestant elite has opened its doors to an astonishing diversity of ethnic minorities. But this has not been done voluntarily, out of a strong devotion to America's founding ideals. If minority groups had not been knocking at the doors, our Protestant elite would have never opened them.
 Noah Feldman is right about the positive nature of this trend. Surely it is better to judge college applicants or potential employees by ''merit'' than by their last names. But Mr. Feldman does not mention the ways in which our so-called meritocratic elite has bent the playing field on behalf of its offspring: SAT classes, summer camp and tutors.
 Is a child who grows up with those advantages more deserving than one who doesn't? By replacing inherited status with meritocracy, we substituted a new kind of injustice for an older one.
 Jonathan Zimmerman New York, June 28, 2010
 The writer is a professor of education and history at New York University.
 To the Editor:
 What Noah Feldman calls the ''conscious decision to change'' was not made out of a sudden awareness of ethical tradition, but under pressure from the civil rights and women's movements.
 Elite women especially, by forgoing their supposed privileges as wives, hit the establishment where it lived. The subsequent equality and diversity in institutions was hard-fought and a long time coming.
 Bonnie S. Anderson New York, June 28, 2010
 The writer is emerita professor of history, Brooklyn College and the Graduate Center, CUNY.
 To the Editor:
 Noah Feldman does not mention one important influence: the Protestant-ness of most members of the white Protestant elite. For the most part, old, mainline Protestant churches promote the belief that all humans are equal in the eyes of God. Therefore, shouldn't we as individuals and American society manifest this belief?
 From religious tolerance to abolition and universal suffrage, this value has historically expressed itself in growing American inclusiveness and now is extending to sexual orientation.
 Two subsidiary beliefs also play a role. One is that humans are descendants of Adam and Eve, which means we should recognize others as members of our one human family and treat them as such. The other is the social gospel of ''do unto others'' and reduce human suffering.
 Thomas B. Roberts DeKalb, Ill., June 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); HISTORY (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (75%); ETHICS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); ETHNICITY (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



107 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Letters: My Father's Broken Heart

 BODY:
Katy Butler's fearlessly written memoir struck a chord with me. At age 83, shortly after fulfilling a lifelong dream of obtaining a college degree, my proud and proper father had triple-bypass and valve-replacement surgery and was never the same, emotionally or intellectually. His heart and lung rhythms could never be properly regulated, so he received a pacemaker, which extended his foggy and diminished life until 93. My parents, and many of their generation, revere doctors and would never dare question this bill of goods that they are sold. I cheer the memory of Katy's mother. Her staunch self-reliance in the face of her husband's and then her own decline is remarkable. ANN L. HYMAN New York 
 Over the last two decades it has become clear that there are benefits, as well as limitations, to modern medicine. Our successes have created an expectation that all illnesses can be treated, if not cured, and this anxiety is part of the reason for overtreatment and burdensome medical care. We need to restructure our health care system to improve the care that people receive in the last years of their lives. Regardless of what medical decisions are made, it is imperative that we recognize and treat symptom distress and vastly improve communication withthose who are seriously ill and their families. DIANE E. MEIER, M.D. Director, Center to Advance Palliative Care Mount Sinai School of Medicine New York
 As a bioethicist, and a Wesleyan graduate, I found it heartbreaking to read the account of Professor Butler's death. Sadly, his unabated access to medical technology was not balanced by the same access to competent and timely bioethical advice. I grieve for the Butlers because so much of their pain might have been avoided had their doctors consulted their hospital's ethics committee. An ethics consult, properly and promptly performed, would have unequivocally clarified that a health care proxy can disconnect a pacemaker much as one can remove a ventilator. Despite the protestations of the local cardiologist, and late-in-the game ''guidance'' from cardiology societies, this is not a new right. Ongoing treatment without continued consent is an unsanctioned bodily intrusion.
 Notwithstanding Katy Butler's focus on economic self-interest as a motivator of physician behavior, it is my experience that doctors remain morally conflicted when asked to remove life support. An ethics committee might have helped doctors appreciate that the underlying illness, and not the device's removal, causes death. It is tragic that such counsel did not inform the pace of the professor's care. Joseph J. FINS, M.D., F.A.C.P. Professor and Chief, Division of Medical Ethics Chairman, Ethics Committee NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell New York
 Butler characterizes physiciansas ''skilled technicians'' who view medicine as ''a financial transaction.'' To support this claim, she asserts that medical professionals, organizations and companies spend millions each year lobbying Congress to drive up health care spending with new technologies and unnecessary procedures. She writes that this explains the difference between the salary of a general practitioner and that of a specialist, who is more likely to prescribe and profit from such costly devices and procedures. She fails to note that cardiologists' relatively higher compensation is not based solely on these expensive treatments but also takes into account the three or more additional years of specialized training they complete after an internal-medicine residency, during which they make a salary around $50,000.
 My medical-school classmates and I are tasked with reforming our fragmented, rushed and fee-for-service health care system. We enter this career yearning to do better, to make care more cost-effective and, above all, more humane. But we will not be able to do so if our patients' trust is unfairly undermined. ANNA LEGANT PARKS San Francisco
 I read Butler's heartbreaking remembrance slowly to better grasp the circumstances of her grief and sadness and found myself uncomfortable by the end of the story. The unbearable pain described, resultant from the recommendation of her father's caregivers, belies the meaning of the word ''care.'' Yet the profit motive does not entirely, if at all, explain the cardiologist's recommendation. More chillingly, it is reflective of a mind-set that embraces technology above empathy and respect for people. Care inflicted rather than humanely provided.
 Physicians are granted great power over the lives of others. It is imperative, now more than ever before, that we exercise that power with humility and respect. PHILIP CORSELLO, M.D. Denver

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: MOST POPULAR LETTERS TOPIC: ''MY FATHER'S BROKEN HEART,'' BY KATY BUTLER 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOLOGY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (89%); ETHICS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); MEDICAL ETHICS (89%); BIOETHICS (87%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (76%); LIVING WILLS (75%); PALLIATIVE CARE (73%); DEATH & DYING (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



108 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: School for Brides

BYLINE: By ROBIN ROMM. 
Robin Romm is the author of the short-story collection ''The Mother Garden,'' and ''The Mercy Papers: A Memoir of Three Weeks.''

 BODY:
Las Cruces, N.M.
 LAST year, I lost my tenure-track teaching job when the College of Santa Fe, founded in 1859, closed after years of financial risk-taking and mismanagement. I was lucky enough to land another position elsewhere in New Mexico. A few of my colleagues found jobs in places like Florida, California, Canada, Singapore. 
 But for those faculty members determined to stay in Santa Fe, the odds of finding another academic job were close to zero. The political science professor now teaches Spanish at a local high school. The music professor decided to pursue nursing. And the costume design professor, Cheryl Odom, took a job as the alterations manager at a bridal shop. 
 I didn't know Cheryl all that well. One of the pitfalls of joining an institution two years before it folds is a general lack of collegiality. But as others were sweating in corners, scheming ways to avoid layoffs, Cheryl was actively kind, chatting with me after meetings, shaking off the bad vibes with a flip of her long auburn hair. She joined the college in 1980 after a brief but successful costuming career in Los Angeles. A veteran of the college's constant struggle with money, she wasn't so easily undone. 
 The last year we taught there, one of my quieter students brought a piece of white satin to my office and showed me a stitch she'd learned in Cheryl's class. Not since my own college days, when a snotty redheaded costuming professor denigrated me for my shyness, had I given a thought to the craft. 
 But I saw then that Cheryl and I did essentially the same thing. She showed students how to make something beautiful out of ideas, patience and simple tools. Using their imaginations and some muslin, they could go from nothing to mock-up to fully rendered spectacle. She empowered them not just to make dresses but to have a vision and to execute it. 
 Vision and its execution didn't happen often in the administrative offices of the artsy College of Santa Fe. The college, which struggled for decades with its identity, had a history of selling off land to stay afloat. By the time I arrived in 2007, the ragged little campus peered out from a cluster of strip malls and banks. 
 Unable to pay a debt that hovered around $30 million, the fragile institution began courting Laureate Education, which runs for-profit universities abroad and online, hoping for a ''partnership'' (i.e., bailout). For a while, it seemed that this might work, though we'd lose things like tenure and sabbaticals, receiving instead an undefined form of ''merit pay'' and the chance to teach at Laureate's campuses worldwide. But Laureate couldn't strike a deal with the college's creditors -- so the problematic, idealistic school finally closed last May.
 Last summer, the city finally figured out a deal that allowed Laureate to lease the land and buildings, without taking responsibility for pesky things like tenured faculty or the huge debt. The college reopened as a for-profit art school and in August will be renamed the Santa Fe University of Art and Design; a handful of faculty members now teach about 200 hundred of the original 700 students. 
 I spoke to Cheryl on the phone recently. She explained that the chairman of the theater department couldn't hire back everyone and, forced to choose, decided to focus on acting and performing. ''At first I was angry,'' she said. ''I spent 29 years at that college. I designed over 100 shows, made more than a half-million-dollars worth of costumes. I put my child through school there. But now, I'm over it. I'm O.K.'' 
 She's 60 now, and when she applied for health insurance, she was denied. A part-time gig at the local community college allows her to keep mentoring the next generation of artists, but it can't pay her bills or her mortgage. So Cheryl looked through the classified ads. ''My son graduated from the College of Santa Fe on a Saturday,'' she said. ''I was working at David's Bridal on Monday.''
 ''They love me at the bridal shop,'' she told me. ''They're thrilled by how fast I can work and how happy I make my customers.'' Her brides are about the same age as most of her former students, so she still gets to be part of a young person's transformation, though admittedly, it's a very different job.
 When I asked her if the alterations are ever artistically fulfilling, she explained that the dresses are all under copyright; there's not much you can do to add flair. It's nothing like the pirate costumes, flapper dresses and tailored men's suits that are bagged up in a storage unit somewhere on campus. 
 Instead, she specializes in fancy bustles. She can work with the bones, the beadwork, the crinoline. ''Some of the trains are so long, it's like a white-out under there. But I know how to work with all that,'' she said. ''And I get the hugs and the tears.''
 The latest economic indicators are bleak: the nation lost a net 125,000 jobs in June, new unemployment claims continue to rise, and home sales continue to drop. What does the economy look like around the country? The Op-Ed editors asked four writers to find out. Here are their first dispatches.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BATIA KOLTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ACADEMIC TENURE (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MERIT PAY (76%); RETAILERS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (70%); BRIDAL SHOPS (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (56%)

COMPANY: LAUREATE EDUCATION INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (51%); NAICS611430 PROFESSIONAL & MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT TRAINING (51%); SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



109 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Brandeis's Seat, Kagan's Responsibility

BYLINE: By JEFFREY ROSEN. 
Jeffrey Rosen, a law professor at George Washington University and the legal affairs editor of The New Republic, is writing a book about Louis D. Brandeis.

 BODY:
IN her Supreme Court confirmation hearings last week, Elena Kagan cited Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. as her model of judicial restraint in response to questions from Republican senators who want the court to overturn health care, campaign finance and economic regulations. 
 Ms. Kagan picked the wrong justice. Holmes was a cold and brutally cynical man who had contempt for the masses and for the progressive laws he voted to uphold. Ms. Kagan would do better to look to the justice whose seat she has been nominated to fill: Louis D. Brandeis. Brandeis, who was succeeded by William O. Douglas and then John Paul Stevens, was not only a great and restrained judge but the most prescient critic of the ''curse of bigness'' in a time of economic crisis. 
 Both Holmes and Brandeis were heroes of the Progressive Era, when the constitutional debate eerily anticipated the one that unfolded in the Kagan hearings. Liberals denounced the pro-corporate bias of the conservative Supreme Court, and conservatives countered that only the court could protect economic liberty and personal freedom in the face of an out-of-control regulatory state. 
 Although Holmes and Brandeis both objected to conservative activist decisions striking down progressive regulations, Holmes, unlike Brandeis, had no personal sympathy for the Progressive movement. An aristocratic nihilist who once told his sister that he loathed ''the thick-fingered clowns we call the people,'' Holmes believed that judges should vote to uphold virtually all laws, even the ones they hate.
 If Ms. Kagan is confirmed, Brandeis will be a far more relevant guide as she grapples with the issues at the center of our current constitutional debates. (Disclosure: I've known Ms. Kagan for years and my brother-in-law has been her principal deputy in the solicitor general's office.) 
 Like Holmes, Brandeis was committed to upholding laws passed by state legislatures and Congress in most cases. But instead of sneering at the progressive laws, Brandeis eloquently defended their economic and moral justice. He predicted the crash of 1929 and helped inspire the post-New Deal laws separating commercial from investment banking that prevented a crash of similar magnitude until 2008. Finally, Brandeis thought judges should begin with the text and original understanding of the Constitution but then translate the framers' values in light of new technologies and political movements. 
 Although Holmes has little to say about the legal issues that concern progressives today, Brandeis can teach us a great deal. For example, Democrats repeatedly insisted during the Kagan hearings that the Roberts court has shown a pro-corporate bias -- a charge supported by a recent study by the Constitutional Accountability Center, which found that in the term that just ended, the United States Chamber of Commerce won 13 out of the 16 cases in which it filed briefs, a success rate of 81 percent.
 If Ms. Kagan is to change this orientation, she will have to resurrect Brandeis's concerns about the ''curse of bigness'' -- in business and in government. With vision and clarity, Brandeis warned about how corporate money controlled by ''our financial oligarchy'' can threaten American democracy and how the reckless gambles that greedy megabanks take with ''other people's money'' can threaten the global economy.
 Similarly, as Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, suggested in the Kagan hearings, the greatest threats to free speech in the 21st century won't come only from oppressive governments trying to silence political dissidents. They will also come from the titans of digital communication. 
 At the moment, Comcast, Google and Facebook have more power over who can speak and be heard than any government or Supreme Court justice. To preserve free speech and privacy in the face of that power, Ms. Kagan will need to explore the ways that giant media corporations can threaten liberty, even if they are not formally restricted by the Constitution. 
 Ever since the rise of the conservative legal movement in the 1980s, liberals have yearned for a justice who can not only challenge Justice Antonin Scalia on his own terms, but also change the terms of debate. As her deft performance in the hearings showed, Elena Kagan has the potential to play that transformative role. To achieve it, however, she needs to develop a positive vision of progressive jurisprudence in an age of economic crisis, financial power and technological change. As a model for this vision, she need look no further than her greatest predecessor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LAWYERS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%)

PERSON: ELENA KAGAN (92%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



110 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION: Sunday, July 4th 2010

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Saturday, June 19th 2010, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount and department stores; and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book&#8217;s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Among those categories not actively tracked are: perennial sellers; required classroom reading; text, reference and test preparation guides; journals and workbooks; calorie counters; shopping guides; comics; and crossword puzzles. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 


	 	 		Weeks		This	On		Week	List	PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION		 	 	1	176	EAT, PRAY, LOVE, by Elizabeth Gilbert. ($15 Penguin) A writer&#8217;s yearlong journey in search of self takes her to Italy, India and Indonesia.		 	 	2	177	THREE CUPS OF TEA, by Greg Mortenson and David Oliver Relin. ($16 Penguin) A former climber builds schools in villages in Pakistan and Afghanistan.		 	 	3	25	ARE YOU THERE, VODKA? IT&#39;S ME, CHELSEA, by Chelsea Handler. ($16 Simon Spotlight Entertainment) Humorous personal essays from the comedian.		 	 	4*	86	MY HORIZONTAL LIFE, by Chelsea Handler. ($14.95 Bloomsbury) A memoir of one-night stands.		 	 	5	140	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. ($15.99 Back Bay/Little, Brown) Hunch and instinct in the workings of the mind.		 	 	6	172	THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. ($15 Scribner) The author recalls a bizarre childhood during which she was constantly on the move.		 	 	7	38	THE BLIND SIDE, by Michael Lewis. ($13.95 Norton) The evolving business of football, viewed through the rise of the left tackle Michael Oher.		 	 	8	10	MENNONITE IN A LITTLE BLACK DRESS, by Rhoda Janzen. ($14 Holt) Life&#8217;s detours send Janzen back to the Mennonite home where she was raised.		 	 	9*	31	A LONG WAY GONE, by Ishmael Beah. ($12 Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux) A former child soldier describes a killing spree and his return to humanity.		 	 	10	298	THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. ($15.99 Back Bay/Little, Brown) A study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.		 	 	11	43	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. ($15.99 Harper Perennial) A scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to nearly everything.		 	 	12	1	ZEITOUN, by Dave Eggers. ($15.95 Vintage) The travails of a Syrian-American man and his family after Hurricane Katrina.		 	 	13	10	WITH THE OLD BREED, by E. B. Sledge. ($16 Presidio) A memoir of fighting in the Pacific in World War II.		 	 	14	6	THE BLACK SWAN, by Nassim Nicholas Taleb. ($17 Random House) The hubris of predictions &#8212; and our perpetual surprise when the not-predicted happens.		 	 	15	2	LIBERTY AND TYRANNY, by Mark R. Levin. ($15 Threshold Editons) A conservative manifesto from the talk-show host.		 	 	16	139	I HOPE THEY SERVE BEER IN HELL, by Tucker Max. ($15.95 Citadel/Kensington) Life as a self-absorbed, drunken womanizer.		 	 	17*	3	HALF THE SKY, by Nicholas D. Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn. ($15.95 Vintage) A case for viewing women&#8217;s equality as the &#34;paramount moral challenge&#34; of our era.		 	 	18	2	LORDS OF FINANCE, by Liaquat Ahamed. ($18 Penguin) How four central bankers pushed the global economy into the Great Depression.		 	 	19	2	MY BOOKY WOOK, by Russell Brand. ($14.99 It/HarperCollins) A memoir of sex, drugs and stand-up from a British comedian.		 	 	20	3	A BOLD FRESH PIECE OF HUMANITY, by Bill O&#39;Reilly. ($15.99 Broadway) The Fox News commentator looks back at his upbringing and career.		 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (88%); BOOKSTORES (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); CHILDREN (71%); CHILDREN IN ARMED CONFLICT (68%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%)

PERSON: CHELSEA HANDLER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); AFGHANISTAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2010



111 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Lauren Oppenheimer, Joshua Shiffrin

 BODY:
Lauren Oppenheimer and Joshua Barnett Shiffrin are to be married in Montreal Sunday by Rabbi Susan N. Shankman at the Sofitel Montreal Golden Mile hotel. 
 Ms. Oppenheimer, 31, will keep her name. She works in Washington as the deputy chief of staff and the legislative director for Representative Paul W. Hodes, Democrat of New Hampshire. She graduated from the University of Toronto and received a master's in economic history from the London School of Economics.
 She is the daughter of Joan Oppenheimer and Robert Oppenheimer, who live and work in Montreal. The bride's father is a professor of management at the John Molson School of Business at Concordia University. Her mother is a research coordinator for Dr. J. Christopher Perry, who studies people with recurrent depression.
 Mr. Shiffrin, 31, is an associate at Bredhoff & Kaiser, a Washington law firm, where he specializes in labor and employment law. He graduated summa cum laude from Cornell and received a law degree, cum laude, from Harvard.
 He is the son of Robin B. Shiffrin and Brian Shiffrin of Rochester. The bride's mother is a marriage and family therapist in private practice and an instructor of family therapy and counseling at Nazareth College in Rochester. His father is a partner in Easton Thompson Kasperek Shiffrin, a Rochester law firm.

CORRECTION-DATE:  July 11, 2010, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, a report last Sunday about the marriage of Lauren Oppenheimer and Joshua Shiffrin misidentified which of their mothers is an instructor of family therapy and counseling at Nazareth College in Rochester and a marriage and family therapist. Those positions are held by Robin B. Shiffrin, not by Joan Oppenheimer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY SERVICES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); FAMILY (78%); COUPLE COUNSELING (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%)

PERSON: PAUL W HODES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (91%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2010



112 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 POLITICAL STRUGGLE STRAINS 
 Guatemala's Justice System
 Since Guatemala turned its justice system into an experiment under an agreement with the United Nations in recent years, the country has made visible steps toward strengthening the rule of law. But over the past few weeks, an escalating political struggle over the effort suggested just how fragile it was. PAGE 4 
 UNEASE OVER WORK IN IRAQ
 The push to complete reconstruction work in Iraq before large numbers of American troops leave the country has been met with scorn by Iraqi officials, who say some of the projects are being finished with such haste that engineering standards have deteriorated PAGE 4 
 PETRAEUS SEEKS JOINT EFFORT
 The incoming American military commander in Afghanistan, Gen. David H. Petraeus, used his first public appearance in Kabul to stress that the war could never be a success without close relationships among American, NATO and Afghan leaders. PAGE 6 
 PALIO BANNER STIRS DEBATE
 No horse race is more sacred in Italy than the Palio, which traces its lineage back 700 years. But the chase has taken an unexpected twist because the banner given to the winner has become stirred a dispute over religious symbols. PAGE 9 
 National
 DEPARTURES MAKE WAY 
 For a Capitol Land Rush
 Like many veteran lawmakers, Senator Robert C. Byrd equated Capitol office space with prestige and influence. With Mr. Byrd's death on Monday and other departures, senators and their top aides are already pondering whether to make a play for these top-tier versions of what are known as Senate hideaway offices. Congressional Memo. PAGE 13 
 FLORIDA LURES WITH LAUGHS
 Dan Aho would seem to be giving visitors to the Sunshine State a bad name, except that his goal is actually to bring more of them here. He is the star, after all, of the most humorous effort yet to keep Florida's tourism empire alive despite the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. PAGE 14 
 Court Sides With Detainees 15
 Metropolitan
 WHAT IT TAKES 
 To Become a Citizen
 Having gotten themselves safely to our shores, having beaten the odds and secured a green card, having held that card for at least five years, having filled out Form N-400 and paid $675, people from all over the globe are interviewed to become United States citizens. The City Critic joins them on the last step of their journey. PAGE 1 
 Sports
 WITH IMAGINATIONS BIGGER 
 Than Their Stomachs
 Without the Shea brothers, there would still be a county fair pie-eating contest here, a bar-sponsored chicken-wing chowdown there. The July 4 Nathan's hot-dog-eating contest might still be in Coney Island, but few beyond New York would know about it. Thank them. Curse them. Relish them. PAGE 1 
 ALL-STAR ROSTERS TAKE SHAPE
 With 34-man rosters this season for the first time, fewer deserving players will be left off the teams, making the All-Star game selection process less difficult than in past years, but the managers are still facing a few tough choices. PAGE 2
 Obituaries
 ARNOLD FRIBERG, 96
 A widely popular artist of historical and religious scenes whose quest for stunning realism led him to Valley Forge, Pa., on a winter's day, he painted what became a famous portrait of George Washington praying in the snow. PAGE 16 
 CHARLES S. KING, 85
 A British engineer who led the team that developed the Range Rover as the vehicle for the landed aristocracy, he watched in dismay as his creation became a symbol of gas-guzzling consumption. PAGE 16
 Sunday Business
 THEY DID THEIR HOMEWORK (800 YEARS' WORTH OF IT)
 Many economists build careers on a few decades' worth of data. Kenneth Rogoff and Carmen Reinhart researched eight centuries of financial crises for ''This Time Is Different,'' a quantitative reconstruction of hundreds of historical episodes in which perfectly smart people made perfectly disastrous decisions. PAGE 1
 WHERE BP'S MONEY GOES
 BP has begun reimbursing businesses that rely on the Gulf of Mexico for their revenue. Since May, it has paid just under a third of the more than 90,000 claims it has received, with the checks totaling more than $144 million. PAGE 1 
 3-D, WITHOUT THE GLASSES
 Smartphones are getting smarter. Now some new models even offer games or television broadcasts in three dimensions -- and special glasses are not needed to see the show. Novelties by Anne Eisenberg. PAGE 3 
 Arts & Leisure
 THE MAN BEHIND THE DREAMSCAPE
 With ''Inception,'' Christopher Nolan, who directed ''The Dark Knight,'' considers a world where the subconscious is open to manipulation. PAGE 1
 Magazine
 THE CLOSER
 How Mariano Rivera became the greatest savior of the final inning. PAGE 28
 THIS YEAR'S MAVERICK
 The Obama administration courts him. The Tea Partiers shun him. Lindsey Graham is right where he wants to be. PAGE 22
 Book Review
 EMPIRE OF DESIRE
 In ''The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet,'' David Mitchell's new novel about a young Dutchman in Edo-era Japan, is an achingly romantic story of forbidden love, and something of an adventurous rescue tale. PAGE 1
 AT HER FINGERTIPS
 In ''American Music,'' by Jane Mendelsohn, the past sits in our bodies. The framing narrative introduces us to Honor, a 21-year-old massage therapist who has been hired to treat Milo, an Iraq war veteran. Wherever Honor touches Milo, a story is released. PAGE 9
 Sunday Styles
 SUMMER INTERNSHIPS: COVETED AND ELUSIVE
 Between the sputtering economy and new rules governing the employment of unpaid interns, many students have had a tough time landing resume-enhancing experience this summer. Tales of frustration abound. PAGE 1 
 DATING IDEAS
 New data from a dating Web site suggests that not only do many New Yorkers plan similar dates, but they also collectively migrate from one theme to the next. In March, scores of daters opted for tacos. Then came fondue. PAGE 1
 Automobiles
 ANOTHER POWER GRAB
 By Porsche's Engineers
 Porsche likes to tinker. A new direct-fuel-injection system adds 20 horsepower to the new 911 Turbo, putting it in the 500-horsepower club. But the tweaks further down the driveline have more effect on how the car performs. SportsSunday,PAGE 10 
 Week in Review
 GENERALS AND DIPLOMATS, TRYING TO WORK TOGETHER
 There is an important question mostly missed in the uproar set off by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal: How are the Pentagon and the State Department sharing responsibility for the war in Afghanistan? PAGE 3
 Editorial
 HELP NEEDED
 The latest jobs report and other indicators are serious warnings about the economy. But the biggest obstacle to the recovery is political. Week in Review, PAGE 6
 NO PLACE FOR JINGOISM
 Unlike the space policy of the Bush administration, President Obama's new plan is a welcome step toward international cooperation. Week in Review, PAGE 6
 LIBERTY THOUGHTS
 The ideas in the Declaration of Independence remain as true to Americans today as they did in 1776. Week in Reivew, PAGE 6
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 We are reminded today of how far we've come on the issue of race in America and how far we still must go. We still take steps back and forward in bewildering alternation. Week in Review, PAGE 8
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 The Israeli siege of Gaza may have empowered, not weakened, Hamas. It's time not just for Israel to ease the siege, but to drop it once and for all. Week in Review, PAGE 8
 MAUREEN DOWD
 Sometimes the thing that's weird about you is the thing that's cool about you. What needs to be nurtured is the stuff that's different This Independence Day, let your fanged flag fly. Week in Review, PAGE 7
 Online
 AUDIO & PHOTOS Specialist Brendan Marrocco, the first veteran of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to lose all four limbs in combat and survive, speaks about his injury, rehabilitation and drive to return to a normal life.
 nytimes.com/nyregion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NATURALIZATION (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); RELIGION (67%); CITIZENSHIP (51%); OIL SPILLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (71%); ROBERT BYRD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); GUATEMALA (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



113 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
DAVID LETTERMAN
 The Russian spies tried to blend in. They were acting like Americans. As a matter of fact, for two weeks, they were pretending they loved soccer. 
 JIMMY KIMMEL
 BP is running with this, I guess. Their company newsletter has an article that says most gulf residents aren't upset with BP because their cleanup crews have boosted the local economy. BP taking credit for boosting the economy in the gulf is like Al Qaeda taking credit for creating jobs in airport security.
 STEPHEN COLBERT
 If Senator Byrd can be snatched away from us in the blink of an eon, isn't it a sobering reminder of our own mortality? I mean, I'm 46. Sen. Byrd was 92. The difference is a mere my entire life.
 Nation, as you know -- no secret -- terror is everywhere. From the underwear bomber to the Times Square plot, America's enemies never sleep, which is surprising because they watch a lot of soccer.

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: Dan Wasserman: Boston Globe, Tribune Media Services
Rick McKee: Augusta Chronicle, King Features Syndicate
Jimmy Margulies: The Record (Hackensack, N.J.), King Features Syndicate
 Dan Wasserman: Boston Globe, Tribune Media Services 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); AL-QAEDA (69%); AVIATION SECURITY (69%); AIRPORTS (54%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (74%); STEPHEN COLBERT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



114 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1608 words

HEADLINE: Fourth of July 1776, 1964, 2010

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
ALL men may be created equal, but slavery, America's original sin of inequality, was left unaddressed in the Declaration of Independence signed 234 years ago today. Of all the countless attempts to dispel that shadow over the nation's birth, few were more ambitious than the hard-fought bill Lyndon B. Johnson signed into law just in time for another Fourth of July, 46 summers ago.
 With the holiday weekend approaching, Johnson summoned the television networks for the signing ceremony on Thursday evening, July 2. The Civil Rights Act of 1964, first proposed more than a year earlier by John F. Kennedy, banished the Jim Crow laws that denied black Americans access to voting booths, public schools and public accommodations. Johnson told the nation we could ''eliminate the last vestiges of injustice in our beloved country'' with the help of a newly formed ''Community Relations Service'' and its ''advisory committee of distinguished Americans.'' Talk about an age of innocence! 
 Still, there were some heartening reports of America's first full day under the new law. A front-page photo in The Times on July 4 showed 13-year-old Gene Young of Kansas City being shorn by a white barber at the Muehlebach Hotel shop ''formerly closed to Negroes.'' But that Norman Rockwell-like tableau was paired with the image of a white businessman, Lester Maddox, and a teenage accomplice respectively wielding a pistol and an ax handle as they turned away blacks from Maddox's restaurant in Atlanta. The summer of 1964, which had begun with the lynching of three civil rights workers in Philadelphia, Miss., would soon erupt in a bloody wave of terrorism, marked by dozens of bombings of black churches, homes and businesses.
 A presidential campaign was in the wings. The soon-to-be Republican nominee, Barry Goldwater, had committed heresy by casting one of the Party of Lincoln's few Senate votes against the Civil Rights Act. But not even Goldwater had been as implacably opposed as a Democratic senator from West Virginia, Robert Byrd. Of all the filibusters trying to block the bill, largely from Southern and border state racists then welcomed by the Democratic Party, Byrd's was the longest (some 14 hours) and perhaps the most appalling. As the historian Taylor Branch recounted, Byrd even let loose with ornate ''segregationist interpretations of Luke and Paul.''
 This was typical of Byrd. He had been an Exalted Cyclops in the Ku Klux Klan in the early 1940s. As he moved toward a political career after World War II, he wrote to a notorious bigot, the Democratic Senator Theodore Bilbo of Mississippi, to rage at President Truman's efforts to integrate the military: ''I should die a thousand times, and see Old Glory trampled in the dirt never to rise again, than to see this beloved land of ours become degraded by race mongrels.'' 
 That letter was not unearthed until the late 1980s, but by then Byrd had long since renounced and apologized repeatedly for his ugly past, with words as well as deeds, including his avid support for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday in 1983. Byrd referred to his K.K.K. association in interviews as an immutable stain. He always noted with rue, not complaint, that it would haunt his obituaries. He wasn't wrong. But when those obituaries finally appeared last week, after his death at 92, Byrd's resume in racism was dwarfed not just by his efforts to atone for it but by his legislative achievements on many fronts during his epic Senate career.
 Byrd's evolution often parallels that of a country that has now elected its first African-American president. But the story of America and race is hardly resolved, and progress is not inexorable. Even in the new century, we still take steps back and forward in bewildering alternation. New Yorkers could only be embarrassed to learn last week, courtesy of The Times, that in a city where the non-Hispanic white population is 35 percent, 70 percent of the senior officials hired by Mayor Michael Bloomberg are white -- a record worse than that of all three American cities of comparable population, Los Angeles, Chicago and Houston. The title that an independent panel gave to its newly issued report on the altercation between Henry Louis Gates Jr. and a Cambridge, Mass., police officer -- ''Missed Opportunities, Shared Responsibilities'' -- might apply here too.
 Yet paradoxically the news in New York was preceded by happier tidings from South Carolina, where the flag of the Confederacy still flies at the state Capitol. Republican primary voters there gave victories both to an African-American candidate for Congress, Tim Scott, and an Indian-American gubernatorial hopeful, Nikki Haley. Liberals have argued that these breakthroughs come with a caveat: Scott and Haley are often ideologically to the right of even their conservative competitors. True enough, but that doesn't alter the reality that some very conservative white voters in the land of Strom Thurmond did not let any lingering racial animus override their other convictions. They voted for Haley, the daughter of Sikh immigrants, despite the urging of a local G.O.P. official that they reject a ''raghead.''
 Scott's victory had an added irony because he defeated Thurmond's son. But we shouldn't read too much into these results from low-turnout primaries -- just as we shouldn't draw too much solace from the pleasing morality tale of Byrd's atonement. Even as Washington paid homage to Byrd's triumph over his origins last week, the Capitol played host to what the Supreme Court's only black justice, Clarence Thomas, might call a ''high-tech lynching.'' The victim was, of all people, Thurgood Marshall -- the nation's first black solicitor general and first black Supreme Court Justice, nominated to both jobs by L.B.J.
 The pretext was Elena Kagan's confirmation hearings in the Senate. Marshall had been a mentor to Kagan, for whom she clerked in 1988. He is also a hero of our history, a brave and brilliant lawyer whose advocacy in many civil rights cases, and most especially Brown v. Board of Education, helped open the doors for landmark legislation like the Civil Rights Act of 1964. 
 Even before last week's ceremonial hazing of Kagan, the G.O.P.'s only national black political figure, Michael Steele, attacked her for writing approvingly of a speech Marshall had given calling the original text of the Constitution ''defective'' -- a restrained adjective, actually, for a document that countenanced slavery. On the first day of the Kagan hearings, Marshall received many more mentions (35) than even that other Republican archenemy, President Obama, in the accounting of Talking Points Memo. Orrin Hatch of Utah and Tom Coburn of Oklahoma saidthey weren't sure they could have voted to confirm Marshall to the court. Jon Kyl of Arizona, a state that suffered years of economic boycotts because of its opposition to the King holiday, faulted Marshall's jurisprudence for advancing ''the agenda of certain classes of litigants'' (wonder who?) and for being out of the ''mainstream.''
 These senators were in the tradition of Thurmond, not Byrd -- indeed, they are Thurmond's direct heirs. Like Byrd, Thurmond had been an ardent Democratic foe of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Unlike Byrd, he left his party in disgust that year and endorsed Goldwater, jump-starting the migration of the Democrats' racist cadre and their political toxins to the G.O.P. and setting the stage for the Republican ''Southern strategy.'' That strategy isn't dead. Witness just recently the Virginia governor Bob McDonnell's declaration of a Confederate History Month that omitted any mention of slavery, and the Kentucky Senate nominee Rand Paul's revival of Goldwater's ''constitutional'' objections to the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
 Thurmond, who died at 100 in 2003, never recanted his racist past. He chose instead to pretend it never happened. He told interviewers that his ''reputation as a segregationist'' was ''just misunderstood'' and that he helped ''the people of both races'' throughout his lifetime. This from a man who, when running as a Dixiecrat for president in 1948, exclaimed that ''all the laws of Washington and all the bayonets of the Army cannot force the Negro into our homes, our schools, our churches and our places of recreation.'' Only after Thurmond's death did we learn that his record also included fathering a daughter with a teenage black maid in the 1920s -- and then shunting her into the shadows. 
 The senators trashing Marshall last week almost uncannily recycled Thurmond's behavior from July 1967, when, as a freshly minted Republican senator on the same committee, he pelted Marshall for an hour with windy, truculent and arcane questions during Marshall's own Supreme Court confirmation hearings. Indeed, some of the coded invective -- such as Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions's decrying Marshall as ''a well-known activist'' -- was coined by Thurmond and his peers then. Thurmond not only voted against Marshall but declared him too deficient in constitutional knowledge to qualify for the court. 
 ''The way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race,'' wrote our current Supreme Court chief justice, John Roberts, in a smug majority opinion nibbling away at Brown v. Board of Education in 2007. His conservative self-righteousness, a product of his time, is as delusional as L.B.J.'s liberal faith in the efficacy of a federal ''Community Relations Service'' was in 1964. On this Fourth, as on the 233 that preceded it, America is still very much a work in progress. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); HISTORY (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); WORLD WAR II (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); TERRORISM (63%); BOMBINGS (63%)

PERSON: ROBERT BYRD (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



115 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: A Program's Legacy In Jobs and Lives

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN

 BODY:
The private Daybridge School, which opens in Olympia Fields next month, may prove to be a testament to educational vision. For now, it's an homage to serendipity, given the help afforded by President Obama's economic stimulus package.
 Beyond signs promoting the thousands of road projects nationwide that have come to symbolize the stimulus package in action, many smaller programs are financed without fanfare, giving careers -- and livelihoods -- a shot at making it through an unforgiving recession. 
William Spencer, a businessman, will open Daybridge School, his private pre-kindergarten-through-third-grade institution in a 30,000-square-foot facility that used to be a racquetball club in an office park. Another group originally planned to turn the space into a school but went out of business, allowing Mr. Spencer to pick up the property at a foreclosure sale.
 He said that his encounter with ''Put Illinois to Work,'' a mostly temporary jobs program now financing 17,000 jobs, was a coincidence. ''I ran into another employer with a kid coming here,'' he said, ''heard about the program and looked at the state Web site.'' 
 Mr. Spencer met the stimulus program's criteria, so the state will pick up the $10-an-hour cost for 15 positions for the previously unemployed, including teaching assistants, receptionists and clerks. That money runs out Oct. 1. 
 ''I could not possibly have hired those 15 without this help,'' said Mr. Spencer, who plans to charge tuition of $18,000 a year. He said more students have already enrolled than he can handle. When the federal subsidy runs out, he hopes that the ability to attract and accommodate more students -- he's aiming at the children of black professionals -- will allow him to keep employing them.
 Then there are projects like the Rosa Parks Apartments in Chicago's Humboldt Park neighborhood. The development comprises 94 affordable housing units in eight buildings, and results from $10 million given to the nonprofit Bickerdike Redevelopment Corporation. The private investor market in such housing has collapsed, said Joy Arguete, the company's executive director.
 Ms. Arguete created 109 jobs, including 55 in construction, with permanent spots remaining in the $35,000-to-$50,000 range. Those include a ''green resident organizer,'' Liz Andujar, who ensures that tenants understand the project's green elements and, heeding the Obama administration push for sustainable communities, how best to use public transit and recycling.
 Christy Webber Landscapes in Chicago uses ''Put Illinois to Work'' money to train about 16 people to help the company design, build and maintain landscapes. These jobs, too, pay $10 an hour and last until Oct. 1. But Ms. Webber is delighted to give so many unemployed people a chance and might keep at least half of them.
 ''The idea is to get these people in and hit on some winners,'' Ms. Webber said. ''It's always a goal of mine to hire local people and change their lives.''
 For sure, the stimulus money also created far-better-paying union jobs. For example, Lorig Construction of Chicago put 177 people to work on five projects resulting from a $26 million stimulus grant, notably construction on a new retaining wall and a ramp extension on Interstate 94/90 from Hubbard's Cave to Interstate 290.
 But my favorite project involves a mere $20,000.
 It went to Little Theatre on the Square in rural Sullivan, Ill., about 160 miles south of Chicago. The organization serves 55,000 patrons a year with a 418-seat theater, 32 classes in dance and drama and outreach to schools. As music and art keep getting axed from school budgets nationwide, Little Theatre on the Square has become the arts bastion of Moultrie County.
 The money allows the organization to retain Heather Dore Johnson, 28, an actress who is the education director. Ms. Johnson teaches classes, directs the children's programming, writes grant requests, hires teachers, oversees costume design and handles marketing. She runs a ''Broadway Boot Camp'' for 80 young people from around the state.
 Let economic historians give the final grade to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. John Stephens, the Sullivan theater's executive director, has a more targeted reason to be grateful.
 Speaking from an office a block away from cornfields and a world away from Washington think-tank debates on the stimulus, Mr. Stephens said, ''It's just a godsend to be able to keep Heather.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); PARAEDUCATORS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); RACQUETBALL (69%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (68%); FORECLOSURE (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (61%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (57%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010



116 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: A Prospective Raise in Postal Rates Riles Magazines

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Magazine publishers are preparing to go to war with the United States Postal Service over an emergency rate increase that the postmaster general is expected to ask for on Tuesday. 
 The Postal Service, which is on track to lose about $7 billion this year, can raise postage rates on its own once a year as long as the increase does not exceed the rate of inflation.
 But this time the Postal Service says that an increase on par with inflation, which has been relatively subdued as the economy edges its way out of recession, will not be enough. 
 The prospect of paying higher postage rates is distressing to many magazines at a time when they are still trying to stabilize their businesses. Publishers say that any increase will force them to absorb the cost or to raise newsstand and subscription rates, neither of which they are eager to do.
 ''It's real money,'' said James R. Cregan, the executive vice president for government affairs with the Magazine Publishers of America. ''It makes a tremendous difference.''
 ''We are going to be litigating this if the Postal Service insists on filing to raise rates,'' he added. ''We believe we have extremely strong arguments on the law and on the economics of this.''
 The postmaster general, John E. Potter, has not indicated how much of a rate increase he will seek on Tuesday when he requests a new pricing structure from the Postal Regulatory Commission, which oversees the Postal Service's operations. 
 A spokesman for the Postal Service said only that the price increase sought would be ''moderate.'' Any rate increase would not go into effect until 2011.
 The postmaster general has said that the service continues to lose money because the rates that some mail customers pay -- nonprofits and periodicals, for example -- do not cover the actual cost of mailing. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John E. Potter, the postmaster general, said the Postal Service continued to lose money and that low rates did not cover costs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARAZ N. GHANBARI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (93%); POSTAL RATES (92%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RECESSION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (64%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (94%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (90%); POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



117 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Take Me to the River. Finally.

BYLINE: By NATHAN WARD. 
Nathan Ward is the author of ''Dark Harbor: The War for the New York Waterfront.''

 BODY:
THIS summer, with the debut of the Brooklyn Bridge Park, as well as the expansion of Manhattan's Hudson River Park and Governors Island, New Yorkers have celebrated the reclamation of the waterfront. But the effort, laudable though it is, obscures a not-so-insignificant historical misunderstanding: we are in fact claiming the waterfront, not reclaiming it. 
 From New York's early days as a port to its receding days as a manufacturing town, the waterfront was never a place most people wanted to be. It was always a rough, strange world separate from the city it surrounds. 
 In the Colonial era, the waterfront was the province of those who wanted to go to sea, or at least to unload ships. Cargo-laden clipper ships entering the harbor produced a call for ''Men Along the Shore!'' -- longshoremen. Back then, those men with the patience to keep alert for the flare or flag of an approaching vessel and the physical strength to ''bull'' cargo were really the only people allowed near the docks.
 During the 19th century and early 20th century, the docks were a place of dangerous work done by often desperate men, many of them immigrants. In the 1915 study ''The Longshoremen,'' the sociologist Charles Barnes described an occupation that ''involves such constant risk that a man becomes 'work hardened' or indifferent to the dangers around him.'' Barnes authenticated 309 longshore accidents on the Manhattan waterfront, 96 of them fatal, in a single year.
 By the middle of the 20th century, New York Harbor was the greatest port in the world, with more than 900 working piers. But as commerce boomed, so too did crime. The small-time heists by pre-Prohibition gangs gave way to territorial murders and organized pilferage. (Pier 45 at West Street, now a pastoral portion of the Hudson River Park, was so gang-ridden it couldn't be rented out.)
 Malcolm ''Mike'' Johnson, whose investigations for the old New York Sun won a Pulitzer Prize in 1949, called the city's docks at the time a ''waterfront jungle.'' Murders, he wrote, are ''commonplace, a logical product of widespread gangsterism.'' Stealing was so rampant it amounted to an unofficial -- and hefty -- tax. One steamship company, the Grace Line, lost nearly $3 million in 1948 alone, 80 percent of it from its New York piers. The bolder pier heists of the era included an entire truck-sized electrical generator and a 10-ton shipment of steel. 
 The authorities were hampered by a waterfront ''code'' against squealing that was no Hollywood invention. ''A man could be killed in broad daylight before half a dozen witnesses and nobody would testify about it,'' wrote William Keating, a New York assistant district attorney. ''On the waterfront, to talk was to rat, and to rat was to stand exposed and unprotected.'' Dozens and dozens of murders went unsolved.
 Not surprisingly, in 1931, when The New Yorker sent Alva Johnston to Irishtown -- now the loft country of Dumbo -- to investigate the deaths of 21 Brooklyn stevedores, he discovered that there had been no arrests, ''not because there is anything secret or underhand about these murders, but because the witnesses won't talk.'' When detectives asked the wounded Red Donnelly, the Brooklyn dock boss, what enemy had balehooked and shot him in a waterfront shanty on Bridge Street, he coughed out, ''John Doe'' -- and died pure. 
 As our waterfront economy slowly faded, New York's piers became a no man's land, blocked off by empty sheds and bands of highway. In the latter half of the 20th century, there was a ghost town between landlubbers and the water. 
 But in this empty age lay the seeds of recovery. More than 70 years ago, when researchers from Manhattan's Greenwich House interviewed idle West Village dockworkers about ways to improve conditions on the West Side, these men called for the creation of ''opportunities for sane recreation.'' 
 Long after the decline of New York shipping, ''sane recreation'' is exactly what has been replacing so much of the city's abandoned dockland. New parks sod over the old waterfront jungle; movies are filmed on soundstages at the Navy Yard; former Williamsburg beer plants are reborn as luxury condos; and Brooklyn's old Pier 6, where many a sailor once stepped ashore, is now filled with playing children. 
 As much as some of us may love the ruins, and the departed city they represent, each New York buries the bones of its predecessors in its own style. And in our New York, the harbor, long-obscured, is finally at hand.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBORS & PORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); MURDER (86%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



118 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Whites Again a Majority Of Manhattan's Population

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
For the first time since the 1970s, a majority of Manhattan's population is non-Hispanic white, according to an analysis of census estimates.
 The white share of the population, which had dipped to about 40 percent as recently as the 1990s, climbed to nearly 51 percent last year. The rest of the borough's residents were 24 percent Hispanic, 14 percent black and 11 percent Asian. 
 In 2000, the proportions were 46 percent non-Hispanic white, 27 percent Hispanic, 16 percent black and 10 percent Asian. 
 The changes reflect several trends, including the dispersal of black and Hispanic Manhattanites, in part because of gentrification in Harlem, East Harlem and Washington Heights, and the construction or conversion of tens of thousands of apartments downtown, in the East Village, Hell's Kitchen and other neighborhoods for higher-income tenants and owners. 
 Since 2000, the number of Dominicans in Upper Manhattan grew by about 20 percent to about 165,000. But by last year, the black population of greater Harlem had declined to about 4 in 10 residents and central Harlem to about 6 in 10. 
 In Lower Manhattan, south of Canal Street and west of Chinatown, the white population surged by more than 25 percent between 2000 and 2005, much of it the result of an influx of whites working on Wall Street and couples who stayed in the neighborhood to raise families. 
 ''Overall, the trend of people, particularly younger people, is staying in cities to build their lives and careers,'' said Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College of the City University of New York. ''People would die to live in Manhattan now.''
 But Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, expressed concern that the ''conflation of luxury development and good strong public housing stock'' means that ''that the borough is becoming a place for very, very wealthy people and enclaves for poor people and that middle-income people are finding it impossible to stay here.''
 ''The entrance fee to live here is a million-dollar condo,'' Mr. Stringer said. ''It's magnificent and a great place to live, but its becoming more challenging for two teachers, or a nurse.''
 The latest census estimates from 2009 reflect the growing diversity of a city in which no single group dominates. Results from the Census Bureau's 2009 American Community Survey, due later this year, are likely to provide a better gauge of the impact of the recession and the housing slump on migration. 
 While Manhattan may have become less attractive to some college graduates and other job-seekers, the number of residents leaving the borough may have slowed because of the lack of opportunity elsewhere and the difficulty in selling apartments.
 Last year, Manhattan reversed a decade-long streak of population gains and lost residents, even as the city lost fewer people to other places than at any time since at least 1990. 
 According to estimates as of July 1, 2009, the borough, which had grown by nearly 90,000 since 2000, dropped by about 2,500 - a small decrease, but one that contrasted with annual gains that peaked at 15,000 in the middle of the decade.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); TRENDS (90%); CENSUS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (69%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (56%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



119 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Gambling Fever

 BODY:
Gamblers aren't the only ones prone to jackpot delusions. Politicians all over see casinos as magic revenue chests that will help them avoid painful spending cuts, escape the trap of no-tax pledges and make budget gaps vanish. New York is no exception. 
 Gov. David Paterson wants to bring slot machines to Aqueduct, the crumbling racetrack in Queens. (Three previous attempts to strike a deal collapsed.) The new Nassau County executive, Edward Mangano, wants the Shinnecock Indians to build a full casino in the center of his county. A Suffolk County legislator, Wayne Horsley, wants the tribe's casino out in his neck of Long Island -- but not, of course, in the posh Hamptons, where the Shinnecocks actually live. 
 The federal government has finally granted the Shinnecocks recognition as an Indian tribe, more than 30 years after they applied. That is great news for the Shinnecocks, whose reservation is a pocket of poverty in a zone of immense wealth. As an official tribe they will have access to benefits like federal funds for housing, education, food programs and health care.
 Unfortunately, what they prize most is the right to run a casino, and the host of suitors it has already attracted. Casinos are a magnet for tainted money and promote addiction, crime and other ills. The tribe should be finding other ways to use its valuable real estate and its long-denied recognition. 
 The state's politicians should also stop chasing gamblers. At a time when casino revenue is slumping across the country, it doesn't even make economic sense. They need to make hard decisions on taxes and spending, and focus on developing stable industries, improving education and working their way to growth. If they keep holding out for a false jackpot, everyone will lose. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); GAMING (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



120 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: A House With a Role in the Revolution Is Now Left Unprotected

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
NORTH WHITE PLAINS, N.Y.
 There's always been a forlorn tale about history slipping away in the Miller House, a farmhouse where George Washington slept and plotted strategy during the Battle of White Plains in 1776. 
 It has been hanging on by a thread for many years, almost forgotten in an industrial area opposite a cement plant: roof near collapse, ceiling beginning to crack, porch sagging, barely (if at all) open to the public.
 So maybe it was just more of the same last week when the Westchester County executive, Rob Astorino, kicked off the Fourth of July weekend by vetoing a $1.2 million bond issue passed by the county Legislature to save and restore the house. 
 Or maybe in this summer of oil, war, recession and gridlock, this was the perfect Fourth of July snapshot for the pinched era of Tea Party 2.0, the summer of ''No we can't.'' 
 The project should be done with private contributions, Mr. Astorino, a Republican, said in his veto message Thursday, days after the county Legislature, dominated by Democrats, voted 14 to 1 in favor. ''It is a worthwhile cause,'' he said, ''but it is neither an essential service nor a priority for the county at a time when we are facing a $166 million deficit next year and large numbers of potential layoffs.'' 
 No matter that Mr. Astorino, when he was in the Legislature in 2005, wrote a letter calling the house, which has been designated a National Historic Landmark, a ''precious facility'' and seeking assurances from the county that it would be protected and preserved. That was before the bottom fell out.
 Advocates for the house say that even in tough times, we should be better than this.
 ''The county took responsibility for this house for us and for our children; we can't just turn around and say, oh, private money should pay for it,'' said Kate Merenda Hohl, one of the volunteer docents at the house, now open one Sunday a month from February to October. ''I really don't see how we have a choice. Sometimes you just have to do what's right.''
 The Miller House was built in 1738 by Elijah and Anne Miller, yeoman farmers, on 600 acres. It had two rooms until a parlor, bedroom and bake room were added in 1770, and was remodeled again in the 1850s. Towering above is a spectacular sycamore that surely existed in 1776. Inside are paintings and artifacts -- musket balls, bayonets, hand-wrought horseshoes, a spinning wheel, etc. There's a table where Washington worked, and the bed he slept in.
 It surely would have disappeared long ago had not colonial and British troops clashed in October and November 1776. The British won the main battle in White Plains on Oct. 28 and followed as Washington retreated to the hills to the north. He stayed at the Miller farm from Oct. 31 to Nov. 1, deploying troops on Miller Hill overlooking the farmhouse. There was a brief encounter between troops at Miller Hill, but then the British retreated south and Washington and his army escaped across the Hudson. Perhaps slightly overstated, a historical marker at the hill states that shots fired there ''by Col. John Glover's troops ended Battle of White Plains and turned Tide of Revolution.''
 Elijah Miller and two of his sons died in the war. Anne Miller died in 1819. The house was restored and opened to the public in 1918. But over the years, interest and oversight have waned. For a while it was closed. Maintenance has been hit or miss. The roof in back is totally encrusted with moss. Ms. Hohl doubts it will last another winter. The county's plan was to raise $1.2 million to fix and restore the building and $600,000 or so more in private money to move it to a more accessible spot on county parkland near the Kensico Dam. 
 It's not a great time, of course, to spend money on historical preservation projects, especially in a county with the nation's highest property taxes. Mr. Astorino's statement said the county would carry out its responsibility to keep the structure ''viable.'' His spokesman, Ned McCormack, said the county's position was much like Washington's in 1776.
 ''The whole significance of the Battle of White Plains is that Washington and his troops were able to stop the British so the Continental Army could regroup over the winter and fight another day,'' he said. ''Financially, Westchester is at a point where we must retrench and regroup, so we can deliver the most essential services to our constituents. I think General Washington would appreciate what we're doing.''
 But John Nonna, a county legislator, said the county has already allocated the $1.2 million in its capital plan, with the cost spread out over 15 years. And some could be paid back by the sale of the land it's now on. ''It has been said that 'a generation which ignores history has no past -- and no future,' '' he said. ''Do we sacrifice our historical legacy to save a few dollars today? How shortsighted and disrespectful to those patriots to whom we owe our liberty and freedom.''
 Maybe the Legislature will override the veto. Maybe we really are too poor to restore it. Maybe the Tea Party types will come up with the money. Independence Day 2010. 
 Happy birthday to us.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CEMENT MFG (56%); BOND ISSUES (55%); BONDS (55%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (64%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



121 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Punishing the Jobless

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
There was a time when everyone took it for granted that unemployment insurance, which normally terminates after 26 weeks, would be extended in times of persistent joblessness. It was, most people agreed, the decent thing to do.
 But that was then. Today, American workers face the worst job market since the Great Depression, with five job seekers for every job opening, with the average spell of unemployment now at 35 weeks. Yet the Senate went home for the holiday weekend without extending benefits. How was that possible?
 The answer is that we're facing a coalition of the heartless, the clueless and the confused. Nothing can be done about the first group, and probably not much about the second. But maybe it's possible to clear up some of the confusion. 
 By the heartless, I mean Republicans who have made the cynical calculation that blocking anything President Obama tries to do -- including, or perhaps especially, anything that might alleviate the nation's economic pain -- improves their chances in the midterm elections. Don't pretend to be shocked: you know they're out there, and make up a large share of the G.O.P. caucus.
 By the clueless I mean people like Sharron Angle, the Republican candidate for senator from Nevada, who has repeatedly insisted that the unemployed are deliberately choosing to stay jobless, so that they can keep collecting benefits. A sample remark: ''You can make more money on unemployment than you can going down and getting one of those jobs that is an honest job but it doesn't pay as much. We've put in so much entitlement into our government that we really have spoiled our citizenry.'' 
 Now, I don't have the impression that unemployed Americans are spoiled; desperate seems more like it. One doubts, however, that any amount of evidence could change Ms. Angle's view of the world -- and there are, unfortunately, a lot of people in our political class just like her. 
 But there are also, one hopes, at least a few political players who are honestly misinformed about what unemployment benefits do -- who believe, for example, that Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, was making sense when he declared that extending benefits would make unemployment worse, because ''continuing to pay people unemployment compensation is a disincentive for them to seek new work.'' So let's talk about why that belief is dead wrong.
 Do unemployment benefits reduce the incentive to seek work? Yes: workers receiving unemployment benefits aren't quite as desperate as workers without benefits, and are likely to be slightly more choosy about accepting new jobs. The operative word here is ''slightly'': recent economic research suggests that the effect of unemployment benefits on worker behavior is much weaker than was previously believed. Still, it's a real effect when the economy is doing well.
 But it's an effect that is completely irrelevant to our current situation. When the economy is booming, and lack of sufficient willing workers is limiting growth, generous unemployment benefits may keep employment lower than it would have been otherwise. But as you may have noticed, right now the economy isn't booming -- again, there are five unemployed workers for every job opening. Cutting off benefits to the unemployed will make them even more desperate for work -- but they can't take jobs that aren't there.
 Wait: there's more. One main reason there aren't enough jobs right now is weak consumer demand. Helping the unemployed, by putting money in the pockets of people who badly need it, helps support consumer spending. That's why the Congressional Budget Office rates aid to the unemployed as a highly cost-effective form of economic stimulus. And unlike, say, large infrastructure projects, aid to the unemployed creates jobs quickly -- while allowing that aid to lapse, which is what is happening right now, is a recipe for even weaker job growth, not in the distant future but over the next few months.
 But won't extending unemployment benefits worsen the budget deficit? Yes, slightly -- but as I and others have been arguing at length, penny-pinching in the midst of a severely depressed economy is no way to deal with our long-run budget problems. And penny-pinching at the expense of the unemployed is cruel as well as misguided.
 So, is there any chance that these arguments will get through? Not, I fear, to Republicans: ''It is difficult to get a man to understand something,'' said Upton Sinclair, ''when his salary'' -- or, in this case, his hope of retaking Congress -- ''depends upon his not understanding it.'' But there are also centrist Democrats who have bought into the arguments against helping the unemployed. It's up to them to step back, realize that they have been misled -- and do the right thing by passing extended benefits. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLITICS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (71%)

PERSON: JON KYL (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



122 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: The Pessimism Bubble

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
This is a day for hangovers and sunburns, discarded sparklers and spent rockets smoking weakly on brown lawns. Yesterday was all euphoria and patriotism -- a chance to forget about the unemployment rate, the deficit, the oil spill and whichever political party you hold responsible for the country's sorry state. But now it's time to sit around in your undershirt, put off cleaning the backyard grill and contemplate all the things you spent the Fourth of July trying not to think about.
 Enough of the star-spangled American dream. Back to the grim American reality. 
 How grim? Well, after the United States limped through five months of anemic ''recovery,'' last Friday brought news that our economy actually shed jobs in June, thanks to the expiration of more than 200,000 Census positions. It's now been 30 months since the beginning of the recession, and it looks as if it could take another 30 or so to regain the level of employment we enjoyed in the autumn of 2007. 
 If we regain it at all. The public seems doubtful: in a recent survey, conducted before the latest wave of dismal economic news, the Pew Research Center found that less than half of Americans expect that their children will enjoy a higher standard of living than their own. Economists are throwing around phrases like ''lost decade'' and ''double-dip recession,'' and drawing analogies to the Great Depression. And those aren't even the real doomsayers. On Sunday, The Times profiled the market forecaster Robert Prechter, who's convinced that the stock market is headed for a sell-off that will send the Dow Jones average below not 10,000, but 1,000.
 This gloom is understandable, up to a point. The crash of 2008 exposed systemic problems with our way of life that no legislation can resolve: a reckless financial elite, an overextended public sector, and a culture of irresponsibility that's visible everywhere from our debt-to-income ratios to our out-of-wedlock birth rate.
 But just as healthy optimism can turn into irrational exuberance, a clear-eyed realism about the challenges facing the United States can gradually inflate a pessimism bubble. 
 Since the financial crisis hit, there's been a lot of talk about the bubble mentality -- how a run of growth and good news persuades people that what goes up need never come back down. ''This time is different,'' the enthusiasts always say, in a refrain that provided the title for Carmen Reinhart's and Kenneth Rogoff's recent history of financial panics. But it never, ever is.
 A similar mentality, though, can take hold during downturns. The ''this time is different'' mistake applies to busts as well as booms: when things get dark enough, people start believing that dawn will never come.
 Pessimism bubbles formed during America's last two economic crises -- the stagflation era in the late 1970s and the post-cold war recession that ushered Bill Clinton into the White House. Go back and read Jimmy Carter's famous ''malaise speech,'' which liberals have lately been rehabilitating. With its warnings about retrenchment, rationing and a permanent energy crisis, it feels like a contemporary document. But it isn't, and Carter's prophecies were wrong: the grimmest speech any modern president has given was delivered just a few years before America kicked off a long era of impressive economic growth. 
 The same goes for many of the dire predictions ventured in the early 1990s, when America was supposedly entering a period of debt-driven decline, while Japan rose inexorably to dominance. Swap in a rising China for Japan, and Tea Party chants for Ross Perot's charts, and the fears of that era map neatly onto the anxieties of our own. But the Clinton-era boom pricked that bubble of pessimism soon enough.
 Maybe this time is different. The recession is deeper. Our debts are piled higher. The gloom is more pervasive. 
 But even now, there isn't a major power in the world that wouldn't happily change places with the United States. Our weaknesses are real, but so is our potential for resilience. While our rivals (in Asia as well as the West) face a slow demographic decline, our population is steadily increasing. The European Union's recent follies make our creaking 200-year-old institutions look flexible by comparison. And China can throw up all the high-speed rails and solar panels it wants, but it won't change the fact that most of the country is still sunk in rural poverty.
 All of this is cold comfort if you can't find a job, or can't afford your mortgage payments. But historical perspective is important. The more we remember the pessimism bubbles of the past, the better our chances of bursting out of this one.
 Here endeth the pep talk. Happy Fifth of July. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); LAYOFFS (77%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); OIL SPILLS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); STOCK INDEXES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



123 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Many Churches, One Plea

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.; Daniel Cadis contributed reporting from Sugar Land, Tex.

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- The Rev. John W. Bowie knows it is hard to sell the people in his neighborhood on the idea that they should support changing immigration laws to give illegal immigrants a path to citizenship. His church lies in one of the oldest black settlements in the city, where unemployment is high and many people see immigrants as competitors for jobs. 
 Yet there he was in the pulpit at True Light Missionary Baptist Church on the Fourth of July, with a full choir behind him, urging his flock to support an overhaul of immigration laws that ''lets the undocumented come out of the shadows.'' 
 ''All 13 colonies were made up of illegal aliens because they had not gotten permission from the residents here, who were the Indians,'' he said. ''Then a few years later, they brought us here and made us illegal, too. These immigrants, we immigrants, have built the greatest nation in the world, coming from everywhere, all over, because, you see, nobody owns this world except God.'' 
 All over Houston, in an unusual display of ecumenical solidarity on an explosive issue, scores of pastors, priests, rabbis and ministers used their sermons on Independence Day to promote the cause of fixing a broken immigration system. 
 The coordinated effort was part of a broad-based campaign begun in January by an interfaith group, the Metropolitan Organization, to lobby Congress to pass an immigration overhaul package this year. The group has collected 12,000 signatures to be sent to lawmakers and has organized workshops to persuade churchgoers to support their effort. 
 On June 22, Cardinal Daniel DiNardo, the head of the Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston, made a strong appeal in a letter to the priests in all 150 parishes to address the question in their sermons this weekend. Later, the leaders of the Methodist, Episcopal and Lutheran Churches made similar requests of their ministers. Some Jewish leaders have also joined the campaign.
 Many clergy members say they face an uphill battle with their congregations, some of which tend to be conservative on social issues and regard immigrants without visas as lawbreakers. Their effort has also drawn fire from right-wing talk radio hosts.
 ''It's not like preaching to the choir, so to speak,'' said the Rev. James Bankston, the senior minister at St. Paul's United Methodist Church in Houston, a classical stone and stained-glass church with a vaulted roof and a full pipe organ.
 Facing a packed church of mostly white faces, Mr. Bankston urged them to try to ''find an immigration policy that will fix what is wrong.'' 
 ''Knowing how to live with neighbors in our world is never easy,'' he said.
 Outside after the service, few church members disagreed openly with their minister, though some said the issue was complicated for them. ''Obviously, in a church this large, there are diverse feelings,'' said Dr. Thomas Leffler, an orthopedic surgeon. ''I think there needs to be something changed. It's not working. The border is basically open.''
 His wife, Sandy, chimed in: ''Our country has been bad, historically, in encouraging them to come in, for their labor.''
 The issue has divided some congregations, as immigrants have begun to worship side by side with members with deep roots in Texas. St. Thomas Aquinas Catholic Church in Sugar Land, a Houston suburb, has a large number of Mexican, Nigerian and Filipino parishioners, who now share the pews with white families who once dominated the area. 
 Like many involved in the campaign, Sam Dunning, a deacon, said his hope was ''to remove the sharpness from the debate'' and remind people of their religious obligation to welcome strangers. 
 ''There is an argument today that those who immigrate or reside here illegally do not deserve to be here because 'they are breaking the law,' '' Mr. Dunning said from the altar on Sunday as he looked out at more than 100 people. ''While we, too, wish to live in a society ordered by law, it is an unfortunate reality that current immigration policy encourages its very violation.''
 How successful the campaign in Houston will be is uncertain. In recent decades, it has become an increasingly diverse city, with whites now barely making up half the population and one in four people foreign born. Yet on the western end and in the suburbs, some of the most conservative and white Congressional districts in the country, politicians win votes with vocal opposition to efforts to grant citizenship to illegal immigrants.
 In black communities, there is similar skepticism. Some members at True Light said improving schools and cracking down on crime were much higher priorities than overhauling immigration. Others said the foreign workers were driving down wages and taking jobs working-class citizens needed. ''I feel like they are just taking away from us Americans,'' said Sherrel Justrice, 49, who attended Sunday's service.
 Mr. Bowie said it would take months to begin to build grass-roots support for an immigration overhaul. A single sermon would not counter what he sees as anti-immigrant rhetoric on the right, he said.
 ''They are told, 'They are taking your jobs, they are clogging up your emergency rooms,' '' he said. ''The perception is that this is a Latino problem, not a black problem.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'WE IMMIGRANTS': True Life Missionary Baptist Church was one of the Houston congregations that took part in a campaign led by an interfaith group.
 SEEKING A SOLUTION: Worshipers at St. Paul's United Methodist listened to the Rev. James Bankston, right. ''Knowing how to live with neighbors in our world is never easy,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); RELIGION (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (71%); LOBBYING (64%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (59%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



124 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITICS' CHOICE: NEW CDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: Straightforward, Straight-From-Texas Rock

BYLINE: By JON PARELES, JON CARAMANICA and BEN RATLIFF

 BODY:
ALEJANDRO ESCOVEDO ''Street Songs of Love'' (Fantasy)
 Alejandro Escovedo's ''Street Songs of Love'' lives up to the direct monosyllables of its title, then transcends them. It's a set of 12 midtempo, clear-cut, guitar-driven songs and a closing instrumental, usually with just three or four chords, in the style that was once mainstream and is now called classic rock. All the lyrics have something to do with love, as Mr. Escovedo sings and shouts, in his thick, earthy voice, about lust, devotion, jealousy, obsession, parental affection and higher purpose. ''You gotta have faith in the one you love/You gotta have faith in the mystery above,'' he hollers in ''Faith,'' with one of his fans, Bruce Springsteen, belting alongside him. 
Mr. Escovedo, a longtime local hero in Austin, Tex., and his songwriting partner, Chuck Prophet, stick to the structural basics that have been the through-line of Mr. Escovedo's music since he was a punk-rocker in the 1970s, even as he has dipped into hard-rock, alt-country, Tex-Mex, folk-rock and string quartets. ''Street Songs of Love'' has a little of them all, strings excepted, as it juxtaposes hard-riffing rockers -- ''Tender Heart'' socks the tom-toms, cranks up the fuzztone and pounds a piano -- and ballads like ''Fall Apart With You,'' which vows ''All I want is to fall apart with you'' over a girl-group bolero beat and women singing la-las.
 The producer Tony Visconti, who honed David Bowie's most durable albums, relies on the sinew of Mr. Escovedo and his band -- two guitars, bass and drums -- augmented with handclaps here, soul-style backup vocals there. Yet in this staunchly straightforward music, each song takes some memorable leap.
 Lyrics that start out routine turn incisive and surreal. ''Poured the poison, drank a toast to health,'' Mr. Escovedo sings in ''Undesired,'' an anthem about love found and betrayed. In ''This Bed Is Getting Crowded,'' over minor chords hinting at Tom Petty, he wonders, ''Am I here with you, are you here with me?/Or are we both here with him?''
 ''Street Songs'' envisions a girl ''Dancing on a beachland night/Movin' for money on some bad advice'' as a slinky bass line implies every shimmy. Mr. Escovedo is kindly in ''Down in the Bowery,'' a song to his teenage musician son that has Ian Hunter of Mott the Hoople as a guest. And he's elemental in the galloping garage-rock of ''Silver Cloud,'' shouting, ''I'm a fool for your love -- come on, fool me!'' and then wrenching guitar chords off the beat to joust with his lead guitarist, David Pulkingham. In song after song Mr. Pulkingham's subtle variations provide a lift; he makes ''Tula,'' which could have been a standard one-chord Texas boogie, a phantasmagoria of funk, blues and Celtic modality, abetted by Hector Munoz's percussion and someone hooting jungle birdcalls.
 In another, less fragmented pop era, this would be the album of thoughtful but radio-ready love songs to finally get Mr. Escovedo the big national audience he deserves. Could it happen now? JON PARELES
 3OH!3 ''Streets of Gold'' (Photo Finish/Atlantic)
 If the sound of a petulant child badly in need of punishment could be captured in song, that song would be ''I Can Do Anything'' by 3OH!3. Over a beat built from heavy drum thwacks and video-game bleeps, Sean Foreman, the band's lead vocalist, runs down a list of roles he might play: a presidential candidate, a model and so on. Whatever he chooses, though, will require commitment. ''We can do an album or we can do it viral,'' he offers. ''Spread it like an S.T.D. you got back in high school.''
 A band like 3OH!3 -- the Boulder, Colo., duo of Mr. Foreman, whose nasal, sneering, callous raps set the mood, and Nathaniel Motte -- isn't an accident, though it often sounds like one. It is a Frankenstein monster built wholly from borrowed pieces, taking the accumulated lessons of years of hip-hop assimilation, the sophomoric attitude of frat-rock and the dense, dance-friendly electro-pop of the moment and grinding them into an oppressive and convincing wall of sounds. It's all there on the admirably stupid ''House Party,'' from the Beastie Boys shtick to the Lil Jon energy to the Rick Rubinesque drums. On ''R.I.P.'' Mr. Foreman even sings like Dashboard Confessional's Chris Carrabba, emo's onetime great pop hope.
 Produced largely by the band with Matt Squire (and a couple of key assists by Dr. Luke), ''Streets of Gold'' is full of expert, pathological juvenilia. ''I Know How to Say'' details cities and the women in them. (''There's underwear on the mic stand in Iceland.'') On the rudimentary and infectious ''My First Kiss'' 3OH!3 teams with another sloppy pseudo-rapper, Kesha, over a bed of cheerleader handclaps.
 All this carousing must get tiring, no? In moments here impending misery creeps in. ''I've hit on all these girls/I've heard the same conversations,'' Mr. Foreman raps emptily on ''Deja Vu.'' That song fizzles, though, largely because this is a band that sounds better and more relaxed the more puerile it gets and the heavier its panting is. Toward the end of the album there's a bizarro sentimental number, ''I'm Not the One,'' followed by the perplexing, aimless title track, both of which threaten to harsh the group's aggro.
 But it quickly rights itself, following them with ''See You Go,'' a pulverizingly direct fantasy. ''She stopped me in the doorway/She kissed me on the lips,'' Mr. Foreman boasts over walloping drums. ''I don't even know her/That's just the way it is.'' JON CARAMANICA
 KYLIE MINOGUE ''Aphrodite'' (Astralwerks/Parlophone)
 Kylie Minogue still sounds like Madonna's nicer, blander kid sister on her 11th studio album, ''Aphrodite,'' which starts with the airy declaration, ''Dance -- it's all I want to do.'' In her long, buoyantly superficial career, her songs have rarely had much more than that in mind.
 Through ups and downs and an arty moment or two, Ms. Minogue, 42, has been a pop presence worldwide since the late 1980s, particularly in her native Australia and Britain. Her elfin voice, the body she's proud to flaunt and her decent average in finding catchy songs and hopping on bandwagons have sold her tens of millions of albums, though mostly outside the United States. She made her first North American headlining tour only last year.
 ''Aphrodite'' is part of a pop moment that's reviving dance beats from 1970s disco on into the 1990s, perhaps calculating that dance music thrived in past economic downturns. ''I know life is hard, so we're living for the weekend,'' Ms. Minogue offers in ''Better Than Today.''
 She has joined Black Eyed Peas, Britney Spears, Lady Gaga, Shakira, Christina Aguilera, Kelis and even Miley Cyrus in latching onto club sounds; only Ms. Cyrus sounds less dangerous. Even in ''Get Outta My Way,'' which stages a voyeuristic menage a trois -- ''see me with him and it's turning you on'' -- the music goes bounding along, chipper and indifferent.
 The album's executive producer is a certified Madonnaologist, Stuart Price, who produced Madonna's 2005 ''Confessions on a Dance Floor,'' which harked back to her 1980s beats with hints of soul searching. For Ms. Minogue, however, positive thinking rules. Her ''Put Your Hands Up'' isn't a holdup; its chorus continues, ''If you feel love tonight.''
 The album draws on Scandinavian, British and American songwriters, and some of the committee-written tracks are so generous with hooks they might be multiple tunes merged into one. But the music ends up chasing Madonna's coattails (along with some Abba here, some Janet Jackson there, and at times enough overdubbed vocal harmonies to suggest a disco Enya).
 Madonna's old bouncing-ball beats, without the overpowering kick-drum bottom of latter-day club music, are back on this album; so are the smoothly rounded keyboard tones of ''Like a Virgin'' Madonna and the flickering reverberations of ''Ray of Light '' Madonna. ''Illusion,'' written by Ms. Minogue and Mr. Price, echoes the chorale of ''Like a Prayer.'' There's just no avoiding the resemblances.
 In the title song of ''Aphrodite,'' Ms. Minogue sings, ''I got spirit you can feel/Did you think I wasn't real?'' No one's asking for reality in this pop bubble -- just a little bit more innovation. JON PARELES 
 CAREFUL ''Oh, Light'' (Sounds Super Recordings)
 Eric Lindley's small-scale music sounds equally invested in what draws you in and what throws you off. It's appropriate that he's recording under the name Careful: Mr. Lindley sings his abstract pop songs about as quietly as he can while holding down a clear, confident tone.
 On ''Oh, Light'' -- out now on iTunes and later this month in physical form -- that voice jumps right in your head. It's from a tradition of unnervingly confidential, light-voiced male singers: Joao Gilberto, Arthur Russell, Lou Barlow of Sebadoh, Elliott Smith, Jamie Stewart of Xiu Xiu. Beyond the singing, bare but surely played acoustic-guitar patterns hold down the songs. Here and there, as in the track ''Every Epiphany,'' he uses some of the obdurate strategies from electro-acoustic minimalism -- loops, drones, digital pops as percussion -- and makes gorgeous, multitracked, even gently Auto-Tuned surfaces.
 Mr. Lindley, who studied with the highly conceptual composer James Tenney, seems taken by the idea of music as research and experiment; from track to track he plays relentlessly with the textures of his backgrounds. But somewhere in there is a singer who loves pop innately and purely. Recently he put a slow, echoey version of Lady Gaga's ''Bad Romance'' online; it's not on this record, and possibly wouldn't have worked there, but it raises one's hopes for an album of covers.
 The least effective of Mr. Lindley's talents are his lyrics, which sift through grab bags of vernacular speech. ''Draw a little mouth where the ear should be/I have some bad news, I have some bad news,'' he sings on ''Oi, Etc.'' Or, from ''Carnival'' : ''The kicker is I'm down to the end of this song/it's a curse or something, I didn't listen right/How's Joanna?'' It's hard to quote only a few lines and transmit a sense of his language; they add up only in full. But then you can't really take in a full song's worth of his lyrics. You're likely to be too interested all those closely miked phonetics: every rocky K, or liquid S or puffed W. BEN RATLIFF

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alejandro Escovedo, above left, with the bassist Bobby Daniel and the drummer Hector Munoz at City Winery in Manhattan last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1)
 PHOTOS (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); COUNTRY MUSIC (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (76%); SONG WRITING (73%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (73%); CELEBRITIES (73%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%) TEXAS, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



125 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Devise Stimulus Plans To Revive Sales

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Tired of waiting for spending to rebound on its own, retailers are taking matters into their own hands. Stores like Sam's Club, Target, Toys ''R'' Us, Staples and Office Depot are offering unconventional promotions meant not only to attract visitors to stores, but also to get them feeling profligate. 
 Sam's Club is introducing a program in which it facilitates loans for shoppers of up to $25,000, backed by the Small Business Administration. Target will give its credit card holders 5 percent discounts. Toys ''R'' Us is instituting a holiday fund program where it adds to shoppers' savings, and Staples and Office Depot are giving away office products for a penny or at no cost.
 ''A lot of the government programs have come to an end,'' said David Bassuk, a managing director in the global retail practice at AlixPartners, a financial consultancy. ''So retailers are taking it upon themselves to do everything they can to get the consumer to spend, even opening up their own wallets to give money back to the consumer.'' 
 Persistent unemployment nationwide is threatening to inhibit consumer spending. The latest figures from the government on Friday underscored the depth of the problem, with the economy adding only 83,000 private sector jobs.
 There was no relief in sight from Washington, either. Congress left on recess Friday having failed to pass legislation that would have extended unemployment benefits for hundreds of thousands of Americans.
 On the small-business side, credit concerns are keeping some companies from spending. And on the consumer side, while spending and confidence numbers continue to be weak, personal income has risen for three months straight and savings rates are relatively high. That suggests people now have cash but are just sitting on it.
 Against this backdrop of uncertainty, retailers are taking bold steps. Of the over-the-counter stimulus plans, the one at Sam's Club is the most unusual.
 Sam's began testing the program in May and will soon start marketing S.B.A. loans of $5,000 to $25,000 for its members nationwide. Superior Financial Group, which is managing the loans, gives Sam's members a $100 discount on the application fee, and lower interest rates, because of how much business it expects through the arrangement. 
 The company says it does not expect the program to be a big moneymaker, though it earns $50 for each financed loan. The point is to get customers spending more freely -- and, it hopes, spending at Sam's Club.
 Michael Golata had been watching his spending carefully. As a contractor in Louisville, Ky., for United Parcel Service, he drives emergency medical equipment to hospitals when M.R.I. or CT scan machines break down.
 When he asked U.P.S. if more routes were available, the company told him there was so much work that he should bring on as many drivers as he could afford. There was just one problem: Mr. Golata owned one truck, and he was driving it all the time. Online, he had found a used white Dodge Sprinter for $12,500. 
 With just a few thousand dollars in cash, he tried to get a bank loan but was denied by two local banks because the truck was too old and had too much mileage. He decided an S.B.A. loan would be too much trouble, and he rejected as absurd a loan from a commercial finance company with a 21 percent interest rate and payments of $450 a month.
 About a month ago, Mr. Golata, a Sam's Club member, clicked through the retailer's Web site and found a page describing S.B.A. loans offered by the retailer. He filled out an online application, and, by the next day, got a phone call from Superior Financial telling him he was approved for a $10,000 loan, with an interest rate of 7.25 percent over 10 years.
 ''It made the payment, like, $118 a month. I thought I was dreaming,'' Mr. Golata said. Mr. Golata immediately bought the Dodge, and hired three drivers. He went from billing U.P.S. $3,000 a week to $8,000, he said.
 A little under half of Sam's members are small-business customers, and they account for a little more than half of the revenue at the retailer. As its net sales began to slip last fall, Sam's surveyed small-business customers and found that tight credit was partly to blame. 
 In the survey, said Catherine Corley, vice president for member services at Sam's, a division of Wal-Mart, ''fully one-third said 'I didn't buy what I needed to buy at Sam's Club because I didn't have the money.' It really motivated us to say, 'We've got to find some solutions.' ''
 Sam's has done only a small test of the S.B.A. loans, and so far about 200 people have applied, with about 45 percent being approved, said Tim Jochner, chief executive and founder of Superior Financial. Sam's is considering offering other financial products through third parties to help ease customers' finances, like working-capital loans or peer-to-peer loans, said Hiren Patel, director for financial services at Sam's. 
 ''We're not necessarily trying to be a bank, we're just trying to bring to them, much as we do with products, the things they need,'' Ms. Corley said. 
 Other retailers are taking slightly different routes to economic recovery. Beginning in the fall, Target will offer its holders of its Target-branded credit and debit cards 5 percent off every purchase. Target expects that it will add a percentage point to comparable-store sales in the fourth quarter. 
 Toys ''R'' Us is asking consumers to create a sort of grown-up piggy bank, and put money into a holiday fund that can be spent only at the toy store. Toys ''R'' Us will add 3 percent to the account's balance in mid-October. 
 And Office Depot is giving away products. Trying to lure back-to-school shoppers, it will soon sell some supplies, like glue sticks and scissors, for less than $1. It also will give away other items, like markers, free, even without a purchase. 
 Staples, meanwhile, is offering several products for a nickel or a penny, and when shoppers buy a backpack during the back-to-school period, Staples will give them a gift card equal to the cost of the backpack. 
 ''On that particular one we probably don't make money, but in general what we're hoping to do is get customers into our stores,'' said Demos Parneros, president of United States stores for Staples, ''and then buy everything else that they need.''
 Of course, smart shoppers can take advantage of these programs without necessarily improving the stores' revenues. 
 Mr. Golata, the truck driver, said he was delighted with the loan program. But if the point of it was to free up his cash at Sam's, it didn't quite work. 
 He is saving again -- so he can get another Sam's Club loan in six months and buy another delivery vehicle. 
 ''It's not like it made me spend more than I normally would,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Golata, a contractor for United Parcel Service, was approved for a small-business loan offered through Sam's Club. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER BISSMEYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CREDIT CARDS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); LEGISLATION (65%); INTEREST RATES (63%); HOSPITALS (61%); CONSULTING SERVICES (53%)

COMPANY: SAM'S CLUB (93%); OFFICE DEPOT INC (92%); TARGET CORP (92%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%)

TICKER: ODP (NYSE) (92%); TGT (NYSE) (92%); UPS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453210 OFFICE SUPPLIES & STATIONERY STORES (92%); SIC5943 STATIONERY STORES (92%); SIC5112 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES (92%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (50%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (50%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



126 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: On The Economist's Cover, Only a Part of the Picture

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
It was the ideal metaphor for a politically troubled president.
 There was President Obama on the cover of the June 19 issue of The Economist, standing alone on a Louisiana beach, head down, looking forlornly at the ground. 
The problem was, he was not actually alone. The photograph was just edited to make it look that way.
 The unaltered image, shot on May 28 by a Reuters photographer, Larry Downing, shows Adm. Thad W. Allen of the Coast Guard and Charlotte Randolph, a local parish president, standing alongside the president.
 But in the image that appeared on The Economist's cover, Admiral Allen and Ms. Randolph had been scrubbed out, replaced by the blue water of the Gulf of Mexico. 
 When it comes to its own photographers, Reuters has stringent standards regarding photo editing. ''Reuters has a strict policy against modifying, removing, adding to or altering any of its photographs without first obtaining the permission of Reuters and, where necessary, the third parties referred to,'' Thomson Reuters said in a statement on Sunday.
 Editors from The Economist had no comment when asked on Friday about the cover image.
 Reuters had a photo-editing controversy of its own in 2006 after one of its freelance photographers altered images of the Israeli military incursion into Lebanon to make the damage from Israeli warplanes appear more severe. Reuters later stopped working with the photographer and removed his images from its photo archives.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama on the magazine cover and in the original photograph with Charlotte Randolph, president of a Louisiana parish, and Adm. Thad W. Allen of the Coast Guard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (90%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



127 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: A Political Clash Over Deficits Stalls Legislation to Address Jobs

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Members of Congress headed for a recess over the weekend having failed to agree on legislation to address the nation's fragile employment picture, with both parties placing starkly different bets on the political consequences of their positions. 
 President Obama and his Democratic allies in Congress are hoping that voters will punish Republicans in the midterm elections for obstructing his efforts to extend unemployment benefits, expand lending to small businesses, and increase aid to struggling state and local governments. 
 ''Republican leaders in Washington just don't get it,'' Mr. Obama said in his weekly video address on Saturday. 
 Republican lawmakers have clung to the view that uneasy voters will instead judge the White House harshly for failing to quickly rein in budget deficits that threaten to shake market confidence and saddle future generations with record public debts. 
 ''At some point we have to say, enough is enough,'' said Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, who delivered the Republican response to the president's message. ''We have to make tough decisions about spending beyond our means.''
 After lawmakers return from this week's Independence Day recess, they will have just a month before they break for the summer. Historically, significant legislation is unlikely to pass in the late summer and early autumn before an election. 
 The opposing positions have hardened even though the unemployment rate, 9.5 percent as of Friday, has barely budged from its peak of 10.1 percent in October. Underlying the divisions are fundamentally diverging diagnoses for what ails the economy. 
 ''Somehow the politically correct position on the deficit has become cut, cut, cut, irrespective of the economic consequences,'' Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a New York Democrat and the chairwoman of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, said in an interview. 
 To liberals like Ms. Maloney, premature belt-tightening not only spells more difficulties for the jobless, but also risks a double-dip downturn. ''Most economists agree the economy is too fragile to sustain the kinds of spending cuts politicians are talking about now,'' she said. 
 She said she agreed on the need for long-term deficit reduction, but added, ''the deficit battle is being played out on the backs of unemployed workers.''
 Proponents of austerity speak with just as much conviction. In a hearing on Friday, after the Labor Department reported that employers added a mere 83,000 private-sector jobs in June, Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, argued that fiscal discipline was vital to restoring confidence. 
 ''Businesses are slow to hire because they fear higher taxes, job-killing regulation and a dysfunctional Washington that is ideologically driven and increasingly anti-business,'' he said.
 Mr. Brady added: ''Unless their excessive spending deficits and debt accumulation are quickly reversed, the United States may experience a debt crisis similar to Greece.'' 
 Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the top Republican on the House Budget Committee, went even further. ''I reject the false premise that only forceful and sustained government intervention in the economy can secure this country's renewed prosperity,'' he said last week. 
 The emphasis on debt reduction has been particularly frustrating to observers from the left.
 Every effort to dig the nation out of the unemployment abyss ''is being stymied by excuses about the deficit,'' said Richard L. Trumka, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''It is a national disgrace that members of Congress are heading home to celebrate our nation's birthday after having voted repeatedly not to create jobs or to extend unemployment aid.''
 Heather Boushey, a senior economist at the Center for American Progress, a liberal policy organization, said the White House had been lukewarm about stimulus measures, resulting in uncertainty among its Democratic allies. 
 ''We haven't seen the administration get out in front of some of the more progressive jobs proposals,'' she said. ''There's been a wariness among the administration folks.'' 
 Mr. Obama's political aides have tended to emphasize voter worries about the deficit, while his economic advisers have been urging additional stimulus spending.
 They also have counseled patience. 
 ''We will not be able to reverse overnight two devastating years of recession and a decade of declining economic security for the middle class,'' Alan B. Krueger, the Treasury Department's chief economist, said Friday. 
 ''Economic recoveries don't move in straight lines,'' he said in a meeting with reporters. ''However, the fact that private-sector employment expanded for six months in a row is an indication that the trend line is pointing in the right direction.'' 
 In a May hearing of the Joint Economic Committee, Mr. Krueger, the assistant Treasury secretary for economic policy, said that even before the start of the recession in 2007, the United States job market had already been performing weakly, relative both to the 1990s and to the rest of the industrialized world.
 After gaining 21.7 million payroll jobs in the 1990s, the economy lost 944,000 from December 1999 to December 2009, Mr. Krueger said in his testimony. The fraction of the working-age population that reported being employed peaked at 64.7 percent in March 2000, and fell to 58.6 percent in March 2010, its lowest level since the two recessions of 1980-82, he said. 
 Small businesses, which shed large numbers of workers during the recession, have been particularly slow to resume hiring. 
 While Mr. Krueger's remarks at the hearing were not widely reported, their implications were clear: raising taxes can support both deficit reduction and job growth. He testified that the tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 ''did not result in better performance in the labor market than was achieved in the 1990s, a period when government revenue increased, and the deficit was reduced and eventually eliminated.'' 
 Whether that perspective will shape the policy debate will become clear in the coming months. In the meantime, some experts say that job creation and deficit reduction are not mutually exclusive. 
 Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com, told the House Budget Committee last week, ''It is important -- in fact I'd say it's vital -- that you continue to provide some additional temporary stimulus to the economy.'' But he added, ''Once the economy is on a sound footing, it is critically important that you do pivot as quickly as possible and address the long-term fiscal situation.''
 David M. Walker, the president of the Peter G. Peterson Foundation, an organization that has focused on cutting long-term deficits, said the ''myth that we cannot address our current economic crisis and our long-term fiscal crisis at the same time'' had become an obstacle to bipartisan agreement.
 ''In our view, the answer is to continue to pursue selected short-term initiatives designed to stimulate the economy and address unemployment, but to couple these actions with specific, meaningful actions designed to resolve our long-term structural deficits,'' Mr. Walker testified last week to the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, the bipartisan panel named by Mr. Obama.
 The panel's report is due Dec. 1 -- four weeks after the midterm elections. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michelle Greene, an intern with the placement company Chase Source, accepts resumes at a job fair in Houston last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Carolyn B. Maloney, a Democrat, worries that some deficit hawks are saying ''cut, cut, cut, irrespective of the economic consequences.'' Kevin Brady, a Republican, warned that current spending could lead to ''a debt crisis similar to Greece.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE THEILER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (79%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); BUDGETS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (56%)

PERSON: CAROLYN MALONEY (79%); KEVIN BRADY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (66%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



128 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Republican Senators Denounce Steele's Remarks

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JANIE LORBER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Michael Steele, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, sought to contain a growing furor within his party on Sunday as three Republican lawmakers questioned his effectiveness because of his suggestion that the military conflict in Afghanistan was not winnable and was ''a war of Obama's choosing.''
 Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who serve on the Armed Services Committee, became the latest Republicans to denounce the comments made by Mr. Steele last week at a fund-raising event, where he also said the United States was on the wrong side of history in Afghanistan. 
 ''I think those statements are wildly inaccurate, and there's no excuse for them,'' Mr. McCain said from Kabul on the ABC News program ''This Week.'' ''I believe we have to win here. I believe in freedom. But the fact is that I think that Mr. Steele is going to have to assess as to whether he can still lead the Republican Party.''
 Doug Heye, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee, declined to comment Sunday. Several party officials said Mr. Steele had spent the weekend calling Republican leaders, including Mr. McCain, to explain his remarks and try to blunt the fallout. 
 Four months before the midterm elections, with Republicans working to win control of the House and the Senate, the comments from Mr. Steele were seen as an unnecessary internal distraction. Several party leaders have voiced their dissatisfaction with fund-raising by the committee, which they worry has been diminished by Mr. Steele's leadership.
 Mr. Graham said that he was ''dismayed, angry and upset'' over Mr. Steele's remarks. He added, ''It was an uninformed, unnecessary, unwise, untimely comment.'' He stopped short of calling for the resignation of Mr. Steele, but said: ''It's up to him to see if he can lead the Republican Party. It couldn't have come at a worse time.''
 ''This is not President Obama's war; this is America's war,'' Mr. Graham said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. ''We need to stand behind the president.''
 Mr. Steele, whose tenure as chairman has been marked by a string of controversial statements, made this latest gaffe at an appearance in Connecticut on Thursday. He questioned the military strategy in Afghanistan as he delivered a broader critique of Mr. Obama, but he misstated the history of the conflict, which President George W. Bush started nine years ago in response to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
 ''This is not something the United States had actively prosecuted or wanted to engage in,'' Mr. Steele said. ''It was the president who was trying to be cute by half by flipping a script demonizing Iraq, while saying the battle really should be Afghanistan. Well, if he's such a student of history, has he not understood that you know that's the one thing you don't do, is engage in a land war in Afghanistan?''
 Mr. Steele has not spoken publicly since he made the remarks, but in private conversations with Republican officials over the weekend, he sought to explain that they were ''misconstrued,'' the officials said. He issued a statement last week seeking to clarify his remarks, declaring, ''There is no question that America must win the war on terror.'' 
 Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, said Sunday that Mr. Steele's remarks were ''inaccurate'' and ''unacceptable.'' ''Chairman Steele needs to apologize to our military, all the men and women who've been fighting in Afghanistan,'' Mr. DeMint said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' 
 The comments from the Republican senators on Sunday followed a call for Mr. Steele's resignation by William Kristol, editor of the Weekly Standard and a leading voice of conservative support for the war in Afghanistan. Liz Cheney, a daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney and a leading Republican voice on national security issues, also called for Mr. Steele to step down.
 ''The chairman of the Republican Party must be unwavering in his support for American victory in the war on terror,'' Ms. Cheney said in a statement over the weekend. 
 It remained an open question whether Mr. Steele would be able to withstand the criticism. He serves at the pleasure of members of the Republican National Committee, several of whom have previously rallied to his support. Other party leaders have not been eager to try to replace Mr. Steele in the middle of a midterm election campaign or to open a divisive debate over war spending.
 Representative Ron Paul of Texas, a former Republican presidential candidate and a leading figure among Tea Party activists, congratulated Mr. Steele on his remarks. In a statement on Sunday, he called Afghanistan ''Nancy Pelosi and Barack Obama's war.''
 ''The American people are sick and tired of spending hundreds of billions of dollars a year, draining our economy and straining our military,'' Mr. Paul said. ''Michael Steele has it right, and Republicans should stick by him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Steele and Senator John McCain in happier times. Mr. McCain on Sunday said Mr. Steele's remarks that the war in Afghanistan was ''of Obama's choosing'' and not winnable were ''wildly inaccurate'' and inexcusable. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); TERRORISM (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); RESIGNATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%)

PERSON: MICHAEL STEELE (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



129 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 ISRAEL GROWS UNEASY 
 Over Migrant Labor
 Since the first intifada of the early 1990s, more than a million migrants from the developing world have come to Israel to replace the Palestinians, who were the country's original source of cheap labor. But even as foreign workers have become a mainstay of the economy, their presence has increasingly clashed with Israel's Zionist ideology, causing growing political unease over the future of the Jewish state and their place in it. PAGE A4 
 BIDEN NUDGES IRAQI LEADERS 
 Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. drew an analogy to the signers of the Declaration of Independence in exhorting Iraqi leaders to end the paralysis that has stalled the formation of a government since the parliamentary elections four months ago. Mr. Biden's visit came amid grumbling by some Iraqi officials that American policy in Iraq has lately lacked focus. PAGE A4 
 FRENCH EXPENSE SCANDALS
 Two French government ministers resigned suddenly after new attention was brought to spending scandals involving Cuban cigars and a private jet. PAGE A5 
 A THRIVING ISLAND TONGUE
 Thousands of languages spoken by small numbers of people are facing extinction. But Papiamentu, a Creole language influenced over the centuries by African slaves, Sephardic merchants and Dutch colonists, which is now spoken by only about 250,000 people in the islands of Curacao, Bonaire and Aruba shows rare signs of vibrancy and official acceptance. PAGE A7
 DOUBTS ABOUT ITALIAN PAINTER
 Silvano Vinceti, the president of the group that sought to identify the bones of Michelangelo Merisi, the painter known as Caravaggio, said that they had definitively identified his remains. But some art historians disagree, and other critics suggested that as the Italian government seeks to exploit the economic potential of the country's cultural resources, marketing is trumping serious study. PAGE A5 
 Meeting on Pakistani Terrorism A6 
 National
 SIGNS OF TENSIONS
 In Obama's Tie to Teachers
 In a sign of the Obama administration's strained relations with two of its most powerful political allies, no federal official was scheduled to speak at either convention of the two national teachers' unions this month, partly because union officials feared that administration speakers would face heckling. PAGE A8 
 BP BILLS ITS PARTNERS
 BP has said repeatedly that it will pay for the disastrous oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. But its actions show that it does not intend to go it alone. Newly released documents show that BP sent out demands for nearly $400 million to its partners in the well, or roughly 40 percent of the $1 billion BP spent in May. PAGE A10 
 CHOPPY SEAS IN GULF SITE
 Cleanup crews across the Gulf of Mexico contended with choppy seas from last week's hurricane, idling many of the boats involved in keeping oil from hitting vulnerable beaches and marshes. PAGE A10 
 5 Killed in Air Ambulance Crash A11 
 New York
 A CRICKET REMATCH,
 More Than a Century Later
 Walker Park on Staten Island has been a haven for cricket in the city for almost 125 years. Recently, two teams got together to reprise the inaugural match on the grounds, though the players who came out that day were not the British officers of yore, but Bangladeshi cabbies, Indian computer engineers and a Pakistani man who owns an auto-body shop. PAGE A12 
 QUEEN TO VISIT MANHATTAN
 In the twilight of a reign that has spanned 58 years, one of the longest of any British monarch, Queen Elizabeth II, 84, is to visit New York on Tuesday for a third and perhaps final time, accompanied by her husband, Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh. PAGE A13 
 Metropolitan Diary A15 
 Business
 DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS 
 Square Off Over Jobs
 Members of Congress headed for a recess over the weekend having failed to agree on legislation to address the nation's fragile employment picture, with both parties placing starkly different bets on the political consequences of their positions. PAGE B1
 NEW PUSH FOR NICKELODEON
 Viacom has long wanted its movie studio, Paramount, to tap into the brand equity and marketing muscle of its children's television empire, Nickelodeon. The weekend success of ''The Last Airbender,'' based on a Nickelodeon animated series, has raised hopes for the earning power of films based on the network's properties. PAGE B1 
 USING SEARCH TO STEER NEWS
 Yahoo hopes that its news team can use search data from Web surfers to create articles that will allow them to focus more precisely on readers. PAGE B1
 LOOKING BEYOND MUSIC
 Sony Music, like other music companies, is scrambling to make up for falling compact disc sales. As it does so, it is embracing businesses that sometimes have only a tenuous connection to music. PAGE B5
 Sports
 IN FIRST STAGE OF TOUR,
 A Wave of Crashes
 On a day of the Tour de France that will not soon be forgotten, the riders crossed the finish line of Stage 1, some wincing and wounded, others so angry that they could only growl after a crash-filled afternoon. PAGE D2 
 Arts
 SHOWCASING THE MUSICIAN
 And the Setting
 The PBS series ''Artists Den'' is not the first television program dedicated to intimate musical performances; the style goes back to the beginning of the medium. But in some ways the surroundings in ''Artists Den'' become part of the show, giving viewers a look at a unique space and allowing the artists to discuss how the location affected their play. PAGE C1 
 CROWDS FLOCK TO 'ECLIPSE'
 ''The Twilight Saga: Eclipse'' drew an estimated $161 million out of North American theaters in its first five days of release, a spectacular if not quite record-breaking result. But in a surprise, audiences defied critics to make ''The Last Airbender'' No. 2. PAGE C1 
 Critics Choice: New CDs C1 
 Obituaries
 AYATOLLAH FADLALLAH, 75
 The top Shiite cleric in Lebanon, inspired the Dawa Party of Iraq and a generation of militants, including the founders of Hezbollah, through his writings and preachings. PAGE A16
 STANLEY WAGNER, 83
 Three decades ago, he was one of the first people to open a winery in the Finger Lakes region of upstate New York, and his wines quickly earned state and national recognition. PAGE A16
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A17
 ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A17
 Online
 SLIDE SHOW Some New York nightspots draw moonlighting Broadway performers, providing fans a chance to see them at lower prices.
 nytimes.com/arts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIGRANT WORKERS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); HISTORY (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); PAINTING (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); ART HISTORY (69%); SCANDALS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); TEACHER UNIONS (67%); SLAVERY (66%); OIL SPILLS (64%); TERRORISM (62%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (75%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ITALY (79%); FRANCE (79%); ARUBA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



130 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data this week will include the I.S.M. service index for June (Tuesday); weekly jobless claims; consumer credit for May (Thursday); and wholesale inventories for May (Friday). 
 IN THE UNITED STATES Retailers report same-store sales for June, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit will hear oral arguments on the Obama administration's appeal of an injunction on its moratorium on offshore drilling (Thursday); United Airlines and Continental meet with regulators to review technical aspects of their merger (Friday). 
 OVERSEAS The European Parliament is scheduled to vote on new rules that would cap bankers' cash bonuses at 30 percent of the total, or 20 percent for particularly high bonuses (Wednesday). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CONSUMER LENDING (88%); RETAILERS (88%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (88%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); SAME STORE SALES (71%); RETAIL SALES (71%); APPEALS COURTS (70%); INJUNCTIONS (70%); AIRLINES (68%)

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



131 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (TCM) STAR OF THE MONTH: GREGORY PECKIn 2003, just weeks before Gregory Peck's death, the American Film Institute named his character Atticus Finch, a lawyer and father fighting racial injustice in 1930s Alabama, in ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' (1962), as the top hero on its list of 100 Heroes and Villains in American cinema. (Above, Peck with Mary Badham.) The role, Peck's favorite, also earned him an Oscar for best actor; in 1967 he received the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and in 1969 the Presidential Medal of Freedom. This monthlong tribute to the man whose on-screen decency carried over from real life begins with five films adapted from novels, starting with John Huston's ''Moby Dick'' (1956), in which Peck plays Captain Ahab. 
 The lineup continues with ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' at 10; ''The Keys of the Kingdom'' (1944), in which a crusading priest struggles to build a mission in China, at 12:15 a.m.; ''The Yearling'' (1946), about a Florida farmer who allows his son to have a pet deer, at 2:45 a.m.; and ''The Paradine Case'' (1947), in which a married lawyer falls for the woman he's defending on murder charges, at 5 a.m.
 7 P.M. (13, 49) PBS NEWSHOUR Paul Solman speaks with Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister, about the global financial crisis.
 8 P.M. (ABC) THE BACHELORETTE After Ali heads to Portugal with the remaining five bachelors, Jake Pavelka, the star of last season's ''Bachelor,'' and Vienna Girardi, the woman he proposed to on the show, discuss their breakup in an interview with Chris Harrison.
 8 P.M. (Sundance) OF TIME AND THE CITY (2009) In his first documentary Terence Davies constructs a poetic essay about the Liverpool of his childhood -- and revisits the pain and pleasure of growing up gay and Roman Catholic in postwar Britain -- using archival footage of the city from the 1940s to '60s, musical excerpts and autobiographical recollections. (Above, a scene from the film.) Writing in The New York Times, A.O. Scott called the film ''a deeply personal piece of art that never descends into the confessional or the therapeutic, and a work of social and literary criticism that never lectures or hectors, but rather, with melancholy, tenderness and wit, manages to sing.'' ''Caramel'' (2008), Nadine Labaki's comic melodrama set in a Beirut beauty parlor where Christians and Muslims intermingle, follows at 10, and ''A Lost Man'' (2007), in which Danielle Arbid contemplates the Western presence in the Middle East through an encounter between a French photojournalist (Melvil Poupaud) on a road trip in Syria and Jordan, and an itinerant Lebanese (Alexander Siddig) with a mysterious past, is at 11:45. 
 8 P.M. (NBC) PERSONS UNKNOWN After learning that Tori (Kate Lang Johnson) has gone missing, the group discovers a mysterious, and violent, newcomer (Kandyse McClure) with the name Erika tattooed on her arm. The second semifinal round of ''Last Comic Standing'' follows at 9.
 8 P.M. (ABC Family) THE SECRET LIFE OF THE AMERICAN TEENAGER Amy (Shailene Woodley) attends a music program for teenage mothers in New York, where she meets Bristol Palin, who appears as herself. In ''Huge,'' at 9, Willamina (Nikki Blonsky) has her heart stolen at Camp Victory. And in ''Make It or Break It,'' at 10, the Rock Rebels are allowed back on the United States National Team. 
 9 P.M. (HBO) NO ONE DIES IN LILY DALE (2010) Steven Cantor travels to tiny Lily Dale, N.Y., where each year the world's largest concentration of mediums -- 40 in all -- attract more than 25,000 visitors in search of closure after the deaths of loved ones.
 9 P.M. (Science) LARGE, DANGEROUS ROCKET SHIPS 2010 Amateur rocket builders convene to launch more than 2,000 homemade creations, some of which soar so high and fast that the Federal Aviation Administration must close airspace over the event.
 10 P.M. (Travel Channel) ANTHONY BOURDAIN: NO RESERVATIONS In this Season 7 opener Mr. Bourdain heads to the Grenadine Islands for a tutorial in Caribbean cuisine and relaxation.
 10 P.M. (BBC America) JAMES MAY'S TOY STORIES Mr. May of ''Top Gear'' fame tries to build the world's largest slot-car track -- 2.75 miles -- in Surrey, England, using 20,000 pieces and 400 volunteers.
 10 P.M. (Animal Planet) LAST AMERICAN COWBOY Three sets of cowboys drive their cattle to open range in Montana using trucks, helicopters and good, old-fashioned horses and lassos. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); RELIGION (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); MURDER (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); MAMMALS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); LITERARY CRITICISM (68%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE (84%); ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (57%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



132 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: China Fears Warming Effects Of a Rising Consumer Class

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
GUANGZHOU, China -- Premier Wen Jiabao has promised to use an ''iron hand'' this summer to make his nation more energy efficient. The central government has ordered cities to close inefficient factories by September, like the vast Guangzhou Steel mill here, where most of the 6,000 workers will be laid off or pushed into early retirement.
 Already, in the last three years, China has shut down more than a thousand older coal-fired power plants that used technology of the sort still common in the United States. China has also surpassed the rest of the world as the biggest investor in wind turbines and other clean energy technology. And it has dictated tough new energy standards for lighting and gas mileage for cars.
 But even as Beijing imposes the world's most rigorous national energy campaign, the effort is being overwhelmed by the billionfold demands of Chinese consumers. 
 Chinese and Western energy experts worry that China's energy challenge could become the world's problem -- possibly dooming any international efforts to place meaningful limits on global warming.
 If China cannot meet its own energy-efficiency targets, the chances of avoiding widespread environmental damage from rising temperatures ''are very close to zero,'' said Fatih Birol, the chief economist of the International Energy Agency in Paris.
 Aspiring to a more Western standard of living, in many cases with the government's encouragement, China's population, 1.3 billion strong, is clamoring for more and bigger cars, for electricity-dependent home appliances and for more creature comforts like air-conditioned shopping malls.
 As a result, China is actually becoming even less energy efficient. And because most of its energy is still produced by burning fossil fuels, China's emission of carbon dioxide -- a so-called greenhouse gas -- is growing worse. This past winter and spring showed the largest six-month increase in tonnage ever by a single country.
 Until recently, projections by both the International Energy Agency and the Energy Information Administration in Washington had assumed that, even without an international energy agreement to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, China would achieve rapid improvements in energy efficiency through 2020.
 But now China is struggling to limit emissions even to the ''business as usual'' levels that climate models assume if the world does little to address global warming.
 ''We really have an arduous task'' even to reach China's existing energy-efficiency goals, said Gao Shixian, an energy official at the National Development and Reform Commission, in a speech at the Clean Energy Expo China in late June in Beijing.
 China's goal has been to reduce energy consumption per unit of economic output by 20 percent this year compared with 2005, and to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases per unit of economic output by 40 to 45 percent in 2020 compared with 2005.
 But even if China can make the promised improvements, the International Energy Agency now projects that China's emissions of energy-related greenhouse gases will grow more than the rest of the world's combined increase by 2020. China, with one-fifth of the world's population, is now on track to represent more than a quarter of humanity's energy-related greenhouse-gas emissions.
 Industry by industry, energy demand in China is increasing so fast that the broader efficiency targets are becoming harder to hit.
 Although China has passed the United States in the average efficiency of its coal-fired power plants, demand for electricity is so voracious that China last year built new coal-fired plants with a total capacity greater than all existing power plants in New York State.
 While China has imposed lighting efficiency standards on new buildings and is drafting similar standards for household appliances, construction of apartment and office buildings proceeds at a frenzied pace. And rural sales of refrigerators, washing machines and other large household appliances more than doubled in the past year in response to government subsidies aimed at helping 700 million peasants afford modern amenities.
 As the economy becomes more reliant on domestic demand instead of exports, growth is shifting toward energy-hungry steel and cement production and away from light industries like toys and apparel.
 Chinese cars get 40 percent better gas mileage on average than American cars because they tend to be much smaller and have weaker engines. And China is drafting regulations that would require cars within each size category to improve their mileage by 18 percent over the next five years. But China's auto market soared 48 percent in 2009, surpassing the American market for the first time, and car sales are rising almost as rapidly again this year.
 One of the newest factors in China's energy use has emerged beyond the planning purview of policy makers in Beijing, in the form of labor unrest at factories across the country.
 An older generation of low-wage migrant workers accepted hot dormitories and factories with barely a fan to keep them cool, one of many reasons Chinese emissions per person are still a third of American emissions per person. Besides higher pay, young Chinese are now demanding their own 100-square-foot studio apartments, with air-conditioning at home and in factories. Indeed, one of the demands by workers who went on strike in May at a Honda transmission factory in Foshan was that the air-conditioning thermostats be set lower.
 Chinese regulations still mandate that the air-conditioning in most places be set no cooler than 79 degrees Fahrenheit in the summer. But upscale shopping malls have long been exempt from the thermostat controls and have maintained much cooler temperatures through the summers. Now, as the consumer economy takes root, those malls are proliferating in cities across China.
 Premier Wen acknowledged in a statement after a cabinet meeting in May that the efficiency gains had started to reverse and actually deteriorated by 3.2 percent in the first quarter of this year. He cited a lack of controls on energy-intensive industries, although the economic rebound from the global financial crisis may have also played a role.
 Global climate discussions, in pinning hopes on China's ability to vastly improve its efficient use of energy, have tended to cite International Energy Agency data showing that China uses twice as much energy per dollar of output as the United States and three times as much as the European Union. The implicit assumption is that China can greatly improve efficiency because it must still be relying mainly on wasteful, aging boilers and outmoded power plants.
 But David Fridley, a longtime specialist in China's energy at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, said that the comparison to the United States and the European Union was misleading.
 Manufacturing makes up three times as much of the Chinese economy as it does the American economy, and it is energy-intensive. If the United States had much more manufacturing, Mr. Fridley said, it would also use considerably more energy per dollar of output.
 ''China has been trying to grab the low-lying fruit -- to find those opportunities where increased efficiency can save money and reduce carbon-dioxide emissions,'' said Ken Caldeira, a climate change specialist at the Carnegie Institution for Science in Stanford, Calif. ''It is starting to look like it might not be that easy to find and grab this fruit.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 8, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A chart on Monday with the continuation of an article about China's concerns over the effects on global warming of its rising energy consumption labeled one axis incorrectly. The chart shows China's energy-related emissions of greenhouses gases in billions of tons, not millions. A corrected chart is at nytimes.com/businessday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Guangzhou Steel mill in Guangzhou, China, will close its doors in September as part of a government effort to improve energy efficiency in factories.
 Most of the steel mill's 6,000 workers will be laid off or pushed into early retirement. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTIE JOHNSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) CHART: More Emissions: China's energy-related emissions of greenhouse gases are expected to surge even if a national efficiency campaign succeeds, as assumed below. But Chinese and Western experts increasingly worry that Chinese emissions may rise even faster than shown here. (Source: International Energy Agency) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (88%); CLIMATOLOGY (87%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (74%); CLIMATE CHANGE (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (72%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); RETAILERS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); MODELING & SIMULATION (66%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (66%); PLANT CLOSINGS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (82%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) SOUTH CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



133 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Crowds Flock to Vampires (of Course) and 'Airbender' (Surprise!)

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
''The Twilight Saga: Eclipse'' drew an estimated $161 million out of North American theaters in its first five days of release, a spectacular if not quite record-breaking result. And in a surprise, audiences defied critics to make ''The Last Airbender'' No. 2. 
 Box office analysts said the gross was big enough to rank ''Eclipse'' third on Hollywood's all-time list of Wednesday-opening movies, behind ''Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen'' (2009) and ''Spider-Man 2 '' (2004), when adjusted for inflation. Summit Entertainment, the studio behind ''Eclipse,'' projected that the movie would sell another $20 million on Monday for a six-day domestic total of about $181 million. 
 ''Eclipse,'' which was easily the No. 1 picture between Friday and Sunday, has sold an additional $100.2 million overseas, Summit said. It has yet to open in important international markets like Germany, France and Britain.
 ''We're particularly thrilled that this third movie broadened and deepened the franchise,'' said Richie Fay, Summit's president for domestic distribution, alluding to exit polls indicating that the audience was 35 percent male. The turnout for ''The Twilight Saga: New Moon,'' the second film in the series, was only about 20 percent male, and that was higher than the first.
 ''The Twilight Saga'' is the tale, unabashedly cheesy in spots, of an ordinary high school girl named Bella Swan who falls in love with Edward Cullen, a heartthrob vampire who is too tender-hearted to suck human blood. In ''Eclipse'' Edward (Robert Pattinson) and a beefcake werewolf (Taylor Lautner) try to protect Bella (Kristen Stewart) from a vampire army. It was expected that, with strong advance sales, ''Eclipse,'' which is based on one of Stephenie Meyer's four teenage vampire books, would be an immediate juggernaut. But the weekend surprise in Hollywood was the strong showing by ''The Last Airbender,'' a movie that many had written off as dead.
 Directed by M. Night Shyamalan and produced by Paramount Pictures, ''The Last Airbender'' was greeted by an avalanche of critical hatred. Only 9 percent of the reviews gave ''The Last Airbender'' positive marks, according to RottenTomatoes.com, a Web site that aggregates movie reviews. (To compare, the much-maligned ''Sex and the City 2'' was given a score of 16 percent positive.)
 But ''The Last Airbender,'' which opened Thursday on Paramount's Nickelodeon Movies banner, was a solid No. 2 for the weekend with about $40.7 million for a domestic total of about $53.2 million, according to Hollywood.com, which compiles ticketing statistics. Paramount projected that ''The Last Airbender'' would sell an additional $17.4 million on Monday for a five-day total of about $70.6 million.
 Making the difference for this movie, which will roll out in international markets in the weeks ahead, was probably the power of the Nickelodeon brand, which Paramount is trying harder to tap. ''The Last Airbender'' was adapted from the first season of the Nickelodeon cartoon ''Avatar: The Last Airbender.'' Viacom owns both Paramount and Nickelodeon. ''This demonstrates the power of the whole company working on something together,'' said Rob Moore, vice chairman of Paramount. 
 ''We hit on something that the audience looks for in the summer, which is visual escape,'' he added. ''The Last Airbender'' cost about $150 million to make, including $15 million to convert footage into 3-D.
 For the weekend, ''Toy Story 3'' from Disney's Pixar Animation was third with about $30.2 million for a new total of $289 million. It was projected to sell an additional $11 million on Monday. 
 The ensemble comedy ''Grown Ups'' (Sony Pictures Entertainment) was fourth with about $18.5 million for a new domestic total of $77.1 million. Sony said it expected ''Grown Ups'' to sell an additional $6.5 million on Monday.
 ''Knight and Day,'' a 20th Century Fox action comedy starring Tom Cruise and Cameron Diaz, was fifth with about $10.2 million ($45.5 million total). This movie, which has not met expectations, should sell an additional $3 million on Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Taylor Lautner, Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson in ''The Twilight Saga: Eclipse.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMBERLEY FRENCH/SUMMIT ENTERTAINMENT) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); TICKET SALES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%)

PERSON: ROBERT PATTINSON (89%); KRISTEN STEWART (89%); TAYLOR LAUTNER (58%); STEPHENIE MEYER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%); FRANCE (70%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010



134 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 ISRAEL GROWS UNEASY
Over Migrant Labor
 Since the first intifada of the early 1990s, more than a million migrants from the developing world have come to Israel to replace the Palestinians, who were the country's original source of cheap labor. But even as foreign workers have become a mainstay of the economy, their presence has increasingly clashed with Israel's Zionist ideology, causing growing political unease over the future of the Jewish state and their place in it. PAGE A4 
 BIDEN NUDGES IRAQI LEADERS 
 Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. drew an analogy to the signers of the Declaration of Independence in exhorting Iraqi leaders to end the paralysis that has stalled the formation of a government since the parliamentary elections four months ago. Mr. Biden's visit came amid grumbling by some Iraqi officials that American policy in Iraq has lately lacked focus. PAGE A4 
 FRENCH EXPENSE SCANDALS
 Two French government ministers resigned suddenly after new attention was brought to spending scandals involving Cuban cigars and a private jet. PAGE A5 
 A THRIVING ISLAND TONGUE
 Thousands of languages spoken by small numbers of people are facing extinction. But Papiamentu, a Creole language influenced over the centuries by African slaves, Sephardic merchants and Dutch colonists, which is now spoken by only about 250,000 people in the islands of Curacao, Bonaire and Aruba shows rare signs of vibrancy and official acceptance. PAGE A7
 DOUBTS ABOUT ITALIAN PAINTER
 Silvano Vinceti, the president of the group that sought to identify the bones of Michelangelo Merisi, the painter known as Caravaggio, said that they had definitively identified his remains. But some art historians disagree, and other critics suggested that as the Italian government seeks to exploit the economic potential of the country's cultural resources, marketing is trumping serious study. PAGE A5 
 Meeting on Pakistani Terrorism A6 
 National
 SIGNS OF TENSIONS
 In Obama's Tie to Teachers
 In a sign of the Obama administration's strained relations with two of its most powerful political allies, no federal official was scheduled to speak at either convention of the two national teachers' unions this month, partly because union officials feared that administration speakers would face heckling. PAGE A8 
 BP BILLS ITS PARTNERS
 BP has said repeatedly that it will pay for the disastrous oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. But its actions show that it does not intend to go it alone. Newly released documents show that BP sent out demands for nearly $400 million to its partners in the well, or roughly 40 percent of the $1 billion BP spent in May. PAGE A10 
 CHOPPY SEAS IN GULF SITE
 Cleanup crews across the Gulf of Mexico contended with choppy seas from last week's hurricane, idling many of the boats involved in keeping oil from hitting vulnerable beaches and marshes. PAGE A10 
 5 Killed in Air Ambulance Crash A11 
 New York
 A CRICKET REMATCH,
 More Than a Century Later
 Walker Park on Staten Island has been a haven for cricket in the city for almost 125 years. Recently, two teams got together to reprise the inaugural match on the grounds, though the players who came out that day were not the British officers of yore, but Bangladeshi cabbies, Indian computer engineers and a Pakistani man who owns an auto-body shop. PAGE A12 
 QUEEN TO VISIT MANHATTAN
 In the twilight of a reign that has spanned 58 years, one of the longest of any British monarch, Queen Elizabeth II, 84, is to visit New York on Tuesday for a third and perhaps final time, accompanied by her husband, Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh. PAGE A13 
 Metropolitan Diary A15 
 Business
 DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS 
 Square Off Over Jobs
 Members of Congress headed for a recess over the weekend having failed to agree on legislation to address the nation's fragile employment picture, with both parties placing starkly different bets on the political consequences of their positions. PAGE B1
 NEW PUSH FOR NICKELODEON
 Viacom has long wanted its movie studio, Paramount, to tap into the brand equity and marketing muscle of its children's television empire, Nickelodeon. The weekend success of ''The Last Airbender,'' based on a Nickelodeon animated series, has raised hopes for the earning power of films based on the network's properties. PAGE B1 
 USING SEARCH TO STEER NEWS
 Yahoo hopes that its news team can use search data from Web surfers to create articles that will allow them to focus more precisely on readers. PAGE B1
 LOOKING BEYOND MUSIC
 Sony Music, like other music companies, is scrambling to make up for falling compact disc sales. As it does so, it is embracing businesses that sometimes have only a tenuous connection to music. PAGE B5
 Sports
 IN FIRST STAGE OF TOUR,
 A Wave of Crashes
 On a day of the Tour de France that will not soon be forgotten, the riders crossed the finish line of Stage 1, some wincing and wounded, others so angry that they could only growl after a crash-filled afternoon. PAGE D2 
 Arts
 SHOWCASING THE MUSICIAN
 And the Setting
 The PBS series ''Artists Den'' is not the first television program dedicated to intimate musical performances; the style goes back to the beginning of the medium. But in some ways the surroundings in ''Artists Den'' become part of the show, giving viewers a look at a unique space and allowing the artists to discuss how the location affected their play. PAGE C1 
 CROWDS FLOCK TO 'ECLIPSE'
 ''The Twilight Saga: Eclipse'' drew an estimated $161 million out of North American theaters in its first five days of release, a spectacular if not quite record-breaking result. But in a surprise, audiences defied critics to make ''The Last Airbender'' No. 2. PAGE C1 
 Critics Choice: New CDs C1 
 Obituaries
 AYATOLLAH FADLALLAH, 75
 The top Shiite cleric in Lebanon, inspired the Dawa Party of Iraq and a generation of militants, including the founders of Hezbollah, through his writings and preachings. PAGE A16
 STANLEY WAGNER, 83
 Three decades ago, he was one of the first people to open a winery in the Finger Lakes region of upstate New York, and his wines quickly earned state and national recognition. PAGE A16
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A17
 ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A17
 Online
 SLIDE SHOW Some New York nightspots draw moonlighting Broadway performers, providing fans a chance to see them at lower prices.
 nytimes.com/arts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIGRANT WORKERS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); HISTORY (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); PAINTING (70%); ART HISTORY (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); SCANDALS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); TEACHER UNIONS (67%); SLAVERY (66%); OIL SPILLS (64%); TERRORISM (62%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (75%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); ARUBA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



135 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: China, the Sweatshop

 BODY:
The labor strife spreading through China's factory cities has clearly frazzled the government. Last month, it deployed Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, a k a ''Grandpa Wen,'' who told laborers at a Beijing subway station that the government and society ''should treat migrant workers as they would their own children.'' 
 China's exploited workers don't need an extra parent. They need higher wages, better working conditions and a chance to form independent unions. They need China to stop being sweatshop to the world. 
 Worker unrest has spread after reports of suicides at two campuses in southern China owned by Foxconn Technology, an electronics maker that employs 800,000 people in China who assemble products and parts for Western companies, including Apple, Dell and Hewlett-Packard. Since May 17, workers struck at three Chinese plants that make transmissions, exhausts and locks for Honda, the Japanese carmaker. There also have been reports of labor action in dozens of other factories. 
 Working conditions in too many of these factories are dismal, and the pay is, too. At the Pingdingshan Cotton Textile Company, The Toronto Star reported, workers make 65 cents an hour, working grueling two-day shifts, often in 100-plus degree heat. Workers at Honda Lock demanded a 70 percent raise from their $132-a-month wage. There are no independent unions allowed. 
 China, over all, has done well with its export-dependent strategy based on cheap labor and a cheap currency. Gross domestic product per person trebled over the last 10 years, to $7,200. The share of the population living on less than a dollar a day fell to 16 percent in 2005, from 36 percent in 1999. But China needs to move on. 
 Too much of the country's prosperity has been absorbed by companies' profits. Too little has gone to workers. Partly as a result, consumer spending in China amounts to merely 36 percent of its gross domestic product. In the United States, that percentage is more than 70 percent. In Europe and Japan, it is almost 60 percent. 
 China's manufacturing sector can afford to pay higher wages. After the suicides, Foxconn suggested moving production of some Apple products to newer facilities in North and Central China where pay is cheaper than around the manufacturing hubs along the coast. But it also doubled wages at its Shenzen campus -- to about $290 a month.
 Rising wages and better working conditions are essential for China to become a more self-reliant economy, powered by domestic consumption. Until it treats its workers better, it has no chance of becoming a just and stable society. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); SWEATSHOPS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); ELECTRONICS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); MIGRANT WORKERS (73%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); CONSUMPTION (70%); TEXTILES (66%)

COMPANY: HON HAI PRECISION INDUSTRY CO LTD (70%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%)

TICKER: HHPD (LSE) (70%); 2317 (TAIEX) (70%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (70%); NAICS334418 PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY (ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY) MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334417 ELECTRONIC CONNECTOR MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (98%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



136 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Are Profits Hurting Capitalism?

BYLINE: By YVES SMITH and ROB PARENTEAU. 
Yves Smith is the author of the blog Naked Capitalism and ''Econned: How Unenlightened Self-Interest Undermined Democracy and Corrupted Capitalism.'' Rob Parenteau is the head of a global financial advisory firm and the editor of The Richebacher Letter.

 BODY:
A STREAM of disheartening economic news last week, including flagging consumer confidence and meager private-sector job growth, is leading experts to worry that the recession is coming back. At the same time, many policymakers, particularly in Europe, are slashing government budgets in an effort to lower debt levels and thereby restore investor confidence, reduce interest rates and promote growth.
 There is an unrecognized problem with this approach: Reductions in deficits have implications for the private sector. Higher taxes draw cash from households and businesses, while lower government expenditures withhold money from the economy. Making matters worse, businesses are already plowing fewer profits back into their own enterprises. 
 Over the past decade and a half, corporations have been saving more and investing less in their own businesses. A 2005 report from JPMorgan Research noted with concern that, since 2002, American corporations on average ran a net financial surplus of 1.7 percent of the gross domestic product -- a drastic change from the previous 40 years, when they had maintained an average deficit of 1.2 percent of G.D.P. More recent studies have indicated that companies in Europe, Japan and China are also running unprecedented surpluses.
 The reason for all this saving in the United States is that public companies have become obsessed with quarterly earnings. To show short-term profits, they avoid investing in future growth. To develop new products, buy new equipment or expand geographically, an enterprise has to spend money -- on marketing research, product design, prototype development, legal expenses associated with patents, lining up contractors and so on. 
 Rather than incur such expenses, companies increasingly prefer to pay their executives exorbitant bonuses, or issue special dividends to shareholders, or engage in purely financial speculation. But this means they also short-circuit a major driver of economic growth.
 Some may argue that businesses aren't investing in growth because the prospects for success are so poor, but American corporate profits are nearly all the way back to their peak, right before the global financial crisis took hold. 
 Another problem for the economy is that, once the crisis began, families and individuals started tightening their belts, bolstering their bank accounts or trying to pay down borrowings (another form of saving). 
 If households and corporations are trying to save more of their income and spend less, then it is up to the other two sectors of the economy -- the government and the import-export sector -- to spend more and save less to keep the economy humming. In other words, there needs to be a large trade surplus, a large government deficit or some combination of the two. This isn't a matter of economic theory; it's based in simple accounting.
 What if a government instead embarks on an austerity program? Income growth will stall, and household wages and business profits may fall. 
 That result might not sound bad for the United States, since lower wages and prices would make American goods more competitive abroad. But falling incomes make it even harder for people to make payments on outstanding loans. And if defaults and bankruptcies cascade through the financial system, credit becomes tighter still. Ultimately, there is a danger that deflation -- falling wages and prices -- will snowball into a depression.
 So instead of pursuing budget retrenchment, policymakers need to create incentives for corporations to reinvest their profits in business operations. One way to do this would be to impose an aggressive tax on retained earnings that are not reinvested within two years. Another approach would be a tax on the turnover of corporate financial investments that would raise the cost of speculating with profits, rather than putting them into the business.
 At the same time, the federal government must continue to encourage investment in the economy -- ideally by creating incentives for investments in national priorities, like new energy technologies. 
 The entrepreneurial pursuit of profitable growth has been the vital engine of prosperity since the Industrial Revolution. Yet corporate executives are being rewarded for myopia and speculation, undermining the very operation of capitalism. We need tax and regulatory policies to counter this destructive development, along with wider recognition that government deficits, when they counteract corporate savings, are necessary and salutary. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RECESSION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); DIVIDENDS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); PATENTS (64%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); INTEREST RATES (56%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



137 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: European Shares Slide, Hurt by Mining Results

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
European shares fell to their lowest close in nearly six weeks on Monday, with mining companies weaker on a gloomier economic outlook and volumes thin as Wall Street was closed for the observance of Independence Day. Toronto's main stock index, meanwhile, fell on Monday as doubts about the strength of the global economic recovery mounted.
 The Toronto Stock Exchange's S.& P./TSX composite index fell 103.56 points, or 0.92 percent, to 11,092.50, in thin volume. Earlier in the day, it fell more than 1 percent. 
 The index's three biggest sectors were among the main decliners: oil and gas was down 1.54 percent, materials was off 1.06 percent, and financials fell 0.56 percent.
 In Europe, a rise in BP shares helped stem losses for major indexes. The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index of top shares ended down 0.3 percent to 966.52 points, the lowest close since May 25. Volume was less than half the 90-day average. 
 The index lost 4.3 percent last week, weighed down by persistent worries over the pace of global economic recovery, and is down more than 13 percent from a mid-April peak. 
 Mining stocks that dropped on Monday included Anglo American, BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto; each were down 1.8 to 2.2 percent.
 Worries of a double-dip recession weighed on investors after a week of disappointing macroeconomic data, including evidence of a downbeat labor market in the United States and a slowdown in Chinese manufacturing.
 Growth in the services sector in China, Britain and the euro zone also slipped in June, data showed, supporting the view that emerging and developed economies are set to cool off through the second half of the year. 
 But some strategists say the recent sell-off has been overdone.
 ''You will see over the next two weeks some strong corporate earnings numbers, and we should have some spectacularly good economic data from Germany and France, partly because of the weak euro,'' said Bob Parker, vice chairman for asset management at Credit Suisse. ''Markets were focusing on bad news in the last week. My own view is that the chances of a major reversal in China are very low indeed. Yes, it's slowing, but to 9 percent growth, from 12 percent growth.''
 BP rose 3.5 percent on optimism that the plugging of the leaking well in the Gulf of Mexico is now only about a month away. Reports said BP was seeking a strategic investor to secure its independence, though some major shareholders were skeptical.
 The FTSE 100 fell 0.3 percent, while the DAX in Germany was down 0.31 percent. France's CAC 40 dropped 0.48 percent.
 Shares of Barclays , BNP Paribas and Banco Santander were all down, as some caution prevailed ahead of the outcome of the stress tests on European banks. 
 The French economy minister, Christine Lagarde, said on Sunday that the stress-test results, to be published on July 23, would show banks in Europe are solid and healthy.
 While some analysts have said the stress tests should restore confidence in the sector and lead to a recapitalization of weaker banks, others have said the exact criteria of the sovereign stress needs to be disclosed if the tests are to convince the market.
 Spot gold prices dipped $2.65 an ounce to $1,207.95 as the risk aversion that drove prices to record highs in June abated.
 Gold fell 3.4 percent last week. Many analysts are predicting a soft summer for the metal, with physical demand seasonally weak and investment easing after a strong start to 2010. 
 Concerns over the outlook for the wider markets, however, are set to support higher prices for gold longer term.
 Oil fell to a one-month low on Monday, with Brent crude marking a sixth straight session of losses on lingering concerns over slowing global economies and demand for fuel.
 Crude for August fell 39 cents to $71.75 a barrel by 3:10 p.m. Eastern time, recovering from a low of $71.34 a barrel, its weakest since June 8. With activity muted by the Independence Day holiday, total trading in all contracts came to only 29,000 lots, under 5 percent of normal.
 The New York Mercantile Exchange, which was trading only electronically on Monday, will combine Monday's and Tuesday's trading sessions because of the holiday, with a single settlement price issued on July 6.
 Money managers cut net long crude oil positions on the New York Mercantile Exchange in the week through Tuesday, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said on Friday, reducing bets that prices will rise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EURO (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (64%)

COMPANY: BHP BILLITON PLC (84%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%); TMX GROUP LTD (58%); RIO TINTO GROUP (58%); BNP PARIBAS SA (52%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (50%)

TICKER: BLT (LSE) (84%); BIBLT (JSE) (84%); BBL (NYSE) (84%); PANASONIC (NSE) (69%); X (TSX) (58%); TXQ (FRA) (58%); RIOS (BRU) (58%); RIO (NYSE) (58%); RIO (LSE) (58%); RIO (ASX) (58%); BNP (PAR) (52%); BNP (BIT) (52%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%); SANT (LIS) (50%); SANT (BIT) (50%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (50%); SAN (NYSE) (50%); SAN (MCE) (50%); SAN (BMV) (50%); BNC (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (84%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (84%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (84%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (84%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (58%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (58%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (76%) EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



138 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: To Stop Cheats, Colleges Learn Their Trickery

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla. -- The frontier in the battle to defeat student cheating may be here at the testing center of the University of Central Florida. 
 No gum is allowed during an exam: chewing could disguise a student's speaking into a hands-free cellphone to an accomplice outside. 
 The 228 computers that students use are recessed into desk tops so that anyone trying to photograph the screen -- using, say, a pen with a hidden camera, in order to help a friend who will take the test later -- is easy to spot. 
 Scratch paper is allowed -- but it is stamped with the date and must be turned in later. 
 When a proctor sees something suspicious, he records the student's real-time work at the computer and directs an overhead camera to zoom in, and both sets of images are burned onto a CD for evidence. 
 Taylor Ellis, the associate dean who runs the testing center within the business school at Central Florida, the nation's third-largest campus by enrollment, said that cheating had dropped significantly, to 14 suspected incidents out of 64,000 exams administered during the spring semester. 
 ''I will never stop it completely, but I'll find out about it,'' Mr. Ellis said. 
 As the eternal temptation of students to cheat has gone high-tech -- not just on exams, but also by cutting and pasting from the Internet and sharing of homework online like music files -- educators have responded with their own efforts to crack down.
 This summer, as incoming freshmen fill out forms to select roommates and courses, some colleges -- Duke and Bowdoin among them -- are also requiring them to complete online tutorials about plagiarism before they can enroll. 
 Anti-plagiarism services requiring students to submit papers to be vetted for copying is a booming business. Fifty-five percent of colleges and universities now use such a service, according to the Campus Computing Survey. 
 The best-known service, Turnitin.com, is engaged in an endless cat-and-mouse game with technologically savvy students who try to outsmart it. ''The Turnitin algorithms are updated on an on-going basis,'' the company warned last month in a blog post titled ''Can Students 'Trick' Turnitin?''
 The extent of student cheating, difficult to measure precisely, appears widespread at colleges. In surveys of 14,000 undergraduates over the last four years, an average of 61 percent admitted to cheating on assignments and exams. 
 The figure declined somewhat from 65 percent earlier in the decade, but the researcher who conducted the surveys, Donald L. McCabe, a business professor at Rutgers, doubts there is less of it. Instead, he suspects students no longer regard certain acts as cheating at all, for instance, cutting and pasting a few sentences at a time from the Internet. 
 Andrew Daines, who graduated in May from Cornell, where he served on a board in the College of Arts and Sciences that hears cheating cases, said Internet plagiarism was so common that professors told him they had replaced written assignments with tests and in-class writing. 
 Mr. Daines, a philosophy major, contributed to pages that Cornell added last month to its student Web site to bring attention to academic integrity. They include a link to a voluntary tutorial on avoiding plagiarism and a strongly worded admonition that ''other generations may not have had as many temptations to cheat or plagiarize as yours,'' and urging students to view this as a character test.
 Mr. Daines said he was especially disturbed by an epidemic of students' copying homework. ''The term 'collaborative work' has been taken to this unbelievable extreme where it means, because of the ease of e-mailing, one person looking at someone else who's done the assignment,'' he said.
 At M.I.T., David E. Pritchard, a physics professor, was able to accurately measure homework copying with software he had developed for another purpose -- to allow students to complete sets of physics problems online. Some answered the questions so fast, ''at first I thought we had some geniuses here at M.I.T.,'' Dr. Pritchard said. Then he realized they were completing problems in less time than it took to read them and were copying the answers -- mostly, it turned out, from e-mail from friends who had already done the assignment. 
 About 20 percent copied one-third or more of their homework, according to a study Dr. Pritchard and colleagues published this year. Students who copy homework find answers at sites like Course Hero, which is a kind of Napster of homework sharing, where students from more than 3,500 institutions upload papers, class notes and past exams. 
 Another site, Cramster, specializes in solutions to textbook questions in science and engineering. It boasts answers from 77 physics textbooks -- but not Dr. Pritchard's popular ''Mastering Physics,'' an online tutorial, because his publisher, Pearson, searches the Web for solutions and requests they be taken down to protect its copyright. 
 ''You can use technology as well for detecting as for committing'' cheating, Dr. Pritchard said. 
 The most popular anti-cheating technology, Turnitin.com, says it is now used by 9,500 high schools and colleges. Students submit written assignments to be compared with billions of archived Web pages and millions of other student papers, before they are sent to instructors. The company says that schools using the service for several years experience a decline in plagiarism.
 Cheaters trying to outfox Turnitin have tried many tricks, some described in blogs and videos. One is to replace every ''e'' in plagiarized text with a foreign letter that looks like it, such as a Cyrillic ''e,'' meant to fool Turnitin's scanners. Another is to use the Macros tool in Microsoft Word to hide copied text. Turnitin says neither scheme works. 
 Some educators have rejected the service and other anti-cheating technologies on the grounds that they presume students are guilty, undermining the trust that instructors seek with students. 
 Washington & Lee University, for example, concluded several years ago that Turnitin was inconsistent with the school's honor code, ''which starts from a basis of trusting our students,'' said Dawn Watkins, vice president for student affairs. ''Services like Turnitin.com give the implication that we are anticipating our students will cheat.'' 
 For the similar reasons, some students at the University of Central Florida objected to the business school's testing center with its eye-in-the-sky video in its early days, Dr. Ellis said. 
 But last week during final exams after a summer semester, almost no students voiced such concerns. Rose Calixte, a senior, was told during an exam to turn her cap backward, a rule meant to prevent students from writing notes under the brim. Ms. Calixte disapproved of the fashion statement but didn't knock the reason: ''This is college. There is the possibility for people to cheat.'' 
 A first-year M.B.A. student, Ashley Haumann, said that when she was an undergraduate at the University of Florida, ''everyone cheated'' in her accounting class of 300 by comparing answers during quizzes. She preferred the highly monitored testing center because it ''encourages you to be ready for the test because you can't turn and ask, 'What'd you get?' '' 
 For educators uncomfortable in the role of anti-cheating enforcer, an online tutorial in plagiarism may prove an elegantly simple technological fix.
 That was the finding of a study published by the National Bureau of Economic Research in January. Students at an unnamed selective college who completed a Web tutorial were shown to plagiarize two-thirds less than students who did not. (The study also found that plagiarism was concentrated among students with lower SAT scores.) 
 The tutorial ''had an outsize impact,'' said Thomas S. Dee, a co-author, who is now an economist at the University of Virginia.
 ''Many instructors don't want to create this kind of adversarial environment with their students where there is a presumption of guilt,'' Mr. Dee said. ''Our results suggest a tutorial worked by educating students rather than by frightening them.'' 
 Only a handful of colleges currently require students to complete such a tutorial, which typically illustrates how to cite a source or even someone else's ideas, followed by a quiz. 
 The tutorial that Bowdoin uses was developed with its neighbor colleges Bates and Colby several years ago. Part of the reason it is required for enrollment, said Suzanne B. Lovett, a Bowdoin psychology professor whose specialty is cognitive development, is that Internet-age students see so many examples of text, music and images copied online without credit that they may not fully understand the idea of plagiarism. 
 As for Central Florida's testing center, one of its most recent cheating cases had nothing to do with the Internet, cellphones or anything tech. A heavily tattooed student was found with notes written on his arm. He had blended them into his body art. 
 Cheat Sheet: Articles in this series examine cheating in education and efforts to stop it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeremy Baumann monitored cameras that were trained on students at the testing center at the University of Central Florida. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE JOHNSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL CHEATING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PLAGIARISM (78%); HOMEWORK (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



139 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Open: Must Play Well With Others. Apply at Philharmonic.

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
The nation is bleeding jobs, unemployment stands at almost 10 percent, and lines run long at job fairs. But in one microscopic sliver of the economy, the pickings are rich: major orchestras.
 Next season the New York Philharmonic will have a rare 12 openings, or roughly 12 percent of its instrumental work force, thanks to a confluence of retirements, departures for better jobs and long-unfilled positions. The Boston Symphony Orchestra has 10 vacancies, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra 9, and the Los Angeles Philharmonic 7. 
 Elsewhere the Cleveland Orchestra has four full-time job openings and one part-time. The Philadelphia Orchestra, Pittsburgh Symphony, San Francisco Symphony and Dallas Symphony each have three openings.
 ''We haven't had this many for quite a while, not for 20 years,'' said Carl R. Schiebler, the New York Philharmonic's personnel director and its maestro of musician management. ''A lot is six or seven.'' 
 In New York, Chicago and Los Angeles the many openings create unusual opportunities for new music directors to deepen their imprints on their orchestras. They also present, at least in the short term, the risk of subtly eroding the highly cultivated sense of ensemble and tradition of sound and style that exist in orchestras at their level.
 The New York Philharmonic, the leader in Help Wanted signs, has openings for principal clarinetist, bass clarinetist and second flutist in the woodwinds; two section violinists, two section cellists and three double bassists, including assistant principal; and associate principal horn player. In addition, the third horn player, Erik Ralske, who has been filling in as associate principal, has confirmed that he is fielding offers from elsewhere. 
 Not that audiences will be seeing empty chairs. Orchestras hire substitutes for section jobs. Assistant principals move up temporarily into the top positions.
 ''Nobody wants to see vacancies go unfilled,'' said Zarin Mehta, the Philharmonic's president, ''and they will be filled, but we are fortunate that this is New York, and we have an awful lot of very good people out there.'' 
 These posts, naturally, are rarefied and have little to do with the normal job picture nationwide. But the number of openings prompts the question of why so many spots stand vacant in a market glutted with talented musicians looking to move up to better orchestras or just to find jobs.
 The economy has had an effect. It is cheaper to leave jobs unfilled and to pay substitutes, who usually receive close to the minimum base pay and fewer benefits. Starting salaries at the 10 top-paying orchestras next season range from $101,600 (Minnesota) to $136,500 (Los Angeles), but principal players can earn two or three times that.
 ''It happens that you do save money,'' Mr. Mehta acknowledged, but he said the lingering vacancies in New York were not cost-saving measures. 
 Sometimes orchestras negotiate with their unions to keep jobs open for financial reasons. In Chicago the players agreed to let four vacancies stand last season and next for budgetary reasons. At other times management does it informally, said Bruce Ridge, chairman of the International Conference of Symphony and Opera Musicians. He criticized the practice. ''No business ever solved a financial problem by offering an inferior product to the public,'' he said.
 Music director transitions have also delayed hiring. Conductors on their way out often defer to their successors, who will, after all, have to live with the new musicians, and vice versa. Lorin Maazel, whose tenure in New York ended last year, left several openings to his successor, Alan Gilbert, who in his first season has already filled positions for two violinists, a trombonist, French horn player and, on June 25, a percussionist. The Los Angeles Philharmonic, where Gustavo Dudamel took over last season, provided the same explanation. Riccardo Muti begins his tenure in Chicago in September.
 The elaborate logistical demands of orchestral auditions cause delays. First auditions are advertised. Then time must pass for applicants to send in resumes and tapes and practice the assigned excerpts from the orchestral literature. A committee of players, usually in the section, has to be formed, and preliminary rounds of auditions have to be scheduled. After the finalists are chosen, a time must be found when the busy music director and committee members can hear them. The process can easily stretch out for many months. 
 Often no winner is chosen. That happened last year with the Philharmonic's principal clarinet job. Two rounds of auditions for associate principal horn player and a double bassist also produced no result. The music director in New York has final say but makes the decision in consultation with the committee.
 The Boston Symphony usually has a high number of openings, because the demands on the players -- the Tanglewood festival, the Boston Pops and regular concerts -- make scheduling auditions especially difficult, as does the orchestra's system of hiring based on a two-thirds majority in committee. 
 The finest musician can have a bad day: it's a paradox of the process, in which less than an hour of playing is supposed to determine whether a musician is suitable for the continual day in, day out life of an orchestra member. And in another contradiction, the aspirants play alone for a job that depends on group effort. (Winners are usually on probation for a year or two, effectively a tryout with the ensemble.) On occasion, when no winner is chosen, established orchestral players from elsewhere will be invited to play as guests in a kind of informal tryout. It's an imperfect system, but no one has figured out a better one. 
 Technical proficiency is only part of the test. Members of the orchestra weigh whether a candidate plays with strong character yet can blend, match the ensemble's style and be a colleague they are willing to work with possibly for decades to come. 
 ''The level of craft of students coming out of music school is as high as it's ever been,'' said Brant Taylor, a cellist in the Chicago Symphony. ''I'm not sure the number of really great musicians out there -- thinking, thoughtful musicians who are the whole package -- has gone up in the 12 years I've been here.''
 Orchestra officials and musicians are loath to discuss the auditioning process in detail, and screens are used to hide the auditioner's identity from his judges, in the interest of fairness. In a statement, Mr. Gilbert said, ''We're looking for the best musicians, people with a human quality that makes them uniquely right for the New York Philharmonic.'' 
 Sometimes the auditions lead to uncomfortable circumstances. 
 Mr. Ralske, the French horn player, joined the New York Philharmonic in 1993 in the third chair. He started filling in as associate principal several years ago, when the incumbent, Jerome A. Ashby, a close friend and beloved figure in the orchestra, became ill.
 Mr. Ashby died in late 2007, a harsh blow to the orchestra. ''Not a day goes by I don't think about him,'' said Mr. Ralske, who continued in the position. Last year the Philharmonic held auditions for the spot, and Mr. Ralske was the only finalist for a position he had handled well for years. Mr. Gilbert oversaw the audition.
 Mr. Ralske did not get the job. 
 But things took a positive turn. Mr. Ralske said he had received not one but two job offers as principal horn player, a major step up. They came from the Los Angeles Philharmonic and the Metropolitan Opera. Mr. Ralske, a Long Island native, said he was struggling with the decision: Los Angeles has an exciting new conductor in Mr. Dudamel and is in good financial shape, but ''the Met is the Met,'' and closer to home. 
 Rather than discuss his unsuccessful New York Philharmonic bid, Mr. Ralske said that his was a ''success story.'' It is also, he said, an illustration of ''how deep the orchestra is in talent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alan Gilbert of the New York Philharmonic has 12 positions to fill. Many top orchestras have an unusual number of openings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Gustavo Dudamel leading his Los Angeles Philharmonic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATHEW IMAGING/WIREIMAGE) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (78%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (57%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



140 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Clues in an iPhone Autopsy

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Chen Xiaoduan contributed research.

 BODY:
SHENZHEN, China -- Last month, while enthusiastic consumers were playing with their new AppleiPhone 4, researchers in Silicon Valley were engaged in something more serious.
 They cracked open the phone's shell and started analyzing the new model's components, trying to unmask the identity of Apple's main suppliers. These ''teardown reports'' provide a glimpse into a company's manufacturing.
 What the latest analysis shows is that the smallest part of Apple's costs are here in Shenzhen, where assembly-line workers snap together things like microchips from Germany and Korea, American-made chips that pull in Wi-Fi or cellphone signals, a touch-screen module from Taiwan and more than 100 other components.
 But what it does not reveal is that manufacturing in China is about to get far more expensive. Soaring labor costs caused by worker shortages and unrest, a strengthening Chinese currency that makes exports more expensive, and inflation and rising housing costs are all threatening to sharply increase the cost of making devices like notebook computers, digital cameras and smartphones. 
 Desperate factory owners are already shifting production away from this country's dominant electronics manufacturing center in Shenzhen toward lower-cost regions far west of here, even deep in China's mountainous interior.
 At the end of June, a manager at Foxconn Technology -- one of Apple's major contract manufacturers -- said the company planned to reduce costs by moving hundreds of thousands of workers to other parts of China, including the impoverished Henan Province.
 While the labor involved in the final assembly of an iPhone accounts for a small part of the overall cost -- about 7 percent by some estimates -- analysts say most companies in Apple's supply chain -- the chip makers and battery suppliers and those making plastic moldings and printed circuit boards -- depend on Chinese factories to hold down prices. And those factories now seem likely to pass along their cost increases.
 ''Electronics companies are trying to figure out how to deal with the higher costs,'' says Jenny Lai, a technology analyst at CLSA, an investment bank based in Hong Kong. ''They're already squeezed, so squeezing more costs out of the system won't be easy.''
 Apple can cope better than most companies because it has fat profit margins of as much as 60 percent and pricing power to absorb some of those costs. But makers of personal computers, cellphones and other electronics -- including Dell, Hewlett-Packard and LG -- deal with much slimmer profit margins according to several analysts. ''The challenges are going to be much bigger for them,'' Ms. Lai said. Most other industries, from textiles and toys to furniture, are under considerably more pressure.
 One way to understand the changes taking shape in southern China is to follow the supply chain of the iPhone 4, which was designed by Apple engineers in the United States, sourced with high-tech components from around the world and assembled in China. Shipped back to the United States, the iPhone is priced at $600, though the cost to consumers is less, subsidized by AT&T in exchange for service contracts.
 ''China makes very little money on these things,'' said Jason Dedrick, a professor at Syracuse University and an author of several studies of Apple's supply chain. Much of the value in high-end products is captured at the beginning and end of the process, by the brand and the distributors and retailers. 
 According to the latest teardown report compiled by iSuppli, a market research firm in El Segundo, Calif., the bulk of what Apple pays for the iPhone 4's parts goes to its chip suppliers, like Samsung and Broadcom, which supply crucial components, like processors and the device's flash-memory chip.
 In the iPhone 4, more than a dozen integrated circuit chips account for about two-thirds of the cost of producing a single device, according to iSuppli. 
 Apple, for instance, pays Samsung about $27 for flash memory and $10.75 to make its (Apple-designed) applications processor; and a German chip maker called Infineon gets $14.05 a phone for chips that send and receive phone calls and data. Most of the electronics cost much less. The gyroscope, new to the iPhone 4, was made by STMicroelectronics, based in Geneva, and added $2.60 to the cost. 
 The total bill of materials on a $600 iPhone -- the supplies that go into final assembly -- is $187.51, according to iSuppli.
 The least expensive part of the process is manufacturing and assembly. And that often takes place here in southern China, where workers are paid less than a dollar an hour to solder, assemble and package products for the world's best-known brands.
 No company does more of it than Foxconn, a division of the Hon Hai Group of Taiwan, the world's largest contract electronics manufacturer.
 With 800,000 workers in China alone and contracts to supply Apple, Dell and H.P., Foxconn is an electronics goliath that also sources supplies, designs parts and uses its enormous size and military-style efficiency to assemble and speed a wide range of products to market.
 ''They're like Wal-Mart stores,'' Professor Dedrick said. ''They're low-margin, high-volume. They survive by being efficient.''
 The world of contract manufacturers is invisible to consumers. But it's a $250 billion industry, with just a handful of companies like Foxconn, Flextronics and Jabil Circuit manufacturing and assembling for all the global electronics brands.
 They compete fiercely on price to earn small profit margins, analysts say. And they seek to benefit from tiny operational changes.
 When a company is operating on the slimmest of profit margins as contract manufacturers are, soaring labor costs pose a serious problem. Wages in China have risen by more than 50 percent since 2005, analysts say, and this year many factories, under pressure from local governments and workers who feel they have been underpaid for too long, have raised wages by an extra 20 to 30 percent.
 China's currency has also appreciated sharply against the United States dollar since 2005, and after a two-year pause by Beijing, economists expect the renminbi to rise about 3 to 5 percent a year for the next several years.
 ''It takes 3,000 procedures to assemble an H.P. computer,'' says Isaac Wang, an iSuppli analyst based in China. ''If a contract manufacturer can find a way to save 10 percent of the procedures, then it gets a real good deal.''
 Contract manufacturers like Foxconn are now searching for ways to reduce costs. Foxconn is considering moving inland, where wages are 20 to 30 percent lower. The company is also spending heavily on manufacturing many of the parts, molds and metals that are used in computers and handsets, even trying to find larger and cheaper sources of raw material.
 ''We either outsource the components manufacturing to other suppliers, or we can research and manufacture our own components,'' says Arthur Huang, a Foxconn spokesman. ''We even have contracts with mines which are located near our factories.''
 Many analysts are optimistic the big brands will find new innovations to improve profitability. But within the crowd, there is growing skepticism about China's manufacturing model after years of pressing workers to toil six or seven days a week, 10 to 12 hours a day.
 ''We've concluded Hon Hai's labor-intensive model is not sustainable,'' says Mr. Wang at iSuppli Research. ''Though it can keep hiring 800,000 to one million workers, the problem is these workers can't keep working like screws in an inhuman system.''
 This type of low-end assembly work is also no longer favored in China, analysts say, because it does not produce big returns for the companies or the country. ''China doesn't want to be the workshop of the world anymore,'' says Pietra Rivoli, a professor of international business at Georgetown University and author of ''The Travels of a T-Shirt in the Global Economy.'' 
 ''The value goes to where the knowledge is.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Foxconn factory in Guangdong Province. The company, a major Apple supplier, is looking to cut costs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOBBY YIP/REUTERS) (B1)
A recruiter from Foxconn Technology speaking to job applicants outside a company factory in China's Guangdong Province. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINATOPIX, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 The iPhone 4 after a so-called teardown by iFixit. Teardown reports can offer a glimpse into a company's manufacturing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IFIXIT, VIA REUTERS) (B7) CHART: Inside Your iPhone: The iPhone, designed by Apple engineers in the United States, is manufactured in China with parts from around the world. Apple won't reveal its suppliers, so experts at iSuppli sometimes have to guess a part's origins. (Sources: iSuppli, Needham & Company) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); SMARTPHONES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (76%); DISCRETE MFG (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); LABOR SHORTAGES (70%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (67%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (67%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%); HON HAI PRECISION INDUSTRY CO LTD (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%); HHPD (LSE) (56%); 2317 (TAIEX) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS334418 PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY (ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334417 ELECTRONIC CONNECTOR MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) SOUTH CHINA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HENAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



141 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Vacationers' Choice: The Gulf, or Alternative Shores: More Than a Hurricane and a Raging Sea, Oil Threatens a Once-Thriving Coastal Inn

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
ORANGE BEACH, Ala. -- When Hurricane Ivan churned along this Gulf Coast town in 2004, it ravaged the beachfront inn that Darrell Finley has managed since 1995. Waves dragged six feet of sand into the rooms. Saltwater corroded brass chandeliers and rotted mahogany doors. Wind blew out stained-glass windows and scattered Art Deco furniture. 
 Repair work had hardly started when Hurricane Katrina barreled through in 2005, ripping the roof off the inn's deck and tossing it over the house. 
 The place stood closed for four years, which is how long it took Mr. Finley to mend it. Last summer, its first back in operation, vacancies were rare, he said. This summer was shaping up to be just as busy. Then oil began gushing from a well a mile below the Gulf of Mexico's surface, and the phone at the inn stopped ringing.
 ''Hurricane, it comes, it does its thing, then it's over with and we can fix the damage,'' said Mr. Finley, 59. ''Ain't nothing I can do to get the oil off the ocean.'' 
 And so it was that he found himself tending to a nearly empty house over the Fourth of July weekend, with five guests occupying three of the seven rooms at the Original Romar House Bed and Breakfast Inn. At his traditional holiday barbecue on Saturday, Mr. Finley served seven racks of ribs instead of last year's 22. He bought a keg of beer that was barely touched. Half of the banana pudding he had made went to waste.
 The day before, the inn's owner, Jerry Gilbreath, 61, a former Mississippi legislator and a retired lawyer, cleaned the inn's bank account but still had to write a $10,000 check to pay for flood insurance.
 The inn brought in $21,000 in June 2009 but just $6,000 last month, Mr. Gilbreath said. He is doubtful July will bring in as much. There are no reservations for August.
 ''I don't know how much longer I'm going to be able to keep this place open,'' he said. 
 The effects of the oil spill here are as much about things you can see as things you cannot: no bumper-to-bumper traffic along Perdido Beach Boulevard, the road that hugs the coastline; no dinnertime lines at restaurants; no swimmers in the water; no flocks of seagulls gliding up above.
 At the beach, tar balls look like little pebbles, and the waves leave a soft brown line on the sand when they recede into the ocean. 
 At the Romar House, guests used to come from places like Chicago; Sag Harbor, N.Y.; and York, England -- their names filling page after page for each of the summer months in Mr. Finley's guest ledger. Over the holiday weekend, the farthest of hometowns was Huntsville, Ala., some 300 miles away. 
 The inn, a chestnut-framed structure built in 1924, is billed as the only seaside bed-and-breakfast in the 220 miles between New Orleans and Destin, Fla., and it is the last of the original beach homes on the waterfront here. A 32-story condominium building is rising just west of it, and to its east, chain hotels and residential high-rises stretch as far as the eye can see. 
 Mr. Gilbreath bought the house in 1980 and turned it into a bed-and-breakfast in 1991, after staying in a similarly grand old house in Key West, Fla., and falling in love with the idea. 
 When the housing market boomed, homes just like his fetched several million dollars not for their historic value, but for the value of the land they occupied. Mr. Gilbreath held on; he said he had grown too fond of the house to let it go. 
 Over the years, people stayed there because of its charm, Mr. Finley's hospitality and the homemade delicacies he served for breakfast: sausage quiche, cheese grits, cinnamon rolls and ''better-than-sex peach pancakes,'' as Mr. Gilbreath would describe them. The beach has always been the main draw, though. Without it, Mr. Finley said, ''it's like this place has no purpose.''
 Those who stayed at Romer House this Fourth of July, most of whom had vacationed here as children, were moved by curiosity and a sense of duty. 
 Michael Goddard and his companion, Noralyn Hamilton, who live in Birmingham, Ala., wanted to ''support the local economy the best we could,'' she said. Marvin R. Fourroux, who lives in Huntsville, said he was paying his second visit since April ''because of what's going on, to help them.'' James Swafford and his girlfriend, Elizabeth Haisten, who live in Oneonta, a city of 6,000 residents in northern Alabama, were looking to see ''what the beaches looked like,'' he said.
 ''If they can sink a pipe that deep on the ground, you'd think they'd know what to do when the pipe leaks,'' Mr. Swafford said.
 He and Ms. Haisten walked in as the barbecue was under way, after they saw the ''Vacancy'' sign out front. Mr. Finley quickly offered to give them a tour of the house, sharing its history and showing the rooms he had helped rebuild. 
 As the couple walked away, Mr. Gilbreath looked at the other guests, raised his arms above his head and cheered, ''We have a walk-in!''
 Mr. Goddard, Ms. Hamilton and Mr. Fourroux left Sunday morning. That evening, Bernie Pruss and his friend Sharon Sparks drove in from Tennessee, looking for a place to stay for the night.
 ''We used to have a three-night-minimum rule on major holidays,'' Mr. Gilbreath said. ''But right now, we're taking whatever we can get.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Noralyn Hamilton and Michael Goddard, two of the three guests registered at the Original Romar House Bed and Breakfast Inn over the Fourth of July, swam in the saltwater pool.
Marvin R. Fourroux, top, of Huntsville, Ala., said he was paying his second visit to the inn since April ''because of what's going on, to help them.'' (A13)
 A crew worked on Saturday to clean up oil residue that washed ashore on the beach at the Romar House in Orange Beach, Ala. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MEGGAN HALLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) MAP (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); BEACHES (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (77%); OIL SPILLS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FLOOD INSURANCE (73%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (73%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); RESTAURANTS (65%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (58%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



142 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: A Little Economic Realism

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Let's say you're the leader of the free world. The economy is stuck in the doldrums. Naturally, you want to do something.
 Many economists say we need another stimulus bill. They debate about whether the stimulus should take the form of tax cuts or spending increases, but the ones in your party are committed to spending increases. They trot out a plausible theory with computer models to go with it. If the federal government borrows X amount of dollars and pumps it into the economy, that would produce Y amount of growth and Z amount of jobs. In a $14 trillion economy, you'd probably have to borrow hundreds of billions more to have any noticeable effect, but at least you'd be doing something to help the jobless.
 These Demand Side theorists are giving you a plan of action. But you're not a theorist. You're a practical executive, and you have some concerns. 
 These Demand Siders have very high I.Q.'s, but they seem to be strangers to doubt and modesty. They have total faith in their models. But all schools of economic thought have taken their lumps over the past few years. Are you really willing to risk national insolvency on the basis of a model?
 Moreover, the Demand Siders write as if everybody who disagrees with them is immoral or a moron. But, in fact, many prize-festooned economists do not support another stimulus. Most European leaders and central bankers think it's time to begin reducing debt, not increasing it -- as do many economists at the international economic institutions. Are you sure your theorists are right and theirs are wrong?
 The Demand Siders don't have a good explanation for the past two years. There is no way to know for sure how well the last stimulus worked because we don't know what would have happened without it. But it is certainly true that the fiscal spigots have been wide open. The U.S. and most other countries have run up huge, historic deficits. And while this has helped save public-sector jobs, we certainly haven't seen much private-sector job growth. It could be that government spending is a weak lever to counter economic cycles. Maybe monetary policy is the only strong tool we have.
 The theorists have high I.Q.'s but don't seem to know much psychology. Lord Keynes, though a lesser mathematician, wrote that the state of confidence ''is a matter to which practical men pay the closest and most anxious attention.''
 These days, debt-fueled government spending doesn't increase confidence. It destroys it. Only 6 percent of Americans believe the last stimulus created jobs, according to a New York Times/CBS News survey. Consumers are recovering from a debt-fueled bubble and have a moral aversion to more debt.
 You can't read models, but you do talk to entrepreneurs in Racine and Yakima. Higher deficits will make them more insecure and more risk-averse, not less. They're afraid of a fiscal crisis. They're afraid of future tax increases. They don't believe government-stimulated growth is real and lasting. Maybe they are wrong to feel this way, but they do. And they are the ones who invest and hire, not the theorists.
 The Demand Siders are brilliant, but they write as if changing fiscal policy were as easy as adjusting the knob on your stove. In fact, it's very hard to get money out the door and impossible to do it quickly. It's hard to find worthwhile programs to pour money into. Once programs exist, it's nearly impossible to kill them. Spending now creates debt forever and ever.
 Moreover, public spending seems to have odd knock-off effects. Professors Lauren Cohen, Joshua Coval and Christopher Malloy of Harvard surveyed 42 years of government spending increases in certain Congressional districts. They found that federal spending increases dampened corporate hiring and investment in those districts. You wish somebody could explain that one to you before you pass on more debt burdens to your grandchildren.
 So you have your doubts, but you are practical. You want to do something. Too much debt could lead to national catastrophe. Too much austerity could lead to stagnation.
 Well, there's a few short-term things you can do. First, extend unemployment insurance; that's a foolish place to begin budget-balancing. Second, you need to mitigate the pain caused by the state governments that are slashing spending. You need a program modeled on Race to the Top. You will provide federal money now to states that pass responsible long-term budget plans that will reduce spending and pension commitments. That would save public-sector jobs and ease contractionary pressures without throwing the country into a fiscal-debt spiral.
 But the overall message is: Don't be arrogant. This year, don't engage in reckless new borrowing or reckless new cutting. Focus on the fundamentals. Cut programs that don't enhance productivity. Spend more on those that do.
 You don't have the ability to play the economy like a fiddle. You do have the ability to lay some foundations for long-term growth and stability. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); JOB CREATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); MONETARY POLICY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



143 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Buying and Selling Manhattan Real Estate In an Age of Marketing

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
When Michele Kleier wanted to sell a nine-room apartment at 1125 Park Avenue in 1977, her brokerage firm paid for a one-and-a-half-line classified newspaper advertisement that offered the rough location (''Park Ave. -- Low 90s'') and succinctly read ''Superb condition. Sun filled. Excel. maint.'' With that ad, she found a buyer willing to pay $145,000, today's inflationary equivalent of $522,000.
 This spring, when Ms. Kleier wanted to sell her 45th apartment in the same building, she invited 75 brokers to the eight-room apartment for an open house and seafood lunch catered by the Atlantic Grill restaurant. She featured the apartment on the HGTV television program ''Selling New York'' and paid to have the listing prominently displayed on several influential real estate Web sites. 
 ''Now everybody wants to see the pictures,'' Ms. Kleier said. ''They want to know all about the building. They want to see everything. Believe me, life was a lot simpler then.'' A lot cheaper, too: On Thursday, she closed on the apartment for $4 million.
 Although New Yorkers have obsessed, haggled and boasted about Manhattan real estate since its controversial and possibly apocryphal exchange for a handful of beads four centuries ago, it is fair to say that the promotion of Manhattan apartments has exploded over the past few decades.
 Yes, there are more apartments to sell since the conversion of thousands of rental apartments to co-ops and the creation of the condominium market. Still, many brokers remember when apartments were bought and sold without a retinue of real estate stagers, photographers and writers fussing over these homes before their appearances on Web sites and television.
 ''That big marketing and presentation of properties was not done,'' said Hall F. Willkie, president of Brown Harris Stevens. ''Back in the mid-'80s, in the residential real estate world, people didn't know how to spell 'marketing.' ''
 That is partly because residential real estate used to be a far smaller industry. Barbara Corcoran said that when she started her brokerage firm in 1973, she tracked the city's apartments on 4-by-5-inch handwritten index cards that her brokers kept next to the coffee cart. They organized these cards by color: studios were yellow, one-bedrooms were pink, two-bedrooms were blue, and three-bedroom or larger apartments were orange.
 She added that there were far fewer apartments available through her agency, most of them rentals. As a comparison, 262 apartment sales closed in Manhattan in the past three months.
 In those days, sales were designed so that brokers had far less incentive to advertise and promote properties. Sellers gave their apartments to multiple brokerage firms because only the broker who delivered the buyer received a commission.
 ''When you didn't have an exclusive, you didn't want to commit resources to it,'' said Kirk Henckels, the director of Stribling Private Brokerage. ''There's no certainty you're going to make money.''
 Of course, Manhattan apartments did not carry the profits they carry today.
 When Elise Ward, a broker now with the firm Core, started selling TriBeCa lofts to artists in 1981, so few buildings had been renovated or had soundproofing that she used words like ''fireproof'' and ''steel and concrete structure'' to mean quiet. Now, selling these apartments to the present-day TriBeCa clientele, she said, requires ''several cocktail parties'' and ''brochures, you name it.''
 Even in the late 1980s, when brokers started accepting co-brokerage agreements and investing in advertising, their efforts were far more modest.
 In 1989, Pamela Nichols, a broker who now works for Prudential Douglas Elliman, received an exclusive listing to sell a one-bedroom penthouse at 2 Sutton Place South for $725,000 (the equivalent of $1.275 million today). On Oct. 8, 1989, she published a single four-line advertisement and did not provide prospective buyers with photographs before they visited.
 ''You literally described the apartment to them on the phone,'' she said. ''Until you met them at the building, they didn't see anything.''
 Now she is reselling the apartment for $1.65 million. After Ms. Nichols put it on the market in April, she drafted a 10-line advertisement, hired a professional photographer, designed a full-color handout and promoted the apartment in luxury publications like a Hamptons magazine.
 Ms. Nichols added that in many ways, selling apartments has not changed.
 In 2001, when she renovated her Westhampton beach house, she discovered that a past owner had left her a real estate time capsule beneath the porch: perfectly preserved real estate pages from a Nov. 1, 1925, issue of The New York Herald Tribune. Even then, the newspaper included advertisements for buildings like 31 East 79th Street and 1020 Fifth Avenue that emphasized that the apartments offered ''every convenience and service luxury.''
 ''You're still using the same words,'' she marveled. ''It's just the vehicle.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: This advertisement for an apartment ran in The New York Times in 1925.
The broker Pamela Nichols, above, sold an apartment (1993 photo at left) in 2 Sutton Place South in 1989 using a small advertisement. Now Ms. Nichols is reselling the place
 to promote it, she hired a photographer and designed a full-color handout. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL RUBENSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); WRITERS (72%); CATERING SERVICES (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%)

COMPANY: HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (56%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



144 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: After a Shift, Shares Surge At SanDisk

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
MILPITAS, Calif. -- Eli Harari demands that his drinking water arrive at room temperature. It's an understandable desire for something moderate from a man who spends so much of his life battling extremes. 
 Mr. Harari runs SanDisk, a Silicon Valley maker and seller of the high-speed memory that goes into products like iPods, smartphones, digital cameras and some laptops. 
 This type of memory, known as flash, stands as something of a commodity in the technology world. 
 And so SanDisk's destiny tends to be ruled by the volatile laws of supply and demand, and the company has become accustomed to the booms and busts that reflect consumers' changing tastes. 
 At the moment, SanDisk, which fought a takeover bid in 2008, is booming once again. Its shares, which hovered just above $5 about 18 months ago, topped $50 last month and closed Friday at $41.47. 
 With this performance, SanDisk has outperformed just about all of the major players in the technology game, including far flashier outfits like Apple and Google. 
 ''It's somewhat of a cult stock,'' said Hans Mosesmann, an analyst with Raymond James & Associates. ''Over the past six months, it's been rocking and rolling.''
 Mr. Harari, 65, will not gloat. 
 ''We fully expect there will be another downturn,'' he said, during a recent meeting at the company's headquarters here. 
 ''We have been through five of them in the last 22 years,'' he said, adding that ''you just have to understand that it is what it is.'' 
 What makes SanDisk's revival more than just a fluctuation of supply and demand is that the company used the latest downturn as an opportunity to redirect its business. It shifted away from the fickle whims of the retail market, where it sells memory cards to individual consumers, and toward selling memory straight to device makers and sellers. 
 According to analysts, these moves have given SanDisk more control over the price of its products and have complemented some cost-cutting measures to create a healthier company.
 Meanwhile, people following the market expect demand for memory to soar as new devices go on sale and the economy improves. 
 ''There is a lot of enthusiasm from a demand perspective for some of the new Apple products and other devices that have captured peoples' imagination,'' Mr. Mosesmann said. 
 Like other chip makers, producers of memory are in a constant battle with the laws of physics. They have to design smaller, faster products that can hold more information, all the while working on a Lilliputian scale that is tough to fathom.
 SanDisk, for example, can arrange about 100 billion transistors on one of its thumbnail-size memory cards that fit into cellphones and other hand-held devices. ''Most people think it's just a piece of plastic,'' Mr. Harari joked. 
 Samsung, Toshiba, SanDisk and the other producers of this high-speed flash memory receive few pats on the back for their efforts. As they accomplish one feat of engineering after another, the price of memory just tends to fall. In late 2008, as demand for technology products declined, a desperate situation arose for these companies: the selling price of memory fell below the cost to produce it. 
 The memory companies responded by closing down older factories and halting plans to build new ones. In addition, they began trying to consolidate. In September 2008, Samsung offered $26 a share for SanDisk.
 Mr. Harari rejected the offer in a letter, saying Samsung had undervalued SanDisk. By November, the memory market had worsened and SanDisk's shares had slipped to $5 a share, from $15 at the time of the Samsung bid. 
 ''It was very tough,'' Mr. Harari said of this period. ''We had to take some very drastic actions to get ourselves out of that situation, and we did.''
 SanDisk used to sell about two-thirds of its products through retail stores like Best Buy and Fry's Home Electronics, with consumers buying memory cards to give their devices more storage space. The remaining third of SanDisk's products went to companies making cellphones, music players and other devices. 
 ''Over the past 18 months, we've flipped those ratios,'' Mr. Harari said. During the recession, SanDisk also cut its operating expenses by close to 25 percent, Mr. Harari said, while also laying off 12 percent of its employees. 
 Maintaining tight relationships with the device makers will be crucial to SanDisk's future as those companies look to use memory as a point of leverage, Mr. Harari said. 
 Apple, for example, exerts tremendous influence in the flash memory market, accounting for 20 to 25 percent of the total orders, according to Daniel L. Amir, a senior research analyst at Lazard Capital Markets. 
 SanDisk supplies memory to Apple, but it also competes against the iPod through its Sansa music players.
 Mr. Amir said that cellphone makers have shown increasing interest in memory add-on cards, as they try to give consumers options. In addition, competitors of Apple's iPad have increased purchases of the high-speed memory. 
 Mr. Harari added that he expected the demand for high-speed memory in laptops to increase. 
 Analysts warn that another bust is always looming in the memory market. The major manufacturers have already announced plans to go forward with new chip plants, meaning that a greater supply of chips should be available by 2012. At that point, the price of memory could fall again. 
 In addition, the memory makers are expected to struggle in their journey to improve storage capacity. ''Some people have talked about there being a brick wall coming in three years or so,'' Mr. Mosesmann said. ''It's not clear that SanDisk or anyone else in the industry has figured out how to get around these technological hurdles.''
 Chip makers, however, have shown a remarkable ability to overcome what seem to be impossible challenges, and Mr. Harari remains confident about SanDisk's prospects. 
 Over all, he is encouraged that the new wave of computing devices that have caught consumers' attention all tend to rely on the type of memory SanDisk makes. 
 He argued that device makers and entertainment companies would look more and more to memory cards as a way to drum up interest in their products by putting their own software, music and movies onto the tiny cards. In that regard, the memory card could evolve from dumb bits of plastic to tiny packages full of intelligence. 
 ''The business models are changing very rapidly,'' Mr. Harari said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eli Harari, the chief executive of SanDisk, slashed the company's operating expenses by nearly 25 percent and reduced the work force by 12 percent during the recession. A San- Disk flash memory card, left, used in smartphones. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS
 SANDISK) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER INTERFACE CARD MFG (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); SMARTPHONES (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); ELECTRONICS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); TAKEOVERS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (56%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: ELI HARARI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



145 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Death and Disaster at Sea Lead to Calls to Update Maritime Laws

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER

 BODY:
Lawmakers in Washington are fixed on the legal and financial fallout of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico on BP and firms like Transocean, the operator of the Deepwater Horizon rig that sank in April. 
 But a flurry of legislation in Congress could also have sweeping consequences, both intended and unintended, for other industries that work at sea.
 One bill in the Senate would put cruise operators in its cross hairs by making it easier for damages to be awarded under the Death on the High Seas Act, which the cruise industry has lobbied hard in the past to keep unchanged. 
 There are bills in both the Senate and the House that would repeal a law Transocean has cited to cap some of its liabilities -- the Limitation of Liability Act. Scrapping that law would also undo protection for companies that operate giant container ships, inland barges, tugs and fishing boats. 
 Other legislative proposals seek to amend the Jones Act, which governs death and injury claims by seamen, and to nullify the United States Supreme Court's decision in the Exxon Valdez case to allow jurors to mete out large punitive damages against any company involved in a maritime disaster.
 Lynda D. Sanford made a trip recently to Washington to support the Senate bill on the Death on the High Seas Act. The proposed changes could make it easier for families of the workers killed on the Deepwater Horizon in April to sue for damages. But Ms. Sanford, an auditor from Atlanta, has no connection to the rig. Instead, she wants the bill extended to relatives of people who die while on cruises, as her mother did in 2001.
 Under current law, recoveries for those who die at sea -- be it on a rig or a cruise ship -- can be limited to funeral expenses. ''I have been doing this for nine years and I needed to tell them that victims like my mother had to be included in any bill,'' Ms. Sanford said.
 Some legal experts said the BP debacle had created an opening to modernize the country's maritime laws, which often do not make legal or common sense because they have evolved by being amended in a piecemeal fashion over decades or centuries.
 A decade ago, for instance, Congress narrowly amended the Death on the High Seas Act, which was enacted in 1920, to allow survivors of those killed in airline crashes over water to recover more damages. That move followed lobbying of lawmakers by the parents of high school students from Montoursville, Pa., who were killed in 1996 in the crash of TWA Flight 800 in the Atlantic Ocean. Yet the law still sidesteps the issue of deaths on cruise ships.
 ''You get traction in these things when there is a compelling tragedy,'' said Robert Force, a professor of maritime law at Tulane University.
 For now, most big companies with a stake in the proposed changes see little to gain in being linked to BP's problems and are keeping a watchful eye on Washington while maintaining a low profile. And while several BP-related bills are moving through Congress quickly, it is impossible to say which, if any, will pass or the final shape they may take. 
 ''Things are very fluid as members of Congress are considering a number of options to ensure families of the oil rig victims are taken care of,'' the Cruise Line Industry Association, a trade group, said in a statement.
 Most of the proposed laws are a direct response to the actions of companies involved in the oil spill. For example, a Senate committee voted last Wednesday to end the current $75 million cap for oil spill-related environmental damage under a statute known as the Oil Pollution Act.
 Transocean touched off a furor when it invoked another law, the Limitation of Liability Act, to try to limit claims against it arising out of the Deepwater Horizon incident to $26.7 million. 
 That law limits the total liability of a vessel's owner, apart from pollution-related claims, to the vessel's value, including any money owed to its owner, after an accident like a sinking. 
 The $26.7 million figure cited by Transocean was based on the money BP owed to it for the rig's services.
 The company's filing drew the attention of lawmakers to the Limitation of Liability Act, and soon the Senate and House bills were introduced to repeal it. 
 Vincent J. Foley, a lawyer in New York who defends shipping companies involved in maritime accidents, said that repealing the law would have consequences far beyond Transocean because the statute was routinely used by operators of vessels like cargo ships, freighters, barges and tug boats. Along with limiting a company's liabilities, it also sets up a process to streamline claims against a vessel owner.
 With some of the proposed legislation promising bigger payments to victims' families, a lobbying group for plaintiffs' lawyers, the American Association of Justice, is among those pushing for changes. Several lawyers said they have had to turn down otherwise compelling cases because existing statutes can sharply limit recovery -- often in random and scattershot ways.
 Some maritime law experts agreed that the laws had created inequities. ''The laws are unfair, inconsistent and out of date,'' said one expert, Thomas C. Galligan Jr., president of Colby-Sawyer College in New London, N.H.
 As an example, Mr. Galligan offered a hypothetical case of a worker killed in an oil rig explosion. If that rig is on land or fixed in water just off the coast, that worker's family can potentially collect damages related to emotional loss. But if that rig is located farther out to sea, as Deepwater Horizon was, the family cannot do so.
 Ms. Sanford said she had run into the same problem after her mother's accident. She said lawyers had told her that there was little to be gained from suing the cruise ship's operator because the Death on the High Seas Act recognized only economic losses, not emotional ones. And because all of her mother's children were grown and no longer dependent on her, there had been no economic loss.
 Ms. Sanford, who accompanied her mother on the trip, said she had eventually received some money related to the trauma of her mother's death when she settled her own claims against the cruise's operator. She was injured and her mother drowned when a day tour boat capsized off the coast of Mexico.
 Cruise ship operators have long fought against changes to the Death on the High Seas Act, even agreeing last year to back a new federal shipboard safety bill if Congress left the law untouched. But that, and many other laws, are open to new scrutiny as Congress looks for new legislative muscle in the wake of the BP spill.
 Last week, the cruise industry's trade association sent a letter to Florida's Congressional delegation urging those lawmakers to oppose proposed amendments to the Death on the High Seas Act that would expand its reach beyond Gulf of Mexico rig workers.
 ''We are concerned that the bill goes too far,'' the group said in its letter of June 29, adding the current proposals would ''apply to all deaths beyond U.S. waters, including incidents involving foreign nationals.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Elizabeth Sanchez Stevens, left, died in an accident while on a cruise in 2001 with her daughter, Lynda D. Sanford. This photo was taken on the cruise. (B1)
 Lynda D. Sanford, at home in Atlanta in June, wants to change laws affecting cruise operators. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMI CHAPPELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (90%); CRUISES (90%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); ADMIRALTY LAW (90%); DAMAGES (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); LOBBYING (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); JURY TRIALS (76%); PERSONAL INJURY (76%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (76%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (53%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



146 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Amid Inquiries on Drowning, Many Rally for School

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
There are biking trips across the Brooklyn Bridge, hikes and camping in the Catskills and visits to a farm in Puerto Rico. While at some schools students spend much of the month of June watching movies or signing yearbooks, those at the Columbia Secondary School for Math, Science and Engineering take a series of intensive field trips, centered on themes like architecture and the environment. 
 The trips are among the biggest draws for potential students, a symbol of the way the school tries to combine learning with life experience. But two weeks ago, one sixth-grade trip ended in a nightmare: a 12-year-old girl, Nicole Suriel, drowned at an unguarded stretch of beach in Long Beach, on Long Island. 
 The Office of Special Investigation for the Education Department is investigating the case, and so far no one has been disciplined. But many parents and students at the school are rallying behind the principal, Jose Maldonado-Rivera, who created the school three years ago for bright students from northern Manhattan. Dozens of parents have sent e-mail messages supporting Dr. Maldonado to the schools chancellor, Joel I. Klein. Students created a page on Facebook to voice their support of the principal and the teacher, Erin Bailey, who was in charge of the field trip. 
 Parents and other supporters worry that Ms. Bailey, the assistant principal, Andrew Stillman, and Dr. Maldonado-Rivera could all lose their jobs. Losing Dr. Maldonado-Rivera would leave the school without its architect. 
 ''It's really his vision, and that is irreplaceable,'' said Charles Miller, whose son, Christian, just completed sixth grade at the school. ''Having someone else take over would just make this tragedy even bigger.'' 
 The Education Department's investigators are expected to issue a report within several weeks. Mr. Klein has said that he would wait for the full report before making any decisions. The City of Long Beach has opened a criminal investigation into the drowning. 
 For now, it remains unclear whether Dr. Maldonado-Rivera knew that his students would be going to a beach that was officially closed and had no lifeguards. Investigators are also trying to determine whether each of the two dozen students on the trip had gotten the required permission slips from their parents. Juan Suriel, Nicole's father, has said that neither he nor his wife signed a permission slip. 
 At the time of the trip, Dr. Maldonado-Rivera was chaperoning another group of students through Puerto Rico, where he takes a class of students to stay on a farm each year. Dr. Maldonado-Rivera did not return repeated phone calls. 
 Like dozens of other staff members and parents from the school, Dr. Maldonado-Rivera attended Nicole's funeral, his eyes bloodshot as he offered a solemn hello to mourners. He visited the Suriel family at their home in Washington Heights, where parents have also gathered to offer home-cooked meals and financial support. 
 ''They came to pray and tell us they were thinking of us,'' Mr. Suriel said in a brief telephone interview. ''We are thankful for all of that. My daughter liked the school very, very much.'' 
 Mr. Suriel has not taken a position on whether Dr. Maldonado-Rivera should face any punishment.
 Sitting just at the edge of Morningside Park on West 123rd Street, Columbia Secondary School is a kind of hodgepodge academic oasis. Since it opened three years ago, the school has attracted students from a range of backgrounds -- there are parents who teach at Columbia University, and others with blue-collar jobs. Each student must take an essay exam to be admitted, and students are routinely given hours of homework each night. The school currently serves about 290 students in grades 6 to 8, and is to expand to 12th grade over the next four years.
 Emily Davis, whose daughter Sarah completed seventh grade last month, said Dr. Maldonado-Rivera ''always said 'character matters to me -- we're not just building brains here, we're trying to build people.' '' 
 ''He wants to do what is morally right,'' she added, ''and is genuine in teaching the kids that.'' 
 The brochure for the school teems with promises: It is the ''only public school associated with an Ivy League school in the nation,'' and one of the most ethnically and economically diverse student bodies in the city. There are courses in philosophy and engineering, along with electives like yoga and musical theater. 
 Students are promised a chance at taking courses at Columbia once they have completed some high school courses. Columbia does not play a role in the day-to-day operations of the school, although officials from the university helped Dr. Maldonado-Rivera create the school. 
 It is a place, some parents say, meant to rival some of the most expensive private schools in the city, where annual tuition can be up to $30,000. Parents routinely tell tales of Dr. Maldonado-Rivera's staying until the wee hours of the morning to finish tasks like designing curriculum and mopping floors. 
 The students' performance underscores the quality of academics at the school. In 2009, 100 percent of sixth- and seventh-grade students passed state tests in both math and reading. This year, dozens of students took Regents exams in science and math, tests typically taken by students already in high school. 
 Boasting of Dr. Maldonado-Rivera's open-door policy, parents said they could talk to him for hours about classes, happily sparring about what should be taught and how. Other students have challenged punishments from some teachers by appealing to a student council group, the Fairness and Justice Committee. 
 Dawn Hershman, whose daughter Noa Hankin just completed sixth grade, said the school ''taught her that she has to defend herself'' and that if she does, she can change the circumstances around her. ''That's as important,'' Ms. Hershman said, ''as anything she learns in the classroom.'' 
 Such admiration, as strong as it is, is not universal. A few parents privately complained about Dr. Maldonado-Rivera, saying that he bristles at disagreement and dismisses the complaints of some students who say they are overworked. 
 One particularly vocal parent, David Suker, vented his anger at Dr. Maldonado-Rivera after the drowning, saying that he would not let his daughter return to the school until he was removed. Mr. Suker, a teacher at another public school, who is facing charges of throwing away a student's test paper during an argument, confronted Dr. Maldonado at the funeral, shouting: ''Tell the truth. You are the only one responsible in this tragedy.'' 
 Mr. Suker's outbursts infuriated several parents, who said the accident has prompted them to become more involved with the school. For the last several days, e-mail messages have bounced back and forth with ideas about raising more money for the school and getting more volunteers to help teachers who, parents say, routinely work 12- or 15-hour days. 
 Kim Trueblood, whose daughter is entering seventh grade at the school next year, said, ''I feel like this has forced us to do that, for us to say what else can we do, what should we be doing and how can we help.'' 
 ''Nobody,'' she added, ''wants to lose anything more.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The principal of Columbia Secondary School, Jose Maldonado-Rivera, with students on a field trip to Puerto Rico in June. (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MOUNTAINS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); LAYOFFS (69%); BEACHES (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



147 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoy Urges Chinese to Release American Geologist

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES; Zhang Jing contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- American officials reacted with dismay and puzzlement on Monday to the eight-year prison sentence imposed on an American geologist because he bought a database on China's oil industry.
 The geologist, Xue Feng, had already spent more than two and a half years in jail in China while the case dragged on, and had complained to outsiders seeking his release that his captors had tortured him by pressing lighted cigarettes into his arms and hitting him with an ashtray.
 His lengthy sentence, which was not widely reported in the Chinese-language news media, followed intensive efforts on Dr. Xue's behalf by American officials, who met him in jail nearly 30 times and were in the Beijing courtroom where he was sentenced Monday. 
 The American ambassador to China, Jon Huntsman, later called for Dr. Xue to be freed.
 ''Now that the Chinese legal system has ruled, I believe the time has come for Dr. Xue, who has already been detained for two and a half years, to be released,'' Mr. Huntsman said in a statement. ''I urge the Chinese authorities to take into account the long ordeal he has suffered and in the spirit of justice allow him to be returned home and be reunited with his family.''
 The statement said the United States government was dismayed by the verdict and concerned about Dr. Xue's right to due process under Chinese law and his well-being in prison.
 Dr. Xue was sentenced under a vague state secrets law, used in the past to prosecute cases ranging from military espionage to information leaks from state ministries. State security officials detained Dr. Xue in November 2007 after he signed a purchase contract on behalf of an energy consulting company based in Colorado, IHS Energy, for a database on the Chinese oil industry.
 The sentence, which some human-rights advocates called unusually harsh, seemed to underscore the Chinese government's acute sensitivity to any matters related to its hunt for natural resources to fuel economic growth. 
 In March, a Shanghai court sentenced Stern Hu, an Australian executive with the mining company Rio Tinto, to 10 years in prison, partly on charges of stealing commercial secrets involving China's iron ore purchases. 
 Both Mr. Hu and Dr. Xue were born in China, then left and received citizenship abroad before returning here as businessmen.
 ''This illustrates the extreme importance with which China views its access to natural resources, especially things like steel and oil,'' said Joshua Rosenzweig, a Hong Kong-based official with the Dui Hua Foundation, a San Francisco group that monitors human-rights issues in China. ''These are things China sees as vital to its economic growth, which in turn is vital to maintaining stability. It's clear that resource issues are seen as national security issues.''
 The nature of the database has not been made public. Dr. Xue apparently came across it during discussions with Chinese friends and did not regard it as sensitive, Mr. Rosenzweig said. The Dui Hua Foundation and Dr. Xue's lawyer say the Chinese government did not classify the information until after it had been sold to IHS, now known as IHS Inc.
 On Monday, David Rowley, a University of Chicago geologist who is a longtime acquaintance of Dr. Xue, contended that Dr. Xue was being imprisoned for buying information that had no impact on China's security. Dr. Xue's conviction is ''completely baffling,'' he said, because it is impossible for any outsider to gain an advantage in China's state-controlled oil industry.
 ''China's government entirely controls all their resources,'' Dr. Rowley said. ''Even if another company were to have all the information about petroleum resources in China, it would do them no good.''
 An Indiana University scholar of Chinese politics and business, Scott Kennedy, said Dr. Xue's case fell under the purview of a top official of the Chinese Communist Party Politburo, Zhou Yongkang, whose background melds petroleum interests and state security. Mr. Zhou, 68, was China's public security minister from 2002 to 2007, but he rose to power in the 1960s and 1970s as a top executive in the state-run oil industry. Now Mr. Zhou oversees Chinese legal policy.
 China's legal system seldom justifies its decisions in public, and the reasoning behind Dr. Xue's sentencing in the face of intense American interest remained a matter of speculation. 
 Dr. Xue's Chinese background and network of Chinese acquaintances doubtless helped him gain access to information that might elude other foreigners, Mr. Rosenzweig said. But he added that such access put him at greater risk of crossing the murky borders of the state secrets law -- and the government's ownership of China's oil industry raised the danger further.
 Although United States officials have been involved in Dr. Xue's case since he was detained in 2007, it was not publicly known until last November. Dr. Xue's family had sought to keep his arrest secret, hoping quiet negotiations would further his release, but Dr. Xue abandoned that position after two years in jail.
 His case has been marked by long delays. He was not formally arrested until April 2008, five months after he was detained, and Monday's sentence was handed down nearly a year after his trial. Dr. Xue, 44, has a heart ailment, the Dui Hua Foundation said. His Beijing lawyer, Tong Wei, said Dr. Xue was not seriously ill and was receiving medical care.
 Mr. Tong said he did not know whether the sentence would be appealed. ''I'll consult my client first,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); PRISONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); MINES & MINING (84%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); ESPIONAGE (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); VERDICTS (74%); DUE PROCESS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); CITIZENSHIP (50%)

COMPANY: RIO TINTO GROUP (52%)

TICKER: RIOS (BRU) (52%); RIO (NYSE) (52%); RIO (LSE) (52%); RIO (ASX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (52%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (52%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (52%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



148 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: This Recession and Okun's Law

BYLINE: By JAMES PETHOKOUKIS and EDWARD HADAS

 BODY:
 The White House has been expecting a surge of new employment as growth picks up. That partly explains the lack of any new expensive job-creation program yet from President Obama. But the premise looks shaky.
 Okun's Law is the basis for the jobs hope. Named after Arthur M. Okun, an economic adviser to Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, this is less a law than a description of how the United States labor market works.
 The critical number is three. That is supposed to be the ratio between the deviation of growth in the country's gross domestic product from its trend and the change in the unemployment rate. So if the nation's growth is three percentage points lower than it should be, the unemployment rate will rise by one percentage point. 
 The 2008-9 downturn didn't follow the formula. The unemployment rate jumped by 2.6 percentage points in 2009 alone, when Okun's Law implied an increase of less than one percentage point.
 One possible explanation is that panicky businesses shed workers because they feared another Great Depression.
 But it was only a bad recession. So if the underlying relationship of jobs and growth in place before the downturn still holds, unemployment should soon start to fall pretty fast in a sort of Okun ''catch-up.''
 It's not working yet, even after Friday's numbers that nudged down June's unemployment rate. But then again, the Okun pattern can be altered by a host of factors, from women joining the paid work force to productivity rising. The Obama economic team understands the problem. It thinks Okun's three multiplier has drifted down to two.
 But that may still not be the whole story. While the 2009 Okun miss appeared to be a big one, the relationship has a history of kicking wide during particularly deep downturns. There might also be some minor potential drags on job growth like the extension of unemployment insurance, high productivity and the historically large number of long-term unemployed.
 In any case, since the perceived discontinuity in 2009, the Okun pattern seems to be holding. And with G.D.P. growing at about its trend rate, the formula would predict little change in unemployment. Hopes of a sharp ''catch-up'' may be misplaced.
 Price vs. Value 
 What does the price of a security really mean? Elie Ayache, a derivatives expert with a taste for contemporary French philosophy, thinks that financial theory is based on the wrong answer to that question.
 The nearly 500 pages of Mr. Ayache's book, ''The Blank Swan: The End of Probability,'' are filled with observations like: ''Writing is not dwelling; it is being pressed by the ruins.'' But there is an important idea lurking in the dense prose.
 Financial theory assumes that when buyers and sellers agree on a transaction price they are trying to find the real value of a share, bond or derivative. The market price may be different from that real value: that's why a security can be overvalued or undervalued. But a real value does exist.
 However, ''real'' is an odd word for a number derived from estimates of future cash flows. After all, the future is strictly unknowable. Financial theory tries to create an elaborate hypothetical reality, where probabilities are assigned to a wide range of different potential outcomes.
 In this constructed collection of possible worlds, calculations of future values discounted to the present are supposed to arrive at the right price. But they often work like Ouija boards. The user's initial prejudices shape the answers.
 Mr. Ayache argues that the practical problems reflect a basic philosophical error. Humans do not know enough to quantify probabilities of future outcomes or even to describe some of them as totally unexpected ''black swans.'' The book's title suggests that the swans of probability are not white or black, just blank.
 The author does not fill that void. To him, a market price doesn't represent anything; it is just the name for an amount of money used to close a transaction. Of course, prices are related to real numbers -- current and past dividends and earnings, for example. But the relationship is neither close nor constant.
 Mr. Ayache's view does fit remarkably well with one quite knowable reality. Prices change along with investors' moods and their supply of money. Maybe the theory of finance should be more closely aligned with this practice.
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1969 with members of his Council of Economic Advisers. From left to right, Arthur M. Okun, Warren Smith and Merton Peck. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



149 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Clinton, on Tour, Tries to Reassure Russia's Neighbors

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY; Sarah Marcus contributed reporting from Tbilisi, Georgia.

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- At the end of a trip intended to reassure Russia's neighbors that the Obama administration would not forget them in its push to improve relations with Moscow, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton resorted to the simplest of diplomatic formulations, telling Georgia, the United States ''can walk and chew gum at the same time.'' Mrs. Clinton repeated the argument like a mantra during her five-day swing through Ukraine, Poland, Azerbaijan, Armenia and Georgia: that the ''reset'' will not force the United States to sacrifice its influence or policies in the post-Soviet space. 
 As if to underline that point, she used her toughest language yet to condemn Russia's ''invasion and ongoing occupation'' of Georgia during a Monday visit to Tbilisi, Georgia's capital. Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia responded by chiding Georgia for involving Washington rather than negotiating directly with Abkhazia and South Ossetia, the two breakaway enclaves at the center of its 2008 war with Russia. 
 ''One shouldn't expect solutions to come from outside,'' he said, according to the Itar-Tass news service. He also questioned Mrs. Clinton's words, saying of South Ossetia that ''some people consider it occupied, others consider it liberated.''
 The region has already changed profoundly since last July, when Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. delivered the same message in some of the same capitals. 
 Poland and Russia are in the midst of an unprecedented warming after the catharsis of this spring's plane crash, which killed Poland's president and other top officials. Under its new president, Ukraine has tacked sharply toward Moscow, partly in hopes of receiving financial relief. Azeri officials have grumbled about neglect by the Obama administration, turning to Russia as their preferred mediator in the conflict over the disputed area of Nagorno-Karabakh. 
 And Georgia -- the only country among them whose relationship with Russia has remained cold -- has looked on warily as the relationship between Mr. Obama and President Dmitri A. Medvedev has deepened. President Mikheil Saakashvili allowed as much, commenting on the June 24 ''hamburger summit'' between the American and Russian presidents.
 ''If you want to eat hamburgers with the president of America somewhere in a civilized place, it means you have to behave in a civilized way,'' Mr. Saakashvili told Georgian television last weekend. ''It also means that you do not occupy another country.'' 
 Mrs. Clinton has taken pains to convey that Washington will continue to assert itself in the region, pressing for political pluralism and democratic transfer of power. 
 Though the Iron Curtain is no more, she said in her visit to Krakow, ''We must be wary of the steel vise in which many governments are slowly crushing civil society and the human spirit,'' including Russia on a list alongside Zimbabwe, Congo, Ethiopia, Egypt and China. She said Washington would continue to finance nongovernmental organizations in the region -- an endeavor that has long irritated Moscow -- and pledged $2 million to a fund to assist such organizations that were under pressure to shut down.
 The warnings are timely, said Andrew Wilson, a senior policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations. But he warned that the United States risked losing its bully pulpit if it continued to be perceived as ''relatively unengaged'' during a period of economic crisis and diplomatic upheaval.
 ''Semi-authoritarian consolidation is a trend throughout the region; you can see it in Ukraine and Georgia,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''Does the U.S. have the influence to push back? There is rhetorical reassurance, and this is Round 2 -- you had the Biden tour, and now you have the Clinton tour.''
 Mrs. Clinton faced particularly raw feelings in Azerbaijan, which felt snubbed after the United States ambassador's position was left unfilled for almost a year, and again when it was not invited to an April nuclear security summit meeting in Washington. The administration has responded with rapt attention: in June, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates traveled to Baku with a personal letter to President Ilham H. Aliyev from Mr. Obama. 
 But Mrs. Clinton's most delicate job was in Georgia, whose soldiers are still facing off with Russians at the border of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, the two breakaway Georgian enclaves.
 Before Mr. Biden visited Tbilisi last year, Mr. Saakashvili said he would ask the United States to provide Georgia with antiaircraft and antitank weapons to help stave off another Russian attack, and officials said they would like the United States to help monitor the enclaves' borders. Neither request went forward.
 Any such requests were kept scrupulously quiet on Monday. Mrs. Clinton warned Georgia against trying to win back the territories by force, saying it was ''a mistake to focus on the past.'' Asked whether Georgia wanted American support in replenishing its military, Mr. Saakashvili said the issue would be addressed ''step by step,'' and he had no complaints about the administration's position.
 ''There is no secret about it, of course some people were worried about what it might mean,'' he said. ''If the reset leads to a more modernized Russia, that's only good for all of us.''
 Alexander Rondeli, the president of the Georgian Foundation for Strategic and International Studies, said Mrs. Clinton's willingness to use the word ''occupation'' carried particular weight.
 ''Sometimes words are actions,'' Mr. Rondeli said. ''Not many countries in the world are willing to call the Russians occupiers. Just the Georgians, and now the Americans.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on Monday with President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia in Tbilisi. Georgia has looked warily on the United States' relations with Russia. (POOL PHOTO BY IRAKLI GEDENIDZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (63%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); POLAND (90%); UKRAINE (90%); ARMENIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



150 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Israel Details Easing of Its Gaza Blockade

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Israel on Monday announced details of the easing of its blockade of Gaza, and the Israeli defense minister held a rare face-to-face meeting here with the Palestinian prime minister in a flurry of activity apparently intended to show diplomatic momentum ahead of the Israeli prime minister's meeting with President Obama, scheduled for Tuesday in Washington.
 After a rocky few months in Israeli-American relations, officials on both sides seemed eager to move to a smoother footing and show progress in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, in which the Obama administration has invested heavily. 
 American-brokered indirect peace talks started in May after a year of efforts. Daniel Shapiro, a senior Middle East adviser at the National Security Council, said Friday that in the weeks since, ''the gaps have been narrowed.''
 Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said over the weekend that the ''main goal'' of his meeting with Mr. Obama would be to advance to direct talks with the Palestinians, as well as to discuss security issues like Iran's nuclear drive. Yossi Gal, the director general of Israel's Foreign Ministry, said the ''significant steps'' that Israel had taken regarding Gaza would also be raised. 
 But Palestinians say little has been achieved so far, and they have tried to dispel any inflated notions of progress. ''What I see is all public relations,'' Saeb Erekat, the chief Palestinian negotiator, said Monday by telephone. 
 He said that Mr. Netanyahu held the key to beginning direct talks, which would involve an Israeli commitment to resume negotiations from the point at which they ended in December 2008 and a freeze of all Israeli settlement construction, including in East Jerusalem. The Netanyahu government rejects those demands. 
 Defense Minister Ehud Barak and the Palestinian Authority's prime minister, Salam Fayyad, met Monday at a Jerusalem hotel but released no joint statement. Palestinian officials emphasized that the encounter dealt with practical issues affecting Palestinian daily life. Israel said the men discussed security and economic coordination for the West Bank and Palestinian Authority activity to prepare border crossings for an expanded supply of civilian goods into Gaza. 
 Mr. Netanyahu was originally supposed to meet Mr. Obama in early June. He canceled that meeting, cutting short a trip abroad, after a deadly confrontation during an Israeli raid on a Turkish boat trying to breach the blockade of Gaza. Nine people on the boat were killed.
 The raid outraged much of the world; it severely strained Israel's ties with Turkey, an important regional ally, and became a catalyst for a serious re-examination by Israel of its policy toward Gaza, which is governed by the militant group Hamas.
 There were continuing signs of stress in Israeli-Turkish relations on Monday, with Israel again rejecting a Turkish demand for an apology for the fatal raid. 
 During a visit to Latvia, Israel's foreign minister, Avigdor Lieberman, said Israel had no intention of apologizing. His remarks followed a report in the Turkish newspaper Hurriyet that quoted Turkey's foreign minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, as saying that Israel ''will either apologize or acknowledge an international impartial inquiry and its conclusion. Otherwise, our diplomatic ties will be cut off.''
 Israel has rejected an international investigation, but has set up an internal panel of inquiry with two foreign observers.
 At the Israeli Foreign Ministry on Monday, Mr. Gal, the director general, and Maj. Gen. Eitan Dangot, a senior military official, detailed the new guidelines for the entry of goods into Gaza, in line with an Israeli security cabinet decision on June 20.
 In what amounts to a reversal of the system of the past three years, since Hamas took full control of Gaza, Israel has created a list of items not permitted to enter Gaza for security reasons. Before, it allowed only those items that were specifically approved. 
 Among the items Israel has prohibited are all weapons and munitions and ''dual use'' items that it says have military or terrorist purposes alongside civilian purposes. That list goes beyond an internationally recognized roster of such items.
 Materials banned specifically by Israel include a range of chemicals and certain fertilizers that Israel says can be used to produce explosives, and other items like hunting knives, optical equipment, diving equipment, parachutes and gliders.
 In a second list, Israel has itemized construction materials whose entry into Gaza will be allowed only for projects authorized by Hamas's rival, the Palestinian Authority, and carried out under international supervision. 
 The Obama administration reacted positively to the news. ''We believe the list of restricted goods for Gaza announced today will make a significant improvement in the lives of people in Gaza, while keeping weapons out of the hands of Hamas,'' a White House spokesman, Tommy Vietor, said in a statement. He said Mr. Obama ''looks forward to discussing it with the prime minister.''
 Israel has pledged to expand economic activity in Gaza, where local industry has been decimated by the blockade. But Sari Bashi of Gisha, an Israeli advocacy group that focuses on freedom of movement for Palestinians, said that raw materials vital for local factory owners were still not being allowed in on Monday.
 Robert H. Serry, the United Nations special coordinator for the Middle East peace process, said Monday in a statement that he ''welcomes the measures announced today by the government of Israel as important steps in the right direction.'' But he added, ''This can only be the beginning of the long road towards reconstruction and a functioning economy in the Gaza Strip.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HAMAS (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (66%)

COMPANY: JERUSALEM HOTEL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (79%); EHUD BARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



151 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Vacationers' Choice: The Gulf, or Alternative Shores: On the Atlantic, a Laid-Back Beach Town Welcomes an Influx of Detouring Families

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
TYBEE ISLAND, Ga. -- The Rutherfords salvaged their beach vacation this year with a little help from Miley Cyrus.
 Six months ago, Beckie Rutherford paid $7,000 for a week at a beach house in Gulf Shores, Ala., where the family has vacationed for as long as her five children can remember. Then the oil started to spill. 
 ''When my mama found out that it was tattooing people and staining them -- that wasn't something I wanted to be a part of,'' said her daughter Sarah, 16. 
 The Rutherfords swapped Gulf Shores for Tybee Island, a spit of land at the mouth of the Savannah River. When Sarah and her sister Cassie, 19, heard from their uncle that Ms. Cyrus had filmed the movie ''The Last Song'' here last summer, they were sold. ''Miley is our favorite,'' Sarah said.
 The drive from the Rutherfords' home in Carthage, Tenn., took about eight hours, the same as the drive to Gulf Shores. Ms. Rutherford is already thinking about a return trip at the end of the summer. ''We fell in love,'' she said. ''I don't know if I will ever go back to the gulf.''
 Those words underscore the damage being done to resorts in Alabama, Florida, Louisiana and Mississippi, but they also show how other beach towns are benefiting from the unrelenting gusher in the Gulf of Mexico.
 After oil started washing ashore along the gulf, ''it only took a week or so for our people to start getting phone calls,'' said Mayor Jason Buelterman of Tybee Island.
 Tybee Island is laid-back and low-rise, purposefully quaint, with a permanent population of about 3,800 that remarked at nearly every opportunity last weekend about the influx of families like the Rutherfords. At the only grocery store in town, checkout lines snaked down the aisles. Near the pier, parking was impossible. 
 ''I always ask, 'Where you from?' '' said Jimmy Kelleher, the owner of Seaside Sweets, who has met Tybee first-timers from Alabama, Mississippi and Tennessee. 
 Mr. Kelleher paused to take gelato orders from a family of three. As the family sauntered back to the beach, he said: ''I don't want to capitalize on their misfortune. I really don't. It's all the same country.''
 Mike Kirby, who usually takes his sons, ages 3 and 8, to Fort Morgan, Ala., arrived in Tybee on Saturday evening, just in time for the fireworks show, which they watched at Fannie's, a beachfront restaurant.
 ''I hated to cancel'' the gulf trip, Mr. Kirby said. But he was worried that his kids would not be allowed to swim or, worse, that they would see dead animals on the beach. He found it easy to get his money back, except for a $170 deposit. 
 Ms. Rutherford had a much harder time. She said she called her rental agents seven days in a row and grew frustrated as they tried to reassure her that the beach was still open for business. She recalled telling them: ''I'm not paying to sit on the beach. I'm paying to get in the ocean.''
 The ocean here is silty, with brown hues and perfect body-boarding waves, nothing like the clear water the Rutherfords enjoyed in the gulf. There are even some black particles in the water, though no one seemed to mistake it for oil residue. 
 Tybee Island was already on track to have a better summer than last year, when hotel tax revenue dropped almost 3 percent, a consequence of the economy's tailspin. Now the oil spill is sending even more tourists to beaches like Tybee Island's.
 Hotels and condos here are usually at capacity on the Fourth of July weekend, but ''this year we've had to turn away as many people as we take in,'' said Amy Gaster, the chairwoman of the Tybee Island Tourism Council and a broker who oversees 140 units.
 Keith Gay, another local broker, said the tourists who were opting for the East Coast over the Gulf Coast would provide an even bigger lift to the local economy later. ''Ordinarily we would not be completely booked out the next two or three weekends, but this year we are,'' Mr. Gay said. ''It's quite unusual.''
 Despite the distance from the gulf, concerns linger about oil creeping up the East Coast. Tybee Island is installing a Web cam to reassure vacationers that the beach remains unaffected, save for an increase in the number of people vying for a front-row spot in the sand.
 Among the transplants last weekend were Ashley Mitchell and his wife, Elisha, of Erin, Tenn., who normally vacation in Gulf Shores. This summer's vacation was particularly important because it was the first trip to the beach for their 19-month-old daughter, Neeley. 
 ''We want it to be a good one,'' Mr. Mitchell said as he explained why he canceled the gulf trip.
 On Saturday afternoon, Neeley took her first dip in the Atlantic, all the way up to her ankles, and she took to it with gusto.

GRAPHIC: MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); BEACHES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); RESTAURANTS (62%); MOVIE FILMING (54%)

COMPANY: GULF SHORES RESOURCES LTD (92%)

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



152 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Is There a Sexual Malaise in America?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''No Sex Please, We're Middle Class'' (Op-Ed, June 27):
 The sexual malaise described by Camille Paglia is just a symptom of a broader malady among the middle class: the confusion of ''standard of living'' with quality of life. My demographic is obsessed with work to the point that we don't take the vacation we're entitled to. We are willing to sacrifice hours each day to our commutes in order to live in big houses, where we paradoxically spend few of our waking hours.
 And we often spend so much time on ''activities'' -- ours and our children's -- that at the end of the day, we are too tired to enjoy one of the greatest benefits of a healthy marriage. 
 Ms. Paglia is quite correct that no drug will ever cure this ailment.
 Happiness in life will always be reserved for those who care more about being happy than about being ''successful.''
 Daniel Dickinson Mountain View, Calif., June 28, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Could it be that white middle-class women suffer from low libido not because they hope to be treated as equals in the workplace but because of the stress and exhaustion that accompany family-unfriendly work policies, the ceaseless task of finding adequate schooling for their children, the ever-present fear of losing one's job in the ''flexible work force'' and men's persistent reluctance to shoulder their share of the responsibility in the home?
 By the way, does Camille Paglia have any evidence that working-class women and women of color are more sexually alive (and immune to the ravages of contemporary economic conditions) than white middle-class women?
 Julia Rothenberg New York, June 27, 2010
 The writer is an assistant professor of sociology at St. Joseph's College.
 To the Editor:
 While I admire Camille Paglia, I believe that she misses the culprit when she blames middle-class values for today's sexual torpor in American society.
 The underlying problem is not middle-class values, but rather that the middle class is the victim of politically correct American-style feminism, which is both overly legislated and utterly lacking in subtlety or humor of any kind.
 Having successfully big-brothered flirtation out of practice, and legally erased any differences between the sexes, a result is what we have today: men who are terrorized into the self-ghettoed adolescence of sports bars, and women who are not entirely sure what their gender is.
 J. J. Gross Jerusalem, June 28, 2010
 To the Editor:
 I'm not sure if there is a sexual malaise gripping the country, as Camille Paglia asserts, but if there is, it has little to do with gender equality in the workplace -- which, by the way, doesn't exist. More likely causes would include declining testosterone levels in men (perhaps caused by rising obesity rates, or by increased toxins in the environment) and rising rates of narcissistic personality disorder and autism spectrum disorders.
 Cultural trends come and go, but a decline in sexuality can be caused only by more serious biological, environmental and genetic problems.
 Anne Rettenberg New York, June 27, 2010
 The writer is a psychotherapist.
 To the Editor:
 Recently you published two articles related to sexual expression in women: one from Kelly Blanchard cheering the birth control pill (Op-Ed, June 22) and the other by Camille Paglia on the subject of female lack of desire.
 The hormonal manipulation of the birth control pill reduces sexual desire in women; this has been proved. When it is introduced in any relationship, a subtle change takes place. Now, we have a sort of stale situation where women are undervalued for a quality deemed passe: their fertility. Likewise men.
 We can share within a relationship everything except our fertility, give everything to our spouse except our fertility. There is no communication about this; it falls to the woman to take the pill. In a more natural situation, both partners need to negotiate in this most intimate area, and sex becomes more appreciated.
 Leaving to one side all the other things that can be said about this subject, I think that the only problem today is that we have divorced fertility from lovemaking. All for convenience and to have our own way.
 Nandarani Evans Honolulu, June 27, 2010
 To the Editor:
 We really are drenched in prurience, not sex. The difference is vital. The mass media have trivialized eroticism, and replaced it with titillation, and a kind of coarse, juvenile sensitivity, as the mass media do with everything.
 Tom Tillinghast San Francisco, June 27, 2010
 To the Editor:
 As much as I enjoyed Camille Paglia's article, I think she has overanalyzed the sexual malaise of middle-class women. It is not caused by ''bourgeois propriety,'' the lack of mystery in men or representations in popular culture. We are just plain tired!
 We work outside the home and inside, we are caring for children and aging parents, we are probably underpaid and most certainly overworked. When we get in bed at the end of the day? We sleep.
 Kinnan O'Connell Larchmont, N.Y., June 28, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GALIA OFFRI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); WOMEN (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (73%); WRITERS (73%); LABOR FORCE (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010



153 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Sides Form Over Threat To Saturday Mail Service

BYLINE: By YEGANEH JUNE TORBATI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As federal regulators consider a proposal to cut most Saturday postal deliveries, the business community is sharply divided about the consequences of switching to five-day service.
 Some, like Donald J. Hall Jr., chief executive of Hallmark Cards, said that eliminating Saturday delivery and raising prices even incrementally would drive more business away from the United States Postal Service, resulting in a ''slippery slope.''
 But others, like Andrew Rendich, the chief service and DVD operations officer at Netflix, said five-day delivery would be a better alternative to significantly higher postal rates. ''Big rate increases will absolutely squash business and will absolutely slow growth for a company like Netflix,'' Mr. Rendich said. 
 The post office estimates that cutting Saturday delivery would result in savings of $3 billion a year, though the Postal Regulatory Commission, which will make a recommendation to the post office on its proposal, estimates smaller savings, about $2 billion a year.
 The commission begins hearings on the service changes on July 12. In addition to eliminating most Saturday deliveries, the post office has proposed cutting its work force through attrition and wants the option to raise prices above the rate of inflation for some classes of mail.
 Ruth Y. Goldway, chairwoman of the regulatory commission, said that part of the agency's goal was to determine whether moving to five-day delivery would ultimately harm the service even if it would be helpful in the short term.
 ''The real communication networks have to be 24/7,'' Ms. Goldway said. ''The Postal Service in fact should be expanding its accessibility and delivery capability to meet those needs. The long-term future of the Postal Service may be limited by their interest in reducing service today.''
 A recent joint hearing of Senate and House committees offered a preview of the debate expected to play out before the commission. Executives from several businesses that make heavy use of the post office, including Mr. Hall of Hallmark and Mr. Rendich of Netflix, disagreed on the long-term viability of a five-day delivery plan.
 Small businesses, large corporations, private citizens and trade associations of all sizes have also weighed in at hearings held by the regulatory commission around the country.
 The volume of first-class mail, used by businesses for invoices, account statements and advertisements, fell 15 percent from 2006 to 2009, according to the service. The volume of packages, driven by online purchases, has increased, and the service estimates it will continue to grow about 3 percent a year. Still, officials estimate the service will lose $7 billion this year.
 ''The reality that folks need to come to grips with is there simply is not enough mail in the system any longer for us to sustain a six-day network,'' said Sam Pulcrano, vice president for sustainability at the post office.
 Some businesses and trade groups are conflicted about the best approach.
 ''You have a group of mailing interests who absolutely need Saturday delivery for their businesses and oppose reducing six days to five,'' said Arthur B. Sackler, executive director of the National Postal Policy Council, whose membership includes mailers like American Express, Aetna and Citigroup. ''You have other businesses that don't like it but are willing to accept it as a necessary evil given the Postal Service's financial condition.''
 The council has not taken a position on the five-day proposal because, Mr. Sackler said, its membership is divided.
 He said credit card and insurance companies would be seriously affected by five-day delivery because they issue frequent notifications to customers. ''There's going to be a lot of volume that's going to be delayed in terms of processing,'' he said. ''That affects not only cash flow but billing cycles.''
 Already, Mr. Sackler said, ''companies that can are diverting mail online.'' The elimination of Saturday delivery, he thinks, will only accelerate that process.
 Mark D. Merritt, chief executive of the Pharmaceutical Care Management Association, whose membership includes companies that deliver prescription drugs by mail, said in an interview that postage increases coupled with one fewer day of delivery would be the worst outcome.
 Other mailers said they might turn to private carriers if the proposal was adopted. Tonda Rush, director of public policy at the National Newspaper Association, which mostly represents weekly newspapers, many of which have Saturday editions, said those newspapers would have to consider private delivery. ''It doesn't seem to us that the Postal Service has done the analysis of the potential new competitors it's creating,'' Ms. Rush said.
 The regulatory commission's recommendation, which it expects to make in October, will be nonbinding. The final decision will be up to Congress, which since 1983 has required mail delivery six days a week.
 The post office has also proposed changing a requirement, introduced in 2006, that it pay for the health benefits of its retirees in advance instead of using a pay-as-you-go system. That requirement costs the service about $5.5 billion annually.
 ''Some people think that if it was given this two- or three-year breather, it could come up with new plans, new ideas and be able to manage once again without taxpayer subsidy for some time to come,'' Ms. Goldway said. ''Without having this kind of breathing room, it's very hard to do that.''
 Few elected officials at the recent joint Congressional hearing had anything positive to say about the five-day proposal, raising doubts about its chances. Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, said that the service could lose a significant competitive advantage by cutting Saturday delivery, because other carriers charge more to deliver on weekends.
 ''Maybe we need to focus on six-day delivery as the lead on how we can compete as opposed to abandoning it first,'' she said.
 Representative Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah, suggested that cost-cutting alone would not save the service and that instead it should be asking itself how it could become more relevant to customers. He said he planned to introduce a bill that would allow the service to cut up to 12 days of delivery a year.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 7, 2010, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Tuesday about the possibility of ending Saturday mail delivery misstated the time period during which the volume of first-class mail dropped 15 percent. It fell that much from 2006 to 2009, not the reverse. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Luis Melendez, a distribution clerk, demonstrated last month against a proposal to end Saturday mail delivery. Raymond Hou at work in San Francisco. The post office estimates that cutting Saturday delivery would save $3 billion a year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); POSTAL RATES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LABOR FORCE (66%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (84%); HALLMARK CARDS INC (58%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (57%); POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (84%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (84%); NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



154 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEBDENDA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Accounts and People of Note in the Ad Industry

 BODY:
By THE NEW YORK TIMES
 Juan Aceves joined Sound Lounge, New York, to lead a new Hispanic division for the audio production company. Mr. Aceves is a sound engineer who has worked on ''Dora the Explorer'' and founded production companies like Big Rumble Music.
 Bissell Homecare, Grand Rapids, Mich., awarded an assignment for a new product introduction to Barrie D'Rozario Murphy, Minneapolis. Billings were not disclosed. Cramer-Krasselt continues as the Bissell agency of record. 
 Stu Bodow was re-elected as president of the New Jersey Ad Club. He is vice president and director for marketing and sales at Commerce magazine, published by the Commerce and Industry Association of New Jersey.
 Direct Impact, Washington, hired two executives. Robert Burley joined as executive vice president; he had most recently been senior external affairs adviser and practice leader for government and media relations for Royal Dutch Shell in Australia. And Jordan Stoick joined as vice president; he had most recently been communications director for Senator Roger Wicker, a Mississippi Republican. 
 Dish Network Corporation, Englewood, Colo., named the direct response group at Horizon Media, New York, to handle its media planning and buying account. The assignment, with spending estimated at $270 million, had been handled by Compass Point Media, Minneapolis, part of the Campbell Mithun unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Fidipidi, New Braunfels, Tex., chose BooneOakley, Charlotte, N.C., as the first agency of record for the company, which has created an application that lets users create personalized greetings cards while on Facebook; the cards are subsequently printed and mailed to the recipients.
 Four A's, New York, formerly the American Association of Advertising Agencies, elected board members for 2010-11. Chuck Porter, chairman at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, was elected to a two-year term as chairman. He succeeds Tom Carroll, president and chief executive at TBWA Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, who becomes immediate past chairman. Sharon Napier, chief executive at Partners & Napier, was elected secretary-treasurer to fill the remaining term of Andy Fletcher; Mr. Fletcher resigned from the board when he left the advertising industry to join his alma mater, the University of Florida, as associate vice president for marketing and public relations.
 Steve Hardwick joined Fleishman-Hillard, part of the Omnicom Group, as president for the Eastern region and general manager of the New York office. He succeeds Nancy Seliger, who had previously been promoted to executive vice president for client relations. Mr. Hardwick had most recently been president at Grey New York, part of the Grey unit of the Grey Group, owned by WPP, and helped the New York Giants and New York Jets with their presentation to the National Football League that led to their new stadium being named the home for the Super Bowl to be played in 2014.
 Liz Herbert and Mike Suozzi joined TidalTV, New York, in new posts. Ms. Herbert becomes senior account executive for publisher services; she had been in the publisher services department at Advertising.com. Mr. Suozzi becomes senior account executive for advertising sales; he had been an account executive at Sony Pictures Television.
 International House of Pancakes, Glendale, Calif., part of DineEquity, returned its creative account to the Los Angeles office of McCann Erickson West from Vitro, San Diego, an agency owned by MDC Partners that was formerly known as VitroRobertson. Spending last year was estimated at $72.8 million. McCann Erickson West -- part of the McCann Erickson Worldwide unit of the McCann Worldgroup, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies -- had handled the assignment from 2002 to 2007, when it left for Vitro. The New York office of McCann Erickson creates campaigns for another DineEquity restaurant chain, Applebee's.
 Matt Kucharski, senior vice president at Padilla Speer Beardsley, Minneapolis, was appointed the 2010-11 chairman of the Worldcom Public Relations Group. He succeeds Diego Biasi of Business Press, Milan, Italy.
 Brian Liebler and Cyndey Springer joined ChaCha, in new posts at its New York office. Mr. Liebler becomes director for sales; he had been director for sales at XOS Digital, Boston. Ms. Springer becomes senior account executive; she had been an account executive at Viacom, New York.
 Lizabeth MacDonald and Adam Warrington joined GolinHarris, Chicago, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as vice presidents in the corporate communications practice group. Ms. MacDonald had been marketing director at the Nature Conservancy and Mr. Warrington, who previously worked at GolinHarris, had been external communications manager and the primary United States spokesman at ArcelorMittal. 
 Kevin Martinez joined Elle magazine, New York, as vice president and brand publisher. He assumes duties from Anne Welch, who had been acting brand publisher after Carol Smith left to join Conde Nast Publications, New York, part of Advance Publications, as vice president and publishing director for the epicurean group. (Ms. Smith's title at Elle had been senior vice president and chief brand officer. Ms. Welch will now devote her full time to her regular post, vice president for brand operations.) Mr. Martinez had been associate publisher at Harper's Bazaar magazine, New York, part of the Hearst Magazines unit of the Hearst Corporation.
 Jeff Matteson, senior vice president for communications at Turner Broadcasting System, Atlanta, part of Time Warner, was promoted to a new post, senior vice president and strategic communications officer. Also, Misty Skedgell, vice president for corporate communications and corporate responsibility, was named senior vice president for corporate communications.
 Matthew McGregor-Mento joined GyroHSR in a new post, executive creative director at the New York office. He had been executive creative director at Mr. Youth, New York.
 More, published by the Meredith Corporation, was named the magazine sponsor for the 2010 Lilith Tour of musicians like Kelly Clarkson, Emmylou Harris and Rihanna. It is the first time that the tour has signed a magazine sponsor.
 David Murray joined National CineMedia, New York, in a new post, vice president for integrated sales and marketing. He had been vice president for sales and marketing at Tennis Channel, New York.
 Brittany Oat joined Robin Leedy & Associates, Mount Kisco, N.Y., as digital content producer and account manager, to help develop the agency's new video production and content department. Ms. Oat had worked in television news at stations like WPTZ and WSEE. 
 Olson Denali, Minneapolis, part of Olson, hired three employees. They are Randy Grubba, junior copywriter; Brent Koivisto, programmer analyst; and Vonne Mathers, senior project manager.
 Chris Pyne joined the MediaCom United States operation, New York, in a new post, managing partner and chief client strategy officer, reporting to Euan Jarvie, chief operating officer for MediaCom U.S. Mr. Pyne had been senior vice president and head of planning for the New York office of Optimedia, part of the ZenithOptimedia unit of the Publicis Groupe. MediaCom U.S. is part of MediaCom, a unit of the GroupM division of WPP.
 Alan Simkowski joined MSG Entertainment, New York, part of Madison Square Garden, as senior vice president for marketing partnerships. He had been vice president for integrated sales and marketing at Vibes Media, Chicago.
 Milla Stolte joined Goodness Mfg., Los Angeles, part of Trailer Park, in a new post, director for strategy and planning. She had been head of planning and strategy at the New York office of Tribal DDB Worldwide, part of the DDB Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.
 Louis-Philippe Tremblay joined Tribal DDB Canada, Toronto, as creative director, leading the creative department. He succeeds Dre Labre, who left to join the new Toronto office of Rethink as creative director. Mr. Tremblay had most recently been creative director for global creative work on the Microsoft account at JWT New York, part of the JWT unit of WPP. Tribal DDB Canada is part of the Tribal DDB Worldwide, part of the DDB Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.
 United Football League selected BBDO New York for its 2010 national brand campaign. The league, in its second season, used the Leffler Agency, Baltimore, for its first season. Billings were not disclosed. BBDO New York is part of the BBDO North America unit of BBDO Worldwide, owned by the Omnicom Group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (83%); SPORTS (83%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); BOARD CHANGES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); RESIGNATIONS (61%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (60%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (55%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (85%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); DISH NETWORK CORP (82%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (69%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (65%); BISSELL HOMECARE INC (58%); CRAMER-KRASSELT CO (57%); COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (56%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (55%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); MDC PARTNERS INC (53%); FLEISHMAN-HILLARD INC (52%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (85%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); DISH (NASDAQ) (82%); RDSA (LSE) (69%); RDSA (AMS) (69%); RDS.B (NYSE) (69%); RDS.A (NYSE) (69%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%); MDZ.A (TSX) (53%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (82%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (52%)

PERSON: ROGER F WICKER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



155 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for a Trade Policy

 BODY:
The White House has announced that it wants to move ahead with a long-ignored trade pact with South Korea. The deal was reached by former President George W. Bush, but with President Obama planning to visit South Korea for a summit meeting of the Group of 20 major economies in November, he has now committed to resolving the outstanding issues and submitting the treaty for ratification after the fall elections.
 This is good news, to be sure. But it is hardly enough at a time when protectionism is rising around the world. 
 Until now, the Obama administration's trade strategy has been limited to hoping that a world economic rebound and a rising Chinese currency would double American exports in five years. Beyond this new enthusiasm, Mr. Obama's approach to trade still appears to be hamstrung by strong opposition from his party's union base.
 The United States must become a leading voice for open international trade. It must press harder for the completion of the stalled round of global trade talks started nine years ago in Doha, Qatar, and to undo the myriad protectionist measures that governments around the globe -- including our own -- have adopted since the financial crash.
 The United States and China both put buy-at-home provisions in their stimulus programs. Russia introduced incentives to develop products to substitute for imports. According to the Global Trade Alert from the Center for Economic Policy Research, a European economic research forum, countries around the world have imposed at least 443 discriminatory measures against imports since November 2008.
 Things are about to get worse. At a recent meeting in Toronto, the Group of 20 biggest economies agreed to cut their budget deficits in half by 2013. Without that crucial support for internal demand, most of these countries will have to rely on exports to try to achieve economic growth. Not everybody can do that at the same time. Fiercer competition for international markets is likely to lead to new domestic barriers, unfair dumping and tit-for-tat punishments that could disrupt trade flows and further hamper the global recovery.
 Politicians aren't even giving lip service to free trade. In Toronto, the G-20 leaders dropped their 2009 pledge to finalize the Doha round of trade negotiations this year. A day before, the meeting of the Group of 8 industrialized nations agreed that countries should instead pursue their own bilateral and regional trade deals.
 Those may be better than no trade deals. But without a strong set of agreed international rules -- the sort that come with a global accord -- there is a real danger that these side deals could create more mistrust and unfair competition. The sudden hurry for a South Korean deal is being driven in good part by the fact that the United States is losing South Korean market share and both the European Union and Canada are looking to sign their own agreements with Seoul.
 South Korea is an important ally in a dangerous neighborhood, and the White House should push hard to get this deal finished and through the Senate. It should push just as hard for ratification of pending agreements with Colombia and Panama. But it can't stop there. It must also push for more open global trade bound by multilateral rules and obligations. The world's economy, and the American economy, are too fragile to risk a trade war.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 8, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An editorial on Monday about United States' trade policy incorrectly described the status of trade agreements. Congress has yet to approve one with Panama, not Peru.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); IMPORT CONTROLS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); MARKET SHARE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRE FOR ECONOMIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (86%) ONTARIO, CANADA (86%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); QATAR (92%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (86%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



156 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Despite Anxiety, Investors Buy Battered Stocks to End 7 Days of Dow Losses

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average ended a seven-day slide on Tuesday after traders picked up beaten-down stocks.
 Investors tried to recover some of the big losses that piled up after weeks of disappointing economic reports. The Dow rose 57 points after dropping 7.3 percent over the last two weeks to its lowest level since October. The steep drop drew traders expecting to see the market bounce.
 ''There are pockets of opportunity out there. There are some areas with good valuations,'' said Aaron Reynolds, senior portfolio analyst at Robert W. Baird in Milwaukee. 
 Still, retailers slumped amid downbeat comments from analysts and before reports later in the week on June sales. Investors are concerned that a weakening of the recovery will keep cautious consumers out of stores. 
 Macy's fell 44 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $17.41, and Home Depot fell 42 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $27.34.
 The unevenness to the day's moves signaled that traders remained on edge about the economy. Major stock indexes managed to end higher, but more stocks fell than rose on the New York Stock Exchange. The Dow climbed nearly 172 points in morning trading before sliding. It zigzagged between gains and losses in the final hour.
 The Dow ended the day up 57.14, or 0.6 percent, to 9,743.62. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.48, or 0.5 percent, to 1,028.06, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 2.09, or 0.1 percent, to 2,093.88.
 Brian Dolan, chief currency strategist at Forex.com, in Bedminster, N.J., said an increase in Treasury prices made it clear that worries remained.
 ''We've obviously ratcheted down the outlook, and now it's a question of how much further,'' Mr. Dolan said, referring to the economy. ''From here, I would expect to see further weakness.''
 The Treasury's 10-year note rose 13/32, to 104 27/32. The yield fell to 2.93 percent, from 2.98 percent on Friday.
 Economic news did not offer investors much incentive to buy. The Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing executives, said growth in service businesses slowed last month. Its services index fell to 53.8, from 55.4 in May. Economists polled by Thomson Reuters had forecast 55.0. A reading above 50 indicates growth.
 The market's climb came after stocks dropped on Friday after an unemployment report showed that employers had not increased hiring as much as economists had forecast. It was the second straight month that hiring by private employers missed expectations. Markets in the United States were closed Monday for Independence Day.
 Crude oil fell 16 cents to settle at $71.98 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 The number of stocks that fell narrowly outpaced those that rose on the New York Exchange, where volume came to 1.3 billion shares, compared with 1.1 billion on Friday.
 Shares of the electric-car maker Tesla lost more than 16 percent of their value on Tuesday to close at $16.11 after some analysts said it had been grossly overvalued. The company's shares are now below the $17 price that company set when it first sold the stock to the public on June 29.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 8.94, or 1.5 percent, to 590.03.
 Overseas markets rose after investors found stock prices more attractive and Australia's central bank issued an upbeat forecast for the country's economy. 
 The FTSE 100 in Britain rose 2.9 percent, helped in part by a rise in BP shares. BP's stock rose for a second day after the company said it had no plans to issue new shares to help pay for the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. The statement was viewed as good news for investors whose own holdings would be diluted by a larger stock base. In London trading, the stock closed up 3.7 percent, to 345.40 pence.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); RETAILERS (75%); CURRENCIES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (68%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); GAIN CAPITAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

TICKER: GCAP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (72%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



157 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Data Shows Growth in Asia May Be Slowing

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- In the latest signs that the rate of growth in the Asia-Pacific region is easing, the Australian central bank kept interest rates steady on Tuesday and a critical economic index in Japan slipped in May. 
 The slowdown is modest, and most of the region, notably India and China, continues to enjoy growth rates that far outstrip those in Europe and the United States. Low corporate and household debt levels and firm demand within Asia itself have helped most Asian-Pacific nations to shrug off more muted demand from elsewhere.
 Still, the last few weeks have brought mounting evidence of more moderate growth, including in China, where government efforts to cool the economy have begun to take effect.
 On Tuesday, the Reserve Bank of Australia cited the ''uncertainty about the pace of future global growth,'' including worries about the impact of European debt troubles, in its decision to keep its benchmark cash rate unchanged at 4.5 percent.
 The decision to hold steady, coming after a series of rate increases over the last nine months, had been widely expected, and the statement accompanying the central bank's decision stressed that output growth was expected to remain strong in the year ahead.
 ''Officials are clearly acknowledging the more challenging global environment, but they are not giving any indications of future cuts,'' Frederic Neumann, regional economist at HSBC in Hong Kong, said in a note. ''Sure, the recent data flow has softened a little, in Australia as elsewhere, but the economy continues to cruise along at trend. Hardly a reason to panic.''
 Still, the decision underlined that policy makers in Australia are, for now, unwilling to ratchet up the cost of borrowing in the face of the uncertainties buffeting the world economy.
 Data from Japan on Tuesday also indicated that the country's recovery, which was much weaker than elsewhere in Asia, was losing momentum.
 An index grouping various economic indicators slipped for the first time in more than a year, to 101.2 in May from 101.3 in April, the Japanese cabinet office reported.
 Last week, the so-called Tankansurvey, a closely watched quarterly measure of business sentiment published by the Bank of Japan, showed a surprising jump, but several other indicators have slipped, leading some analysts to predict that Japan's fragile economy will grow only slowly this year.
 ''The next 24 months will be difficult for Asian companies that have Europe as their main market,'' economists at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, a prominent investment group in Hong Kong, wrote in a research report. ''Growth will be squeezed by austerity measures and the euro currency will be weak.''
 Both of these things hurt Asian exports, ''but a repeat of 2008 is not on the cards,'' they wrote. ''World trade growth this year will be strong regardless of what is happening in Europe.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People search job listings at a job center in Tokyo. Japan's jobless rate grew for the third month in May, to 5.2 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMOHIRO OHSUMI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); EURO (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%)

COMPANY: RESERVE BANK OF AUSTRALIA (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) ASIA (97%); JAPAN (96%); HONG KONG (94%); AUSTRALIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



158 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: In Westside Los Angeles, a Rail Line Stirs a Revival

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Slowly, mass transit is taking hold in a city synonymous with the car. Now a light-rail line is finally coming to the affluent and traffic-choked Westside after years of local resistance, and at least some urban-style development is likely to follow.
 When the $2.4 billion Exposition Line, currently under construction on an unused freight rail right-of-way, is completed, by 2015, its electric cars will travel all the way to Santa Monica, a few blocks from the Pacific Ocean.
 The 8.6-mile first phase of the project, now about two-thirds finished, extends west from the University of Southern California, at the eastern end, to Culver City, the home of Sony Studios. Concrete columns that will support elevated train stops have sprouted near the busiest intersections along the route. 
 In addition to removing tens of thousands of cars from the road -- 64,000 daily riders by 2030, according to transit authorities -- the 15.6-mile Expo Line is expected to spawn a variety of mixed-use real estate projects, as some of the city's previous rail lines have done. A project including more than 500 units of housing and a 300-room W hotel was recently completed at Hollywood Boulevard and Vine Street, and a rental and retail complex was built at Wilshire Boulevard and Vermont Avenue in 2007.
 The Expo route has spurred development proposals from major companies, including Hines, an international firm based in Houston, and Casden Properties, a leading Los Angeles developer of multifamily properties. In Santa Monica, Eileen P. Fogarty, the city planning director, said there was tremendous demand for any site that was located no more than a quarter-mile from a station. ''People will comfortably walk a quarter of a mile,'' she said.
 Since entertainment companies began migrating in large numbers to the Westside in the mid-1990s, residents have complained bitterly about the ever-worsening gridlock. Yet many fear that high-density development near transit stops will result in even more congestion and spoil the low-rise character of their communities. ''Some of this is cultural,'' said Mark Ridley-Thomas, a Los Angeles County supervisor whose sprawling district includes the Expo Line. ''Space is important to the way Angelenos live and breathe. But you can't do a rail line absent a certain level of density.'' The projects are needed to drive ridership and make the rail line cost-effective, he said.
 Much of the new line will run south of the Santa Monica Freeway, several miles from the densest population centers. But rail transit is expected eventually to have ''huge economic development implications'' that would bring jobs and badly needed services to people living in the Crenshaw district, a largely African-American neighborhood around the midpoint of the Expo Line, Mr. Ridley-Thomas said. Another light-rail line is planned from Exposition Boulevard south to Los Angeles International Airport along Crenshaw Boulevard.
 Many proposed projects along the Expo Line, at Crenshaw and elsewhere, are still in the early stages. But farther to the west, Samitaur, a Los Angeles developer of innovative buildings, has won approval and $11 million in subsidies to build a 12-story office tower near the Expo station at La Cienega and Jefferson Boulevards, just outside Culver City, said John E. Molloy, the project manager. The building, designed by Eric Owen Moss, will offer ceiling heights up to 24 feet and an entrance that will be flush with the elevated train station. Despite its proximity to the station, the project will include a separate parking structure for 700 cars.
 Samitaur, which has yet to break ground on the project because of the slow real estate market, is attracting interest from the types of entertainment-related tenants that have been flocking to Culver City in search of cheaper rents than they can find in Santa Monica, Mr. Molloy said. Another local developer, Jonathan Genton, recently transformed a group of industrial buildings along La Cienega Boulevard, about a quarter-mile north of the Expo Line (and within Los Angeles city limits), into Blackwelder, a stylish office park for media and postproduction companies.
 Prospective Blackwelder tenants have made a point of asking about bicycle storage, but so far they have not paid a premium to be within walking distance of the rail station, Mr. Genton said. Mr. Molloy expressed confidence, however, that once the train is operating, ''being right next to the station will be a big draw.''
 The size of the Samitaur project did not prove an obstacle because it was located in an industrial neighborhood, Mr. Molloy said.
 But scale is a big issue at the next station to the west, at Venice and Robertson Boulevards, which is also in an industrial neighborhood but is under the jurisdiction of Culver City, not Los Angeles. (Culver City's newly rejuvenated pedestrian-friendly downtown is about half a mile away and not on the Expo Line.) Culver City has spent $23 million to assemble a 4.5-acre site at the station, which it intends to sell to private developers. But the city has decided to limit building heights on the site to five stories and require that the project include a park and a transit plaza. ''The key would be to make this fitting for the neighborhood,'' said Sol Blumenfeld, the community development director.
 Roger Moliere, chief of Real Property Management and Development for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said Culver City's plan was not dense enough to be practical, given the cost of the land. ''They are going to find out they are not talking about something that works as a private development,'' he said.
 Further along in the pipeline is a mixed-use development planned by the Legado Companies of Beverly Hills, which owns land cater-corner to Culver City's site. Legado's project will include 115 residential units and a public plaza and will have an open look, ''bringing eyes in from the street,'' said Derek Jones, the chief operating officer. Mr. Jones said the development would appeal to people who worked in downtown Los Angeles but did not find it ''green enough or clean enough'' to live in.
 For developers, it is the second phase of the Expo Line, which was approved in February but was not yet under way, that provides the juiciest opportunities. Santa Monica is reviewing a variety of proposals, including one from Hines, which owns a Papermate warehouse on Olympic Boulevard across from the 26th Street station and is seeking to build 970,000 square feet of office space and residential units on 7.5 acres. The city also owns land at Expo stations but has not yet decided what to do with it.
 In Santa Monica, new development along the Expo Line will be limited to six or seven stories, Ms. Fogarty said. To compensate for the height, the city has tightened height restrictions in areas that are closer to the residential neighborhoods.
 Too much bulk has also been an issue in West Los Angeles, where Casden Properties is seeking approval to replace a cement plant adjacent to the Sepulveda Boulevard station with one of the biggest developments on the Westside. The project would consist of four eight-story buildings containing 538 residential units and about 266,800 square feet of retail space, including a Target store. Despite opposition from some neighborhood residents, Alan I. Casden, the chief executive, said greater density was inevitable.
 ''Los Angeles is going to go vertical,'' he said. ''That's the only way you can go. There's no more land.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 10, 2010, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in the Square Feet pages on Wednesday about the new Expo light rail line under construction in Los Angeles described two stations near the University of Southern California incorrectly. They will be at street grade, not underground, although the train will travel below street level between the two stations, Jefferson/USC and Expo Park/USC. (A third street-grade station will also be near the university.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Derek Jones, chief operating officer of the Legado Company, said a mixed-use development would appeal to people who worked downtown. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); RAIL FREIGHT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); CITIES (73%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (57%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2010



159 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Britain's Inflation Pain Poses Risk for Recovery

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- Committee members at the Bank of England and some economists have been puzzled by persistently high inflation in Britain, causing some concerns that the country's recovery might stagnate. 
 Unlike in the United States and in countries that share the euro, inflation in Britain never came close to zero in 2009. And while core inflation, which excludes food and energy prices, has declined in countries like France, Germany, Italy and the United States since the beginning of 2008, it has risen in Britain and is now above 3 percent, more than twice the rate in the euro zone. 
 The reason depends on whom you ask. 
 Mervyn King, the governor of the Bank of England, Britain's central bank, has written six letters to the British Treasury since the beginning of 2008 explaining why inflation had risen more than one percentage point above the bank's 2 percent annual inflation target. The letters -- until recently a rare reminder of the working arrangements between the government and the Bank of England -- became so frequent that many economists joked that Mr. King was happy to have found a new pen pal in George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer.
 In each letter, Mr. King named a different set of one-off events, including a drop in the pound and higher commodity prices, as the reason for inflation and predicted that the effects of a weak economy would push inflation lower. But after two years, some economists are questioning whether there is not more to the persistence of the inflation rate, which was at 3.4 percent in May.
 ''It's noticeable that the U.K. is growing in the opposite direction of the U.S. and the euro zone,'' said Danny Gabay, a director at Fathom Financial Consulting in London and a former author of the Bank of England's inflation report. ''Economic growth surprised on the downside and inflation on the upside. That's a very uncomfortable position to be in.''
 Britain's economy grew 0.3 percent in the first quarter, helped by growth in manufacturing.
 Persistently higher inflation rates could limit the Bank of England's ability to keep interest rates low to allow for a more stable recovery, some economists said. The bank, which has a mandate to keep inflation low, is expected to keep interest rates unchanged at 0.5 percent on Thursday.
 The bank previously said that it was ''very concerned about what's been happening to inflation'' and ''how resilient inflation has been,'' especially against the background of a recession. 
 It named three main factors as causing the higher rate: Oil prices were on average nearly 80 percent higher than at the beginning of 2009; the government restored a 17.5 percent sales tax in January after cutting it to help consumers; and a 26 percent drop in the pound against the dollar in 2008 drove prices higher.
 Some economists disagreed, however. Higher commodity prices were not unique to Britain, and the euro also slumped against major currencies, albeit recently. Economists also pointed out that price increases were especially strong in the service sector, pushing up the cost of items like insurance, which are not directly related to currency exchange rates.
 ''The inflation issue recently has been higher levels of service sector inflation,'' Stuart Green, chief British economist at HSBC in London, said. ''That's very unique to the U.K.''
 The inflation rate also generated a debate within the Bank of England. Charles Bean, the deputy governor, said a lack of lending by banks might have made companies more concerned about cash flow and less willing to cut prices than in previous economic downturns. 
 Another member of the monetary policy committee, Adam Posen, in a speech last month blamed expectations of inflation for rising consumer prices. Mr. Posen argued that the Bank of England's previous decisions to keep interest rates at a record low even as inflation crept up led consumers to expect that inflation would remain high for a while. 
 Expectations of higher inflation usually prompt companies to increase prices and workers to push for higher wages.
 ''The most logical and empirically reasonable explanation for inflation creep is some unanchoring of inflation expectations caused by a series of above-target outcomes for U.K. inflation in recent years,'' Mr. Posen said.
 But Hetal Mehta, an economist at the Ernst & Young ITEM Club economic forecasting group, said that while there was evidence that some companies had increased prices or kept them steady, there was little indication that workers were asking for higher pay. Since 610,000 public-sector jobs are to be cut by 2016 under the government's austerity program, that is not likely to change.
 Still, concern among some economists is mounting that Bank of England policy makers might feel pressed to raise interest rates because of inflation, even if the economy has not recovered fully. Those economists fear that increasing rates too soon could push the economy back into a recession. 
 Andrew Sentance on June 10 became the first committee member to vote for a rate increase in almost two years. Dr. Sentance later told Reuters that he was concerned about inflation expectations and said he would prefer ''gradual'' interest rate increases. 
 Mr. Sentance also raised doubts about the strength of existing deflationary pressures, hinting that prices might continue to rise because more companies than initially thought went bankrupt and the supply of products suffered.
 Despite disagreements about the roots of higher consumer prices, many economists expect the Bank of England to keep interest rates unchanged until at least next year. The government's austerity program, which includes a sales tax increase to 20 percent next January, means inflation could remain volatile. 
 ''They should sound worried about inflation but also be mindful that there is a bigger danger, and that's to increase rates when the economy is still low,'' Mr. Gabay said. ''If both consumers and the government save, things can turn ugly very quickly.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Marks & Spencer store in London. Prices have risen at British retailers and nationwide inflation is more than 3 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON ALDEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Economic Squeeze: Persistently high inflation in Britain is putting pressure on the Bank of England to raise interest rates. (Source: O.E.C.D.
 Bank of England) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); SALES TAX (69%); WRITERS (69%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (62%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



160 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler to Set Up 200 Fiat Dealerships

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- After a 26-year absence, Fiat dealerships will be returning to the United States -- but in a small way.
 Chrysler said Tuesday that it planned to set up about 200 outlets by the end of the year to sell the Fiat 500, an Italian designed subcompact. The dealerships will be run by existing Chrysler dealers and in many cases located on the same property, but they will have separate showrooms and employees.
 The strategy runs counter to a general trend of consolidating multiple brands into one showroom. It also requires dealers to commit significant resources to a lineup that initially has a single model. A convertible, the 500 Cabrio, is scheduled to arrive in 2011, followed by a battery-powered 500 in 2012, but Chrysler has not revealed plans to expand Fiat beyond that. 
 BMW used a similar approach to successfully reintroduce its Mini brand to the United States nearly a decade ago, requiring dealers to build auxiliary showrooms to sell the Mini Cooper. But investing in an expansion for what analysts consider to be a niche model, at a time when auto sales are depressed and many dealers are struggling, is a gamble.
 ''If I were a dealer, I would be somewhat reluctant to make that investment,'' said Erich Merkle, an automotive analyst and president of Autoconomy.com in Grand Rapids, Mich. ''You have to go and build a new facility to sell a brand that really is going to take a considerable amount of time to get any kind of volume.''
 A Chrysler spokesman, Ralph Kisiel, said the company intended to have Fiat dealerships in 125 markets in about 41 states. He said most would be concentrated in metropolitan areas where small cars were already popular and where demand was expected to increase.
 Executives sent letters this week to all 2,320 Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep and Ram dealers inviting them to apply for a Fiat franchise. Fewer than 10 percent will be selected, and the locations will be announced in September, Chrysler said.
 ''We want our best performing dealers to get these franchises,'' Mr. Kisiel said, adding that Chrysler has focused on ''markets that have a high number of small-car registrations.''
 Interest in the 500 among Chrysler dealers has been high, and given the small number of outlets being selected, Mr. Merkle said he expected the company would receive more than enough bids, despite the requirements.
 Among those planning to apply is Alfredo Gulla, a Chrysler dealer in suburban Westchester County, N.Y. Mr. Gulla opened a Fiat dealership at age 19 and sold that brand for more than two decades until Fiat abandoned the United States in 1984 amid widespread quality problems.
 ''All these years I've been waiting and waiting and waiting'' for Fiat to return, said Mr. Gulla, the owner of Larchmont Chrysler Jeep Dodge. ''It's an emotional situation as well as an economic one.''
 Mr. Kisiel said Chrysler was confident that dealers would get a good return on their investment and thought that separating Fiat from Chrysler's four other brands would help the 500 attract customers who have not bought Chrysler products before.
 ''You can't expect a Ram salesman to be trying to sell a Fiat 500,'' Mr. Kisiel said, referring to Chrysler's Ram brand of pickup trucks. 
 The Fiat 500 is a major piece of Chrysler's efforts to diversify a lineup that has relied heavily on trucks and sport utility vehicles, hurting sales as American consumers began seeking more fuel-efficient alternatives. The company plans to build more than 100,000 of the vehicles a year at a plant in Mexico, sending half to the United States and half to South America.
 Access to a dealership network in the United States was a major reason that the Italian carmaker's chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, pursued a takeover of Chrysler. The 500 fills a hole in Chrysler's lineup, but also gives Fiat a quick way to re-establish itself in the United States.
 ''Everybody wants something new, so it will create a lot of excitement, and we'll probably sell a lot of them at the beginning,'' said Frank Mancari, the owner of Mancari Chrysler Jeep Dodge in Oak Lawn, Ill., who hopes to get a Fiat franchise. ''It's Mr. Marchionne's baby; he'll make it work whatever it takes. If they price it right and the quality's there, they'll have a winner.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Fiat 500 model will be sold in outlets run by existing Chrysler dealers in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEOFF ROBINS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); TRENDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FIAT SPA (92%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (74%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



161 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: A Pharmaceutical Future

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

 BODY:
HALOL, India -- Below an ancient hilltop temple to Kali, the Hindu goddess associated with destruction and change, Sun Pharmaceutical Industries churns out generic versions of cancer drugs and epilepsy medications bound for the United States. 
 Business is so brisk that Sun, with revenue of 41 billion rupees ($880 million) last year, predicts sales will grow 20 percent this year and is expanding its Halol factory. 
 ''This site specializes in making difficult things,'' Sampad Bhattacharya, Sun's vice president in charge of operations, said during a recent factory tour. The blue and gray concrete building, which will be nearly 800,000 square feet after the expansion, would not look out of place in the pharmaceutical manufacturing centers of New Jersey, except for the herds of cattle and buffalo wandering nearby. 
 India's drug industry -- on track to grow about 13 percent this year, to just over $24 billion -- was once notorious for making cheap knockoffs of Western medicines and selling them in developing countries. But India, seasoned in the basics of medicine making, is now starting to take on a more mainstream role in the global drug industry, as a result of recent strengthening of patent law here and cost pressures on name-brand drug makers in the West. 
 And while the Indian industry has had quality-control problems, it nonetheless benefits from growing wariness about the reliability of ingredients from that other historically low-cost drug provider -- China. The United States is India's top export customer for drugs. 
 India is becoming a ''base for manufacturing for the global market,'' said Ajay G. Piramal, the chairman of Piramal Healthcare, a drug maker based in Mumbai. Eventually, in Mr. Piramal's perhaps overly optimistic forecast, only the very first and very last steps of the business -- molecular drug discovery and marketing -- will be run by the West's global drug giants. 
 Those companies ''don't create much value'' in the steps in between, he said. 
 It is not only Indian executives, though, who are bullish about the pharmaceuticals industry here. Analysts, research groups and consultants have been making similar predictions in recent months. 
 Big pharmaceutical companies have come calling, too. This year, Mr. Piramal sold his generic drug business to Abbott Laboratories for $3.7 billion, the latest in a string of takeovers and joint ventures here. 
 Daiichi Sankyo of Japan helped kick off the foreign drug push into India in 2008 by buying a stake in Ranbaxy Laboratories, this country's biggest drug maker. Last year, among other deals, GlaxoSmithKline formed a partnership with Dr. Reddy's Laboratories; Pfizer tied up with Claris Lifesciences; Sanofi-Aventis took control of Shantha Biotechnics, and Bristol-Myers Squibb opened a research center in India with Biocon. 
 ''There is a lot of good talent at a much lower price in India,'' said Jim Worrell, the chief executive of Pharma Services Network, a Charlotte, N.C.-based consulting firm that is organizing tours of Indian factories for Western pharmaceutical executives who are considering outsourcing some of their business. ''What I see happening now is manufacturing and even packaging and even formulation are moving to India,'' Mr. Worrell said. 
 The shift to pharmaceuticals is part of a subtle, broader shift in the Indian economy. Moving beyond less sophisticated, outsourced services like telephone call centers, India has been advancing up the business value chain, particularly in law and medical diagnostics. Now it is showing a flair for manufacturing, particularly in goods demanding high-skill production and superlow prices. 
 Until recently, pharmaceuticals has been ''an incredibly arrogant industry that has never outsourced,'' said Sujay Shetty, an associate director with PricewaterhouseCoopers in Mumbai. But over the next several years, he predicts, ''everything in the value chain will move to different parts of the world that are cheaper,'' with India a major beneficiary. 
 The next opportunities for India could come at the more sophisticated end of the drug making spectrum, including research and development for the world's drug giants and even development of proprietary medicines. 
 ''We can crack the problem of patented drug discovery in India at a much lower cost'' than in the West, predicted Mr. Piramal, who held onto his research and development operation, Piramal Lifesciences Limited, when he sold the rest of his company to Abbott. 
 At Piramal's main laboratory in north Mumbai, about 300 scientists are researching new drugs aimed at inflammation, metabolic disorders and cancer. Mainly because of lower wages, if it costs big pharmaceutical companies ''$1 billion to $1.5 billion to discover a new drug, we can do it in a tenth of the cost,'' Mr. Piramal predicts. 
 G. V. Prasad, chief executive of Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, said that Indian drug makers had the ''ability to handle product development on a massive scale at a low cost.'' Dr. Reddy's original diabetes drug has completed Phase 3 clinical trials -- the last step before seeking Food and Drug Administration approval -- the farthest of any of its peers. 
 Meanwhile, at Sun's stucco and glass laboratory in Gujarat, surrounded by white, pink and yellow bougainvillea, 650 scientists, backed by tons of expensive machinery and 10,000 animals in cages, are at work breaking down drugs with the aim of rebuilding them in cheaper ways with fewer side effects. 
 Revolutionary science is not only about developing a brand-new product, said T. Rajamannar, executive vice president of Sun Pharma Advanced Research. It also means learning how to make an existing drug ''very efficiently,'' he said. 
 For all the potential, though, India's drug industry has a long way to go to fulfill its promise. 
 India exported about 384 billion rupees ($8.3 billion) in drugs and services for the pharmaceutical industry in the 2008-9 fiscal year, according to government figures, up 25 percent from the year before. 
 Recent growth, though, has been shadowed by quality problems. The F.D.A. cited Ranbaxy for manufacturing violations several times in recent years, and in February ordered a review of the company's global manufacturing operations. 
 In May, Sanofi-Aventis recalled vaccines made by Shantha Biotechnics that were distributed to the World Health Organization after users complained about white sediment in the vials. In June, after floating matter was found in some plastic IV bags, Pfizer recalled injectible drugs made by Claris Lifesciences and sold in the United States. 
 Intellectual property is also an open question. Trying to change its outlaw image as a maker of illegal knock-offs, India toughened its patent laws in 2005. But dozens of intellectual property suits are still being fought between Indian and foreign firms in courts around the world. And big pharmaceutical companies still find securing protection of their intellectual property in India difficult. 
 Meanwhile, outright counterfeit drug making remains rampant in India, executives and analysts here say. A study this year of pharmaceuticals from Indian wholesalers found that 3.6 percent of the ''drugs'' had no active ingredients whatsoever. 
 All of which is why some drug executives in the United States say that their Indian peers may be too optimistic about their industry's prospects.
 ''Cost is one issue, and yes it is important, but there are two other critical factors: intellectual property and quality and safety issues,'' said Panos Kalaritis, the chief operating officer of Irix Pharmaceuticals, a Florence, S.C., contract research and manufacturing company, which competes with Indian laboratories and factories. 
 The F.D.A., in response to India's growing influence, has opened two offices in this country -- in Delhi in early 2009 and another in Mumbai in June of last year. When fully staffed, the offices will have between them a dozen full-time employees, including inspectors and technical specialists, which is comparable to the F.D.A.'s presence in China. 
 Among other measures, the Indian offices will enable the F.D.A. to ''verify that important products and the way they are manufactured meet U.S. health and safety requirements,'' an agency spokeswoman said in an e-mail message. 
 While China is the undisputed low-cost maker of a multitude of consumer goods, India may have a rare edge in the drug industry. India's long tradition of generics has fostered a robust educational system here for pharmaceutical scientists, as well as longer experience dealing with Western regulators. 
 The F.D.A. has issued about 900 approvals to plants in India to import drugs or raw materials for the industry to the United States, the vast majority in recent years, compared with more than 300 such approvals for China.
 Indian companies have ''a lot to offer and the cost advantage is huge,'' said Swetha Shantikumar, a research analyst in Chennai with Frost & Sullivan, who predicted more buyouts of Indian firms by global giants in the near future. Chinese firms ''don't have the technical capacity to produce sophisticated drugs,'' said Ms. Shantikumar. 
 ''If you want to make simpler drugs like aspirin,'' she said, ''you manufacture them in China.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Piramal Lifesciences lab, above and below, in Mumbai. Mainly because of lower wages, if big companies spend ''$1 billion to $1.5 billion to discover a new drug, we can do it in a tenth of the cost,'' Ajay G. Piramal, the head of the company, predicts. (B1)
 India is becoming a ''base for manufacturing for the global market,'' said Ajay G. Piramal, the chairman of the Piramal Group. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KUNI TAKAHASHI FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (78%); CANCER (78%); CANCER DRUGS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); EPILEPSY (78%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); TAKEOVERS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); QUALITY CONTROL (65%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); PATENT LAW (51%); PATENTS (51%)

COMPANY: SUN PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES LTD (91%); SANOFI SA (84%); SHANTHA BIOTECHNICS LTD (84%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (84%); RANBAXY LABORATORIES LTD (80%); BIOCON LTD (58%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%); PFIZER INC (58%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (58%); PIRAMAL HEALTHCARE LTD (53%); DR REDDY'S LABORATORIES LTD (50%); CLARIS LIFESCIENCES LTD (50%)

TICKER: SUNPHARMA (NSE) (91%); SNY (NYSE) (84%); SANF (BIT) (84%); SAN (PAR) (84%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (84%); ABT (SWX) (84%); ABT (NYSE) (84%); ABT (LSE) (84%); ABL (FRA) (84%); RANBAXY (NSE) (80%); BIOCON (NSE) (58%); GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); BMY (NYSE) (58%); RDY (NYSE) (50%); DRREDDY (NSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (80%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC2835 IN VITRO & IN VIVO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



162 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: To Address Its Housing Shortage, Paris Cracks Down on Pied-a-Terre Rentals

BYLINE: By JEAN RAFFERTY

 BODY:
PARIS -- Many people buy a pied-a-terre in Paris to use for a few weeks a year and to rent the rest of the time. Most of them don't realize, however, that they are breaking the law. Now, the city government is trying to address the problem with a more direct approach to enforcement.
 Mayor Bertrand Delanoe ordered an agency last year to warn property owners that renting out residential apartments for less than a year at a time violated French law. The move was intended to address the lack of affordable housing in the city center. Those who ignored the warning, he said, would be prosecuted. 
 Only about 25 letters have been sent since enforcement began last autumn -- most of them in response to complaints made by neighbors. And only a handful of those cases have gone to court. 
 But the rental industry in this most-visited city in the world is concerned and, as more owners slowly become aware of the issue, confusion is growing. A few have pulled their properties off the market, others have deleted addresses or other identifying details from Internet listings. And dozens of rental agencies have banded together to try to save their lucrative business.
 ''No one seems to know what this crackdown means, but I feel my business will have to change,'' said Susie Hollands of Vingt Paris, a property advisory and management company.
 There is no precise tally of how many of the 1.3 million residences in Paris are being used for short-term rentals. Industry professionals estimate there may be tens of thousands, with a significant proportion owned by foreigners who bought them as vacation homes or investment properties. (Those buyers are predominantly Americans, Italians and Britons, according to brokers.)
 Those in the industry also say they believe that the numbers have risen sharply in the last 10 years as the Internet has made it easier to find potential renters.
 To legally offer short-term rentals, owners would need to have their residential properties reclassified as commercial sites, a complicated process that involves finding a commercial property in the same neighborhood that can be transformed into residential use.
 ''It isn't difficult; it is impossible,'' said Fabrice Luzu, a notary who has helped many international clients invest in city real estate. ''The owner must apply for a special permit and there is very little chance he would obtain it.''
 Without such a permit, any apartment classified as residential in a French city of more than 200,000 must be offered with a minimum one-year lease. The law, passed in 2005, has some exceptions for student housing.
 For landlords in Paris, the difference in income can be substantial. Depending on how it is renovated, a 650-square-foot apartment in the chic Saint-Germain-des-Pres area, for example, could be rented furnished for 2,500 euros ($3,100) a week, Ms. Hollands said.
 She estimates that the yearly income, based on the flat being rented about 70 percent of the time, would bring triple the amount of a long-term lease.
 She added, ''Unfurnished, on a long lease, it would rent between 2,200 euros and 2,500 euros a month'' or at most, 30,000 euros a year.
 The police are charged with enforcing the law, but rarely do. So last year, after several attempts, Paris succeeded in transferring enforcement within the city to the mayor's housing agency, the Bureau de la Protection des Locaux d'Habitation, or the office for the protection of residential property.
 ''We decided to apply the law in a strict manner,'' said Franck Affortit, the agency's assistant director. ''Letters have been sent to owners, who include many Italians, some Americans and British and French.''
 Most of those owners have taken their properties off the rental market, while ''several'' others who have not are being prosecuted, Mr. Affortit said.
 One case has resulted in a preliminary judgment in favor of the city; court dates for the other cases have not yet been set, Mr. Affortit said.
 Conviction could result in a fine of as much as 25,000 euros. Continued violation could result in additional fines of as much as 1,000 euros a square meter a day. Still, he admits that given his small staff of five, tracking down violators ''is a problem.'' 
 Therefore, he said, ''we are going to apply this in an intelligent manner.''
 The main target, he said, are owners who are ''making these rentals into a permanent activity, diverting residential property from its essential function as housing for Parisians,'' Mr. Affortit said. ''Someone who rents once a year'' will not be prosecuted.
 Still, the uncertainty has unnerved many in the industry.
 Ms. Hollands of Vingt Paris wrote about the crackdown in a November 2009 newsletter to her clients. ''I was lambasted by other agents for writing about it,'' she said. ''But I felt a moral obligation to inform my owners and investors who were about to spend a million euros without knowing about this.''
 Her company has served mainly North American and British clientele for the last seven years.
 In May, one of her customers ''who had done an exquisite restoration received a letter because the neighbors complained,'' she said. ''They had been renting out the apartment by the week since March and had bookings through the summer. And they were paying a lot of attention not to cause a disturbance.''
 The client now rents the furnished property on a one-year lease.
 About 35 rental agencies recently formed the Association des Professionnels de la Location Meublee, a group of professionals in the furnished rental industry, with the goal of finding a way to operate within the city's regulations.
 The association questions the city's interpretation of the law and its premise that properties forced off the short-term rental market will become long-term prospects for Paris residents.
 Its first step was to commission ''a serious study of the market to show what it represents, and to demonstrate that furnished rentals for periods less than 12 months correspond to a social and economic need for a city like Paris,'' said the group's president, Jean-Marc Agnes. ''Clearly, it is not just about three-day stays by tourists, but includes professors, research scholars and exchanges of businessmen in international companies who may come for several months.''
 The group expects to have the results in September.
 In the meantime, the effort does not seem to have hurt property sales in Paris, whose market has been one of the most robust in Europe throughout the recent global real estate downturn.
 ''I don't see prices going down to fulfill Mr. Delanoe's wish to have cheaper apartments for Parisians,'' said Mr. Luzu, the notary. Whether it be wealthy Americans, Brazilians, Indians or Chinese, ''they all want a pied-a-terre in Paris,'' he said.
 The American designer and developer Alon Kasha has been alerting his clients to the potential problem, although many of them do not rent their properties.
 ''If they are doing this for a rental income, it's too fraught with problems,'' he said. ''I tell them, 'Rather, buy a warehouse somewhere and rent it out,' '' he said. 
 ''But if they're buying because they have a passion for a Paris apartment, that's different. I say, 'If you can rent it and it works out, that's fine, but don't count on it.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Many foreign owners in Paris use their apartments only part of the year, renting them out to short-term tenants for the rest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENOIT TESSIER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); STUDENT HOUSING (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



163 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Postal Service Seeks 2-Cent Increase for Stamps

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The post office wants to increase the price of a stamp by 2 cents, to 46 cents, starting in January. The agency has been battered by losses and declining mail volume. 
 Postal officials announced a series of proposed price increases Tuesday, averaging about 5 percent, and covering first class, advertising mail, periodicals, packages and other services.
 The request now goes to the independent Postal Regulatory Commission, which has 90 days to respond. If approved, the increase would take effect Jan. 2.
 ''The Postal Service faces a serious risk of financial insolvency,'' a postal vice president, Stephen M. Kearney, said.
 Mr. Kearney said the agency was facing a $7 billion loss in 2011. The rate increase will bring in an additional $2.5 billion, meaning it still faces a $4.7 billion loss.
 The rate increase is part of a series of money-saving plans announced in March that included reducing mail deliveries to five days a week and closing offices. Eliminating deliveries on Saturdays is subject to Congressional approval.
 While the cost of a first-class stamp would go up to 46 cents if the proposal is approved, people who buy ''Forever'' stamps at lower prices will still be able to use them for first-class mail without paying the difference.
 In addition to the 46-cent rate for the first ounce of a letter, the cost for each additional ounce would go up a penny to 18 cents. The cost to mail a postcard would go up 2 cents, to 30 cents.
 The price to send periodicals would go up about 8 percent and other rates for advertising mail, parcels and services will rise by varying amounts.
 The current 44-cent first-class rate took effect May 11, 2009.
 The weak economy has sharply reduced mail volume as companies cut their advertising. At the same time there has been a significant drop in lucrative first-class mail as people turn to the Internet to receive and pay bills.
 The proposal drew a prompt complaint from the mailing industry.
 ''This proposed rate increase amounts to another tax imposed on Americans at a time when the economy can least afford it,'' said Tony Conway, executive director of the Alliance of Nonprofit Mailers, a group representing charities and other organizations.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 6, 2010, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An earlier version of this article misstated the name of the Postal Regulatory Commission.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (91%); APPROVALS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); POSTAL RATES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHARITIES (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



164 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: 5 Ways To Bolster Growth

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
For the sake of argument, let's say that the Senate refuses to take the most obvious steps to help the economy. 
 These steps -- like preventing layoffs of teachers, police officers and other government workers -- are especially important now that the recovery has lost some steam. But we're going to imagine a world in which the Senate is incapable of distinguishing between the long-run budget deficit (a big problem) and the near-term deficit (quite manageable, according to financial markets). So even modest, short-term spending bills can't pass.
 In that unpleasant world, could Congress still do anything to help the economy?
 Yes, it could. 
 It could clear up some of the uncertainty about future government policy and, in the process, persuade companies to spend some of the $1.8 trillion in cash they have hoarded. Congress could agree to help struggling states if, and only if, they took steps to reduce their own long-term deficits. And Congress could push two opaque bureaucracies on opposite sides of the world -- the Federal Reserve and the Chinese Communist Party -- to do more for global growth. 
 Direct stimulus, important as it may be, isn't the only option. Here are five relatively cheap ways to lift growth:
 A RACE TO SOLVENCY New Jersey's new Republican governor, Christopher Christie, had the nub of an intriguing idea recently. He lobbied voters to reject school budgets -- rejections that would have led to layoffs -- unless local education unions agreed to pay more for their health benefits. In effect, Mr. Christie was offering to save jobs now in exchange for saving money later.
 It's a trade more states should consider. State and local governments are on course to have budget shortfalls of about $400 billion, or 2 percent of the nation's entire economic output, by 2030, according to the Government Accountability Office. The main reasons are health costs and pensions. 
 Imagine if Washington offered to help states get through today's shortfalls in exchange for making progress on their long-run problems. In the ideal version of this program, states would get some initial money without strings attached. They need it to avoid those teacher and firefighter layoffs. States that came up with credible plans to reduce their deficits would then get more money over the next few years. 
 I realize this idea will make some Democrats uncomfortable, but it doesn't have to be a partisan issue. After all, does it really make sense for states to be cutting back on essential services so that some workers can retire at 55? ''Why should state workers or city workers or county workers have benefits that are far better than private sector workers?'' Edward Rendell, the Democratic governor of Pennsylvania, told me earlier this year. ''We should have parity, not better.''
 LIFT TRADE American exports rose 11.5 percent from early 2009 to early this year, accounting for more than half of total economic growth. But this momentum will be hard to maintain if China's currency remains as undervalued as it is.
 Beijing recently announced that it would allow its currency to rise. One factor was the political pressure from other countries, including from our Congress, like a proposal by Senator Charles Schumer of New York and others that would put tariffs on Chinese-made goods. The bill is a blunt form of punishment that has the potential to set off a trade war. It's also a useful threat, so long as China's currency plans remain vague. 
 Another good step would be a trade deal with South Korea, which President Obamarecently said he was pursuing.
 PROVIDE CLARITY Corporate executives complain that uncertainty about regulation has made them wary of expanding. Some of their complaints are classic political posturing -- an attempt to avoid oversight by claiming it will hurt the larger economy. In reality, consumer demand and Europe's woes are much more important sources of uncertainty. 
 But the complaints aren't totally without merit. Washington has indeed passed some sweeping new laws recently. Fortunately, with health reform starting to take effect and financial regulation on the verge of passing, the future is starting to look clearer for businesses trying to make decisions. 
 One big piece of uncertainty remains, though: energy. Several energy chief executives have said they have major projects ready to go, if only they knew what was going to happen to the cost of emitting carbon. The same is no doubt true of nonenergy companies trying to make decisions about new buildings and factories. 
 The Senate still has a small window to pass an energy bill this summer. A good bill would include a cap on power plant emissions, making clear how much more expensive those emissions would become. Such a bill wouldn't help only the climate, as Jim Rogers of Duke Energy says. It would be a form of stimulus, too.
 LEVERAGE TAXPAYER MONEY Last year's big stimulus bill included $2.3 billion for promising clean energy projects. To qualify for the money, companies had put up 70 percent of a project's cost, in exchange for a tax credit equal to 30 percent. The idea -- just as with cash for clunkers -- was to use a relatively small amount of government spending to spur much more private spending.
 The program turned out to be quite popular. The Energy Department received requests for more than $10 billion in credits and judged about $8 billion to be worthy. But it had only $2.3 billion to spend, so most qualified applicants got nothing. 
 A bipartisan handful of senators, including Richard Lugar and Orrin Hatch, both Republicans, have since called for an expansion of the program. It would not be free, of course. But it could provide good bang for the buck.
 The federal government could leverage its spending in other ways, too. It could give households an incentive to improve the energy efficiency of their homes -- cash for caulkers -- and could look for similar investment incentives for companies outside the energy sector.
 THE FED'S MISSIONBen Bernanke, the Fed chairman, seems genuinely torn about how weak the economy is. He has said that inflation is not a problem and that unemployment will probably remain high for years. Even so, he has been unwilling to push down long-term interest rates, which would encourage more consumer and business spending. 
 Mark Thoma, a monetary economist who writes a well-read blog, points out that Mr. Bernanke is in a political bind. He has been criticized by regional Fed presidents who always seem to worry that inflation is about to accelerate and who want the Fed to raise rates. But Mr. Bernanke faces no such internal pressure about the other part of the Fed's mission: maximizing employment. 
 That could begin to change next week. The Senate will hold confirmation hearings for three new Fed governors, all of whom have the potential to make it a more balanced institution. It couldn't hurt if a few senators used those hearings to review some basic facts: inflation has been zero lately, inflation expectations are tame, 15 million Americans remain unemployed and job growth has slowed in recent months.
 To be clear, these five steps might not provide as much of an immediate lift as the obvious steps, like rapid aid to states, extended unemployment benefits and better access to credit for small businesses. But nothing is stopping Congress from pursuing both sets of strategies. The economy is still suffering the effects of the worst financial crisis since the 1930s. It needs all the help it can get.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Christopher Christie urged New Jersey voters to reject school budgets unless unions agreed to pay more for health benefits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN MANCINELLI/DAILY RECORD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); COUNTIES (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%)

PERSON: ED RENDELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



165 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2538 words

HEADLINE: A New Generation, an Elusive American Dream

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
GRAFTON, Mass. -- After breakfast, his parents left for their jobs, and Scott Nicholson, alone in the house in this comfortable suburb west of Boston, went to his laptop in the living room. He had placed it on a small table that his mother had used for a vase of flowers until her unemployed son found himself reluctantly stuck at home.
 The daily routine seldom varied. Mr. Nicholson, 24, a graduate of Colgate University, winner of a dean's award for academic excellence, spent his mornings searching corporate Web sites for suitable job openings. When he found one, he mailed off a resume and cover letter -- four or five a week, week after week. 
 Over the last five months, only one job materialized. After several interviews, the Hanover Insurance Group in nearby Worcester offered to hire him as an associate claims adjuster, at $40,000 a year. But even before the formal offer, Mr. Nicholson had decided not to take the job. 
 Rather than waste early years in dead-end work, he reasoned, he would hold out for a corporate position that would draw on his college training and put him, as he sees it, on the bottom rungs of a career ladder.
 ''The conversation I'm going to have with my parents now that I've turned down this job is more of a concern to me than turning down the job,'' he said. 
 He was braced for the conversation with his father in particular. While Scott Nicholson viewed the Hanover job as likely to stunt his career, David Nicholson, 57, accustomed to better times and easier mobility, viewed it as an opportunity. Once in the door, the father has insisted to his son, opportunities will present themselves -- as they did in the father's rise over 35 years to general manager of a manufacturing company. 
 ''You maneuvered and you did not worry what the maneuvering would lead to,'' the father said. ''You knew it would lead to something good.''
 Complicating the generational divide, Scott's grandfather, William S. Nicholson, a World War II veteran and a retired stock broker, has watched what he described as America's once mighty economic engine losing its pre-eminence in a global economy. The grandfather has encouraged his unemployed grandson to go abroad -- to ''Go West,'' so to speak. 
 ''I view what is happening to Scott with dismay,'' said the grandfather, who has concluded, in part from reading The Economist, that Europe has surpassed America in offering opportunity for an ambitious young man. ''We hate to think that Scott will have to leave,'' the grandfather said, ''but he will.'' 
 The grandfather's injunction startled the grandson. But as the weeks pass, Scott Nicholson, handsome as a Marine officer in a recruiting poster, has gradually realized that his career will not roll out in the Greater Boston area -- or anywhere in America -- with the easy inevitability that his father and grandfather recall, and that Scott thought would be his lot, too, when he finished college in 2008. 
 ''I don't think I fully understood the severity of the situation I had graduated into,'' he said, speaking in effect for an age group -- the so-called millennials, 18 to 29 -- whose unemployment rate of nearly 14 percent approaches the levels of that group in the Great Depression. And then he veered into the optimism that, polls show, is persistently, perhaps perversely, characteristic of millennials today. ''I am absolutely certain that my job hunt will eventually pay off,'' he said. 
 For young adults, the prospects in the workplace, even for the college-educated, have rarely been so bleak. Apart from the 14 percent who are unemployed and seeking work, as Scott Nicholson is, 23 percent are not even seeking a job, according to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The total, 37 percent, is the highest in more than three decades and a rate reminiscent of the 1930s. 
 The college-educated among these young adults are better off. But nearly 17 percent are either unemployed or not seeking work, a record level (although some are in graduate school). The unemployment rate for college-educated young adults, 5.5 percent, is nearly double what it was on the eve of the Great Recession, in 2007, and the highest level -- by almost two percentage points -- since the bureau started to keep records in 1994 for those with at least four years of college.
 Yet surveys show that the majority of the nation's millennials remain confident, as Scott Nicholson is, that they will have satisfactory careers. They have a lot going for them. 
 ''They are better educated than previous generations and they were raised by baby boomers who lavished a lot of attention on their children,'' said Andrew Kohut, the Pew Research Center's director. That helps to explain their persistent optimism, even as they struggle to succeed. 
 So far, Scott Nicholson is a stranger to the triumphal stories that his father and grandfather tell of their working lives. They said it was connections more than perseverance that got them started -- the father in 1976 when a friend who had just opened a factory hired him, and the grandfather in 1946 through an Army buddy whose father-in-law owned a brokerage firm in nearby Worcester and needed another stock broker. 
 From these accidental starts, careers unfolded and lasted. David Nicholson, now the general manager of a company that makes tools, is still in manufacturing. William Nicholson spent the next 48 years, until his retirement, as a stock broker. ''Scott has got to find somebody who knows someone,'' the grandfather said, ''someone who can get him to the head of the line.''
 While Scott has tried to make that happen, he has come under pressure from his parents to compromise: to take, if not the Hanover job, then one like it. ''I am beginning to realize that refusal is going to have repercussions,'' he said. ''My parents are subtly pointing out that beyond room and board, they are also paying other expenses for me, like my cellphone charges and the premiums on a life insurance policy.'' 
 Scott Nicholson also has connections, of course, but no one in his network of family and friends has been able to steer him into marketing or finance or management training or any career-oriented opening at a big corporation, his goal. The jobs are simply not there. 
 The Millennials' Inheritance
 The Great Depression damaged the self-confidence of the young, and that is beginning to happen now, according to pollsters, sociologists and economists. Young men in particular lost a sense of direction, Glen H. Elder Jr., a sociologist at the University of North Carolina, found in his study, ''Children of the Great Depression.'' In some cases they were forced into work they did not want -- the issue for Scott Nicholson. 
 Military service in World War II, along with the G.I. Bill and a booming economy, restored well-being; by the 1970s, when Mr. Elder did his retrospective study, the hardships of the Depression were more a memory than an open sore. ''They came out of the war with purpose in their lives, and by age 40 most of them were doing well,'' he said, speaking of his study in a recent interview. 
 The outlook this time is not so clear. Starved for jobs at adequate pay, the millennials tend to seek refuge in college and in the military and to put off marriage and child-bearing. Those who are working often stay with the jobs they have rather than jump to better paying but less secure ones, as young people seeking advancement normally do. And they are increasingly willing to forgo raises, or to settle for small ones. 
 ''They are definitely more risk-averse,'' said Lisa B. Kahn, an economist at the Yale School of Management, ''and more likely to fall behind.''
 In a recent study, she found that those who graduated from college during the severe early '80s recession earned up to 30 percent less in their first three years than new graduates who landed their first jobs in a strong economy. Even 15 years later, their annual pay was 8 to 10 percent less. 
 Many hard-pressed millennials are falling back on their parents, as Scott Nicholson has. While he has no college debt (his grandparents paid all his tuition and board) many others do, and that helps force them back home. 
 In 2008, the first year of the recession, the percentage of the population living in households in which at least two generations were present rose nearly a percentage point, to 16 percent, according to the Pew Research Center. The high point, 24.7 percent, came in 1940, as the Depression ended, and the low point, 12 percent, in 1980.
 Striving for Independence
 ''Going it alone,'' ''earning enough to be self-supporting'' -- these are awkward concepts for Scott Nicholson and his friends. Of the 20 college classmates with whom he keeps up, 12 are working, but only half are in jobs they ''really like.'' Three are entering law school this fall after frustrating experiences in the work force, ''and five are looking for work just as I am,'' he said.
 Like most of his classmates, Scott tries to get by on a shoestring and manages to earn enough in odd jobs to pay some expenses. 
 The jobs are catch as catch can. He and a friend recently put up a white wooden fence for a neighbor, embedding the posts in cement, a day's work that brought Scott $125. He mows lawns and gardens for half a dozen clients in Grafton, some of them family friends. And he is an active volunteer firefighter. 
 ''As frustrated as I get now, and I never intended to live at home, I'm in a good situation in a lot of ways,'' Scott said. ''I have very little overhead and no debt, and it is because I have no debt that I have any sort of flexibility to look for work. Otherwise, I would have to have a job, some kind of full-time job.'' 
 That millennials as a group are optimistic is partly because many are, as Mr. Kohut put it, the children of doting baby boomers -- among them David Nicholson and his wife, Susan, 56, an executive at a company that owns movie theaters. 
 The Nicholsons, whose combined annual income is north of $175,000, have lavished attention on their three sons. Currently that attention is directed mainly at sustaining the self-confidence of their middle son. 
 ''No one on either side of the family has ever gone through this,'' Mrs. Nicholson said, ''and I guess I'm impatient. I know he is educated and has a great work ethic and wants to start contributing, and I don't know what to do.'' 
 Her oldest, David Jr., 26, did land a good job. Graduating from Middlebury College in 2006, he joined a Boston insurance company, specializing in reinsurance, nearly three years ago, before the recession. 
 ''I'm fortunate to be at a company where there is some security,'' he said, adding that he supports Scott in his determination to hold out for the right job. ''Once you start working, you get caught up in the work and you have bills to pay, and you lose sight of what you really want,'' the brother said.
 He is earning $75,000 -- a sum beyond Scott's reach today, but not his expectations. ''I worked hard through high school to get myself into the college I did,'' Scott said, ''and then I worked hard through college to graduate with the grades and degree that I did to position myself for a solid job.'' (He majored in political science and minored in history.)
 It was in pursuit of a solid job that Scott applied to Hanover International's management training program. Turned down for that, he was called back to interview for the lesser position in the claims department. 
 ''I'm sitting with the manager, and he asked me how I had gotten interested in insurance. I mentioned Dave's job in reinsurance, and the manager's response was, 'Oh, that is about 15 steps above the position you are interviewing for,' '' Scott said, his eyes widening and his voice emotional. 
 Scott acknowledges that he is competitive with his brothers, particularly David, more than they are with him. The youngest, Bradley, 22, has a year to go at the University of Vermont. His parents and grandparents pay his way, just as they did for his brothers in their college years.
 In the Old Days
 Going to college wasn't an issue for grandfather Nicholson, or so he says. With World War II approaching, he entered the Army not long after finishing high school and, in the fighting in Italy, a battlefield commission raised him overnight from enlisted man to first lieutenant. That was ''the equivalent of a college education,'' as he now puts it, in an age when college on a stockbroker's resume ''counted for something, but not a lot.''
 He spent most of his career in a rising market, putting customers into stocks that paid good dividends, and growing wealthy on real estate investments made years ago, when Grafton was still semi-rural. The brokerage firm that employed him changed hands more than once, but he continued to work out of the same office in Worcester. 
 When his son David graduated from Babson College in 1976, manufacturing in America was in an early phase of its long decline, and Worcester was still a center for the production of sandpaper, emery stones and other abrasives. 
 He joined one of those companies -- owned by the family of his friend -- and he has stayed in manufacturing, particularly at companies that make hand tools. Early on, he and his wife bought the home in which they raised their sons, a white colonial dating from the early 1800s, like many houses on North Street, where the grandparents also live, a few doors away. 
 David Nicholson's longest stretch was at the Stanley Works, and when he left, seeking promotion, a friend at the Endeavor Tool Company hired him as that company's general manager, his present job. 
 In better times, Scott's father might have given his son work at Endeavor, but the father is laying off workers, and a job in manufacturing, in Scott's eyes, would be a defeat. 
 ''If you talk to 20 people,'' Scott said, ''you'll find only one in manufacturing and everyone else in finance or something else.''
 The Plan
 Scott Nicholson almost sidestepped the recession. His plan was to become a Marine Corps second lieutenant. He had spent the summer after his freshman year in ''platoon leader'' training. Last fall he passed the physical for officer training, and was told to report on Jan. 16. 
 If all had gone well, he would have emerged in 10 weeks as a second lieutenant, committed to a four-year enlistment. ''I could have made a career out of the Marines,'' Scott said, ''and if I had come out in four years, I would have been incredibly prepared for the workplace.''
 It was not to be. In early January, a Marine Corps doctor noticed that he had suffered from childhood asthma. He was washed out. ''They finally told me I could reapply if I wanted to,'' Scott said. ''But the sheen was gone.''
 So he struggles to get a foothold in the civilian work force. His brother in Boston lost his roommate, and early last month Scott moved into the empty bedroom, with his parents paying Scott's share of the $2,000-a-month rent until the lease expires on Aug. 31.
 And if Scott does not have a job by then? ''I'll do something temporary; I won't go back home,'' Scott said. ''I'll be a bartender or get work through a temp agency. I hope I don't find myself in that position.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SON: After graduation, Scott Nicholson, far left, spent his days in his parents' home searching the Web for job openings. In the last five months, he had just one job offer, which he rejected because he thought it would stunt his career. ''I don't think I fully understood the severity of the situation I had graduated into,'' he said.
FATHER: David Nicholson, near left, started his working life in better times with easier job mobility. He thought Scott should have taken the job, viewing it as an opportunity. When he was starting out, he said, ''you maneuvered and you did not worry what the maneuvering would lead to. You knew it would lead to something good.''
GRANDFATHER: William S. Nicholson, a World War II veteran and retired stock broker, has encouraged his unemployed grandson to go abroad. ''I view what is happening to Scott with dismay,'' he said. ''We hate to think that Scott will have to leave, but he will.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) CHARTS: Many Young Americans Not Seeking Work: The percentage of young Americans who are either unemployed or not seeking work is at its highest level since 1971. For the college-educated, the number is at its highest since 1994, when records were first kept.
Mulitigenerational households, or those with more than one generation of adults, have risen sharply. The rise is partly from adult children moving back home. (Sources: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
Moody's Economy.com
 Pew Hispanic Center) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EMPLOYMENT COVER LETTERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (69%); WORLD WAR II (65%)

COMPANY: HANOVER INSURANCE GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: THG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



166 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: A Missouri Do-Over

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY and JEFF ZELENY; Monica Davey reported from Kansas City, Mo., and Jeff Zeleny from Washington.

 BODY:
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- For some in President Obama's White House, Missouri remains the state that got away, nearly two years after his election.
 Mr. Obama was the first Democrat since 1964 to win Indiana and the first since 1976 to win North Carolina. But his loss in Missouri by the narrowest of slivers (fewer than 4,000 votes) was of special disappointment. 
 After all, the state has sided with the winner of the presidential race in nearly every election in the past century. Who would wish to be remembered for breaking that sort of trend?
 Now, even as President Obama juggles a barrage of dire matters, relatively calm Missouri seems to continue to carry some particular attention for the White House. This week, Mr. Obama will be in the state again, raising money in a competitive Senate campaign in a challenging political season for Democrats. 
 It will be Mr. Obama's fifth trip here since his election. White House officials say the president has traveled to other swing states nearly as often, but there may be no state he lost that has seen more of him (aside from Louisiana, thanks to the oil spill disaster.)
 Gov. Jay Nixon, a Democrat who won his first term as Mr. Obama lost here and was the state's longtime attorney general, said he senses strong interest in the state, in part because of the memory of that slim loss in 2008.
 ''It intrigues him,'' Governor Nixon said last month, ticking off by memory the visits Mr. Obama has made. ''I think the complexity of the state intrigues him, too, as a microcosm of the country.''
 Mr. Nixon said he could not recall any particular conversations with Mr. Obama about his re-election hopes, but he described the president this way: ''I do know he's a competitive chap.''
 The state -- with its distinctive mix of agricultural and industrial, urban and deeply rural, rich and poor -- is often seen as a mini-America, but many here say Mr. Obama's popularity has fallen since 2008 amid policies like his health care overhaul. And that has left some questioning whether Mr. Obama's effect on the midterm elections here -- in particular, a fight to fill the Senate seat of Christopher S. Bond, a Republican who is retiring -- will help or harm the Democrats.
 ''President Obama has alienated a lot of the swing voters in Missouri and done nothing to ingratiate himself with the right-of-center voters,'' said John Hancock, a longtime Republican consultant and former director of the state party. If the 2008 election could somehow be done all over -- right this instant -- Mr. Hancock said, Mr. Obama would lose by a far wider margin.
 Both parties have been watching carefully in recent months to see how closely Robin Carnahan, the Democratic candidate for the Senate seat, will tie herself to the president. Ms. Carnahan, the secretary of state whose family is a political dynasty here, is expected to ultimately face Representative Roy Blunt, a Republican with similarly deep political roots. (Mr. Blunt's son Matt is a former Missouri governor, as was Ms. Carnahan's father, Mel, who was also elected, posthumously, to the Senate.) 
 The race is one of only a handful this fall involving Republican Senate seats seen as having reasonable chances of being taken by Democrats (as opposed to the more numerous Democratic seats seen as vulnerable to Republicans).
 Some people -- especially Republicans -- took special note of Ms. Carnahan's absence when the president visited in March. Republican consultants say Ms. Carnahan would like nothing better than to avoid being seen with President Obama, and avoid being linked to policies that have not gone over well with middle-of-the road voters here. 
 ''Robin Carnahan can physically run from President Obama while he's in Missouri, but she can't run from her support of Obama's unpopular and costly health care bill, his massive stimulus debacle and his tax-and-spend economic agenda in Washington,'' Amber Marchand, a spokeswoman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said at the time. Ms. Carnahan blamed a planned trip to Washington for missing an event in which Mr. Obama raised money in the St. Louis area for Senator Claire McCaskill, a Democrat who is not up for re-election this year. 
 But, at least publicly, Democrats here dismiss the notion that Ms. Carnahan was trying to steer clear of the president. In April, they point out, Ms. Carnahan appeared with Mr. Obama in Macon, Mo. And Mr. Obama's trip here on Thursday (when he will tour an electric vehicle company and discuss the economy with workers there) is being promoted by her campaign as a fund-raising tool; he will take part in a ''grass-roots reception'' on her behalf, as well as a luncheon at the downtown Marriott, where general seating will require a $1,000 donation to Ms. Carnahan.
 ''He's still an extremely popular president,'' said Michael Kelley, a Democratic consultant, who estimated that Mr. Obama's support in Missouri was probably now about ''the same to maybe just a little bit worse'' compared with 2008. ''The people who were out and supportive of President Obama are still out and supportive of him. Why run away from it?''
 Ms. Carnahan's campaign was upbeat. Linden Zakula, a spokesman, issued a statement about the visit, saying, ''The president is always welcome, and we are pleased to have his support on the campaign trail.''
 But Democrats have been hopeful about Missouri before only to be disappointed. Mr. Obama returned twice in the final weekend of his 2008 campaign, long past the point when most recent Democratic presidential candidates have focused on the state. In fact, in the final two weeks, Mr. Obama drew thousands of supporters to rallies on the state's edges in St. Louis and Kansas City, then to the state's center, in Columbia, and to Springfield in the conservative southwestern corner. Still, he lost.
 Now, the state's leading Democratic politicians seem to disagree over how much Mr. Obama is pondering Missouri and his chances of winning here in 2012. Senator McCaskill, an ally of the president, said she does not see him ''sitting around with a napkin right now plotting electoral strategy,'' but concentrating on pressing tasks like fixing the economy and stopping the oil spill. ''I just don't see him hyperfocusing on his re-elect,'' she said. 
 But at least some party leaders are thinking about Missouri. Last week, St. Louis was named as one of four finalists to host the Democratic National Convention in 2012.
 Governor Nixon sounds a confident note about an Obama re-election bid. ''I think this is going to be a really nice blue state for him,'' Mr. Nixon said. ''I think we'll get it done.''
 Of the White House, he added, ''They'll keep their attention here.'' 
 He noted visits from administration officials, including Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who, Mr. Nixon joked, ''may have an apartment here.'' (As it happens, the White House says Mr. Biden has visited only twice.) 
 Still, in Mr. Obama's trip to northeast Missouri in April, when he visited an ethanol refinery, stopped at a small-town diner and met with a family farmer, the president sounded like someone who might recall that the only other time Missouri voted against a winning presidential candidate since 1904 was 1956. That year, while the nation chose Dwight D. Eisenhower, Missouri picked Adlai E. Stevenson, who hailed from neighboring Illinois, also Mr. Obama's home state.
 ''It is wonderful to be in Missouri,'' Mr. Obama told the crowd gathered at the refinery. ''It is wonderful to be this close to my house.'' He added later: ''I may be the president these days, but I want to remind everybody I was the senator from Illinois. I didn't just discover the merits of biofuels like ethanol when I first hopped on the campaign bus.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, left, visited Lowell Schachtsiek's farm in Palmyra on a swing through northeastern Missouri in April. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS)
Though Missouri often picks the presidential winner, it went with Adlai E. Stevenson in 1956. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS) (A10)
President Obama in April in Monroe City, Mo. He is set to visit the state again this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS)
 Members of the Tea Party movement gathered in April to share their views of the president when he visited Macon, Mo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TANNEN MAURY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A13) CHART: How Missouri Has Voted in Presidential Elections: Missouri has sided with the winner in nearly every presidential race in the last century. But President Obama lost the state by 4,000 votes in 2008. (Source: Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); OIL SPILLS (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JAY NIXON (78%); KIT BOND (58%); TOM VILSACK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (88%) MISSOURI, USA (99%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



167 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Share Offer For K.K.R. Next Week

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
Henry R. Kravis, the dealmaker who symbolized the merger mania of the 1980s and became one of the most powerful figures on Wall Street, is cashing in.
 Mr. Kravis's firm, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, is set to go public next week, capping a three-year effort that was thwarted by the financial crisis and the market downturn. 
 Mr. Kravis will control a 13 percent stake of the new company, contributing roughly $800 million to a fortune estimated to be more than $4.2 billion. 
 The offering, on the New York Stock Exchange, underscores Wall Street's remarkable comeback since the depths of the financial crisis in 2008. It also brings new prominence for Mr. Kravis, who first won fame with his daring leveraged buyout of RJR Nabisco in a 1988, a deal that in many ways defined the era. 
 He has since become a prominent figure in New York's social and philanthropic scenes, endowing a wing at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
 Last year, Mr. Kravis earned $22 million from K.K.R., as did his cousin, George R. Roberts, a co-founder of the firm. 
 Like Mr. Kravis, Mr. Roberts will own 13 percent of the new firm, giving their stakes a combined value of $1.6 billion, based on the valuation of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts shares that now trade in Europe. 
 The third partner, Jerome Kohlberg, left the firm in 1987.
 Over the years, K.K.R. swallowed the likes of Toys ''R'' Us, the Texas utility TXU, and HCA, the health care chain. Now, it will command a market value of roughly $6 billion. 
 If the offering is successful, the value accorded to Mr. Kravis's stake in the firm will top the $684 million windfall earned by Stephen A. Schwarzman, whose private equity giant, the Blackstone Group, went public in June 2007.
 By going public, K.K.R. has a valuable currency it can use to lure talent and make acquisitions, while also enabling the firm to expand into areas like asset management, as Blackstone has done. It also will make Mr. Kravis's fortune more liquid, allowing him to eventually sell his shares and diversify his portfolio. 
 But while Mr. Schwarzman's timing was nearly perfect -- the first ripples of the credit crisis came shortly after Blackstone's offering -- Mr. Kravis had to settle for a listing of a European branch of his firm on the Euronext exchange last fall. In this deal, the K.K.R. units that trade in Europe will effectively be switched to the Big Board.
 While still in their 20s, Mr. Kravis and Mr. Roberts joined Bear Stearns, where they met Mr. Kohlberg. The three men pioneered the strategy of using a company's own balance sheet to help support the debt necessary to buy it, which came to be known as a leveraged buyout.
 Leveraged buyouts have been controversial, especially since layoffs and other cost-cutting frequently followed the buyout. Nevertheless, they emerged as one of the most profitable transactions on Wall Street.
 Founded in 1976, K.K.R. now has nearly $55 billion in assets and more than 600 employees. It has also had its ups and downs as a private company. After the huge deals of the 1990s, it struggled as holdings like Regal Cinemas went bankrupt. It later bounced back, buying TXU for $45 billion. 
 But TXU is now groaning under its debt, echoing the larger challenge facing K.K.R. Like other private equity firms, K.K.R. has wrestled in recent years with companies it acquired using large amounts of borrowed money. Still, it managed to earn more than $849 million last year, a reversal from a loss of $1.2 billion in 2008.
 Its reach extends around the globe, with 42 percent of its investments in Europe, while 47 percent are in the United States and 10 percent are in Asia. 
 K.K.R.'s holdings are similarly diversified; its portfolio includes energy, health care, manufacturing, retail. 
 The offering discloses new details about Mr. Kravis's fortune, which has only been speculated about, since K.K.R. is a private firm. He will now lose that anonymity, with details like his use of company limousines -- $98,771 worth last year, according to the offering statement -- will be available to the public. Mr. Roberts, 66, meanwhile, spent $158,413 for his car and driver.
 Besides the donations to the Metropolitan Museum, Mr. Kravis, 66, and his wife, Marie-Josee, gave $15 million to establish the Center for Cardiovascular Health at Mt. Sinai Hospital, and $10 million to Columbia Business School in 2006. He also founded the Henry Kravis Leadership Institute at his alma mater, Claremont McKenna College, in Claremont, Calif. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); MERGERS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); EURO CRISIS (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); CURRENCIES (70%)

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (98%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (73%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); KRAFT NABISCO (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (98%); BX (NYSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (98%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (98%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (56%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



168 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing MID-ATLANTIC; West Virginia: Governor Faces Decisions on Byrd Seat

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
With Senator Robert C. Byrd's burial on Tuesday, the focus shifts to who will succeed him in the Senate as early as next week as Democrats try to regain their 59-seat majority. 
 Gov. Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, a Democrat, initially said he would not appoint himself to the seat, but Democrats and state labor leaders are now pushing him to reconsider and fill the spot that Mr. Byrd held for more than half a century.
 The Parkersburg News and Sentinel in West Virginia reported Tuesday that Larry Puccio, the Democratic state party chairman and a former top aide to Mr. Manchin, said callers to party headquarters had overwhelmingly supported the idea of Mr. Manchin's joining the Senate. State union leaders also plan to call for the governor to take the job.
 Mr. Manchin remains popular in the state and had his eye on a Senate race in 2012, but Mr. Byrd's death has changed his timetable. Besides filling the post, the governor also has to decide whether the appointment will last until November 2012, when Mr. Byrd's term was to end, or to push for a change in state law that would allow a special election to be held this year.
 If he decides to resign and be appointed to the Senate, Mr. Manchin needs to be careful. Of the nine governors who appointed themselves to a Senate vacancy since 1933, just one - A. B. (Happy) Chandler of Kentucky - was subsequently able to win election on his own. It seems voters resent governors, even popular ones, who maneuver themselves into the Senate without an election. 
 But if Mr. Manchin and his allies can demonstrate a groundswell of support for his appointment, perhaps he could pull it off and beat the gubernatorial jinx.
 Whatever happens, Senate Democrats would like it to occur sooner rather than later. Mr. Byrd was sharply missed last week as Senate Democrats could not muster the votes to overcome Republican filibusters on a Wall Street overhaul and an extension of unemployment benefits. Democrats would like top push those through when they return next week and another vote would come in handy.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%)

COMPANY: MID-ATLANTIC OF WEST VIRGINIA INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (58%)

PERSON: ROBERT BYRD (92%); JOE MANCHIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



169 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Let Goldman Be Goldman

BYLINE: By WILLIAM D. COHAN. 
William D. Cohan is a columnist for nytimes.com. He is the author of a forthcoming book on Goldman Sachs. Thomas L. Friedman is off today.

 BODY:
Poised as we are for the most comprehensive financial reform in this country since the Great Depression, it is time to fess up to the fact that it likely would not have occurred without a concerted effort by the Obama administration and the Democratic-controlled Congress to demonize Goldman Sachs.
 There are good reasons, of course, why politicians have seized on Goldman for easy political gain. Among them are: the perceptions that Goldman figured out a way to benefit from the misery of others; that while many Americans were hurting from a recession partly of Goldman's making, the firm continued to rake in billions in profits and pay out billions more in bonuses; that Goldman seems unable to recognize that but for an 11th-hour rescue by the American taxpayers, in September 2008, it would have gone the way of Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch; and that Goldman has proved repeatedly that it prefers putting its own interests ahead of those of its prized clients and the rest of us. Another likely reason is that the politicians simply looked at the recent public polling data, which put Goldman's reputation below that of BP and Toyota, and realized that nothing spells political gold these days quite like bashing Goldman Sachs. 
 But the byproduct of this very effective, Goldman-centric political strategy, is that the larger issue of the dramatic deterioration of Wall Street's mores and ethics over the past 40 years has been all but obscured, as has a robust debate about how to change Wall Street's behavior in the future to prevent a recurrence of the events that led to the 2008 financial crisis. Unfortunately, nothing in the 2,319-page Dodd-Frank bill addresses the dramatic change in Wall Street's culture away from taking prudent risks with its own partners' capital toward a culture that rewards bankers and traders for taking risks with other people's money. This ethic is pervasive across Wall Street, and not just at Goldman Sachs, which as the last major Wall Street firm to go public - in 1999 - retains more of a partnership mentality than do its brethren.
 Despite the political haymaking, the truth is that Goldman Sachs did nothing differently in the years leading up to the crisis than did other firms of its stature. Nothing has come to light in any of the very public recent assaults on the firm that also could not be discovered by looking through millions of documents at every other Wall Street firm with large trading and capital-markets businesses.
 If anything, what has been revealed in all the reams of Goldman documents is that the firm was - and remains - a better risk-manager than any of its competitors, that it figured out trouble was coming in the mortgage market in 2006 and did something about it, instead of doubling-down, and that it managed to stay profitable throughout the years of the crisis while most of the its competitors were out of control.
 Indeed, the current political climate seems to have forced Goldman's senior executives to pretend that they did not bet against the mortgage market - from which the firm made a $4 billion windfall in 2007 - and to claim, instead, that Goldman barely made any money from its mortgage business. Why else - other than politics - would Goldman choose to obfuscate this fact rather than boast about its prowess?
 Now that a major political victory in the form of Dodd-Frank is within the grasp of Goldman's enemies in Washington, the time has come for politicians to lay off the firm and to allow Goldman and the rest of Wall Street to return to some semblance of normalcy. The time has come to let Goldman be Goldman.
 The best way for that to happen is for Goldman to relinquish its status as a bank holding company and free itself of the most onerous and restrictive provisions of the new law. It can simply revert back to being a securities firm - as it was for its first 139 years before the Federal Reserve approved the applications of Goldman and Morgan Stanley on Sept. 22, 2008, in a last-ditch Hail Mary to stop the firms' death spiral (which worked).
 Goldman should make the change sooner rather than later. The American people cannot be subsidizing the risk-oriented Goldman business plan by providing it with billions of cheap financing through the Fed. Nor should Goldman continue to benefit from the appearance that it will get bailed out the next time things go awry.
 By giving up its status as a bank holding company, Goldman can boast about how it - nearly alone - navigated the crisis by cleverly shorting the mortgage market instead of pretending it was like every other firm, just luckier. It can take calculated risks with investors' money. It can make billions of dollars - if it is able, once it is no longer subsidized by taxpayers - and pay those billions to its lucky employees. That's the American Way.
 But the next time Goldman Sachs runs into serious trouble - and it will - let the free market determine its fate.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); ETHICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); RECESSION (73%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



170 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Language Help for New York Immigrants Using City Services Falls Short of Goals

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
In the world's most diverse city, it was hailed as a milestone: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg signed an executive order in July 2008 requiring every New York City agency that dealt with the public to provide interpreters, translated documents and other language help to people who spoke little or no English. 
 The order was supposed to help immigrant New Yorkers use services and navigate a daunting city bureaucracy. And in keeping with Mr. Bloomberg's passion for applying good business practices to city government, the policy was meant to prevent the waste of time and money caused by miscommunication and misunderstanding. 
 Mr. Bloomberg pledged at the time to ''make our city more accessible, while helping us become the most inclusive municipal government in the nation.'' 
 But two years later, the mayor's promise has fallen short. Many government workers fail to offer interpreters, even if people ask for them, and signs and forms in multiple languages are often nowhere to be found, according to people who have sought services and a lawsuit filed against one of the city's largest agencies where the problems seem particularly acute. 
 The agency, the Human Resources Administration, is a virtual lifeline to millions of New Yorkers who depend on it for benefits like food stamps, cash assistance and subsidized medical care. 
 Uk Do Lee, 81, a retired inventor from South Korea, said he had been trying since April to apply for subsidized medical coverage for low-income older people. The first thing he told a caseworker at one of the agency's offices in Elmhurst, Queens, was, ''Korean -- no can speak English,'' he recalled in an interview. 
 Mr. Lee asked for an interpreter, to no avail. He said that because he did not understand what the workers were saying, he had to return to the office repeatedly to hand in documents he filled out with outside help, only to understand from them vaguely that another piece of information or another form was required. Mr. Lee said he had requested an interpreter every time, but they insisted on dealing with him in English.
 ''The workers don't listen,'' Mr. Lee, who lives in College Point, Queens, said through an interpreter. ''They regard themselves as kings.'' 
 Across the city, immigrants and the advocates who help them shared similar experiences. Zoila Almonte, 59, an unemployed janitor from the Dominican Republic who lives in Washington Heights, said workers at a food stamp office on West 218th Street often recruited people in the waiting room as interpreters. ''I only get Spanish-speaking caseworkers by chance,'' she said.
 A lawyer who works at South Brooklyn Legal Services said Spanish speakers were routinely told that they had to come up with their own interpreters at a New York City Housing Authority office in Brooklyn that processes subsidized housing vouchers. 
 And a study based on interviews with 817 immigrant New Yorkers to be released on Wednesday describes complaints about a lack of interpreters in dealings with the Human Resources Administration, the Police Department and Department of Housing Preservation and Development, which oversees the city's affordable housing programs. 
 The study, by two advocacy groups, Make the Road New York and the New York Immigration Coalition, found that many immigrants had no idea they were entitled to interpreters and translated forms, in large part because city workers had never told them and they had found no signs explaining their rights.
 Robert Doar, commissioner of the Human Resources Administration, acknowledged shortcomings but said that language access was a priority. The agency, he said, ''assists more than 3.5 million people each year on a wide range of benefits, and when there are specific complaints, we diligently investigate them and take appropriate action.''
 Even before Mr. Bloomberg issued his order, however, the agency's poor record of providing translation and interpretation prompted the City Council to approve legislation seven years ago dictating the types of language help it should offer to guarantee immigrants' equal access to benefits. Legal Services NYC, a legal aid group, sued the agency in August, claiming that its failure to comply with the law had ''deprived individuals of the necessities of life and repeatedly subjected them to humiliating discrimination.''
 Amy S. Taylor, the lawyer who filed the suit on behalf of 12 plaintiffs, said, ''There's a stark divide between what the agencies have on paper and what happens on the front lines.'' The suit has not yet gone to trial. 
 The mayor's executive order required 37 city offices and agencies to develop plans on language services and to train workers to ensure that the services were made available. No extra money was set aside, so many agencies, like the Department of Aging, recruited multilingual volunteers among their staff members. 
 The mayor's office says it ensures compliance through visits to field offices and a sort of secret shopper program in which undercover inspectors look for multilingual signs and translated documents, among other things. City officials said the inspectors' findings would be released this year.
 ''We are providing the tools necessary to implement the language-access plans, while holding agencies accountable for their service delivery,'' said Elizabeth Weinstein, the city's director of agency services. 
 According to Ms. Weinstein, 84 percent of the agencies have started to train staff members on what Mr. Bloomberg's order requires. More than 7,700 frontline workers and supervisors at the Human Resources Administration, about half of the agency's work force, have been trained so far this year and will be retrained before the year ends, Mr. Doar said. The agency also has an office that ensures that language services are available and it runs regular compliance checks, he said.
 Advocates for immigrants agree that progress has been made and cite as a success the city's 311 help line, which connects callers to interpreters in more than 100 languages. But they say the message is still being lost as it trickles down the chain of command.
 ''Part of the challenge is that it takes repeated training, and it takes funding to make this become second nature to front-desk government workers,'' said Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition. Each missed opportunity to make the right connections, she added, ''can lead to major consequences for the individual who is trying to make it through the system.''
 Mercedes Cruz, 47, an immigrant from Honduras who lives with her three children in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, is one of the plaintiffs in the lawsuit against the Human Resources Administration. 
 She first applied for food stamps and cash assistance in 2007 at an agency office in Coney Island, and in her 20 or more visits there over two years, she said, she was never offered an interpreter -- not even after her lawyer wrote a letter saying that the agency was required to provide one. She ultimately received benefits, but only after a wait of several months and absences from school by her oldest son, a sophomore at Brooklyn College, who translated for her. 
 ''It shouldn't be so difficult to get the help I need and qualify for,'' she said.
 Zena Kim oversees a small team of lawyers at the MinKwon Center for Community Action, a Flushing, Queens-based community group that is another plaintiff. She has to devote considerable time helping older, unemployed Korean immigrants fill out application forms for public benefits because, Ms. Kim said, so many of them refuse to go to the Human Resources Agency alone.
 ''They find the process very daunting -- that they have to speak English and do an interview in English,'' she said.
 Linda Lee, an outreach coordinator at MinKwon who handles health and labor issues and organizes workshops, does the same for Chinese speakers and sometimes accompanies them to the agency's offices to turn in applications and make sure all requirements have been satisfied. ''We're doing the full intake just like a social worker will do if we were at an H.R.A. office,'' Ms. Lee said. ''The thing is, that's not our job. That's the city's job. The mayor himself said so.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Uk Do Lee says he told a city caseworker, ''Korean -- no can speak English.'' Nevertheless, the caseworker ignored his right to a translator, he says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15)
 Linda Lee, a Queens community worker, says she ends up doing work the city should do. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RADHIKA CHALASANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (89%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); HUMAN RESOURCES (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); FOOD STAMPS (70%); LAWYERS (68%); LITIGATION (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); INTERVIEWS (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



171 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Oppose Canadian Pipeline

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Facing a decision on a proposed pipeline to bring Canadian crude oil to the United States, the Obama administration is confronting growing resistance from politicians who oppose the project or, at the very least, urge further study before approval. 
 The massive pipeline, known as Keystone XL, would allow Canada to export an additional 1.1 million barrels a day of oil to the United States. The United States currently imports 1.9 million barrels a day from Canada. Canadian oil sands are expected to become America's primary source of imported oil this year. 
 While Canadian oil represents a plentiful source of fossil fuel from a friendly neighbor, it poses environmental dilemmas: much of Canada's oil is extracted from oil sands in a process that releases higher levels of heat-trapping gases than conventional oil drilling in the United States. In addition, extracting oil from oil sands -- also called tar sand -- damages the local environment by creating toxic sludge ponds and destroying large areas of boreal forest. 
 Last month, 50 members of Congress sent a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton expressing concerns about the pipeline. Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, reiterated those concerns in a letter released by his office on Tuesday.
 ''This pipeline is a multibillion-dollar investment to expand our reliance on the dirtiest source of transportation fuel currently available,'' he wrote in the letter, dated last Friday. ''While I strongly support the president's efforts to move America to a clean energy economy, I am concerned that the Keystone XL pipeline would be a step in the wrong direction.''
 Mrs. Clinton is charged with reaching a decision on whether to permit Keystone XL under an executive order that gives the State Department authority to approve transboundary pipelines based on considerations of ''national interest.'' 
 In April, the State Department released a draft environmental assessment about Keystone XL. A public comment period recently ended, and over the next few months other federal agencies will be able to weigh in.
 In his letter, Mr. Waxman complained primarily that the gas emissions produced by oil extraction in Canada were not considered in the environmental impact assessment. 
 For the moment, the United States is the primary customer for oil from oil sands, and without Keystone XL, the growth of that industry could be limited. Canada is ultimately planning to build a domestic pipeline to move the oil to its west coast so it can also be exported to Asian countries, primarily China.
 Two prior pipelines to bring oil from oil sands to the United States have been approved by the State Department in past years with little public discussion. But with President Obama pledging to reduce the nation's dependence on fossil fuels and with oil pouring into the Gulf of Mexico from BP's damaged well, such decisions have taken on new significance. 
 ''Decisions that were previously left to midlevel bureaucrats are now rising to the highest political level,'' said Kenny Bruno, the United States coordinator for the No Tar Sands Oil coalition, an alliance of environmental and indigenous groups. ''President Obama has done some very good things on issues like energy efficiency. But if he approves this pipeline, it would be a clear two steps back.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SANDS (92%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); EXPORT CONTROLS (72%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (66%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (64%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); HENRY WAXMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



172 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: U.S. AND ISRAEL SHIFT ATTENTION TO PEACE PROCESS

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and MARK LANDLER; Isabel Kershner contributed reporting from Jerusalem.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama said Tuesday that he expected direct negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians to begin ''well before'' a moratorium on settlement construction expired at the end of September, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel pledged to take ''concrete steps'' in the coming weeks to get the talks moving.
 The president's comments, after a 79-minute, one-on-one session in the Oval Office, were the first in which he articulated a timetable for peace negotiations. They also reflected a palpable shift in the administration's approach to a relationship that has been rife with tension since soon after Mr. Obama took office.
 The meeting was laden with theatrics as the men shook hands vigorously in front of the cameras after a series of steps by the Israelis over the past few days to reduce tensions with the United States. But it was also deeply substantive, the leaders' aides said, with Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu touching on a wide variety of contentious issues, including Iran's nuclear ambitions and Israel's undeclared nuclear weapons program, as well as the peace process. 
 A single session in the Oval Office is not likely to have resolved a year and a half of deep policy differences, and the two leaders could hit more bumps in the months ahead, especially if Mr. Obama grows impatient with a lack of progress in the peace process. But on Tuesday, they sought to accentuate the positive.
 After publicly pressing Mr. Netanyahu for months to curb the building of Jewish settlements -- an American policy that fanned resentment in Israel -- Mr. Obama pointedly did not push Mr. Netanyahu to extend the existing moratorium. Instead, he said that moving from American-brokered ''proximity talks'' to direct talks would give Mr. Netanyahu the incentive and domestic political leeway to act on his own.
 ''My hope is, that once direct talks have begun, well before the moratorium has expired, that that will create a climate in which everybody feels a greater investment in success,'' Mr. Obama said, adding, ''There ends up being more room created by more trust.''
 The Palestinian Authority reacted cautiously to the meeting, saying that it, too, wanted direct talks, but that the onus was on Mr. Netanyahu to halt the building of settlements and to agree on negotiations that would resume where the last direct talks, in 2008, left off.
 ''It is about words not deeds,'' said Saeb Erekat, the chief Palestinian negotiator, by phone late Tuesday. ''We need to see deeds.'' 
 Tuesday's much-publicized meeting in the Oval Office was in stark contrast to the frosty reception Mr. Netanyahu received during his last trip to the White House in March, when Mr. Obama left the prime minister waiting in the Roosevelt Room while he went upstairs to have dinner with his wife and daughters.
 The mood was so sour then that Mr. Obama barred news cameras. On Tuesday, photographers clicked away in the Oval Office as Mr. Obama praised the prime minister as someone ''willing to take risks for peace'' and blamed the press for reports of discord. Mr. Netanyahu loosely quoted Mark Twain, saying, ''The reports about the demise of the special relationship aren't just premature; they're just flat wrong.''
 In another gesture to the Israelis, Mr. Obama emphasized that there had been no shift in American policy on Israel's undeclared nuclear weapons program, despite the United States' signature on a recent United Nations document that singled out Israel for its refusal to sign the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, binding 189 countries.
 Israeli officials were alarmed by the American decision to allow Israel to be named, which came at the prodding of Arab states. Some in Israel viewed it as a sign of the unreliability of the United States, Israel's most important ally.
 Mr. Obama also tried to soothe Israeli jitters about calls for a regional conference on a nuclear-free Middle East. Any such meeting, he said, would only be a discussion of regional security, not an opportunity to press Israel on its nuclear program.
 ''We strongly believe that, given its size, its history, the region that it's in and the threats that are leveled against us -- against it, that Israel has unique security requirements,'' Mr. Obama said, briefly correcting himself in midsentence. ''It's got to be able to respond to threats or any combination of threats in the region.''
 The source of the friction during Mr. Netanyahu's last visit was Israel's announcement, during a visit by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., that it was approving plans for Jewish settlements in East Jerusalem. Now, settlements are again at issue, but the president's modulated response seemed intended to return the American-Israeli relationship to one in which difficult issues are thrashed out in private, rather than through public lectures.
 Some analysts suggested that Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu might have reached a private understanding that Israel would extend the construction moratorium in return for direct talks.
 ''This enables Israel to say it didn't pay for direct talks, but there's an understanding that once the expiration date rolls around, the moratorium will be extended,'' said David Makovsky, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
 Among the other ''concrete steps'' Israel is expected to take toward the Palestinians, analysts said, is greater cooperation with the Palestinian Authority on security matters and increased economic aid for the West Bank. Mr. Netanyahu has suggested to aides that he has other steps in mind, Israeli officials said, but he has not yet disclosed them.
 Mr. Obama's stance reflected domestic political pressures on both men. Mr. Netanyahu, who is struggling to keep his fractious right-wing coalition together, has been under pressure at home not to appear to pay an additional price to lure the Palestinians to the negotiating table.
 And with Democrats facing a tough time in the midterm elections in November, Mr. Obama has reasons for softening his public stance on Israel. Republican candidates have been courting Jewish voters, who ordinarily back Democrats, by trying to portray the president as anti-Israel. 
 Some analysts say Tuesday's session reflects what Aaron David Miller, a longtime Middle East peace negotiator, calls a ''false calm'' in the relationship. Mr. Miller predicts fissures in the relationship, the result of a ''fundamental expectations gap'' in which Mr. Obama expects more from the peace talks than Mr. Netanyahu will be able to deliver.
 For now, though, Mr. Netanyahu is receiving, if not the red-carpet treatment, at least the customary cordialities that the United States extends to friendly world leaders. The Israeli flag was flying Tuesday over Blair House, the official guest residence, in a sign that Mr. Netanyahu was staying there; in March, he was quartered blocks away, at the Mayflower Hotel. 
 And this time, Mr. Netanyahu was treated to a meal: after their Oval Office session, the president and the prime minister and other top officials, including Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, convened in the Cabinet Room for a ''working lunch.'' 
 In the Oval Office, Mr. Netanyahu told Mr. Obama that, after repeated trips to the United States, it was time to ''redress the balance'' by having the president and the first lady visit Israel.
 ''I'm ready,'' Mr. Obama replied.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and President Obama signaled a warmer mood on Tuesday at the White House. (A1)
 Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Obama denied talk of diplomatic discord. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



173 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: A Record 103 Degrees Pushes Limits Of Con Edison

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN and FERNANDA SANTOS; Reporting was contributed by Ali Elkin, Natasha Lennard, Liz Robbins, Nate Schweber and Karen Zraick.

 BODY:
A record-breaking heat wave tightened its grip on New York City on Tuesday, as triple-digit temperatures tested Consolidated Edison's power supply, threatened the health of the elderly, and tried the patience and resilience of anyone who dared to venture outside.
With the temperature reaching 103 degrees in Central Park at 3:11 p.m., breaking the former record high of 101 degrees for the day set in 1999, Con Edison officials braced for the greatest demand for power they had ever had to supply. The long red arrow on the dial projected on a screen in the utility company's command center in Manhattan hovered at the threshold of uncharted territory -- 13,141 megawatts consumed at one time -- for most of the afternoon.
The heat broke several records in the Northeast, as Boston, Providence and Philadelphia all saw temperatures in the 100s that eclipsed previous highs. In Philadelphia, a 92-year-old woman was found dead in her home on the second floor. The medical examiner ruled that extreme heat was a factor in her death.
The National Weather Service blamed a high-pressure system along the East Coast that drew hot, humid air from the south and will probably stay put until late this week. 
In New York, the heat's effects were unsparing: Some city pools were filled to capacity within an hour or so of opening, sending seekers of respite to libraries, cooling centers and other public havens from the heat. Hospitals set out jars of ice water as their waiting rooms filled with wheezing elderly patients and exhausted firefighters.
Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said that the Police Department was mindful that crime sometimes increased in the extreme heat of night, and was also prepared to send extra officers to places that had lost power.
But even as Con Edison officials were optimistic that the city would survive the day without widespread power failures, they acknowledged that the intensity and duration of the heat wave could have a cumulative effect on the cables and transformers. In short, they said, the worst may be yet to come. ''It's Round 1 in a prizefight,'' said John Miksad, Con Edison's senior vice president of electric operations. ''Round 1 looks O.K., but the bell hasn't rung yet.''
It has been four years since the utility's equipment in Long Island City failed in a cascade of blown feeder lines and left tens of thousands of Queens residents without power for more than a week. The power system's ability to withstand a sustained surge in demand has not really been tested since that summer.
''We haven't had a real New York heat wave in a while,'' said Mr. Miksad, who admitted to having fretted through a ''nervous weekend'' knowing what was coming. Con Edison dispatched extra crews to Staten Island where a main feeder cable failed early in the day, and by late afternoon more than 4,000 customers were without power in the Fox Hills neighborhood.
By late Tuesday evening, Con Edison had reduced voltage in neighborhoods throughout Brooklyn and Queens because of problems with electrical cables, and customers were receiving automated calls asking them to turn off ''nonessential'' appliances. And in New Jersey, 24,000 customers across the state were still without power at 10 p.m., said the Public Service Electric and Gas Company.
The power failures came as city officials and utility executives dealt with what was the hottest day in New York since Aug. 9, 2001, when the temperature in Central Park also reached 103 degrees, according to the National Weather Service.
But Mr. Miksad said that more people might have lost power if not for a set of demand-reduction programs that were used on Tuesday, including voluntary cutbacks by big corporate customers and the utility's ability to control the thermostats in some residents' homes. All told, those programs saved as much as 400 megawatts and kept total demand from surpassing the all-time high, he said.
Some office buildings, including Con Edison's headquarters near Union Square, shut down banks of elevators, lowered the lights and turned up thermostats. Con Edison requested that all of its customers conserve electricity by turning off equipment not being used, keeping air-conditioners at 78 degrees and running washers, dryers and dishwashers late at night.
Robert Madden, 25, a waiter who lives in Astoria, said that his electronic equipment shut down in a specific order.
''First the PlayStation turns off, then the refrigerator, then the computer, the lights, then the pilot lights on the stove, then the fan,'' he said.
By late afternoon on Tuesday, New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill-Cornell Medical Center had seen only scattered cases of heat-related illnesses, but doctors there said that the numbers would most likely increase.
''Yesterday was much easier than today, which will be much easier than tomorrow'' as the high pressure keeps the air from circulating, saturating it with pollutants, Dr. Neal E. Flomenbaum, the hospital's emergency physician-in-chief, said on Tuesday.
At Elmhurst Hospital in Queens, 17 firefighters were treated for heat exhaustion after a three-alarm blaze at a two-story house in nearby Astoria in the morning, a hospital spokesman, Dario Centorcelli, said.
At Barretto Point Park in the Hunts Point neighborhood of the Bronx, the floating pool reached capacity at 12:10 p.m., barely an hour after it opened, a parks department spokesman said. After that, people were allowed in only as others left.
Several other public pools reached capacity -- at 1:30 p.m. at John Mullaly Park in the Highbridge section of the Bronx and at 2:30 p.m. at Sunset Park in Brooklyn, for example -- and beach attendance made it seem as if the holiday weekend had been extended by a day. About 270,000 people went to city beaches, most of them to Coney Island, where parks employees estimated the crowd to be around 205,000, the parks spokesman said. That was triple the number who went to the beaches on July 6 last year, he said.
On a small bench at the back of the Harlem branch of the New York Public Library, Frankie Santiago, 15, clutched his iPod and shared his headphones with Carmen Rivera, 14. ''We were going to go to the pool,'' said Frankie, who lives in Harlem. ''But it was closed, so we thought it was better to wait here than in the heat.''
Nearby, Charlene Williams, 60 and unemployed, waited for her turn at a 45-minute session on one of the computers in the library, which is on 124th Street opposite Marcus Garvey Park.
''If they allowed me two-hour sessions, I would stay that long to stay out of the heat,'' she said with a laugh.
The lack of air-conditioning in some dormitories at New York University had renters questioning their decision to spend the summer in the city.
Johnnie Kling, 23, moved to New York from Ohio last week to find a job. But he was finding it difficult to remain presentable.
''Sometimes I'll duck into a retail store just so I can acclimate and not have beads of sweat on my forehead during an interview,'' Mr. Kling said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Several hundred people gathered at the entrance to Highbridge Pool in Washington Heights on the year's hottest day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Yvonne Hicks, 70, shopped for an air-conditioner in Downtown Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); WEATHER (90%); ELDER HEALTH (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); AGING (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); HOSPITALS (72%); DEATHS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (67%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010



174 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Sweet Honey on the Block

BYLINE: By HUGH RAFFLES. 
Hugh Raffles is an anthropologist at the New School and the author of ''Insectopedia.''

 BODY:
FOR the first time in more than a decade, New York's beekeepers are claiming their summer perches on the city's rooftops. Bowing to a citywide campaign, the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene recently removed honeybees from the Health Code's register of ''venomous insects'' and other prohibited animals. Not surprisingly, the New York City Beekeepers Association saw a sizable bump in enrollment for its spring classes.
 Yet without support from City Hall, it's doubtful that we can return to anything like the pre-ban era, when hives could be found at city schools, on the roof of the American Museum of Natural History and even inside Radio City Music Hall. 
 The benefits of urban beekeeping are substantial. Despite the conventional view of the city as a slough of pollution, urban honey is likely to have significantly less chemical residue than commercial honey made beyond the boroughs. This is partly due to the high levels of pesticides in commercial agriculture and partly because small-scale beekeepers tend to use fewer drugs in the care of their hives than commercial operators.
 Urban honey also has the potential to be a godsend for New Yorkers with allergies. Although the scientific studies are still lacking, there's plenty of anecdotal evidence that the pollen in local honey helps people develop defenses against local allergens.
 Then there's the health of the city. Take the honeybees of East New York Farms!, an organization of urban farmers and neighborhood farmers' markets. These Brooklyn bees pollinate crops for the entire neighborhood. They aren't just making honey: they're building community, creating income and employment and maintaining vital urban green space.
 Local honey will benefit the health of the planet as well: minor transportation costs, no-fuss manufacturing (courtesy of the bees), minimal processing, simple recyclable packaging and centralized retailing provide a model of effective, low-carbon production and distribution.
 Beekeeping isn't as daunting as one might think. The humans require a bit of training, but bees are famously self-sufficient, needing little more than the right location, a supply of clean water, some feeding in spring and fall and a weekly inspection throughout the summer.
 Nevertheless, there are still significant obstacles to city beekeeping, and it's uncertain that, without the government's help, it will reach beyond a relatively limited stratum of committed New Yorkers.
 For one thing, unless you own your building, your landlord has to approve the hive's installation, and he has to feel confident about the reactions of the tenants and the roof's ability to support a 250-pound hive box. Then there are the costs: around $250 per hive, plus about $200 for the bees, the protective suit and other equipment. And even though the image of bees has softened in the wake of colony-collapse disorder, popular fear of bees is ever-present.
 So what can City Hall do? For starters, like other cities in the United States and overseas, New York could support urban beekeeping through small grants, through tax incentives for both beekeepers and building owners, through public education programs and by getting hives into city schools as educational and perhaps fund-raising tools.
 Beekeeping could also be promoted as a part of FoodNYC, a plan devised by Scott Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, to support grassroots efforts like green rooftops and urban farming. These efforts are already altering the ecology and economy of the city in small ways; with the right citywide support, they could have a far greater effect.
 As anyone who has studied a beehive knows, it's an ordered, self-sufficient world, a reminder that nature is always in our lives, even in the middle of the city. And there is nothing quite like your first open-air taste of fresh, local honey, sparkling with flavor, straight from the source. More New Yorkers should get that experience.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 8, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The biographical note accompanying an Op-Ed essay on Wednesday, about beekeeping in New York City, incorrectly rendered the name of the institution with which the author, Hugh Raffles, is affiliated. It is the New School, not the New School University.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALWAYS WITH HONOR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); APICULTURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (78%); ANIMALS (77%); PESTICIDES (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); HISTORY (75%); ALLERGIES (75%); WATER POLLUTION (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



175 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 KOREAN ENCLAVE TRIES 
 To Ride Out Political Storm
 At a time when the Koreas have traded threats of military confrontation and cut most economic and diplomatic ties, the Kaesong Industrial Complex in North Korea, where 121 mostly South Korean companies employ 44,000 North Korean workers, has remained a conspicuous exception. It has continued to operate even after the sinking in March of a warship, the Cheonan, and the recent closing of other joint projects. PAGE A8
 THAILAND EXTENDS DECREE 
 Declaring that many parts of Thailand remain unstable, the government extended by three months a state of emergency that gives the authorities broad powers to restrict political meetings and detain suspects without charge. PAGE A8
 National
 RACIAL MOTIVE ALLEGED 
 In Justice Dept. Decision
 J. Christian Adams, a former Justice Department lawyer hired during the Bush administration, testifies before the Commission on Civil Rights that the department scaled down a voter-intimidation case against the New Black Panther Party last year because his former colleagues did not want to protect white people's civil rights. PAGE A13
 E.P.A. ISSUES COAL RULES
 Acting under federal court order, the Obama administration proposed new air-quality rules for coal-burning power plants that officials said would bring major reductions in soot and smog from Texas to the Eastern Seaboard. PAGE A10 
 New York
 CITY'S LANGUAGE HELP 
 For Immigrants Falls Short
 In July 2008, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg ordered every New York City agency that dealt with the public to provide interpreters, translated documents and other language help to people who spoke little or no English. But two years later, many government workers fail to offer interpreters, even if people ask for them, and signs and forms in multiple languages are often nowhere to be found. PAGE A16
 Business
 INDIA EXPANDS ITS POSITION
 In the Drug Industry
 India's drug industry was once notorious for making cheap knockoffs of Western medicines and selling them in developing countries. But India is now starting to take on a more mainstream role in the global drug industry, as a result of recent strengthening of patent law and cost pressures on name-brand drug makers in the West. PAGE B1
 WAL-MART FIGHTS A FINE
 Wal-Mart Stores has spent a year and more than a million dollars in legal fees battling a $7,000 fine that federal safety officials assessed after shoppers trampled a Wal-Mart employee to death at a store on Long Island on the day after Thanksgiving in 2008. PAGE B1
 POLICING PARIS RENTALS
 Many people buy a pied-a-terre in Paris to use for a few weeks a year and to rent the rest of the time. They do not realize, however, that they are breaking the law. Now, the city government is trying to address the problem with a more direct approach to enforcement. PAGE B5
 Sports
 BEFORE ANNOUNCING PLANS,
 Stars Await Player's Choice
 LeBron James and Dwyane Wade, who can tip the league's power scale with their pending choices in free agency, appear to be awaiting word from Chris Bosh, regarded as the most talented interior player available. PAGE B10
 RUNNER CLEARED TO COMPETE
 Caster Semenya, the South African runner whose track career had been in limbo because of questions about her sex, was cleared to compete as a woman by track and field's international governing body, the I.A.A.F. The ruling ends an 11-month stalemate after Semenya first drew suspicion because of her rapid improvement and outward male characteristics. PAGE B11
 Arts
 RIVAL MUSEUMS RETRACE 
 Route of Imperial Treasures
 Scholars from mainland China and Taiwan are taking part in a two-week research project, retracing the routes taken by the imperial treasures in the 1930s and 1940s, when they were being safeguarded from the ravages of civil war and Japanese aggression. The project is extraordinary because it was organized by rival museums, each of which claims to be the rightful home of the artifacts. PAGE C1
 A WRITER'S RESENTMENTS
 Dwight Garner writes that it may be unsurprising to learn that William Golding, the author of ''Lord of the Flies,'' had an unhappy adolescence, but a new biography by John Carey illustrates the depth of his alienation and the class rage he carried throughout his life. PAGE C1
 Dining
 WHEN THE FIRST SIP 
 Is Not Yours
 Few issues of wine etiquette seem to cause as much consternation as the increasingly common practice of a sommelier taking a small sip of wine to test for soundness. Eric Asimov, The Pour. PAGE D1
 Op-ed
 MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A19
 WILLIAM D. COHAN PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (86%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (71%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); CITIES (70%); LAWYERS (70%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); PATENT LAW (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (68%); POWER PLANTS (66%); SMOG (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (62%); PATENTS (50%); THANKSGIVING (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (56%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); FRANCE (79%); THAILAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



176 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: In the Mideast, Points of Contention

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Tax-Exempt Funds Aiding Settlements in West Bank'' (front page, July 6):
 I compliment you for reporting on this scandalous use of American taxpayers' funds to support illegal and ill-conceived activities in the occupied territories of the West Bank. You clearly point out how the actions of groups of naive American evangelists are obstructing any eventual peace process for the Middle East.
 And while the total of $200 million in tax-deductible funds spent over the last decade is shocking, it pales when compared with the more than $30 billion in economic and military aid that the United States government has given to Israel over the last decade. This is much more than we have given the whole impoverished continent of Africa and is by far the largest single destination of official foreign aid. This aid should be stopped immediately. 
 Richard L. Huber New York, July 6, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Some questions:
 Why should it be controversial for tax-exempt charities to aid people who live in disputed territory?
 Why is it that Jews living in the ancient Jewish cities of Hebron or Jerusalem on Jewish-owned land are constantly called an obstacle to peace, while the Arabs of Jaffa or Haifa are not?
 Why is it that the term ''apartheid'' is applied to Israel, where Arabs and Jews live together, while it is assumed that ethnic cleansing of Jews from the West Bank must precede the establishment of a Palestinian state?
 The hypocrisy is blatant.
 I repeatedly see in your newspaper the phrase ''a two-state solution.'' The solution under discussion is not a two-state solution at all. It is a state and a half for the Palestinians, and half a state for the Jews. In other words, it is just a subtle plan for the dissolution of Jewish sovereignty.
 If the creation of a Palestinian state necessitates transfer of Jews from Har Bracha in the West Bank, then the creation of the redefined Israel ought to necessitate the transfer of its Arab minority as well.
 Richard Gertler Teaneck, N.J., July 6, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Nudge on Arms Further Divides U.S. and Israel'' (Diplomatic Memo, front page, July 4):
 We give and give to the Israelis, and for what? We ask them not to build settlements on Palestinian land, and they do it anyway. We ask them to sign on to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, and they refuse. Why do we continue to waste time and money?
 Their actions cause many of the troubles that we encounter around the world, and the Israelis don't lift a finger to help us. What kind of an ally is that?
 Mike Kelly Huntington Beach, Calif., July 4, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Of all the demands being placed on Israel, the demand to give up its nuclear deterrent is the most unreasonable. Israel has proved itself to be a responsible steward of nuclear arms.
 It has held back from using them even when its existence was threatened during the Yom Kippur war in 1973.
 Israel is an established democracy, with little possibility of a military coup.
 It has never threatened the existence of any other state.
 There are only two reasons for asking Israel to disarm: to assuage Arab pride hurt by not having something Israel has, and to rekindle Arabs' dreams of someday destroying Israel with impunity.
 Israel has no moral obligation to cater to either of these goals.
 Ilya Shlyakhter Cambridge, Mass., July 5, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Burrowing Through a Blockade'' (column, July 4):
 Nicholas D. Kristof finally admits that there is no ''full-fledged humanitarian crisis in Gaza'' but still condemns Israel, this time arguing that the siege helps gain public support for Hamas in Gaza. Even when Israel took the initiative to leave Gaza in 2005, it was the extremist Hamas that was supported in elections. Mr. Kristof's notion that Israeli concessions will undermine Hamas is belied by historical experience.
 Despite the fact that Hamas won in elections, there is no freedom in Gaza. In 2007 Hamas viciously eliminated a Palestinian Authority presence through violence. There is no civil society, no independent press and no judicial independence. Hamas maintains control by brutal force. The notion that Israeli behavior determines Hamas's position is pure fantasy.
 Every day Israel has to find ways to prevent Hamas from getting weapons to attack Israeli civilians while making sure that the Palestinian civilians have necessary items to live.
 Kenneth Jacobson Deputy National Director Anti-Defamation League New York, July 5, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Nicolas D. Kristof is right. The Gaza blockade should be lifted. Collective punishment is illegal and immoral. It is no different than if the Arab world joined in a blockade to starve Israelis to force an end to the 43-year-old occupation.
 That would be monstrous, just like the Gaza blockade -- and it wouldn't work. But it would be no different from what Israel is doing.
 M. J. Rosenberg Chevy Chase, Md., July 4, 2010
 The writer is a senior fellow at Media Matters Action Network.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW HOLLISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); RELIGION (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010



177 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: Trading Shirts, and Stories

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

 BODY:
The United States had lost to Brazil, 1-0, in the 2003 Confederations Cup, but when the final whistle blew that night in Lyon, France, the American defender Gregg Berhalter walked off the field with a memento from a tough night.
 In his hand, Berhalter carried the jersey he had exchanged with a bucktoothed Brazilian midfielder who would become known worldwide, Ronaldinho.
 When Berhalter recalled that night recently, it was with a heavy helping of wistfulness -- and not for losing the ball that led to the game's only goal. A few days after the game, at a hotel in Paris, where Ronaldinho was then the well-known star for Paris St.-Germain, Berhalter sent his dirty clothes out to be cleaned. Into the bag, he absentmindedly tossed the iconic yellow and green Brazil jersey.
 ''Needless to say, it never came back from the laundry,'' Berhalter said with a knowing smile. ''I wasn't too smart.'' 
 The exchanging of jerseys at the end of a soccer match is a longtime ritual that is well established in the sport, even as it has evolved. With each swap -- like the ones that take place after games in this World Cup -- there is usually a story.
 Often the tales are personal, speaking to a player's standing in the game or marking a chapter in his career.
 As for the jerseys themselves, sometimes they are washed, sometimes not. Sometimes they end up being given away, auctioned off, framed for display in a player's home, boxed up in storage, or -- as Berhalter learned -- who knows where?
 ''It's just a sign of respect,'' said Clint Mathis, who scored for the United States in the 2002 World Cup. ''You're out there trying to kick each other and kill each other, but when the game's said and done, it's back to being friends.''
 The gentlemanly ritual is believed to have begun in 1931, when France beat England for the first time. The French players were so ecstatic they asked the English players if they could have their jerseys as keepsakes. The English obliged.
 It was not until 1954 that exchanges took place at a World Cup, according to FIFA.com, but one of the more memorable moments in the ritual was an exchange that did not take place.
 In 1966, England defeated Argentina, 1-0, in the quarterfinals, but the play was so vicious that when England's manager, Alf Ramsey, who had referred to Argentina's players as animals, spotted one of his players exchanging jerseys with an Argentine, he stepped in and yanked the jersey away.
 That image remains as much a part of the rivalry between the countries as Diego Maradona's Hand of God goal and David Beckham's red card in 1998.
 ''Ramsey's intervention was hugely symbolic,'' said Ellis Cashmore, a professor of sociology, media and sport at England's Staffordshire University. ''Exchange rituals are freighted with cultural functions, such as reinforcing social solidarity, affirming friendships and perpetuating economic partnerships.''
 There are few friendships affirmed when the United States and Mexico play, which explains why jerseys are rarely exchanged in that rivalry. In the 2002 World Cup, the United States shocked Mexico, knocking it out of the tournament in a rough-and-tumble match.
 ''Especially after that game -- I don't think one jersey was exchanged,'' Berhalter said. ''There was a lot of bad blood in that game. That was one time when sportsmanship really didn't take a priority.''
 Cashmore compared the exchanges to kula, a system of ceremonial gift exchange that he said precedes formal trading in the Trobriand Islands in the Southwest Pacific. Kula ''kept what might otherwise have been fractious relations peaceful,'' Cashmore said. ''Shirt exchanges have comparable functions.''
 Over the last two decades, soccer has evolved from strictly sport to, Cashmore said, a division of the entertainment industry. Players like Beckham, Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo, Wayne Rooney and Ronaldinho are worldwide brands as much as they are soccer stars.
 Thus, some jerseys can be more than keepsakes -- they can be commodities. The Brazil jersey worn by Pele in the 1970 World Cup was sold in 2002 by the family of the Italian player he had traded with for $310,000.
 Nigel Spill, a sports memorabilia dealer in Los Angeles, said a game-worn jersey of a player like Messi, the reigning world player of the year, would be comparable to what a Derek Jeter jersey would fetch, easily into five figures. ''It's not an innocent jersey swap anymore,'' Spill said.
 Indeed, when Nadir Haroub of Tanzania received what could be a valuable jersey when he traded with the Cameroon star Samuel Eto'o after a World Cup qualifier in 2008, the Tanzania Football Federation threatened to force Haroub to pay for a replacement jersey because it could not afford one. Eventually, the federation relented.
 When the Los Angeles Galaxy played Barcelona and A. C. Milan in exhibitions last summer, many of the Galaxy's younger and less-well-compensated players schemed about trying to get the jerseys of Ronaldinho and Messi. Similar conversations took place among players on the United States team in South Africa, the American left back Jonathan Bornstein said.
 Still, there is an etiquette to the jersey swap. Typically, players who trade either know each other -- perhaps they are club teammates -- have battled over the same area of turf or just happen to be near each other when the game ends. Even those who are eager to snag a particular shirt try to be discreet.
 To Bornstein, all the accounting that takes place in shirt swaps also affirms where a player fits in the increasingly global game. ''There's definitely a totem pole of status,'' Bornstein said. ''It lets you know where you are on the totem pole.''
 In South Africa, Bornstein was a rather anonymous player, one from Major League Soccer rather than one of the top European leagues, and participating in his first World Cup.
 But when the United States played Honduras earlier this year in an exhibition, several Honduran players sought him out afterward to trade jerseys. His last-minute goal against Costa Rica last November clinched a rare World Cup berth for Honduras, and he remains popular in the country.
 ''On the other hand, there are a lot of players around the world whose jerseys I would like to have, but maybe they don't know who I am,'' Bornstein said.
 Chris Birchall, who played for Trinidad and Tobago in the 2006 World Cup, exchanged jerseys with the well-known players Roque Santa Cruz of Paraguay and Kim Kallstrom of Sweden. But when his tiny nation played England -- where Birchall was born and raised -- there were few players willing to trade, he said. Instead, he kept his jersey and had his teammates sign it.
 ''I don't know whether it was to give it to friends or family or if they thought it might be worth something if they won the World Cup,'' Birchall said. ''I come from England, so it would be nice to have one from the Gerrards or Rooneys.''
 But as players climb the totem pole, or simply age, it seems as if the jerseys themselves mean less.
 Eddie Lewis, a former United States midfielder, had a Ronaldinho jersey, which he picked up during the 1999 Confederations Cup. But he had forgotten about it until he was going through boxes when his family moved.
 Bornstein, 25, is not yet cool to collecting. He kept his jersey from the Algeria game, the first he played at the World Cup, and had it signed by all his teammates. He has jerseys dating to high school. In all, he has close to 30 jerseys he has traded for since he turned pro.
 Where does he keep them?
 ''A space saver bag,'' Bornstein said, though one day he hopes to frame them and decorate the man cave in his house. ''I do wash them. I don't want the stench of the other player. Actually, I thought about that this morning. I have to wash the Australia jersey.''
 A fine idea, as long as he remembers not to send the laundry out.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 13, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about the ritual of exchanging jerseys after a soccer match erroneously attributed a distinction to the practice in some copies. It is not in fact a ritual that is ''unique to the sport.'' (It is also done in the sport of rowing.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Australia's Jason Culina, left, and Matthew Amoah, of Ghana, took off jerseys to exchange after the teams tied in a World Cup match last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA BLACKWELL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%)

PERSON: DAVID BECKHAM (79%); RONALDINHO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); LYON, FRANCE (88%) RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (88%) BRAZIL (94%); FRANCE (94%); ENGLAND (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); AUSTRALIA (70%); GHANA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010



178 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Let Treasury Rescue the States

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER EDLEY Jr.. 
Christopher Edley Jr., the dean of the University of California, Berkeley, School of Law, was a White House budget official from 1993 to 1995.

 BODY:
Berkeley, Calif.
 HERE in California, where people tiresomely boast that the state's gross domestic product exceeds that of all but seven nations, I keep expecting a ballot initiative demanding admission to the Group of 8 industrialized nations. I'd consider voting for it, too; then maybe Washington would work as hard to synchronize its economic policy with Sacramento as it does with Tokyo and Bonn. The lack of coordination within the United States -- and, equally important, the failure to recognize the states as macroeconomic players -- helps explain our sluggish recovery. 
 To make matters worse, several states have country-sized G.D.P.'s, but none has the macroeconomic tools of an independent country. Every state except Vermont has some sort of balanced budget requirement that prevents it from weathering a recession by running up big deficits to keep teachers employed, students in college, welfare payments flowing and construction humming. Nor can New York and California stimulate their economies by, say, printing more currency. Instead, states are managing huge budget crises with the only tools they have, cutting spending and raising taxes -- both of which undermine the federal stimulus.
 That's why the best booster shot for this recovery and the next would be to allow states to borrow from the Treasury during recessions. We did this for Wall Street and Detroit, fending off disaster. It's even more important for states. 
 Here's how this would work. States already receive regular federal matching grants to help pay for Medicaid, welfare, highway construction programs and more. For instance, the federal government pays a share of state Medicaid costs, from 50 percent to more than 75 percent, depending on a state's wealth. The matching rates were temporarily sweetened by last year's stimulus. 
 But Congress should pass legislation that would allow a state to simply get an ''advance'' on these future federal dollars expected from entitlement programs. The advance could then be used for regional stimulus, to continue state services and to hasten our recovery. 
 The Treasury Department, which writes the checks to the states, could be assured of repayment (with interest) by simply cutting the federal matching rate by the needed amount over, say, five years. Of course, when Treasury eventually collected what it was owed, the state would have to cut spending or find new revenue sources. But that would happen after the recession, when both tasks would likely prove easier economically and politically. 
 What would this cost the federal government? Nothing. There would be zero risk of default, and a guarantee of full repayment plus interest equal to what Treasury pays in the bond markets to borrow. Congress would need only to appropriate the administrative costs of this program, which would be minimal.
 It seems clearer every day that there isn't the political will for another traditional federal stimulus package large enough to be effective in a $14 trillion economy. This proposal, however, would merely shift the timing of federal payments to states to help offset economic swings. It would have the additional merit of finally forging the federal-state partnership that has been missing since 1787, when the Constitution created a federal government with sufficient legislative authority to shape a nationwide economy out of separate state economies. 
 Indeed, our best shot at devising United States economic policy may be to give the states the role of creating and carrying out the economic stimulus we so desperately need.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MEDICAID (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); BALLOTS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); BONDS (70%); MATCHING GIFTS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



179 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, a Move to Ease Curbs on Growing Biotech Crops

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- After decades of pushing nations to surrender more power to the European Union, the bloc is pulling back on efforts to assert its authority over one highly contentious issue, genetically modified foods.
 On Tuesday, the European Commission will formally propose giving back to national and local governments the freedom to decide whether to grow such crops.
 The new policy is aimed at overcoming a stalemate that has severely curtailed the market for biotech seeds in Europe. Only two crops, produced by the agricultural giant Monsanto and the chemical company BASF, are sold for cultivation in Europe.
 The new flexibility is aimed at opening up markets in countries like the Netherlands, where governments are favorable toward growing and trading biotech products, while countries like Austria, where the products are unpopular, can maintain a ban. 
 But far from celebrating the new approach, the growing global industry as well as some farmers themselves are extremely wary.
 ''So many different authorities suddenly doing so many different things risks sending a message to successful growers in Africa and Asia that authorities are unsure how to deal with biotech,'' said Nathalie Moll, the secretary general of EuropaBio, an industry group.
 She said it also remained to be seen whether the proposals would conform with World Trade Organization rules.
 The United States and the European Union are still resolving a dispute over genetically modified organisms, or G.M.O.'s, and related issues after the trade organization in 2006 ruled against Europe's de facto ban. Washington could still retaliate in that case.
 The Office of the United States Trade Representative declined to comment on the new approach but said it would be on the agenda at a meeting with European officials this month.
 Despite ''some progress'' in recent months, the United States ''still has a number of concerns,'' said Nefeterius Akeli McPherson, a spokeswoman for the trade representative. They include ''a substantial backlog of pending biotech applications, and bans adopted by individual E.U. member states on biotech products approved at the E.U. level.''
 The reality remains that the European Union still produces few genetically modified crops, which many Europeans derisively call Frankenfoods.
 The United States, Brazil, Argentina, India and Canada are the top five producers of such crops as measured by land under cultivation. The European Union, with 27 member nations, ranks well behind at 14th.
 A critical factor behind the proposed change in Europe is a growing frustration with the current system, under which meetings between government officials and ministers often end in deadlock. That forces unelected officials at the European Commission to make the final decision on authorizing biotech products.
 The commission has found itself repeatedly pressured on one side by the United States and the W.T.O. to follow the recommendations of its own scientific authorities and enforce the use of approved products and on the other by countries like Austria and environmental groups that believe the European Union authorities are too eager to promote newfangled technologies.
 Under the new proposals, the commission would continue to make the approvals itself but leave it to members and local and regional authorities to decide what they want to grow at home.
 But whether the new rules will win the necessary approval from European Union governments and the European Parliament still is unclear.
 In an unlikely alliance, the Austrian and Dutch governments first made the proposal back in 2008.
 The Dutch were eager to ease tensions over biotech crops with the United States and other trading partners, and to ensure continuing imports of animal feeds that contain biotech products.
 Animal farming is a big part of the economy in the Netherlands, which, in turn, is a major exporter of meat and dairy products. The Dutch are also involved in developing biotech products.
 The Austrians supported the changes as a way to keep its national ban on growing any such crops without facing regular challenges from the European Union authorities.
 Other countries, though, have expressed concern about setting a precedent that could undermine European integration. The crisis this year over how to supervise the finances of the 16 nations that use the euro already has highlighted the limits to European cooperation.
 ''If the agricultural policy is common, why wouldn't the policy of cultivation of G.M.O.'s be?'' asked Elena Espinosa, the Spanish environment minister. Spain grew 80 percent of the biotech corn, intended to resist a pest called the corn borer, produced in Europe last year.
 In addition, Belgium, which has just taken over the rotating European Union presidency, is concerned that a ban by a single country could put the entire bloc in danger of facing retaliatory trade sanctions.
 Even farmers that favor biotech crops are concerned that the commission is offloading a problem on them -- and that the issue could become even more politicized than it is now.
 ''The Welsh and the Scots are vehemently opposed to genetically modified crops,'' said Philip Lodge, who would like to farm biotech sugar beets in Yorkshire, in northern England. ''With these conflicts of interest so close to home, I just don't see how I'll be able to grow G.M. in practice.''
 Other farmers warned that the change risked stirring up new confrontations with activists, who in the past have destroyed crops planted in trial fields.
 ''The prospect terrorizes me,'' said Jerome Hue, who farms in Carcans, France. ''If every locality can ban G.M.O.'s, I don't see how we will be allowed to grow the crops anywhere in France anymore.''
 Mr. Hue grew corn produced by Monsanto before the French government imposed a national ban in 2008. France has said it would consider lifting that ban once the European authorities have assessed new evidence about the effects of modified crops on the environment.
 Mr. Hue said biotech opponents could erect beehives at the edges of farmers' fields to pressure the authorities to impose new bans if the honey picked up traces of the modified genes.
 But commission officials and some other member states like the Netherlands say the new policy points the way to managing an increasingly unwieldy group of 27 countries.
 Last week, in the latest example of the persistent differences, countries failed for a third time to break a deadlock over whether to allow imports of six varieties of bioengineered corn for food and feed made by Monsanto, Dow AgroSciences, Pioneer Hi-Bred and Syngenta.
 That leaves the decision up to the European Union's health commissioner, John Dalli, who is expected to approve the products in coming months. He caused a furor among environmentalists in March when he approved cultivation of a biotech potato by BASF -- the first such approval in more than a decade in Europe.
 In the European Parliament, among those reviewing the proposed new rules will be Jose Bove, a French sheep farmer who captured worldwide attention a decade ago for ransacking a McDonald's restaurant to protest the influence of multinational corporations. Since then he has served time in a French prison for damaging biotech crops.
 He is now a deputy chairman of the agriculture committee at the European Parliament, where he was elected as a member of the Green Party.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In March, Members of the Green Party in the European Parliament called for Europe to remain free of modified crops. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK HERTZOG/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); CHEMICALS MFG (75%); AGRICULTURE (71%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); BELGIUM (92%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); ASIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); AUSTRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



180 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'THE ZERO HOUR'; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Hitler Youth Alumni and the No. 7 Train

BYLINE: By JASON ZINOMAN

 BODY:
Since it runs through one of the most ethnically diverse areas in New York City, the No. 7 train has become a symbol for the melting pot. But not even John Rocker, the Atlanta Braves pitcher who compared the subway line to riding through Beirut, could imagine bumping into a charming Nazi on a ride through Queens. 
 That's exactly what happens to Rebecca in Madeleine George's ''Zero Hour,'' an endearing if ungainly drama about a young woman in publishing who starts randomly meeting former Hitler Youth on strolls through the city. After studying World War II for work, she has become obsessed with its tragic history, but that doesn't completely explain her strangely cheerful encounters, which serve as the thematic center of the piece. 
 This new 13P production is a relationship play about the lies you must tell to live in the closet. ''Honesty is brutality,'' Rebecca says at one point, arguing for the virtue of lying. This theme of course is not new, which is not a criticism so much as a potential explanation for some of Ms. George's dramatic overreach. Rebecca (Angela Goethals) lives with her girlfriend O (Hannah Cabell) but hides her relationship from her mother and co-workers. She even tells her therapist (played by Ms. Cabell, who portrays three different Nazis as well) that she's not gay. Her dishonesty shuts her off from the world and transforms into cruelty. 
 Using the moral denial of the Nazis to reflect this woman's tragic flaw does not convince. But just as important, it eats up time that would have been better served filling out the unemployed O, who never comes into focus. Her emotional outbursts seem unearned.
 This is no fault of Ms. Cabell, who plays multiple characters with ease and displays nice chemistry with Ms. Goethals, a precise actress who communicates the pain of deception with eloquence. But the play still seems unfinished. The direct-address monologues could be cut. And by the time the Nazi from Nyack arrives on the scene, it's clear that despite moments of insight, this modest play cannot support the weight of the Holocaust. 
 ''The Zero Hour'' is playing through Saturday at Walkerspace, 46 Walker Street, TriBeCa; (212) 352-3101, 13p.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Zero Hour: Angela Goethals, left, and Hannah Cabell in Madeleine George's play at Walkerspace, produced by the 13P group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB STRONG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); HOLOCAUST (77%); WOMEN (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); WORLD WAR II (72%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (88%) LEBANON (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Zero Hour, The (Play)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



181 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: The Curious Mystery of the Sidewalk Tombstone

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
You can find just about anything on the sidewalks of New York, so when John Lankenau happened upon a tombstone while walking his dog one night a few years ago, he took his grim discovery in stride. Then he did what any self-respecting citizen would do: He carted the two-and-a-half-foot-high granite marker, which weighed several hundred pounds, home for safe-keeping.
 ''I didn't think it would last long there until it got vandalized or dogs urinated on it,'' Mr. Lankenau recalled. ''It once meant something to somebody. I just couldn't imagine someone's life sitting on the street.''
 But a tombstone is not the sort of missing object people ordinarily claim, so putting up fliers or placing a lost-and-found notice in a newspaper did not seem to make sense. Instead, Mr. Lankenau kept it, first in the living room of his apartment on the Lower East Side, not far from where he found it, and later in the garden behind his apartment building, a tantalizing totem of urban anonymity and fleeting mortality. 
 His own life as an artist and a part-time cook went on. But he was periodically sidetracked by the puzzling questions his chance discovery had posed: How did a tombstone wind up propped against a fire hydrant on East Fourth Street between Avenues C and D?
 And who was Hinda Amchanitzky?
 She was 87 when she died, according to the stone. The date was May 15, 1910, when the Lower East Side was the most densely populated spot on the planet, and 41 percent of the city's residents were foreign-born.
 Besides the name of the deceased, most of the writing on the tombstone was in Hebrew. Mr. Lankenau, who was brought up as a Lutheran, canvassed local synagogues and called Jewish genealogical societies, but to no avail.
 ''People said this is a mitzvah,'' he recalled, using the Hebrew expression for a good deed to describe his quest.
 Mr. Lankenau and a neighbor bought a copy of a death certificate from the city for someone with a similar name. But it turned out not to match the details on the tombstone. He searched online and found a reference to an author, H. Amchanitzki, in the Library of Congress catalog, but could not verify whether there was any connection to the Hinda Amchanitzky on the tombstone. A few weeks ago, Mr. Lankenau, who is a part-time caterer, recruited a New York Times reporter who is an occasional customer, in his search.
 Brian G. Andersson, the city's commissioner of records, was enlisted, and his staff found a death certificate dated May 15, 1910, under the name Amachanitzky. She was described as a widowed housewife who was born in Russia, emigrated around 1895 and died in Beth Israel Hospital. The certificate gave her age as 60.
 Her last address was listed as 156 East Broadway, a four-story brick tenement on the Lower East Side near Rutgers Street that now houses a Chinese supermarket.
 The death certificate said she was buried in ''Sec. U.H., Ocean View Cemetery'' on Staten Island, which opened in 1908. The initials apparently stood for the United Hebrew Cemetery there, but its staff had no record of anyone by that name.
 By then, Mr. Lankenau was confronted not only with a mysterious tombstone, but also a missing body.
 When a genealogist, Megan Smolenyak Smolenyak, was contacted, she constructed an Amchanitzky family tree that included Amshers, Shanits, Paleys, Lamports, Coopers and Massouds.
 Jeanine Massoud, who is 49 and lives in California, said Hinda was her great-great-grandmother. Ms. Massoud grew up in Massachusetts and was only vaguely aware of a family connection in New York, but her mother suggested that she search her grandfather's family journal.
 Sure enough, Ms. Massoud said, he wrote that his ''father's mother was an excellent cook and she published an excellent cookbook that was sold in New York and Philadelphia.''
 Not just any cookbook. In 1901, Mrs. Amchanitzky wrote what is described as the first Yiddish cookbook published in America. A copy is in the Library of Congress.
 The introduction to her ''Manual of How to Cook and Bake'' (''Lehr-bukh yi azoy tsu kokhen un baken,'' translated for The Times by Samuel Norich, the publisher of The Jewish Daily Forward) said that the 148 recipes she presented (including French cutlets and ''chicken zup mit macaroni'') were ''consumed in the finest Jewish homes in Russia, Galicia, France, England and America.''
 She wrote that her ''45 years' experience in cooking, baking, frying and roasting have taught me to prepare all meals very economically,'' and that it ''protects children from dyspepsia and other adult diseases.''
 ''Here was the voice of a working woman,'' said Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett, an affiliated professor of Hebrew and Judaic studies at New York University, ''a professional cook and restaurateur, who offered the best of Jewish food in a language her immigrant sisters could understand -- a Yiddish that was exact and clear.''
 Now that Hinda Amchanitzky's identity was established, what about her body?
 After Ms. Smolenyak asked the cemetery to check its records by date instead of by name, it turned out that an H. Anachowsky (an apparent misspelling) was buried in May 1910 in a section operated by the United Hebrew Community of New York, which is at 201 East Broadway, less than two blocks from Hinda Amchanitzky's last address.
 Her gravesite was found, but it was unmarked. Though the cemetery was vandalized in 1979 and hundreds of tombstones were toppled, the cemetery president, Arthur S. Friedman, said there appeared to be no evidence that Mrs. Amchanitzky's grave had ever been marked with a monument. No one ever complained that a marker was missing.
 Mr. Lankenau found the marker in front of 326 East Fourth Street, which for decades has housed the Uranian Phalanstery and First Gnostic Lyceum, an artists' collective and burial society founded by Richard Oviet Tyler and his wife, Dorothea. The three-story double-width brick town house, which was just sold for more than $3 million, contained a small synagogue for a congregation of immigrants from Knyahynychi, now in Ukraine.
 As it turns out, Mrs. Amchanitzky's tombstone was left outside the East Fourth Street town house deliberately. It was a gift to Dorothea Bear Tyler from a fellow artist, Andrew Castrucci, who lives on East Third Street. He had seen workmen carting broken granite slabs from the basement of a building near Avenue C that had once housed a monument maker's workshop and was being remodeled for a bank branch. He salvaged some of the rubble and also two intact tombstones, including the one that Mr. Lankenau happened upon.
 ''It was late at night, and I put it in front of Dorothea's building as a surprise,'' Mr. Castrucci said. ''It fit in with her other religious articles and the old shul.'' When it was gone by the next morning, he assumed that it had been stolen.
 But it is anybody's guess why the fully carved tombstone had remained in the basement workshop. It might have been a sample (the workshop was steps from a tiny courtyard where sample monuments were once displayed for sale). It might have been rejected because of a misspelling. It might have been ordered and never paid for.
 A century later, Bruce Slovin, chairman of the Center for Jewish History, which is in the process of digitizing historic cookbooks, has agreed to pay to unite Hinda Amchanitzky's plot on Staten Island and her tombstone.
 As for Mr. Lankenau, he has become a believer in fate. ''It's so cool that I would find the stone of a woman who wrote a cookbook,'' he said the other day, while preparing chicken with Calvados.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 10, 2010, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about the mystery of a tombstone for Hinda Amchanitzky, a Yiddish cookbook author, that was found on a sidewalk misstated the title of Samuel Norich, who translated the introduction of her book for The Times. He is the publisher -- not the editor -- of the Jewish Daily Forward's English and Yiddish editions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hinda Amchanitzky's grave, in an unmarked plot, above, in the United Hebrew Cemetery on Staten Island, will be identified with her tombstone. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 In 1901, Mrs. Amchanitzky wrote a Yiddish cookbook, which bore her photograph, left. The tombstone, which John Lankenau found leaning against a fire hydrant in Manhattan, cited the year -- 1910 -- that she died. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); WRITERS (73%); VANDALISM (72%); CATERING SERVICES (65%); GENEALOGY (61%); LIBRARIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2010



182 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Europe Caps Pay at Banks To Curb Risk

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN; Eric Dash contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
PARIS -- As Wall Street drags its feet on reining in bonuses, the European Union is forcing its banks -- by law -- to show some restraint.
 The European Parliament on Wednesday approved one of the world's strictest crackdowns on exorbitant bank pay, going beyond some of the limits that many banks were pressed to adopt after the financial crisis.
 The Federal Reserve has accused banks in the United States of moving too slowly to change compensation practices that stoke excessive risk-taking. While American and British regulators have adopted the principles of Europe's new measure, officials here are going a step further with caps on the percentage of a bonus that can be given in cash and with other changes to compensation. 
 Bankers in the union's 27 nations will be barred from taking home more than 30 percent of a bonus in cash starting next year, and they will risk losing some of the remainder if the bank's performance erodes over the next three years. Banks that do not curb the salaries of their biggest earners will have to set aside more capital to make up for risk.
 ''The exercise here is to make sure that bonuses are not a one-way bet, so that if you take risks and lose in a big way, that will affect what you get,'' said Nick Dent, a partner at the law firm Barlow Lyde & Gilbert who monitors compensation.
 Large cash bonuses have been blamed for encouraging the type of excessive risk that stoked the financial crisis. Under political pressure, banks in Britain, Germany and France had already moved to limit bonuses last year.
 The legislation, passed by a vote of 625 to 28, codifies a compromise clinched last week between European governments and lawmakers. National finance ministers are expected to endorse it on Tuesday, and it then will take effect Jan. 1.
 The measure reflects agreements among Group of 20 leaders about how to limit bank pay and is intended to affect high-bonus cultures at banks with operations in Europe like Deutsche Bank, Barclays and Goldman Sachs, and at some hedge funds. About 70 percent of a bonus would have to be deferred for up to three years and paid in a new class of security, called contingent capital, that would decline in value -- and potentially even be forfeited -- if the bank's financial performance deteriorated.
 For particularly large bonuses, cash could constitute only 20 percent of the payout.
 ''If within that three years something happens with the performance of the bank or a staff member, he won't get the payments that were deferred,'' said Guido Ravoet, secretary-general of the European Banking Federation. ''And the clawback means that even if he had been paid the full bonus, he must reimburse the bonus.''
 If regulators determine that a bank's pay structure encourages risk, they can force the bank to place hundreds of millions of euros more in its capital cushion as insurance, in essence a kind of back-door financial penalty.
 Banks that received government bailouts would also have to justify the pay of their directors and report the number of employees earning more than 1 million euros ($1.25 million).
 European Parliament members said the move would transform the bonus culture at banks.
 But it is still unclear how far the rules reach into the ranks of any given bank: lawmakers are leaving it up to the governments in each country, which will have to enforce the new rules, to decide whether the pay curbs apply only to a bank's top executives or also to traders who take big risks to reap big money.
 Last month, the Fed outlined a series of compensation principles to try to rein in risk at about two dozen of the largest banks in the United States. American officials, unlike the Europeans, are focused mainly on the form and structure of compensation, not gauging excessive amounts.
 At a Congressional hearing last month, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that ''many banks have not modified their practices from what they were before the crisis.''
 He pledged to push them to move quickly ''to restructure their compensation packages so that they will not be engendering excessive risk-taking.''
 The Obama administration's federal pay czar, meanwhile, is preparing to release the findings of a comprehensive pay review of high earners at 180 financial companies. Other regulators are making compensation a crucial element of their bank exams, and may use it to help determine the fees a bank pays into the government-administered deposit insurance fund.
 Britain's financial watchdog must also revise its remuneration guidelines to reflect the more stringent European law, including the use of contingent capital for bonus payments. That agency, the Financial Services Authority, has favored paying portions of bonus in bank stock, which theoretically would give individuals an incentive to make sure the bank's performance remained strong.
 Mr. Ravoet said bankers were concerned that compensation restrictions would drive workers offshore to places like Singapore, Switzerland or Dubai, which do not have similar rules because they are not part of the Group of 20. ''There is competition for talent, and it should not be that financial institutions have a competitive disadvantage vis-a-vis other companies recruiting highly skilled individuals,'' he said.
 Europe's decision to codify bonus caps could also tilt the playing field with the United States, which has so far steered clear of legislation. In Washington, ''they don't think it can be a cookie cutter approach, the same approach for every firm, but it needs to be thoughtful and reflect the risk-taking appetite for each firm,'' Vicki Elliott, head of financial services consulting at Mercer Consulting, said.
 ''The European Parliament statement seems to be very rules-based in terms of what they are suggesting with specific numbers,'' she said. ''It's a little bit concerning.''
 It also is unclear whether banks will increase compensation in other ways.
 ''When bonuses are so constrained, I can't see that companies will be able to do anything other than increase fixed pay,'' said Simon Garrett, a director and compensation expert at the Hay Group, a consulting firm.
 However, a number of banks raised salaries last year to avoid a one-time 50 percent tax in Britain on bonuses, and might not want to go further down that path this year, analysts said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: BARLOW LYDE & GILBERT LLP (66%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (66%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



183 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Haiti's Eternal Weight

BYLINE: By REGINALD DESROCHES, OZLEM ERGUN and JULIE SWANN. 
Reginald DesRoches is a professor of civil and environmental engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology, where Ozlem Ergun and Julie Swann are associate professors of industrial and systems engineering and co-directors of the Center for Health and Humanitarian Logistics.

 BODY:
Atlanta
 IT has been six months since the earthquake in Haiti left more than 300,000 people dead and destroyed 280,000 homes and businesses. Haiti still faces a long road to recovery, but one of the biggest things literally standing in its way is earthquake debris. 
 The quake left an astonishing amount of debris, including concrete and rebar from collapsed buildings, destroyed belongings and human remains. Twenty million to 25 million cubic yards of debris fill the streets, yards, sidewalks and canals of Port-au-Prince -- enough to fill five Louisiana Superdomes. 
 According to our research and conversations with aid groups in Haiti, less than 5 percent of this has been removed since January, and even less has been properly disposed of. A draft of the United States Army Corps of Engineers' debris management plan says it would take a dump truck with a 20-cubic-yard bed 1,000 days to clear the debris, if it carried 1,000 loads a day -- or about three years. But the current rate of removal is much lower. Based on our calculations, partially from the United States Agency for International Development's reports on debris removal programs, we estimate that it could take 20 years or more. 
 Today, debris is one of the most significant issues keeping Haitians from rebuilding Port-au-Prince and resuming normal lives. Much of the stuff has been left in place or simply moved to the center or the sides of roads. Some streets with especially large piles of refuse are impassable. As a result, it can take hours to travel just a few miles. Meanwhile, schools, hospitals, businesses and homes remain blocked.
 The debris is also an environmental and health hazard. The daily downpours of the rainy season leach toxic chemicals and carcinogens into the storm water system -- and ultimately into the drinking water. Debris has been dumped into the sea, turning the blue water brown. 
 Initial cleanup efforts were promising. Immediately after the earthquake, the Haitian government's road construction operation began clearing debris. Within a week, the United States Army Corps of Engineers deployed teams to identify sites for sorting and processing debris and drafted a debris management plan, while the Navy hired Haitian and foreign contractors to open major roads with heavy machinery. 
 But since then, efforts have lagged. At present, there is no significant, coordinated financing by international aid groups for debris removal using machinery, though some estimates predict the next year and a half of debris management could cost around $300 million. Instead, almost all of the operations in Port-au-Prince are in the form of cash-for-work programs like the ones sponsored by Usaid and the European Union, which have Haitians, at best, breaking concrete and loading trucks by hand and, at worst, just moving bricks from one side of a road to the other. Many workers lack masks or gloves. While this inefficient process may put money into the hands of Haitians, it only further slows rebuilding. 
 Instead, the United Nations, the World Bank and agencies like Usaid, in conjunction with the Haitian government, should create a task force focused on debris removal to coordinate the cleanup efforts of the hodgepodge of aid groups in the country. The task force should identify critical facilities, like hospitals and schools, and the roads that approach them, to clear first. It should lay down environmental regulations for debris disposal and landfill management, and regulate the use of cash-for-work programs. There's no reason these can't continue, but more of the money should be allocated to bringing in heavy equipment and expertise. This kind of task force would serve as a model for future disasters.
 Debris isn't sexy. Images of blocked-off streets don't inspire people to help in the way pictures of hungry or needy people do. However, if Haiti is going to recover, it needs more than food aid and health clinics; it needs functioning, accessible infrastructure. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MONICA CANILAO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BRUSH & RUBBLE COLLECTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (75%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (65%); CARCINOGENS (62%); WATER QUALITY (61%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (56%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



184 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NOW ARRIVING; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: In an Italian Enclave, Signs of Mexico Begin to Show

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
In 1986, when he was 14, Ramiro Carino slipped across the Mexican border and made his way to New York. He moved in with an older sister on 187th Street in Belmont, the neighborhood known as the Little Italy of the Bronx. 
 Mr. Carino was not quite sure where he had landed: the main language on the street was Italian, that nation's flag adorned storefronts and homes, and Italian restaurants and shops selling pasta, bread and cheese were everywhere.
Today, the accents of Spanish predominate. Mexicans have become a mainstay, toiling in the shops along Arthur Avenue and filling the apartments around the neighborhood's edge. And in just the last few years, some have opened their own businesses, from restaurants to shops selling clothing, DVDs, Mexican Western wear and soccer equipment.
 Mr. Carino, who survived his early years in the neighborhood by scavenging bottles and, at times, food from garbage cans, started his own enterprise last fall: El Sureno, a small food store and Mexican restaurant. 
 As the ranks of Mexicans in New York have exploded in recent decades, their impact on neighborhoods where they have settled in the largest numbers has been well documented, like East Harlem, Mott Haven in the South Bronx, and Sunset Park in Brooklyn. 
 But Belmont offers a glimpse of how Mexicans are gaining a foothold in other parts of the city that are less clearly labeled and where their numbers are far smaller. Slowly and quietly, the neighborhood's Mexican population appears to have reached the cusp of a breakthrough, injecting new life into the area, placing demands on its services and challenging the old ways.
 Still, it remains unclear whether that budding prosperity will translate into real political and economic power -- a question with big implications for a city in which Mexicans are now the fastest-growing major immigrant group.
 Mr. Carino is hedging his bets. With three children in public school, he has not given up his day job cooking at a deli elsewhere in the Bronx. He works there from 6 a.m. to 4 p.m., then returns to his restaurant and cooks until 10 p.m.
 ''I don't yet feel like a success yet, but I want to triumph,'' Mr. Carino said. Then, speaking as much about the gains of his fellow Mexicans in Belmont, he added, ''Putting all you got into it, you can triumph.'' 
 Deep in the central Bronx, Belmont has the feel of a village, a world apart from the turmoil of the Fordham Road commercial strip just half a mile away. At its core is Arthur Avenue, still filled with the aromas of Italian bread and cheeses. Italian-Americans still own many properties, though many families have moved up and out, replaced by Albanians, Puerto Ricans and Dominicans. 
 But it is the Mexicans who have most taken longtime residents by surprise.
 ''They sort of snuck up on us,'' said Frank Franz, a local business leader who has lived all his life here. ''When you saw they had their shops, you said, 'Wow! They're here in big numbers.' '' 
 In 1980, only 35 people of Mexican descent, or 0.2 percent of the total population, lived in Belmont, according to calculations based on census data by Susan Weber-Stoger at the Queens College sociology department. By 2008, they had grown to more than 3,200, or about 14 percent of the population.
 That parallels an increase in Mexicans across the city -- according to the Census Bureau, to more than 170,000 today from about 6,700 in 1980 -- driven by new immigration and a high birthrate. Many of the first Mexicans to arrive in Belmont in the 1980s were men drawn by the promise of jobs in the Italian restaurants and other businesses. In time, they started families. 
 Their increasing numbers initially stirred resentment among other Latinos in the neighborhood, community leaders say, and Mexican workers were often targets of muggings and attacks. In response, these leaders say, some young Mexicans formed gangs to defend themselves. But tensions over the Mexican presence have ebbed considerably in recent years, said officials in the 48th Police Precinct, which includes Belmont. 
 The population surge was felt almost immediately in Belmont's schools and churches. At the Roman Catholic Church of Our Savior, Mexicans now make up about 80 percent of the congregation, staff members said. At Public School 32, about a quarter of the student body is of Mexican descent, administrators estimated. 
 The principal, Esther J. Schwartz, said she and her staff worked to integrate immigrant parents into the school community, especially by offering bilingual services. ''We are really trying to support and encourage parent involvement,'' she said.
 The challenge of integration has apparently been greater at Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church, the Roman Catholic parish in Little Italy. Sister Martina San Pedro said the New York archdiocese brought her from Mexico 14 years ago to work with the Latino parishioners. 
 When she arrived, about 75 Mexicans worshiped at the church, most of them at a Saturday afternoon Mass in Spanish that had been added several years earlier. That number grew steadily, but some members of the parish council resisted introducing other Spanish-language Masses, Sister Martina said. When the parish decided about a decade ago to add Spanish-language services to the Italian and English observances during Holy Week, ''there were a lot of criticisms from the Italians,'' she said.
 In recent years, Sister Martina said, relations have improved, and two more Spanish Masses have been put on the weekly schedule. A proposal to add one on Sunday is still under consideration, she said. 
 ''I think they've accepted the situation,'' she said of those who initially opposed the moves. ''I guess they have realized that things have escaped from their hands and they have to accept it.'' 
 But perhaps the most visible evidence that Belmont's Mexicans have turned a corner are the new businesses on and around Arthur Avenue. Gregorio Castro opened his sporting-goods store last fall after realizing how many Mexicans in the neighborhood -- including his three sons, all in their 20s -- were traveling to Manhattan or Queens to buy soccer uniforms, cleats and balls. He specializes in jerseys and other equipment emblazoned with the logos of Mexican teams.
 Though the World Cup has brought a few more customers, sales have otherwise been slow. ''I may have opened too soon,'' said Mr. Castro, 45, who has lived in Belmont for seven years and in the United States for nine. 
 So he has not relinquished his other line of work: selling tamales on the street, a job he has been doing for 30 years, starting in Mexico. He rises at 5 a.m. to cook, then spends the morning selling from a basket on a three-wheeled bicycle. In the afternoons, he returns to his store.
 That kind of schedule has left most of Belmont's new Mexican business class with little free time to develop relationships with other merchants and restaurateurs. As is the case in many neighborhoods, Mexicans have not yet become active in neighborhood business associations. Still politically inchoate, they lack community leaders.
 Mr. Franz, the business leader, who once owned a restaurant and a cigar shop, said he hoped Mexican leaders would emerge to help steer the area's development. ''We're really trying to incorporate everyone as a neighborhood,'' he said. 
 But he has already seen plenty of evidence that Mexicans are putting down roots in Belmont. Four years ago, he said, after Mexico had been eliminated from the World Cup in an earlier round and Italy had won, Mexicans ran down the streets with an Italian flag, cheering, ''We won!'' 
 Old-timers took note, and it helped bond the two populations, Mr. Franz said. ''I think the way they see it was, 'Yeah, we'd like to see Mexico win, but if Mexico can't win, we'd like to see Italy win, because we're part of Little Italy,' '' he said. ''They're here to make it their home as we made it our home.''
 Now Arriving: This is the second in a series of articles examining the lives and impact of New York City's fast-growing Mexican population.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Mexican family on Arthur Avenue, a major street in Belmont, a Bronx neighborhood that has long been known for its Italian population.
Sister Martina San Pedro at Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church in Belmont.
Gregorio Castro sells tamales in the morning, then goes to work at his soccer store.
Ramiro Carino works at his restaurant after working all day at another cafeteria. (A18)
Gregorio Castro, left, opened a soccer store after noticing that many Mexicans were leaving Belmont to buy the equipment. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) CHART: A Bronx Boom: The Mexican population of Belmont grew substantially in the 1990s, and there is strong evidence it has continued to grow since.
MAP: SINCE 2000 Around Belmont, as in much of the city, the share of Latinos in schools has dropped as new immigrants settle in the suburbs. But at P.S. 205 and P.S. 32, it has grown, a potential result of continuing Mexican influx and births.Change in proportion of enrollment that is Hispanic, 2000-2010 (Sources: Census
 N.Y.C. Department of Education) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); FAMILY (77%); RETAILERS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); CHEESE (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2010



185 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: For Web-Financed Film Projects, a Curtain Rises

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
Kickstarter is a concept: a Web site that puts together creative types seeking money with backers willing to chip in micro- and macro-payments, a way to crowd-source the financing of ideas. Started last year, the company has become an unexpected influence on indie culture, a new model for a D.I.Y. generation. 
 And on Friday Kickstarter will also become a curator, when it hosts the first Kickstarter Film Festival. The event, part of the Rooftop Films series, will present some of the projects that patrons of the site have financed, from features and animation to quirkier stuff like a video of a dance anthropology performance piece. 
''For a lot of these things there isn't a clear place for their work to be shared, especially for some that have never gotten theatrical distribution or were never intended for that,'' said Yancey Strickler, a founder of Kickstarter, a start-up, which has 10 employees, eight of whom operate out of a walk-up apartment on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. ''Some of these projects are just bedroom kind of things, so I really like the idea of giving that a forum.'' 
 Among the works to be shown, drawn from the more than 1,500 projects that Kickstarter has financed to date, are ''Jens Pulver: Driven,'' a documentary about an ultimate fighter; ''Staring Into the Sun,'' an ethnomusicology inquiry into Ethiopian tribes; ''A Short Lecture of a Different Time,'' a theatrical work that, according to its author, combines ''Nintendo graphics, gameboy music, theoretical physics, spoken word and shadow puppetry''; ''The Dancing Ecologist,'' in which an artist studying neuroscience interprets the lives of plants and animals as movements; and ''The Woods,'' a cinema-verite-style feature made when the director and two dozen of his closest friends moved into a house in rural Oregon.
 The 90-minute program will offer snippets from each piece, many of them debut films. The brief spotlight is meant to drive interest and build audiences, which is especially crucial for aspiring directors. Musicians can busk; artists can sell sketches. But filmmakers have a harder time underwriting their projects as they go. (The company charges a fee of 5 percent of a project's total financing, but only if the goal is reached.)
 The company ''is definitely a force,'' said Dan Nuxoll, the program director at Rooftop Films. ''Almost every filmmaker I know who's self-funding their project does a Kickstarter at this point.'' (Sure sign of making an impact: becoming a term of art.) In the indie film world, Mr. Nuxoll said, ''it's changed things.''
 That's true even for people who are not novices. Matthew Lessner, the director of ''The Woods,'' made his directorial debut with a viral video starring Michael Cera and has worked on videos for of-the-moment bands like Dirty Projectors and Fools Gold. He had already shot the film, his first feature, financing it on credit cards two years ago. But then the economy collapsed, and Mr. Lessner, 26, was left without money to finish it. 
 Enter Kickstarter, where Mr. Lessner was able to raise more than $11,000 from 95 backers to complete the film. ''One of the things that's most exciting about Kickstarter to me, it really provides an opportunity for films that otherwise would not have a chance,'' Mr. Lessner said.
 Because he wanted to shoot and edit in an unconventional way, ''I thought from the outset this was not a film that we could get traditional funding for,'' he said. Having the support of dozens of strangers -- the most generous backer got an executive producer credit -- ''helps give it an extra push for getting it done,'' he said. He hopes to begin submitting his film to festivals later this summer.
 Kickstarter's appeal isn't limited to movies, so the festival, to be held on the roof of the Old American Can Factory in Gowanus, Brooklyn, will also feature a menu of Kickstarter-backed snacks: artisanal drinks from Brooklyn Soda Works, homemade desserts from the Ice Cream Club and Cakestarter, and vegetables from the Brooklyn Grange farm. There will also be music from the Zlatne Uste Balkan Brass Band, the focus of the Kickstarter-financed documentary ''Brasslands.''
 Presumably some financiers will turn up at the Can Factory to see the work they have endowed. What if they don't like the finished product? The filmmakers and organizers shrugged off that concern. They noted that the payback is not meant to be financial. 
 ''One of the things that's nice about Kickstarter is that it's not people investing,'' Mr. Nuxoll of Rooftop said. ''There's no return beyond your involvement in the project. The idea is to support these artists on what they're doing on the level they're doing it.''
 But Olivia Wyatt, the director of ''Staring Into the Sun,'' has already dealt with a version of backer's remorse, from the indie film world's original kickstarters: parents. After she showed her father a clip of her project, which follows the music and dance of 13 tribes in Southern Ethiopia, his response was: '' 'Oh, I can't stand the music,' '' Ms. Wyatt, 27, recalled, audibly deflated.
 ''And I was like, this is going to be terrible because the whole film is about the music. And my mom writes back, 'I think you should use something more jazzy.' '' (On viewing the completed film, Ms. Wyatt happily reported, her mother was ''mesmerized.'') 
 For the Kickstarter crew, the mere fact of having a real live event is reward enough. The exciting part is bringing ''Kickstarter into the real world,'' said Mr. Strickler, who has personally put money into 216 projects so far. ''Those of us who work here, we spend all day just going through the site and honestly marveling at what people are doing. We're really creating a kind of Kickstarter universe for this one night.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 9, 2010, Friday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about the Kickstarter Film Festival misstated the number of projects financed by Kickstarter, a Web site that plays matchmaker for filmmakers and financial backers. It has financed more than 1,500 projects, not more than 5,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yancey Strickler, left, and Perry Chen, two founders of Kickstarter, at the site of its film festival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CROWDSOURCING (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); FILM (89%); FESTIVALS (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); ANIMATION (76%); DANCE (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%); GENERATION Y (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); MUSIC (63%); PHYSICS (50%)

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (53%)

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2010



186 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Money in the Bank? No, Sandwich in a Can

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
DENVER -- Is putting a sandwich in a can and calling it a ''Candwich'' the next can't-miss billion-dollar idea? 
 Even if it is, investors in Utah who put $145 million in the hands of a money manager named Travis L. Wright will still have thinner wallets. A lawsuit by the federal Securities and Exchange Commission says that Mr. Wright promised returns of up to 24 percent on real estate investments, but that he put the money instead into Candwich development and other equally untried ideas.
 Along with sales of canned sandwiches -- Pepperoni Pizza Pocket and French Toast in a can were planned -- Mr. Wright's companies, under the banner of Waterford Funding, also invested in a company selling rose petals printed with greeting card sentiments and another selling watches over the Internet. 
 Utah has long endured a reputation as a place where many people are naive or trusting to the point of losing their shirts. And the erosion of retirement savings in the recession has only compounded the problem, said Michael E. Hines, the director of enforcement at the Utah Division of Securities. 
 ''A lot of 401(k)s have become 201(k)s,'' Mr. Hines said.
 Some scammers do not even need expensive-looking offices as stage sets. About five years ago, for example, a scheme promising a $50 million payout for a $5,000 investment raked in about $144 million nationally. In Utah, the group successfully sought investors by putting filers on car windshields. Much of the money ended up in Latvia, Mr. Hines said. 
 Mr. Wright, who is 47 and lives in Draper, Utah, according to the suit, did not return telephone calls. Several listings for Waterford Funding were disconnected or not in service.
 Meanwhile, the Candwich concept perseveres. The president of Mark One Foods, Mark Kirkland, who said he patented the idea of putting solid food in a beverage container with the slogan, ''Quick & Tasty, Ready to Eat,'' said Mr. Wright promised full financial backing for Candwich production that never really materialized even as investors did. He said he believed that canned sandwiches would ultimately sell, and hoped to go into production later this year.
 The shelf life of a Candwich is excellent, Mr. Kirkland said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); US 401K PLANS (77%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); REAL ESTATE (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); LITIGATION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); LATVIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



187 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Raises Its Economic Growth Forecast

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
BEIJING (AP) -- The world economy is recovering faster than expected but Europe's debt crisis has increased financial risks and governments urgently need to rebuild shaky public confidence, the International Monetary Fund said on Thursday. 
 The Washington-based I.M.F. raised its 2010 world growth forecast to 4.5 percent from 4.1 percent in April. Its growth forecast for the United States rose to 3.3 percent from 2.7 percent. The outlook for the European nations that use the euro was unchanged at 1 percent.
 But in its quarterly World Economic Outlook, the I.M.F. warned that ''risks have risen sharply'' because of Europe's financial turbulence. It European leaders needed to act quickly to resolve debt problems and restore confidence in their banks.
 Europe's debt risks are ''threatening to spill over to other regions'' and reverse recent gains, the agency said in a separate Global Financial Stability Report.
 Global economic indicators stabilized in May, with industrial output and trade growing at a rate of more than 10 percent, the agency said. It said there was a modest but steady recovery in developed economies and strong growth in emerging nations.
 Asian economies recovered strongly this year, driven by buoyant exports and stronger domestic demand, the I.M.F. said.
 The agency raised its 2010 growth forecast for China, to 10.5 percent from 10 percent in April; for Japan, to 2.4 percent from 1.9 percent; and for India, to 9.4 percent from 8.8 percent. The estimate of the region's growth rose to 7.5 percent from 7 percent.
 However, it warned that any slackening in Europe's recovery ''would affect Asia through both trade and financial channels.''
 Weak data from major economies in recent weeks have diminished confidence in a strong rebound from last year's recession.
 The I.M.F. said European leaders must act quickly to rebuild confidence. It said they must resolve uncertainty about banks' exposure to government debt and other risks and make sure lenders have enough capital and markets have adequate liquidity.
 It said many advanced economies urgently needed to push ahead with financial system reforms including recapitalizing banks, revamping and consolidating banking industries and overhauling regulation.
 ''In the absence of complete banking sector recapitalization and restructuring, the flow of credit to the economy will continue to be impaired,'' the I.M.F. said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); RECESSION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



188 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: A Deep Driller With Penchant To Test Rules

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER; Walter Gibbs contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Transocean is the world's largest offshore drilling company, but until its Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in the Gulf of Mexico in April, few Americans outside the energy business had heard of it. It is well known, however, in a number of other countries -- for testing local laws and regulations.
 Human rights advocates have called for an investigation into Transocean's recent dealings in Myanmar. They cite its involvement in a drilling project that apparently included a company that is suspected of having ties to two men accused of laundering money for Myanmar's repressive government, which is under United States trade sanctions.
 Transocean has disclosed in Securities and Exchange Commission filings that its drilling equipment was shipped by a forwarder through Iran and that until last year it held a stake in a company that did business in Syria. The State Department says Syria and Iran sponsor terrorism. 
 In Norway, Transocean is the subject of a criminal investigation into possible tax fraud. The company has said in S.E.C. filings that Norwegian officials could assess it about $840 million in taxes and penalties. The filings also said that a final ruling against Transocean could have a ''material impact'' on the company, which has suffered a drop in its stock price of more than 40 percent since the Gulf of Mexico incident.
 And in the United States, a federal bankruptcy judge recently found that one of Transocean's merger partners had repeatedly abused the legal system to try to avoid potential liability in a pollution case in Louisiana. Transocean is also the target of tax inquiries in the United States and Brazil. 
 Transocean declined though an outside spokesman to make company officials available for comment. The company said in a statement that it had always acted appropriately and believed that it would prevail in any investigations. 
 It is not unusual for large multinational companies like Transocean to find themselves in legal or tax controversies around the world and Transocean has noted the issues that face it in public filings. The company's most significant safety problem overseas involved a 2007 episode in which eight people died off the coast of Scotland when a support vessel capsized while towing a huge chain used to position a Transocean rig. A Norwegian board of inquiry found that missteps by several parties, including Transocean and the support vessel's owner, had contributed to the incident.
 But the company's practices in the United States and abroad have come under new scrutiny since the oil spill in the gulf. Last week, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, said that the panel would investigate whether Transocean had used its corporate base in Switzerland to exploit United States tax laws.
 In its dealings with lawmakers, Transocean has stood its ground. Last month, in response to a demand that Transocean delay a planned distribution to shareholders of $1 billion in dividends, the company declared that paying the dividend ''in no way affects Transocean's ability to meet it legal obligations.'' 
 Transocean has largely blamed BP, the well's operator, for the spill, describing it as a company that took shortcuts on safety. Transocean has had a long relationship with BP, and for the last two years, BP has been Transocean's largest single customer, accounting for 12 percent of its $11.5 billion in operating revenue in 2009, public filings show.
 Industry analysts said that strong ties between the companies reflected the fact that both had staked their financial futures on pushing oil exploration as far off shore as possible. Transocean, which drills in some 30 countries and employs more than 18,000 people, owns nearly half of the 50 or so deepwater platforms in the world. 
 ''These people are capable and considered the gold standard of deepwater drilling,'' said Peter Vig, managing director at RoundRock Capital Management, an energy hedge fund in Dallas.
 Transocean's evolution into the world's biggest deep-sea driller follows a decade-long acquisition and merger spree. 
 It began in 1996 when a Texas-based company called Sonat OffshoreDrilling acquired Transocean ASA, then Norway's largest offshore driller. Three years later, the company, now known as Transocean, shifted its headquarters for tax purposes to the Cayman Islands from Houston, though a vast majority of its executives still work in Houston. In subsequent years, it acquired or merged with other drillers including R&B Falcon, the drilling unit of Schlumberger and GlobalSantaFe. Then, in 2008, for tax purposes, it moved its headquarters again, this time to Switzerland from the Cayman Islands. 
 The tax investigation in Norway involves how Transocean represented the sale of 12 drilling rigs owned by its Norwegian subsidiary to another company unit, said a spokeswoman for an agency known as Okokrim, which investigates economic and environmental crimes.
 The case ''raises several important questions regarding the taxation of multinational corporations,'' said the spokeswoman, Mie Skarpaas, who declined to discuss the investigation further.
 A Norwegian newspaper, Dagens Naeringsliv, reported several years ago that a Transocean rig, while returning from a repair yard in Norway to a drilling site in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea, diverted for several hours into British waters. During that time, Transocean transferred ownership of the rig between subsidiaries and later argued that it did not have to pay Norwegian taxes because profits on the transaction had been earned outside the country. The company subsequently settled the case involving that rig. 
 In 2008, Norway's highest court ruled that Okokrim and tax authorities could share documents and computer files seized during raids of Transocean and Ernst & Young which was the company's tax adviser. That ruling also said that at least three people, including two Ernst & Young employees, were under investigation in connection with the episode. 
 In its statement, Transocean said that its ''tax returns are materially correct as filed'' and that it ''will vigorously defend any claims to the contrary.'' A spokesman for Ernst & Young, declined to comment.
 In Myanmar, formerly Burma, a Transocean rig was under contract to a Chinese government-controlled oil company, Cnooc, as recently as this spring. Another apparent stakeholder in the drilling site, according to Cnooc, was a Singapore business. That business has been linked to two men identified by the United States Treasury Department in 2008 as major operatives and money launderers for the Myanmar government. At the time, American authorities described both men as longtime heroin traffickers.
 Transocean said in a statement that its contract was with Cnooc and did not mention either man. Transocean also said it had not violated the trade sanctions against Myanmar. ''No Transocean affiliate that is subject to the U.S. ban has ever done business in Myanmar,'' the company said.
 In the United States, the recent ruling by a federal bankruptcy court judge involved one of Transocean's merger partners.
 Judge Kevin Gross of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware found in May that the partner, GlobalSantaFe, had entered into a misleading bankruptcy scheme that included the use of shell companies to avoid potential liabilities in an oil pollution case. Judge Gross found the actions so egregious that he ordered GlobalSantaFe and related units to pay $2 million in sanctions to another company involved in the case. 
 In a statement, Transocean said the issues involving GlobalSantaFe had occurred before their 2007 merger.
 Judge Gross did not mention Transocean by name. But in his ruling, he said that GlobalSantaFe and its units were still involved in a ''gamesmanship with the judicial system'' to thwart potential claims. 
 Asked about Judge Gross's ruling, Transocean said, ''We are confident we'll prevail in the remaining legal issues that have yet to be decided.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steven L. Newman, chief of Transocean, testified in June at a Senate hearing on financial responsibility for the BP oil spill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)
 A Transocean platform, leased by BP, drilling a relief well at the site of the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DERICK E. HINGLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); OIL SPILLS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (70%); TERRORISM (68%); DIVIDENDS (65%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (64%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (62%); FINES & PENALTIES (57%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MYANMAR (93%); NORWAY (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (88%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SCOTLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



189 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Trade Center Tower Defies Its Naysayers

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The announcement on Wednesday that the powerful Durst real estate family had won a hotly contested bidding contest for a stake in 1 World Trade Center represented a remarkable turnaround in the fortunes of the $3.3 billion skyscraper since its inception six years ago.
 The tower, which will stand 1,776 feet high and succeed the Empire State Building as the tallest in the city, had been scorned as a white elephant throughout its planning and the innumerable delays before construction. 
 But as the tower's thick steel beams gradually rose over ground zero, the 105-story building became a much-sought-after trophy for a who's who of New York real estate figures. The developers recognized that the tower would draw international attention and become a symbol of a rejuvenated trade center and Lower Manhattan's commercial district.
 Still, the cost of building 1 World Trade Center, which was known as the Freedom Tower, is enormously high -- roughly $1,269 a square foot. It will be a challenge for both the Dursts and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the site, to fill the cavernous 2.6 million square feet of space.
 ''We are ecstatic that the Port Authority has selected us, and we are optimistic that 1 World Trade Center will join the skyline as one of New York's great buildings,'' said Jonathan Durst, president of the Durst Organization. ''We look forward to a productive and mutually beneficial partnership with the Port Authority and congratulate them on the progress they have achieved at 1 World Trade Center.''
 The authority's board met Wednesday and selected Durst over the other finalist, the Related Companies, one of the city's most prolific developers. The authority and the Dursts plan to negotiate a final agreement over the next 30 days. If the deal is completed, the Dursts will invest at least $100 million for an undisclosed stake in the project and take over leasing and management of the building.
 The authority figured that it was good at building but would need an expert to lure top-notch tenants from the United States and abroad. In one of the more intriguing possibilities, the publishing giant Conde Nast has expressed interest in moving to 1 World Trade Center from a Durst building in Times Square.
 ''We're extremely pleased that some of the most prominent developers in the country saw market value in this world-class office tower, and engaged in an extremely competitive process for a stake in it,'' said Anthony R. Coscia, the authority's chairman. ''What is most important is that we reach an agreement that is good for the building, for the World Trade Center site and for the region.''
 So far, the Beijing Vantone Industrial Company, a Chinese real estate firm that signed a lease for the 64th through 69th floors, a total of about 190,000 square feet, is the sole private tenant. The authority has preliminary agreements with the state and federal governments for one million square feet. 
 The authority had explored selling the building in 2007 to a private equity firm, but the recession quickly wiped out that possibility. In January, the authority solicited interest from a select group of developers who might be interested in a partnership deal. Six responded: the Durst Organization; Steven Roth, chairman of Vornado Realty Trust, a national real estate company; Mortimer B. Zuckerman, chairman of Boston Properties and the owner of The Daily News; Brookfield Properties, one of the largest landlords downtown; Hines, an international developer based in Texas; and Stephen M. Ross, chief executive of the Related Companies.
 Mr. Ross expressed disappointment on Wednesday. ''I wish them the best,'' he said, ''because I realize how important this job is. It's going to need some nontraditional thinking.''
 The deal is also a remarkable reversal for the Dursts, and not the first for a member of New York's real estate royalty. Seymour Durst was a vociferous opponent of the original World Trade Center complex. And his son, Douglas, had been an outspoken critic of the Freedom Tower. Like many critics, the son said the tower was ill conceived and too expensive.
 But the Dursts, who have been eager to get into a new development project since they completed the Bank of America Tower on 42nd Street last year, recognized that it was better to get involved downtown because there would not be many office towers built in Manhattan over the next decade.
 The Durst family, which owns 10 Midtown office buildings, had also opposed the redevelopment of the Times Square area in the 1980s. It was bad policy, the Dursts argued, for government to subsidize four planned office buildings in Times Square that would compete with privately built towers along Avenue of the Americas, particularly theirs.
 The designated Times Square developer, George Klein, once blamed them for 46 of the 47 lawsuits that delayed redevelopment there for much of the 1980s. But in the end, it was Douglas Durst, not Mr. Klein, who built the first of the four Times Square towers -- the Conde Nast Building at 4 Times Square -- in 1996.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Durst family's stake in 1 World Trade Center, under construction, above, suggests a turnaround in its marketability. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (87%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (71%); PUBLISHING (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (64%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (64%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



190 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: V.A. Is Easing Rules to Cover Stress Disorder

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

 BODY:
The government is preparing to issue new rules that will make it substantially easier for veterans who have been found to have post-traumatic stress disorder to receive disability benefits, a change that could affect hundreds of thousands of veterans from the wars in Iraq, Afghanistan and Vietnam. 
 The regulations from the Department of Veterans Affairs, which will take effect as early as Monday and cost as much as $5 billion over several years according to Congressional analysts, will essentially eliminate a requirement that veterans document specific events like bomb blasts, firefights or mortar attacks that might have caused P.T.S.D., an illness characterized by emotional numbness, irritability and flashbacks. 
 For decades, veterans have complained that finding such records was extremely time consuming and sometimes impossible. And in the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, veterans groups assert that the current rules discriminate against tens of thousands of service members -- many of them women -- who did not serve in combat roles but nevertheless suffered traumatic experiences. 
 Under the new rule, which applies to veterans of all wars, the department will grant compensation to those with P.T.S.D. if they can simply show that they served in a war zone and in a job consistent with the events that they say caused their conditions. They would not have to prove, for instance, that they came under fire, served in a front-line unit or saw a friend killed. 
 The new rule would also allow compensation for service members who had good reason to fear traumatic events, known as stressors, even if they did not actually experience them. 
 There are concerns that the change will open the door to a flood of fraudulent claims. But supporters of the rule say the veterans department will still review all claims and thus be able to weed out the baseless ones. 
 ''This nation has a solemn obligation to the men and women who have honorably served this country and suffer from the emotional and often devastating hidden wounds of war,'' the secretary of veterans affairs, Eric K. Shinseki, said in a statement to The New York Times. ''This final regulation goes a long way to ensure that veterans receive the benefits and services they need.''
 Though widely applauded by veterans' groups, the new rule is generating criticism from some quarters because of its cost. Some mental health experts also believe it will lead to economic dependency among younger veterans whose conditions might be treatable. 
 Disability benefits include free physical and mental health care and monthly checks ranging from a few hundred dollars to more than $2,000, depending on the severity of the condition.
 ''I can't imagine anyone more worthy of public largess than a veteran,'' said Dr. Sally Satel, a psychiatrist and fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative policy group, who has written on P.T.S.D. ''But as a clinician, it is destructive to give someone total and permanent disability when they are in fact capable of working, even if it is not at full capacity. A job is the most therapeutic thing there is.''
 But Rick Weidman, executive director for policy and government affairs at Vietnam Veterans of America, said most veterans applied for disability not for the monthly checks but because they wanted access to free health care.
 ''I know guys who are rated 100 percent disabled who keep coming back for treatment not because they are worried about losing their compensation, but because they want their life back,'' Mr. Weidman said.
 Mr. Weidman and other veterans' advocates said they were disappointed by one provision of the new rule: It will require a final determination on a veteran's case to be made by a psychiatrist or psychologist who works for the veterans department. 
 The advocates assert that the rule will allow the department to sharply limit approvals. They argue that private physicians should be allowed to make those determinations as well. 
 But Tom Pamperin, associate deputy under secretary for policy and programs at the veterans department, said the agency wanted to ensure that standards were consistent for the assessments. 
 ''V.A. and V.A.-contract clinicians go through a certification process,'' Mr. Pamperin said. ''They are well familiar with military life and can make an assessment of whether the stressor is consistent with the veterans' duties and place of service.'' 
 The new rule comes at a time when members of Congress and the veterans department itself are moving to expand health benefits and disability compensation for a variety of disorders linked to deployment. The projected costs of those actions are generating some opposition, though probably not enough to block any of the proposals.
 The largest proposal would make it easier for Vietnam veterans with ischemic heart disease, Parkinson's disease and hairy-cell leukemia to receive benefits. 
 The rule, proposed last fall by the veterans department, would presume those diseases were caused by exposure to Agent Orange, the chemical defoliant, if a veteran could simply demonstrate that he had set foot in Vietnam during the war. 
 The rule, still under review, is projected to cost more than $42 billion over a decade. 
 Senator Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia and a Vietnam veteran, has asked that Congress review the proposal before it takes effect. ''I take a back seat to no one in my concern for our veterans,'' Mr. Webb said in a floor statement in May. ''But I do think we need to have practical, proper procedures.''
 More than two million service members have deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan since 2001, and by some estimates 20 percent or more of them will develop P.T.S.D. 
 More than 150,000 cases of P.T.S.D. have been diagnosed by the veterans health system among veterans of the two wars, while thousands more have received diagnoses from private doctors, said Paul Sullivan, executive director of Veterans for Common Sense, an advocacy group. 
 But Mr. Sullivan said records showed that the veterans department had approved P.T.S.D. disability claims for only 78,000 veterans. That suggests, he said, that many veterans with the disorder are having their compensation claims rejected by claims processors. ''Those statistics show a very serious problem in how V.A. handles P.T.S.D. claims,'' Mr. Sullivan said.
 Representative John Hall, Democrat of New York and sponsor of legislation similar to the new rule, said his office had handled dozens of cases involving veterans who had trouble receiving disability compensation for P.T.S.D., including a Navy veteran from World War II who twice served on ships that sank in the Pacific. 
 ''It doesn't matter whether you are an infantryman or a cook or a truck driver,'' Mr. Hall said. ''Anyone is potentially at risk for post-traumatic stress.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric K. Shinseki, the secretary of veterans affairs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY M. LANGE/FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (91%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); PSYCHIATRY (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: ERIC K SHINSEKI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



191 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1159 words

PERSON: Juanita Kreps 

HEADLINE: Juanita Kreps, 89, Dies; Headed Commerce Dept.

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Juanita M. Kreps, who was President Jimmy Carter's secretary of commerce from 1977 to 1979, the first woman and the first economist to hold a post traditionally occupied by men with business interests, died Monday in Durham, N.C. She was 89.
 The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, her daughter, Laura Anne Kreps, said. 
 Dr. Kreps, who lived in Durham, wrote books and taught economics much of her life. But economics was no abstract subject to this daughter of an Appalachian coal mine operator, a child of the Depression and a broken home who had worked her way through college, climbed rungs of academic achievement to become vice president of Duke University and won high marks running the Commerce Department.
 Only three other women had served in the cabinet previously: Frances Perkins as Franklin D. Roosevelt's labor secretary (1933-45); Oveta Culp Hobby as Dwight D. Eisenhower's health, education and welfare secretary (1953-55); and Carla A. Hills as Gerald R. Ford's housing and urban development secretary. Dr. Kreps was one of two women appointed to Mr. Carter's cabinet in 1977, the other being Patricia Roberts Harris, in housing and urban development.
 Commerce was perhaps the most unglamorous, thankless job in the cabinet: managing 38,000 employees and an oracular mandate to promote economic growth while taking the census, forecasting the weather, recording patents and trademarks, standardizing weights and measures, charting seas, collecting statistics on the nation's output of goods and services, and managing $6 billion in public works projects.
 Like her predecessors, Dr. Kreps was an advocate for the business community, promoting exports, international trade and domestic commerce amid rising inflation and unemployment. She became the nation's traveling saleswoman, taking trade missions to the Soviet Union, Europe, Africa and Asia. In 1979, she negotiated a historic trade agreement with China.
 While not in the inner circle of Carter advisers, she gave the president a crucial boost when his standing with business had ebbed, organizing meetings for him with corporate leaders in 1977 to map anti-inflation and economic strategies. Talk of a crisis in business confidence waned, and many executives, though skeptical at first, came to regard Dr. Kreps as an ally.
 But she also pressed business to look beyond profits and act with greater social responsibility toward employees, consumers and the public interest, with measures including affirmative-action programs and steps to protect the environment and strengthen corporate integrity. She was an advocate for women and older workers, the unemployed, minority-owned businesses, and development in depressed urban areas.
 She supported new laws to ensure privacy for millions of consumers, requiring insurance, financial and credit card companies to tell customers about information collected on them, to explain adverse decisions affecting them, and to accord them rights to challenge erroneous data in their files.
 The genteel, low-key Dr. Kreps held her own against powerful cabinet rivals. She battled with the Treasury over trade-regulation enforcement, with the State Department over commercial attaches who help American businesses overseas, and with the national security adviser over sensitive technology exports to Communist countries.
 Dr. Kreps resigned after nearly three years, her tenure shortened after her husband's apparent suicide attempt.
 Juanita Morris was born in Lynch, Ky., on Jan. 11, 1921, the sixth child of Elmer M. Morris, a struggling mine operator, and Larcenia Blair Morris. Her parents divorced when she was 4, and she lived with her mother until age 12, when she was placed in a boarding school. She was an excellent student but recalled a childhood of poverty and unhappiness.
 At Berea College, a pioneer in work-study programs for poor southern Appalachian students, she majored in economics and graduated with high honors in 1942. Studying economics on scholarships at Duke, she earned a master's degree in 1944 and a doctorate in 1948.
 In 1944, she married Clifton H. Kreps Jr., an economics professor. He died in 2000. She was also predeceased by a daughter, Sarah. Besides her daughter Laura Anne, of Durham, Ms. Kreps is survived by a son, Clifton III, of Kirksville, Mo.; a brother, Herbert Witt, of Fishers, Ind.; and four grandchildren.
 Accompanying her husband in a series of academic posts, she taught economics at Denison University from 1945 to 1950, at Hofstra College from 1952 to 1954, and at Queens College in New York in 1954-55. She joined the Duke faculty in 1955, and after writing several books, she became a full professor in 1968. In 1972 she became the James B. Duke professor of economics, the first woman to hold that prestigious chair.
 Dr. Kreps was dean of the Woman's College at Duke and associate provost from 1969 to 1972; in 1973 she was named its vice president. In 1972 she became the first woman to be named a director of the New York Stock Exchange. She also served as a director of many of the country's best-known corporations, including J. C. Penney, R. J. Reynolds, Citicorp and AT&T.
 Her specialty, the labor demographics of women and older workers, infused her articles and books, including ''Sex in the Marketplace: American Women at Work'' (1971), which examined employment discrimination and the burdens of working women with families; ''Lifetime Allocation of Work and Leisure: Essays in the Economy of Aging'' (1971); and ''Women and the American Economy'' (1976).
 Like many women she wrote about, Dr. Kreps faced conflicts between her private and public lives. When President Carter offered her the cabinet post, a family discussion ensued. Her children were grown, but her husband could not leave his post as Wachovia professor of banking at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
 Her Washington experience proved to be exhilarating but lonely, Dr. Kreps told The New York Times in 1977. She went home to Durham almost every weekend, but travel and other duties limited her family contacts.
 In June 1979, her husband suffered what the police called a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head. He survived, and a few months later, Dr. Kreps resigned and returned to Duke, where she retired as vice president emerita.
 In 1985, Duke established the Juanita and Clifton Kreps chair in economics. In later years, she served on government commissions and was the recipient of many awards and 15 honorary degrees.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 10, 2010, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Thursday with an obituary about Juanita M. Kreps, who was President Jimmy Carter's secretary of commerce from 1977 to 1979, referred incorrectly to Mr. Carter. When the photograph of Ms. Kreps with Mr. Carter was taken, in December 1976, he was the president-elect; he was not yet president.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Juanita M. Kreps, with President Jimmy Carter in December 1976. She was the first woman to be secretary of commerce. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (92%); WOMEN (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); CITIES (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); EXPORT PROMOTION (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (70%); MINES & MINING (70%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (68%); OLDER WORKERS (65%); LEGISLATION (64%); PATENTS (64%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (64%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); CREDIT CARDS (60%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (57%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%)

JIMMY CARTER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2010



192 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: A Congressman's Abs Garner Yeas

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
 REPRESENTATIVE AARON SCHOCK is explaining, again, why his torso seems to keep going viral.
First, there was the photo of him in a red bathing suit, posted on the gossip site TMZ.com. ''Abtastic,'' bloggers enthused.
 Then, there was the picture of Mr. Schock, a Republican congressman from Illinois, in a pink-checked shirt, turquoise belt and white jeans at a White House picnic. According to the blogosphere, the image was ''jamming up the gay staff listserv'' on Capitol Hill.
 ''Obviously, it was what I thought was a sporty outfit,'' Mr. Schock said of his picnic attire. ''It was probably a little too bright, in retrospect.''
 At 29, Mr. Schock is the youngest -- and arguably the buffest -- member of Congress. A farm boy who grew up in Peoria, he was voted the ''hottest freshman'' in Congress by readers of The Huffington Post, who in a later poll also voted him hotter than Scott Brown, the Massachusetts senator and former Cosmopolitan centerfold. Last fall Mr. Schock was featured in a photo spread in GQ, wearing dapper suits about town. 
 ''I think D.C. is becoming kind of a cool place to be, and so as a young person coming to Congress last year, it's been fun for me,'' he said in an interview in his fifth-floor suite in the Cannon House Office Building. ''I'm not only getting to do the job that I ran for office to do, but I think I'm also getting to participate in the new D.C., if you will.''
 He goes home to Peoria almost every weekend after the last vote, but his youth and enthusiasm seem to have given him a mystique that he is happy to cultivate.
 ''I enjoy the new restaurants, I enjoy some of the social events I've been invited to, and I think my age has allowed me into some of those activities,'' he said. ''I'm on people's minds.''
 With square jaw, white teeth and glinting brown eyes, Mr. Schock hits the gym nearly seven days a week. That's more than enough to pass for a hunk in the halls of Congress, where, most people would admit, there is not a lot of competition. (After all, this is a town that considered the outgoing White House budget director Peter Orszag a player.)
 Aside from Mr. Brown, Mr. Schock's biggest rival on the hottie list is John Thune, the lean, blue-eyed, 49-year-old Republican senator from South Dakota who has been the subject of presidential whispers, fueled in part by his height and good looks. In The Huffington Post reader poll on hot freshmen congressmen, Glenn Nye (a 35-year-old Democrat from Virginia) and Jared Polis (a 35-year-old Democrat from Colorado) came in second and third.
 As for Mr. Schock, his resume oozes Norman Rockwell quaintness: at age 5, he ran the phones for his siblings' strawberry business; at 18, he bought his first piece of real estate with money earned at after-school jobs; at 19, he won a seat on the Peoria school board.
 Elected to Congress in 2008, he serves on three committees, and Eric Cantor, the House minority whip, gave him a leadership role, naming him a deputy whip. One of his mentors, Paul Ryan, a Republican congressman from Wisconsin, likes to tell what has come to be known as ''the Air Force One story,'' about Mr. Schock's trip to Peoria with President Obama.
 It was in February, when the president was trying to round up votes for his stimulus package and invited Mr. Schock to join him aboard Air Force One. Mr. Obama was giving a speech at a Caterpillar plant in Mr. Schock's home district, and publicly urged him to support the bill. The next day, Mr. Schock went ahead and voted nay, unswayed by the president.
 ''When there was incredible pressure placed upon him, he stood with his principles,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''That took guts.''
 And while Mr. Schock's legislative record may not have made much of an impression yet, it's not because he isn't thinking about what needs to get done.
 ''Our strategy with young people needs to be economic issues,'' he said, listing the unemployment numbers for 20-somethings. The state of the economy, he said, may be a chance to ''bring more young people into feeling comfortable for voting for Republican candidates, when they might not otherwise naturally think so.''
 As for his personal life, Mr. Schock is single and opposed to gay marriage, and he has told reporters that he is not gay. In the interview in his office, he mentioned a former girlfriend. He also said that while he is passionate about all issues, the social ones are ''not what compelled me to run for office.''
 ''Your belief system tends to be a function of how you were raised,'' Mr. Schock said. ''Being raised in the Midwest and in a relatively conservative household, my views were shaped by my upbringing, by my Christian faith.''
 So, how did he feel about joining the ranks of Liza Minnelli and Lady Gaga as a gay icon, albeit for the Washington set?
 He was quick to dismiss the frenzy, saying the pictures were just a distraction. As for those who admire his physique, ''If they're in my district, I'll take votes wherever I can get them,'' he said. ''Who knew I could get this much attention with my shirt on?''
 And he is happy to offer up the back story behind the TMZ photo, which shows him reclining with legs splayed in swim trunks by a pool, showing off glistening washboard abs. ''It's a funny story,'' Mr. Schock said, and began to tell it.
 When he ran for the Peoria school board, his opponent got him kicked off the ballot on a technicality. Mr. Schock engineered a grass-roots write-in campaign and won by 1,942 votes. Bob Hall, the lawyer for his opponent, soon became one of his biggest supporters, and one day when Mr. Schock -- then the youngest state representative in Illinois -- was lounging by the pool at the River City Athletic Club, Mr. Hall's daughter popped up behind him in a bikini and asked for a photo.
 ''And so I looked at the photo and said, 'All right, if that ever gets out, I'm going to kill you guys,' '' he said with a grin.
 Naturally, the picture did get out, shortly after he reached the Hill. And it has helped to cement his status as a ''cool'' politician -- one whom senior members ask for Facebook tips, one who will have a cameo on ''Top Chef'' as a guest judge, and one who offered up the top 10 songs on his iPod playlist for Politico. (It is heavy on oldies like Van Morrison's ''Brown Eyed Girl'' and Huey Lewis's ''Power of Love'' but also has some more recent songs by Usher and Gavin DeGraw.)
 In Washington, Mr. Schock fills his nights with work receptions and dinners. He enjoys trying restaurants like the newly opened Buddha Bar, and Tosca, Prime Rib, Bistro Bis and Nora are among his favorites.
 And back in Peoria, well-meaning constituents are eager to play matchmaker.
 ''Good supporters who have single daughters say, 'Hey, you need to take my daughter out,' '' Mr. Schock said. ''And it's awkward.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Thursday about Representative Aaron Schock, an Illinois Republican, misidentified the legislative position held by John Thune, a Republican from South Dakota, in some copies. He is a member of the Senate, not the House of Representatives.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE HOT LIST: Representative Aaron Schock of Illinois. (E1)
 NETWORKING: Aaron Schock at Matchbox Vintage Pizza Bistro in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%)

PERSON: AARON SCHOCK (93%); JOHN THUNE (58%); PETER ORSZAG (56%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (56%); SCOTT BROWN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2010



193 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Foreign Policy Chief Expresses Confidence on Talks With Iran

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and STEPHEN CASTLE

 BODY:
STRASBOURG, France -- After an exchange of letters with Iran, Catherine Ashton, the European Union's new high representative for foreign policy, said Wednesday that negotiation was the only possible solution to the problem of Iran's nuclear program, and she expressed confidence that new talks with Iran could begin in the fall.
 She received a ''quite long'' response from the chief Iranian negotiator, Saeed Jalili, on Wednesday morning after her request for new talks on the nuclear issue, but said she had not analyzed it fully. 
 She said she had yet to discuss it with the United States or other key European officials and could not say if Iran conveyed any new proposals to address the standoff after the United Nations passed a new round of sanctions on the country last month. 
 ''I imagine we would be looking to the autumn'' for talks, she said. ''My ambition is that we try to move to real negotiations on this as soon as we possibly can. Nothing would dissuade me from the fact that talks should happen.''
 Iran should feel secure and ''provide nuclear power, if that's what it so wishes, but to stick within the rules we've all signed up to in terms of nuclear proliferation,'' she said, by freezing enrichment and allowing the International Atomic Energy Agency to ensure that Iran has no nuclear weapons program.
 The European Union should agree this month on new sanctions that it will impose on Iran itself to add to the international sanctions approved by the United Nations. But she emphasized the importance of continuing to talk with Iran. ''The purpose of all this is to say, 'We're serious, we need to talk.' ''
 In a wide-ranging interview at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, Ms. Ashton said that she would try to build on President Obama's talks on Tuesday with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel when she traveled to the region in about 10 days, and that she would press the Palestinians to restart direct negotiations with Israel before September. 
 But she cautioned that the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, needed to ensure backing from the Arab League and that any peace agreement must be credible with the Israeli public, too. 
 She praised Israel's softening of sanctions against Gaza, which is run by the militant group Hamas. Asked if Turkey's support for a protest flotilla had made that change possible, she conceded that the deaths of protesters might have been the catalyst. ''Everything I saw with Gaza showed me that there had to be a change anyway, and we were pushing for that change in any event.''
 Ms. Ashton has had a bumpy start to a new job, created by the Lisbon Treaty, designed to raise Europe's profile on the global stage. She acknowledged that there had been criticism of her performance, but argued that new structures that Parliament was likely to agreed on Thursday would provide the diplomatic and financial support she needed. 
 She also hopes a meeting of European leaders and foreign ministers in September will focus European foreign policy, building on economic ties with emerging countries to create stronger political partnerships. ''Politics meets economics is my internal theme,'' she said.
 She said her three priorities were to build the external action service, a new diplomatic corps; to strengthen Europe's relations with neighbors, including Turkey, Ukraine and the Balkans; and to produce a more unified European foreign policy toward nations including Russia, China and the United States.
 Across a range of policy areas, Ms. Ashton presented herself as someone who could help forge consensus among 27 nations with disparate interests. The union has given enormous amount of financial aid to the Palestinians, for example, she said, but only when it speaks up in unison is it taken seriously. ''The fact that in December we actually began to speak more firmly with one voice was a way of giving us a stronger political credibility to match that economic strength,'' she said. 
 Ms. Ashton, 54 and British, is the European Union's senior female political figure and got her job, to the surprise of many, in a complicated negotiation last year when former Foreign Secretary David Miliband of Britain is thought to have declined the job. 
 She had been the union's trade commissioner for about a year, and had served as leader of the unelected British House of Lords. She has never been elected to high political office, but has built a reputation as an adept, low-key political operator. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Catherine Ashton is hoping for ''real negotiations'' over Iran's nuclear program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PASCAL BASTIEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); HAMAS (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (89%); SAEED JALILI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALSACE, FRANCE (92%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); FRANCE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



194 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: This Is the Way Durant Signs: Not With a Bang but on Twitter

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS

 BODY:
One of the linchpins to the N.B.A.'s future agreed to a contract extension on Wednesday, without free-agent summits or the aid of a television network.
 Kevin Durant released news of his deal with the Oklahoma City Thunder on his Twitter feed, where he often interacts with fans. Later, he needed prodding to discuss it further. 
 ''What's there to really talk about?'' he asked on the telephone. 
 Plenty, actually.
 Durant's extension for five years and $86 million arrived without any countdown or talk-radio blather. Instead, his representatives, Aaron and Eric Goodwin, quietly met with General Manager Sam Presti when the free-agency period opened and maintained silence until Wednesday. 
 ''I just told everybody I wasn't talking about it, really,'' Durant said. ''I just kept it to myself. That's just the type of person I am. I don't like the attention around me.''
 Yet after the mystery and spectacle of this summer's free-agent class -- led by LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh -- fades, Durant's agreement could evolve into something just as significant. 
 ''Those guys are superstars, and of course everybody's excited to see where they're going,'' Durant said. ''ESPN and newspapers kind of hype it up to something bigger than what it is. You can't blame those guys.''
 At the age of 21, Durant became the youngest player to win a scoring title, averaging 30.1 points last season to edge out James. He finished second to James in the most valuable player balloting after helping the Thunder to a major one-year improvement. Oklahoma City arguably provided the eventual champion Los Angeles Lakers with their greatest playoff challenge in the Western Conference, with a tough six-game series. 
 ''It means that they're really committed to what I believe in -- and that's the team first,'' Durant said. ''And I'm excited about it and honored that they gave an extension.''
 The commitment extends both ways. Offering Durant a maximum extension was a no-brainer, but Durant was not a free agent this summer. With an uncertain economy and a small market, Oklahoma City could have tried to save money by waiting for a new collective bargaining agreement after next season. 
 And for Durant's part, the contract extension does not include an early termination option, a common clause for long contracts. Otherwise, Durant could have become a free agent after the fourth year. 
 ''Kevin wanted to show his teammates and the fans of Oklahoma City that he was in it for the long haul,'' Eric Goodwin said. ''The other important factor to Kevin was to show other free agents that Oklahoma City is a good place to play.''
 To that end, Durant routinely said last season that he wanted to remain with the Thunder, and he showed that he could excel in a small market by growing his brand through several endorsement deals this summer with the likes of EA Sports and Gatorade. 
 Franchises from Los Angeles to New York would have flocked to him if he were ever available. Instead, Durant never gave the big-name teams a chance. 
 On Wednesday, James finished supervising his skills academy in Akron, Ohio, and spent some time playing pickup basketball with his Cleveland teammates. His new coach, Byron Scott, paid a visit, too, but did not speak with James. Eventually, James departed, and for the third consecutive day did not utter a word to the assembled news media.
 Durant, meanwhile, was visiting the Thunder's summer league team in Orlando, Fla., without anyone crowding around looking for quotes. The league is composed of rookies, young players and some who will never play in the N.B.A. Still, Durant considers the players on the Oklahoma City squad teammates and went to Florida to support them.
 In fact, the only times he showed excitement during a telephone interview were in talking about the team's progress and the contract extension's effect on his family. 
 James reached the N.B.A. finals in his fourth season and has yet to return. Durant will enter his fourth season this fall, with his own aspirations of a championship. In the end, perhaps it won't take him as long as it has already taken James. In all likelihood, there will be less hype along the way. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kevin Durant at a camp in Oklahoma City. He got a five-year extension. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MITCHELL ALCALA/THE OKLAHOMAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B13)
 Kevin Durant said he considered the Thunder's summer league players, like Robert Vaden, to be his teammates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RAOUX/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (69%); ATHLETES (68%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%) OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); WEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



195 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: For Democrats, Debt Debate And Familiar Ring of Disunity

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In case you've been out of the country for the last 25 years and were afraid that nothing had stayed the same, here are some current events you may find comforting: Bon Jovi is touring. The Russians are spying on suburbia. And Democrats in Washington are squabbling over the direction of their party. 
 The latest flare-up of Democratic disunity has to do with how the party should respond to an explosion in government debt. This is a serious policy debate, obviously, and something of a political one, too, since both sides also have in mind November's midterm elections. But in a more fundamental way, the argument over fiscal policy represents the churning of a cultural fault line that has defined and destabilized Democratic politics pretty much since the onset of the Great Society. And President Obama is only the latest Democratic Party leader to find himself tossed about in the tremors. 
 A minority of Congressional Democrats are already objecting to proposals supported by most of the party for billions more dollars in deficit spending this year on unemployment benefits and state aid, as a way of trying to avert a double-dip recession. But the bigger argument is over how quickly and aggressively Washington should act in the next few years to rein in government debt, which by 2020, the Congressional Budget Office tells us, could reach a staggering 90 percent of the gross domestic product.
 A lot of Democrats maintain that deficits remain a distant concern at a moment of crisis, especially while interest rates are historically low. A growing faction, however, insists that if Washington doesn't get serious now about scaling back entitlements and other government spending, then fiscal ruin might be just a decade away.
 Mr. Obama, as is often his way with internecine disputes, has tried to mollify both camps. After focusing exclusively on spending and job creation during his first year, he has recently pivoted toward addressing the debt, creating a bipartisan panel on deficit reduction and proposing, among other things, a three-year freeze in most discretionary spending. 
 To understand why these relatively modest proposals are so contentious, you have to put aside for a moment the argument over Keynesian theory and look, instead, at the underlying breach in the party, which concerns the fate of American liberalism itself.
 Beginning in the Nixon era and culminating in the 1990s (when Bill Clinton's New Democrats ascended to power), one faction of the party has always granted that conservatives have a point about the excesses of liberal government. A succession of Democratic leaders, mostly from the South and West, have argued that big federal programs need to be reformed -- that we need to move past ''the era of big government,'' as Mr. Clinton put it -- in order to keep liberalism relevant. 
 Among more traditional Democratic activists, however, such arguments for modernization have always been viewed as nothing short of a capitulation to conservatives. By this thinking, the idea of liberal government has taken a battering not because it has failed in any significant way, but because expedient Democrats like Mr. Clinton have cowered to their critics or sacrificed principle to transient political benefit. When liberal activists hear someone within their own party call for fiscal responsibility, they reflexively assume that the speaker is just looking for ways to slash benefits for the poor, all while claiming to be a ''modern'' kind of Democrat.
 In some ways, given this longstanding cultural divide, Mr. Obama should be better situated to sell reform to his party's skeptical base than any other president in the last 40 years. That's because all of his immediate predecessors were either Republicans or centrist Democrats, and all of them aroused immediate suspicion from the left whenever they talked about reining in the growth of government spending.
 Mr. Obama, on the other hand, is the first Northern, urban Democrat in the White House since John F. Kennedy -- and, of course, the first African-American president. Progressives have generally been more apt to trust him than they were Mr. Clinton or Jimmy Carter.
 What's more, Mr. Obama has already succeeded in spending more of the government's money than any other president in a generation, a record that includes the liberals' long-sought goal of subsidizing health care for the poor. You might think that would give the president credibility when he argues that making government more responsible does not necessarily mean being less responsive to the poor.
 ''There's an opportunity now to have a very serious discussion, if progressives can get out of their crouch, just waiting for the roof to cave in,'' said Andy Stern, the former president of the Service Employees International Union and now a member of Mr. Obama's debt commission. 
 In fact, though, Mr. Obama's reserve of trust among his own party's progressives has been fast eroding. Liberals have been disillusioned over the president's choice of economic advisers, his escalation of the war in Afghanistan and his willingness to back away from a government-run health care plan. They view the president, increasingly, as a Clintonian modernizer at heart, and they don't seem at all inclined to hand him a machete and let him have at the federal budget.
 ''In terms of cutting benefits, in terms of going after the programs that matter to huge amounts of American people, I don't think you get the support of many of us,'' Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, said in a recent interview. 
 What this means is that if Mr. Obama is serious about changing the nation's fiscal trajectory, he will not necessarily be able to rely on his own party's majorities -- even if he keeps them in November -- to get it done. Instead, the president would probably have to build a genuine coalition of lawmakers from both parties (and not the kind of coalition that features a single Republican vote, secured through all manner of groveling and compromise). 
 Such bipartisan cooperation, the kind Mr. Obama spoke of in his campaign, now seems like a relic from some distant past. Then again, if Bon Jovi and the cold war can come roaring back, anything is possible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); RECESSION (76%); BUDGETS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



196 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Administration Asks Federal Court to Reinstate Ban on Deepwater Drilling in Gulf

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration has asked a federal court in Louisiana to reinstate the ban on deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, saying the moratorium was a rational response to the unparalleled emergency of the BPoil spill. 
 In a court filing late Tuesday, the Interior Department said that the six-month ban on drilling in more than 500 feet of water, imposed in late May, was necessary to allow time to adopt stricter safety and environmental regulation of deepwater wells.
 The action has put hundreds of people who operate and service deepwater wells out of work and has brought long-term uncertainty to the Gulf Coast economy. Politicians all along the coast have called the moratorium a case of federal overkill that threatens the livelihood of the region.
 The moratorium was challenged in court by Hornbeck Offshore Services, a Louisiana firm that provides goods and services to offshore drilling and pumping platforms, and by other oil service firms. Judge Martin L. C. Feldman of the United States District Court in New Orleans agreed with the company, and on June 22 issued an order blocking enforcement of the moratorium. He said the Obama administration had failed to justify the need for ''a blanket, generic, indeed punitive, moratorium'' on deepwater oil and gas drilling.
 The May moratorium order halted 33 exploratory drilling projects in deep water and suspended new permits but did not affect platforms that were already in production. Despite Judge Feldman's ruling reversing the moratorium, work on the wells has not resumed pending appeals.
 Interior Secretary Ken Salazar is expected to issue new guidelines for the drilling ban by the end of the week that may allow some deepwater drilling or well maintenance activity to start again, an agency official said Wednesday. 
 In replying on Tuesday to Judge Feldman's order, the Interior Department, joined by the Justice Department, stated that the continued suspension of drilling was required because continued operations without new safety measures threatened irreparable harm to the marine and coastal environment across the gulf. The government also said that the BP oil spill had taxed the resources available to respond to and clean up the mess and that government and industry could not cope with a second blowout.
 ''Because this deepwater spill has been impossible to fully contain,'' the government reply said, ''Interior had to take immediate action to minimize the risk of another spill, especially while efforts to contain and clean up this one are ongoing. The stakes are even higher now that it is hurricane season.''
 The Interior Department, which oversees oil and gas exploration on public lands and offshore, is charged with the ''prudent and safe'' management of those resources, the court filing said.
 ''A short-term suspension of deepwater drilling while safety regulations are updated is necessary to achieve that goal,'' the document stated.
 A three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, will hear arguments in the case on Thursday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXPLORATION (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); OIL SPILLS (77%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (73%); OFFSHORING (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: HORNBECK OFFSHORE SERVICES INC (56%)

TICKER: HOS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); KEN SALAZAR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



197 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Financier Wilbur Ross Invests in a New Jersey Bank

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
Wilbur L. Ross Jr., the financier who amassed his fortune by snapping up out-of-favor coal, steel and auto parts companies, is adding to his collection of banks.
 Mr. Ross is expected to announce on Thursday that his private equity firm, W. L. Ross & Company, will buy a stake in Sun Bancorp, a small publicly traded bank based in Vineland, N.J., with $3.5 billion in assets. 
 Mr. Ross, who has predicted that hundreds of the nation's troubled banks will fail and has said that the industry is in the midst of consolidation, has already acquired banks in Florida and Michigan. He said in an interview on Wednesday that Sun Bancorp could be the first of many banks he acquires in New Jersey. 
 ''The next 18 banks in size after this one, together, have around $5 billion in deposits, and there's another 100-some-odd banks that, in total, have $40 billion in deposits,'' Mr. Ross said. ''That's just way too many banks for one state to have.''
 A deal for Sun Bancorp would be the latest in a string of bank acquisitions by private equity companies. 
 Moelis Capital Partners, Thomas H. Lee Partners, the Carlyle Group and the billionaire investor Gerald J. Ford, who made his fortune buying distressed lenders during the savings-and-loan crisis, have all agreed to invest in banks across the country in recent months.
 At first, the buyout companies hoped to acquire failed banks that had been taken over by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the government agency that insures bank deposits. But after the agency added capital requirements and other restrictions for private equity firms, many of the buyout companies shifted their attention to banks that were still operating.
 W. L. Ross & Company was among a group of buyers who injected $900 million into the failed Florida BankUnited Financial Corporation last year.
 And this spring, the company invested in First Michigan Bancorp in Troy. That money went to buy a failed bank from the F.D.I.C., which agreed to share some of the potential losses on bad loans.
 In his latest deal, Mr. Ross's company will invest $50 million in Sun Bancorp for a 24.9 percent stake in the bank. An additional $50 million will come from members of the Brown family, which owns a significant stake in the bank, as well as other investors, Mr. Ross said.
 Mr. Ross, who said he had examined 200 banks in the last couple of years, said he would like to add a bank in the Northwest and one in the Southwest or on the West Coast to his portfolio. 
 Some financial industry specialists say that while the banks may look cheap, such investments could be risky because of the new financial regulations being written in Washington.
 ''Private equity buyers can research loan portfolios, do good due diligence on what's going to be paid and what's not, but how can they get a handle on what the costs associated with the new financial regulations are going to be when many of the big banks don't really know?'' asked David Stowell, a finance professor at the Kellogg School of Management Business, Northwestern University. 
 Mr. Ross says his biggest worry is not new regulations; it is the unsteady pace of economic recovery. 
 ''The biggest risk is a double-dip recession,'' he said. ''That would be a problem because more loans would go bad than you expected, and it would also make it more tricky to find creditworthy borrowers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wilbur L. Ross Jr., chairman and chief executive of W. L. Ross & Company, said that Sun Bancorp, which has $3.5 billion in assets, could be the first of many banks he acquires in New Jersey. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (64%)

COMPANY: SUN BANCORP INC (93%); W L ROSS & CO LLC (85%); BANKUNITED FINANCIAL CORP (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); THOMAS H LEE PARTNERS LP (55%)

TICKER: SNBC (NASDAQ) (93%); BKU (NYSE) (83%); CG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (55%)

PERSON: GERALD J FORD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



198 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Facing Tough Economic Realities

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Punishing the Jobless,'' by Paul Krugman (column, July 5):
 Do those opposing the extension of unemployment benefits understand the consequences of their action? The result will not be more economic activity or employment; with five people looking for every job, few who will lose their benefits will find employment.
 Instead, many will find that they will lose their home, their dignity and even their family. Many, after spending any savings they may have had, will find themselves on welfare receiving payments under the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families program. 
 And who pays most of the costs of this welfare? The federal government. So the savings hoped to be achieved by those opposing benefits will be largely illusory. But the misery to the individuals and the negative effect on their families and communities will be all too real.
 James N. Adler Los Angeles, July 6, 2010
 The writer, a drafter of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, is a member of the Los Angeles Public Social Services Commission. 
 To the Editor:
 Instead of yet another round of extended unemployment benefits, why not offer tax-free, interest-free government loans equivalent to the one year's additional unemployment benefits to those who have exhausted theirs? This would solve several issues, both real and political.
 It would counter any argument that those on unemployment won't look for work, because it's a loan that must eventually be repaid.
 It would stimulate the economy without contributing to the deficit.
 And working citizens wouldn't be as resentful.
 Bruce Silverman Minneapolis, July 6, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman is at a loss to explain why some people oppose extending unemployment benefits. One reason people hold such an opinion is that when government subsidizes something, there tends to be more of it.
 The more government subsidizes unemployment, the more people will indulge in it for longer periods of time.
 Ryan Young Washington, July 6, 2010
 The writer is a journalism fellow at the Competitive Enterprise Institute.
 To the Editor:
 Offhand, punishing the unemployed by not extending benefits would not seem to help get votes from them and their families in November. But the Republicans know exactly what they're doing. This is a cynical variant of the old, reliable Southern strategy, aimed at the much more numerous currently employed.
 History shows that during tough times many direct their anger at marginalized minorities. In this case, the marginalized are not only in cities but highly visible in affluent suburbs as well. So silly statements like ''paying people for not working'' gain support, despite the fact that unemployment insurance ultimately comes out of workers' wages.
 Scott Davidson Dover, N.H., July 6, 2010
 To the Editor:
 In ''A Little Economic Realism'' (column, July 6), David Brooks asks if we are ''willing to risk national insolvency on the basis of a model,'' as if the demand-side economists have invented some new, exotic formula for helping us rebuild jobs and the economy.
 Keynesian economics is basic Econ 101 and, though not the panacea it was once thought to be, has been used in some fashion or other to help us out of every economic downturn since, and including, the Great Depression.
 To say that we have no way of knowing the effectiveness of the last stimulus because we don't know what would have happened without it is like trying to prove a negative. We do know that the downturn was not as bad as many feared -- and, at the very least, it would have been much worse if banks and insurance companies had been allowed to default.
 Mr. Brooks's prescription is to extend unemployment insurance and to mitigate the pain caused by reductions in state spending. Isn't this exactly what our current administration has been promoting, along with seeking ways to reduce long-term deficits? Republicans continue their politics of fear -- this time with threats of national default -- to obstruct any efforts for short-term help and meaningful long-term change.
 I am so tired of today's Democrats still being maligned as the tax-and-spend party when, in reality, we have been the fiscally prudent party since Bill Clinton took office.
 Renee Shaker Jupiter, Fla., July 6, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Pessimism Bubble,'' by Ross Douthat (column, July 5):
 The United States is involved in a prolonged war. Unemployment is almost in double digits, threatening families with losing their homes and bankruptcies. State governments face a total budget shortfall of about $140 billion, resulting in cutbacks in services and layoffs. We have an environmental disaster in the Gulf of Mexico that threatens the livelihoods of millions of people.
 Most worryingly, Congress, largely because of Republican threats of filibusters in the Senate, is unable to take meaningful action on a range of critical issues of the day, and President Obama is unwilling or unable to do much about that.
 Mr. Douthat is right: pessimism is a destructive, disempowering attitude. But I disagree with his suggestion that the challenges facing the United States might be overstated. What is missing in Washington and in too much of our national discourse is a sense of urgency. We're facing economic, political and environmental crises that demand the sort of action taken by F.D.R. or L.B.J., not timidity and inaction.
 John Forrest Tomlinson New York, July 5, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHER BRAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); FAMILY SERVICES (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



199 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Banks Lead U.S. Indexes In a Surge

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
For a day, at least, Wall Street got its groove back. 
 The stock market staged its biggest rally since May on Wednesday, driving the Dow Jones industrial average above 10,000, as investors rushed to buy blue-chip shares near their lowest levels this year, and those gains continued into Asian markets Thursday morning.
 The hope was that coming quarterly earnings reports would show major corporations were weathering these hard economic times better than many had expected. 
 Many ifs remain. A disappointing showing by any number of companies could easily send the market tumbling anew. So could worrisome developments in Europe, where authorities are in the midst of assessing the financial strength of major banks. 
 But on Wednesday, the old worries were cast aside. The broad stock market jumped 3.13 percent as investors concluded the recent sell-off was overdone and that the economy might be stronger than many had believed. To some, stocks simply seemed too cheap to resist. Investors who for weeks had sought shelter in the relative safety of United States Treasury securities reversed their trades and headed back into stocks. 
 Adding to the buoyant mood was news suggesting that retail sales were growing briskly this year, a sign that recession-weary consumers were spending again. Sales probably grew at an average annual rate of 4 percent during the first five months of retailers' current fiscal year, the sharpest gain since 2006, the International Council of Shopping Centers said.
 And so a few hard numbers -- and a lot of hope -- sent the market soaring. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which only two days ago had sunk to a 10-month low, rose 32.31 points, or 3.13 percent, to 1,060.27. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 274.66 points to 10,018.28, its first close above 10,000 since June 28. The Nasdaq composite index rose 65.59 points to 2,159.47. In Asia Thursday, the Nikkei index rose more than 2 percent by midday as markets there took their cues from Wall Street.
 Financial shares paced Wednesday's gains in the U.S. after the State Street Corporation, the big custody bank, posted stronger-than-expected second-quarter profits. The results -- 93 cents a share, excluding one-time items -- raised hopes that other big banks would report similarly robust results over the next two weeks. 
 Shares of State Street rose 9.9 percent. JPMorgan Chase, which reports second-quarter results next week, increased 5 percent. American Express and Bank of America each rose more than 4 percent. Small and midsize regional banks posted even bigger gains. 
 Retailers also gained on the news from the International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group. Thirty of the 31 stocks in the S.& P. retail industry index advanced. 
 But beyond the outlook for a particular company or industry was a sense that investors were regaining their nerve after a dismal first half for the stock market. Treasury securities, which had soared in recent weeks, driving the yield on benchmark 10-year Treasuries below 3 percent, abruptly reversed course and tumbled. The 10-year Treasury fell 14/32 to 104 13/32. Its yield rose to 2.98 percent from 2.93 percent. The euro rallied to a six-week high against the dollar. 
 ''It looks like the 're-risking' trade is coming back on,'' said Matthew S. Rothman, global head of quantitative equities strategy at Barclays Capital.
 Analysts said the prospect of authorities in Europe releasing details this week of so-called stress tests of some of the Continent's banks also fueled the day's optimism. Even if the tests identified problems within some of Europe's banks, at least they would end the uncertainty about the state of the financial system that had been weighing on world markets, analysts said. 
 ''The market is just happy the tests are coming out,'' said Win Thin, currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman in New York. ''There has always been this suspicion about whether they are hiding something or not.''
 After the broad stock market lost about 7 percent during the first six months of the year, various market indicators started to suggest that the market had fallen too far, too fast. For instance, the so-called relative strength index for the S.& P. 500, which measures the index's advances and declines, registered just above 30 on Monday. A reading of 20 to 30 is generally considered a sign that the market is oversold. 
 In a research note, UBS analysts said: ''Stock investors were probably looking for a decent excuse to re-enter the market in a new quarter at more attractive levels.''
 Mr. Rothman of Barclays Capital said that sentiment had ''really just changed on a dime for reasons that are difficult to figure out.'' But he said that it was investors' evolving view about the health of the United States and European economies, rather than news on specific companies or industries, that was driving the market's moves. 
 ''It's about the question, are we in an early cyclical recovery, or going back to depression?'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (88%); RECESSION (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); RETAIL SALES (71%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); STATE STREET CORP (81%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); STT (NYSE) (81%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010



200 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Smugglers Blunt Sanctions Against Tehran

BYLINE: By SAM DAGHER

 BODY:
PENJWIN, Iraq -- Even as the United States imposes new sanctions on Iran, one of the biggest gaps in the American strategy is on full display here in Iraq, where hundreds of millions of dollars in crude oil and refined products are smuggled over the scenic mountains of Iraqi Kurdistan every year.
 Day after day, without formal authorization from Baghdad, more than a thousand tankers snake through this town on Iraq's border with Iran, not only undercutting recent American sanctions but also worsening tensions with the Iraqi government over how to divide the country's oil profits.
 The scale and organization of the trade has raised concerns among American officials here, said one senior American official in northern Iraq, who would speak about the Iran oil trade only anonymously, following diplomatic ground rules. They fear that proceeds from the sales could be flowing to corrupt Iraqi politicians and benefiting the Iranian government, even as the United States has approved new unilateral sanctions against Tehran, imposing penalties on foreign entities that sell refined petroleum products to Iran. 
 A senior Kurdish government official said that the benefits from a business he described as ''elaborate'' and ''huge'' went to the region's two governing parties and affiliated companies, and that officials and politicians in Baghdad were involved as well.
 ''The people are being scammed, but by whom, we do not know,'' said Hamid Mohammed, an Iraqi tanker truck driver waiting to enter Iran recently.
 The Kurds have long been allied with the United States. Since the first Persian Gulf war, American and NATO forces had imposed a no-flight zone over Kurdish territory in northern Iraq, protecting the Kurds from Saddam Hussein and helping them to build a semi-autonomous region.
 Smuggling of oil and other goods and commodities along Iraq's porous borders thrived in the 1990s, when Iraq was under international sanctions. But the semiofficial nature of the current trade underscored how business interests had trumped the messy politics of Iraq and the region.
 The stream of tankers into Iran continued without interruption during an Iranian military campaign last month against Iranian Kurdish separatists operating at the border. Hundreds of tankers, each with a capacity of at least 226 barrels of crude oil and refined products, enter Iran every day from Penjwin and two other border posts in Iraqi Kurdistan, Kurdish officials say.
 While much of the refined product is used in Iran, which sorely lacks refinery capacity, the crude oil is trucked all the way down to the Persian Gulf ports of Bandar Bushehr, Bandar Imam Khomeini and Bandar Abbas, where it is emptied into reservoirs or loaded onto ships, according to drivers.
 The trade is supported by an estimated 70 mini-refineries, known in the industry as topping plants, said the Kurdistan region's oil minister, Ashti Hawrami. They are dotted around the Kurdistan region and Kurdish-controlled areas in nearby Kirkuk and Nineveh Province, he said, and many of them are unlicensed.
 Abdul-Karim al-Luaibi, Iraq's deputy oil minister for production, said he was unaware of oil exports to Iran from the Kurdistan region, adding that all the mini-refineries were illegal.
 ''They bear responsibility for this,'' said Mr. Luaibi, referring to Kurdish authorities.
 In a rare interview in May, Mr. Hawrami said only fuel oil and byproducts like naphtha were being sent to Iran after processing the region's own crude at two privately owned refineries to meet the internal market's needs and run a local power plant. Mr. Hawrami said that revenue from the Iran business has helped cover costs for foreign oil companies in the Kurdistan region that were hurt when they stopped exporting crude through a pipeline to Turkey in October because of a dispute between Kurdistan and Baghdad. He said any extra revenue that accrued to the region from this business was being kept out of the Kurdistan government's finances and deposited in a separate bank account to be reconciled with Baghdad in the future, once the two sides resolved their differences.
 But Mr. Hawrami also said that it was not just refined products from the Kurdish region that were finding their way into Iran. Crude oil and refined products from Kirkuk and the Baiji refinery to the south were also being smuggled into the region, and some were crossing the Iranian border. He said his ministry had no control over this.
 ''A truck is a truck -- so easy to manufacture a license and say, 'This is fuel oil and not crude oil' and they find their way,'' said Mr. Hawrami. ''Unfortunately, the problem is much broader than little Kurdistan.''
 The disclosures about the oil trade with Iran come at a delicate time for the Kurdish region. In May, the central government approved a tentative deal to resume crude oil exports of about 100,000 barrels a day to Turkey through Iraq's pipeline network. Mr. Hawrami said exports would resume only after a mechanism was worked out to pay the oil companies' production costs.
 He said the companies -- Norway's DNO and a Chinese-Turkish venture called Ttopco -- were owed a total of about $1 billion. Together, the two fields they operate can produce up to 200,000 barrels a day, and the region's overall production will reach one million barrels a day in three to four years when at least six other fields come online, according to Mr. Hawrami.
 Analysts say that the Kurdish region's oil trade with Iran provides a revenue source that it does not have to share with Baghdad, at least for now, diminishing its reliance on exports to Turkey. It also grants them leverage in resolving oil and internal border disputes with Baghdad.
 ''They can negotiate from a position of strength,'' says Ruba Husari, an oil specialist and founder of Iraqoilforum.com. ''They are running their own oil kingdom.''
 But questions about the legitimacy of the region's oil activities are increasingly coming from within.
 ''Kurdistan is like an island with no rule of law when it comes to oil,'' says Abdulla Malla-Nuri, a member of the region's Parliament from the Gorran opposition movement, which broke away from one of the governing parties last year and has accused them of rampant corruption.
 Mr. Malla-Nuri wants revenue from the Iran trade to flow into the region's budget after deducting what is owed to the rest of Iraq -- 83 percent, according to current arrangements.
 The region's prime minister, Barham Salih, is also reportedly pushing for this but is being met with fierce resistance, even from his own party, which is headed by Iraq's president, Jalal Talabani.
 Mr. Salih's task is further complicated by an acrimonious relationship with the regional oil minister, Mr. Hawrami, who is backed by the region's president, Massoud Barzani.
 Mr. Talabani's party has had a so-called strategic agreement with Mr. Barzani's party since 2005, allowing them to divide the region's political, economic and military power. This applied to the oil trade with Iran as well, according to a top Kurdish official who requested anonymity because he belonged to one of the governing parties.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 9, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to an interview with the Kurdistan region's oil minister, Ashti Hawrami. It was conducted in May by The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hundreds of tankers carrying crude oil and refined products enter Iran every day through the scenic mountains of Iraqi Kurdistan. (A1)
 Tankers loaded with oil from Iraqi Kurdistan waited near the Iranian border to illegally export fuel from Iraq. More than 1,000 vehicles line up daily near Penjwin to send fuel to Iran. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AYMAN OGHANNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) MAP: Tankers enter Iran from Penjwin and other border posts. (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); SMUGGLING (90%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); BULK SHIPPING (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (76%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (70%); TRUCK DRIVERS (69%); APPROVALS (69%); PLANT CAPACITY (64%); ARMED FORCES (64%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); IRAN (93%); GULF STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2010

 
