

1 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Summit in Washington;
Over Caviar, Gorbachev Relaxes and Charms

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31

 BODY:
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev showed his softer side to a crowd of American entertainment, literary, political and academic figures today, and proved in the process that however cool the audience at home he is still a seductive performer on the road.
Over a bountiful luncheon of chicken Kiev and caviar at the Soviet Embassy, Mr. Gorbachev talked of his restive consumers and Baltic separatists more in the tone of a parent vexed by impatient children and appealing for commiseration than a leader daunted by crises.
Many of the guests said they were struck by Mr. Gorbachev's evident serenity and self-assurance, especially considering his burden of domestic political and economic problems and the magnitude of the topics under discussion in his talks with President Bush.
 
A Little Grayer, but at Ease
''I guess I expected to see a man who looked visibly aged, worn, and a little uptight,'' said Stephen F. Cohen, a Princeton University historian and frequent visitor to the Soviet Union. ''Just the opposite. Though his hair is a little whiter, he was as relaxed, as graceful and as quick to laugh and smile as I've ever seen him.'' 
Henry A. Kissinger, the former Secretary of State, said of Mr. Gorbachev, ''He was relaxed and seemed at peace with himself.'' Mr. Kissinger said he found the show of calm ''amazing'' and a promising sign for the tenor of the summit conference.
At one point in his rambling, half-hour opening monologue, the Soviet leader complained about Lithuania's declaration of independence last March, but his usual frosty anger at this insubordination today gave way to words that seemed more like mild exasperation at a move that has put him in a bind.
''After that, they are at a loss what to do, and we are at a loss what to do,'' he said.
Mr. Gorbachev was at ease enough to digress into light banter on the painful subject of his failed economy, and the complaints that his Government's planned five-year transition to a more market-oriented system is too little, too slow.
''Someone said that it is difficult to be half-pregnant with a market economy,'' Mr. Gorbachev said. ''I said, I agree, but at any rate one has to wait nine months before a child is born.''
From a neighboring table one of his economic advisers, Stanislav S. Shatalin, interjected that some babies are born in as few as seven months.
''Yes, seven months, okay,'' the Soviet leader replied. ''Shatalin is an advocate of more radical change. But to have a healthy child, one has to wait nine months.''
 
Luncheon With the Stars
The luncheon was billed as a meeting with American intellectuals, although American icons might have been more accurate considering the representation from the Hollywood establishment. Such people as Gregory Peck, Douglas Fairbanks Jr. and Jane Fonda outnumbered policy stars like Mr. Kissinger and the Rev. Jesse Jackson.
Other luminaries included the pianist Van Cliburn and the jazzman Dizzy Gillespie, the science fiction writers Ray Bradbury and Isaac Asimov, and the painters Andrew Wyeth and Robert Rauschenberg, who ventured perhaps the most Soviet comment on the event - ''No vodka, bad wine.''
Mr. Gorbachev often includes such meetings on his trips abroad, apparently seeking a foreign counterpart to the influential Soviet ''intelligentsia,'' who made up the Soviet leader's first enthusiastic constituency but who are now infected by disillusionment.
It is not clear whether Mr. Gorbachev considers these people to have influence comparable to the Soviet intellectual elite - in which case, Mr. Cohen observed, he has badly misjudged American society - or whether he simply enjoys their company.
''Apart from Kissinger, who was there who would register with American public opinion?'' Mr. Cohen mused afterward. ''I would not call it a p.r. event. Maybe he had three hours to kill, and this is what he does instead of playing golf.''
''This is, after all, our first university-educated president of the Soviet Union, and I think he enjoys conversation and exchange,'' said James Billington, director of the Library of Congress and an expert on Russian cultural history. ''To some extent it is mirror-imaging from his own country -first you talk to the power structure, then you talk to the cultural and intellectual community.''
Mr. Gorbachev meandered through an opening speech, occasionally glancing at notes. Standing under the enormous crystal chandeliers in the rococo ballroom of the Soviet Embassy, he appealed for understanding, declared that the United States and the Soviet Union must become partners in world affairs, recounted his domestic troubles and warned gently against mistaking them for weakness.
 
'Like a Quaker Meeting'
Reviewing his morning meeting with President Bush, the Soviet leader said: ''I said to the President, and I am repeating it now, that some people say, 'We could apply some pressure on the Soviet Union, because it is enfeebled now.' But how can you say that we are weak when perestroika is under way, it's going on, and all the instability, all the changes, are but an indication of its fundamental nature.''
After Mr. Gorbachev spoke, the guests tucked into an elaborate meal, and then over dessert and coffee about a dozen members of the audience stood up to give their views.
''It was like a Quaker meeting,'' said Frank Press, director of the National Academy of Sciences and a former White House science adviser.
Mr. Kissinger reportedly recounted how President Nixon, his former boss, had been hampered in pursuing detente by hard-liners within his Administration. The economist Vasily Leontiev talked of the importance of making the ruble a convertible currency. Pamela Harriman made a plea for a universal movement for women's rights. Mr. Cliburn introduced his mother, Rildia Bee.
 
Less Invincible, Less Lofty
Many of the guests had attended a similar affair during Mr. Gorbachev's first visit to America two and a half years ago, and they were struck that Mr. Gorbachev seemed less invincible, more reflective about his problems.
''He wasn't in a position of stress'' on his earlier visit, Dr. Press said, but was a more ''commanding figure.'' This time he seemed less lofty, even self-deprecating.
''When he came three years ago, he was a dominant figure, with all the mythology of the czars and the Russian empire behind him,'' said Dr. Robert Peter Gale, a surgeon who worked with Soviet health officials in treating victims of the Chernobyl nuclear accident. ''Now we see him under siege.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush leaning over for a last word to President Mikhail S. Gorbachev after White House meeting. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LITHUANIA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (89%); KIEV, UKRAINE (56%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); WASHINGTON (DC)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; FOREIGN SERVICE; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); HISTORY (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); KISSINGER, HENRY A (DR) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



2 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Alaska Natives Sadly Ponder Whether to Spend Their Land

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KODIAK, Alaska

 BODY:
Nineteen years after Congress set aside almost a billion dollars and 44 million acres to make Alaskan native groups economically self-sufficient, some of the groups have built thriving financial empires.
But others, in some cases broke from investing in questionable schemes in the lower 48 states, are desperate. And now they propose to develop their land, posing what critics say are some of the biggest threats to the environment in Alaska.
One group has joined with the Chevron Oil Company to drill the first major exploratory well in the delicate Arctic wildlife area. Another plans to begin logging the virgin forests bordering Prince William Sound this year. A third is planning to build an airstrip into the heart of the world's largest brown bear refuge here on this windswept island in the Gulf of Alaska. 
Even some native leaders say they are pursuing the plans against their own best judgment as stewards of the land. In a twist, in an effort to avoid selling to developers, they have approached environmental groups and the Federal Government and even private companies to see if they can find someone to buy up their land.
''Some of the natives are in a position now where the only way they can make money is to destroy the land,'' said Tim Mahoney, an environmentalist who has been negotiating a possible settlement to end logging near the Kodiak bear refuge on Afognak Island. ''It's a strange way to succeed, because corporation values are usually antithetical to their traditional values.''
Ralph Eluska is president of Akhiok-Kaguyak Inc., a native corporation that owns 138,000 acres on Kodiak Island. ''We're broke,'' he said. ''Congress made us into a corporation, and then said, 'Go out and make the bottom line.' So, our shareholders keep asking me, 'What have you done for me lately?' ''
What Mr. Eluska is trying to do for his 147 shareholders, most of whom subsist by catching salmon and hunting bear, is get the Federal Government to buy back much of the land they received in 1971, when Congress passed the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.
 
The Bears Are Crowded
Federal biologists say the natives' land here is the best bear habitat within the 1.8 million-acre Kodiak National Wildlife Refuge, home of the giant cousin of the grizzly, the Kodiak bear.
Although Kodiak bears, the largest land carnivores, may weigh up to 1,500 pounds and grow as tall as 14 feet, they shy from people. There are nearly two bears for every square mile of the island refuge, and biologists say the presence of humans crowds them into territorial fights. And as visitors and bears increasingly cross paths, more of the animals are shot to death. Officials say development, in the form of logging, airstrips for foreign hunters, and vacation lodges, could spell the end of the refuge, which was set aside in 1941 by President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
''The natives are in a Catch-22 situation,'' said Jay Bellinger, manager of the Kodiak refuge. ''They have to make money. But the only way they can make money here is to develop the very land the bears depend on. And you can't have both humans and brown bears in the same place. The bear will always lose.''
Mr. Eluska said: ''We'd rather not foul up this beautiful part of the world. We'd rather leave it to the bears. But without a choice, we have to make some use of that asset.''
 
'No' to Reservations
The native corporate structure was set up in 1971 as the centerpiece of the largest settlement ever between the Federal Government and aboriginal people. Congress was under pressure to settle with the natives so Alaska could be opened up to oil development, but in settling with the natives it rejected the idea of Indian reservations as a failed social policy.
The natives were instead given $967 million in cash and 44 million acres, for which they ended their ancestral claims to Alaska. To manage the windfall, more than 200 village corporations and 13 regional corporations were set up, with each native holding a certain number of shares in a particular corporation. Much of the native land was within wildlife refuges or areas that in 1980 became national parks.
Some corporations, notably the Cook Inlet Region, Sealaska and Arctic Slope, have done extremely well and are among the richest companies in the Western United States. They developed timber and fishing industries and invested in broadcast stations and real estate in the Lower 48. Cook Inlet, with three television stations and 11 radio outlets, is the largest minority-owned broadcasting company in the nation.
But other native companies have foundered, losing money in bad investments or from the drop in energy prices in the 1980's.
 
When Losses Are Lucrative
What saved many native corporations from bankruptcy was a provision in the Federal tax law that allowed any company to sell its net operating losses to profitable companies. The Walt Disney Company, the Marriott Corporation and the Pillsbury Company, among others, bought the native corporations' losses at a discount and then used them against their own profits to reduce their tax bills. The tax law was changed, after the Treasury lost more than $300 million from companies' sales of their operating losses, Federal officials say.
Approaching the 20th anniversary of the settlement act, some native corporations are at a turning point, trying to decide if development that could be destructive is worth the price of making money for shareholders.
 
Uncertainty Over Logging
The State of Alaska is currently negotiating a $20 million purchase of land that a native village corporation had planned to log in a state park on the Kenai Peninsula west of Anchorage.
And around Prince William Sound, which is still recovering from the spill of nearly 11 million gallons of oil from the Exxon Valdez in March 1989, the Chugach Alaska Corporation is planning to begin cutting forests in an area where there has never been logging.
The logging would be ''a threat to some of the finest scenic and wildlife areas in Alaska,'' said Jack Hession, Alaska representative for the Sierra Club.
In an effort to prevent the logging, some environmental groups asked Exxon to buy the land and keep it in a wild state, but the company has rejected the proposal.
 
Conflicts on Personal Level
The timberlands manager of Chugach Alaska, Paul Tweiten, said logging would proceed in an environmentally sound manner. Destructive logging that would hurt fishing or tourism would be against the natives' self-interest, he said.
Still, many of the new ventures cause inner turmoil among shareholders. ''I've always had a personal conflict when we talked about whether our land should be preserved for future generations or should we punch a hole in the ground to help those here now,'' said Mike Irwin, who is an adviser for native affairs to Gov. Steve Cowper.
Mr. Irwin and other native leaders say environmentalists are applying a double standard.
''Just because it's a native company we're supposed to act differently,'' Mr. Eluska said. ''What's driving these decisions is the American dream. We want the same life style as other Americans. We want to be able to have our TV's, to have our two weeks of vacation, to have an education. We want to play by the same rules.''
 
The Spill Changed Things
Mr. Eluska's corporation here, and several other native groups, were prepared to give up their land within the wildlife refuge, more than 300,000 acres, in exchange for a share of revenue if oil development was allowed in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge on the North Slope. But after the Exxon oil spill, the plan to open the refuge, a vast home for caribou herds, became politically untenable in Congress and was put on hold.
Now, the native corporations are trying to sell their land on Kodiak. A bill under which the United States would buy a small piece, worth about $2 million, is before Congress, and other parcels may be sold to groups like the Nature Conservancy, which buys land for wildlife.
But without a sale, the corporations may proceed with plans for development.
''It's very difficult for us,'' Mr. Eluska said. ''Our people are poor. They need economic opportunity. But they also have a religious tie to the land that's not easily broken.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nineteen years after Alaskan native groups were given land to make them self-sufficient, some are in financial trouble. Proposals to raise cash include development that critics say threatens the environment, including that of Kodiak Island, the world's largest brown bear refuge. (Kathy Dawson); map of Alaska showing location of Kodiak Nat'l Wildlife Refuge (The New York Times) (pg. D16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (77%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ALASKA

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN NATIVE AMERICANS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); MAMMALS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); SPORT HUNTING (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); OIL EXPLORATION (75%); ANIMALS (75%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (75%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (60%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (60%); SHOOTINGS (50%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY TIM MAHONEY (58%); 



3 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Asians to Press U.S. on Boat People

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, May 31

 BODY:
Britain and six Southeast Asian nations plan a new attempt to persuade the Bush Administration and the Vietnamese Government to agree to the forced return of thousands of Vietnamese boat people later this summer.
The six Asian nations are warning that unless the forcible repatriation is accepted, they will no longer allow boat people to land, and an international plan for looking after these refugees will collapse.
The diplomatic campaign, which diplomats say will involve high level appeals in Washington and Hanoi next month is intended to secure American and Vietnamese backing for the return of boat people who are deemed to be economic migrants rather than political refugees by July 1.
 
Asians Present an Ultimatum
This deadline was set at a meeting in Manila earlier this month of the 29 countries that drew up the Comprehensive Plan of Action on Indochinese Refugees at a United Nations-sponsored conference in Geneva last year. If the United States and Vietnam agree, these countries will meet again in Geneva on June 26 to prepare the repatriation. 
The six members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations - Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand and Brunei - which are caring for about 50,000 Vietnamese boat people, warned that unless the United States and Vietnam agree to forced return of economic migrants, they will refuse to accept any more boat people, as Malaysia is increasingly doing already.
This would effectively destroy the Comprehensive Action Plan, diplomats say, under which these countries and Hong Kong agreed to offer asylum to boat people fleeing Vietnam but to resettle only those deemed genuine political refugees.
 
Hong Kong Wants Thousands Out
Britain has said it also wants to send back the roughly 8,500 Vietnamese boat people in Hong Kong to whom it has already refused refugee status as soon as another 1,700 who have agreed to go back on a voluntary basis have been sent home.
By the end of the year British officials say about 40,000 of Hong Kong's estimated 55,000 boat people will probably have had their requests for asylum denied and be designated for forced repatriation.
Britain and the six Asian nations want the forced repatriations to be carried out under the supervision of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to ensure that the returnees are well treated by the Vietnamese and found housing and jobs.
But the United States has blocked their plan, arguing that conditions in Vietnam are too bad for the refugees to be sent back there. Privately, British and Southeast Asian officials feel that the Bush Administration's attitude is chiefly influenced by fear of a political backlash among Vietnamese Americans if the United States supports repatriation.
 
Britain Calls for Special Camp
As a result, Britain has proposed that the Bush Administration build a special camp for the boat people on Guam, the American Pacific island, and accept boat people denied refuge there until it judges that conditions in Vietnam have sufficiently improved for them to go back.
It has also asked the United States to pay up to $80 million toward the cost of caring for boat people currently housed in Hong Kong's refugee camps.
The Administration has refused both requests, saying it cannot accept people who are not genuine refugees and that, in any event, housing them on American soil would only encourage more Vietnamese to flee the country.
 
Fewer Arriving in Hong Kong
While Hong Kong's overcrowded refugee camps have forced Britain to take the lead in pressing for forced repatriation in the past, refugee officials say fewer refugees are arriving there now and conditions are easing. In the Southeast Asian countries, on the other hand, the flow of new arrivals is still runnning at relatively high levels, and the governments are increasingly anxious to start sending boat people home, by force if necessary.
According to the latest United Nations figures, Indonesia has received 5,087 boat people so far this year, lifting the total to 12,169. Thailand has taken in 3,772, giving it a total of 13,069. Malaysia, which already cares for over 19,000 boat people, has received another 988. And the Philippines with 9,092 has taken in another 200 this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); VIET NAM (97%); ASIA (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); HONG KONG (94%); PHILIPPINES (93%); MALAYSIA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); VIETNAM (79%); GUAM (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASEAN (ASSN OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS) ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM; GREAT BRITAIN; SINGAPORE; MALAYSIA; INDONESIA; PHILIPPINES; THAILAND; BRUNEI

SUBJECT: BOAT PEOPLE; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; VIETNAMESE-AMERICANS REFUGEES (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); ASIAN AMERICANS (73%); TRENDS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) PAUL S BUSH (59%); 



4 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Summit in Washington: Reporter's Notebook;
The Man, the Mikes and the Moment

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31

 BODY:
The whole town was poised for something predictably unpredictable.
And at 6 P.M., as he left his meeting with President Bush at the White House, Mikhail S. Gorbachev obliged.
With the aplomb of a United States Senator, the Soviet President stepped up to the bouquet of microphones stationed outside the West Wing and surprised reporters and White House officials by putting his own construction on the first two summit sessions.
He indicated that there may have been movement on the thorny issue of German unification, noting that ''something had emerged.'' Saying that he thought the Foreign Ministers for both countries should sit down and discuss the issue, he added, ''I think it is not here that the German question will be resolved.'' 
Only a few seconds after he swept away from the White House, Mr. Gorbachev stopped his Zil limousine and his impressive 43-car motorcade a block east of the White House to do some of his patented flesh-pressing. He seems to be motivated partly by a sense of relish for the adulation he is denied at home, and partly by the feeling that his ''spontaneous'' stops are a calculated way of generating the television pictures of happy Americans mobbing him that are meant to impress the disaffected Soviet audiences.
Perhaps with a wink at his attempts to lure economic investment to a country in a panic over bread prices, Mr. Gorbachev chose the corner where 15th Street,Pennsylvania and New York Avenues come together.''
Although many Washingtonians had predicted that the Soviet showman would trump himself with a more elaborate appearance - a stop at the Lincoln Memorial, perhaps -Mr. Gorbachev decided to stick with his old routine of a downtown street corner.
It may not have been terribly imaginative, but the rush-hour crowd of young government employees and bank workers and tourists did not seem to care. The shouts and sirens of the nervous K.G.B., F.B.I. and Secret Service agents - who were taken totally by surprise since the White House was not informed in advance - mingled with the clapping, shouting and laughing of the delighted pedestrians.
''He's getting out!'' yelled a Secret Service agent, adorning his statement with a down-home expletive.
Sandra Marinaro, who works in the trust department at American Security Bank, boasted that she had been close to the Soviet President. ''Oh, yeah,'' she told all listeners. ''I saw the birthmark on his head.''
One young man in the crowd of 200 tried to jump up and down but he could see only the top of Mr. Gorbachev's head and a flash of his confident smile. ''Take his picture, man,'' he yelled in confusion at a bystander holding a tape recorder. ''Take his picture. Get your camera up there. Take his picture. Calm down. Can't you reach over his shoulder?''
Mr. Gorbachev worked the east side of the street and then the west. ''I feel very welcome here,'' he said through his translator.
 
What a Character!
The Soviet leader's cool mien today, in the face of his daunting problems at home, was impressive. It provoked everyone from jaded television producers to the President of the United States into fits of character analysis.
Paul Greenberg, the executive producer of NBC special programs, mused as he watched the tape of Mr. Gorbachev having lunch with American guests at the Soviet Embassy, ''I don't think I'd be munching on chicken Kiev if I had all the problems Gorbachev has.''
Mr. Bush, chatting with reporters tonight in front of the White House, said: ''I don't feel a weakened presence or anything of that nature. I see a man determined to do his job.''
 
From the Cold War Attic
Glasnost comes more easily to some agencies of the United States Government than others.
As Mr. Gorbachev arrived in the capital on Wednesday evening for the summit that is supposed to represent the transformation of the superpowers from adversaries to partners, a military press officer at the Pentagon was handing out glossy booklets titled, ''Soviet Biological Warfare Threat.'' The cover of the booklet, which was published by the Defense Intelligence Agency in 1986, features two ominous-looking Soviet Army camouflage helicopters spraying deadly poison over a landscape of mountains and fir trees.
Why in the world, the press officer was asked, would the Pentagon distribute four-year-old books bashing the Soviets on the night President Bush welcomed the Soviet President to town?
''Well, gee, we were clearing out the storeroom and we were going to throw them all out,'' the officer replied with lingering cold war logic, ''so we thought we'd see if the press wanted to take them instead.''
 
Act II: Enter Bush, Testily
One would think that the White House would have learned by now to expect the unexpected from the Soviet leader, but they were still blindsided by Mr. Gorbachev's decision to emerge from the West Wing and give reportings an American-style briefing at the spin launching pad usually used by members of Congress and others after meetings with the President.
White House officials were so unprepared that they did not even have a staff member standing by with a tape recorder, standard operating procedure, and had to rely on the broadcast by Cable News Network like everyone else.
Concerned that Mr. Gorbachev would steal the sound bite on the German issue, frantic White House officials pushed President Bush out before microphones in the Rose Garden an hour later to give his version.
''It's good for the Warsaw Pact and the Soviet people to hear reassuring words from their leader about Germany, but it's also important for that message to come from the leader of the West, too,'' one Administration official said dryly.
In his turn, Mr. Bush told reporters that he was sympathetic to the number of lives lost by the Soviets in World War II, and that he had told Mr. Gorbachev that the United States had lost many ''kids'' in the war with Germany as well.
''I reminded him,'' President Bush said, showing with a rare spurt of asperity that he was nettled by these unscheduled dueling press availabilities, ''that I was the only one of the two of us that was old enough to remember it from being there.''
 
Next Time, Maybe
President Bush failed again today in his desperate attempt to loosen up the Soviet leader, who never sheds his coat and tie.
On the official summit schedule, Mr. Bush was supposed to show Mr. Gorbachev his prize horseshoe pit outside the Oval Office after the first working session. But the session went 40 minutes over, and Mr. Gorbachev begged off because he had a lunch at the Soviet Embassy.
Reporters noted Mr. Bush's failure to get Mr. Gorbachev near a sport, much less to get him playing one, with some amusement.
''Gorbachev, one,'' scored Michael Duffy, the White House correspondent for Time Magazine, ''Bush horseshoe pit, zero.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: News photographers assembled outside the White House awaiting the arrival of President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev (Agence France-Presse); Mr. Gorbachev got out of his limousine to greet well-wishers after leaving the White House yesterday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SECURITY BANK NA (51%); WHITE HOUSE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; DOWD, MAUREEN GEORGE W BUSH (88%); 



5 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Gorbachev Toasts at Dinner

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the toasts offered tonight by President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union at a White House state dinner, as recorded through the facilities of the Cable News Network:
 
MR. BUSH
Friends, distinguished guests, and, especially, Mr. President and Mrs. Gorbachev: Barbara and I are delighted to welcome you to the White House to share ''bread and salt'' with us on this special evening.
We're now nearing the end of a momentous day, the first of four in this Washington summit.
And tomorrow, Mr. President, comes the moment that so many have been waiting for, the day when expectations will be at a fever pitch, and that's right, tomorrow. Barbara and Raisa go to Wellesley College, and back here at the White House, sir, we will meet again, this time to sign our names to a series of agreements that signify the progress that our two nations have made in forging a new relationship. Agreements on everything from nuclear testing and chemical weapons to expanded contacts between the people of America and the people of the Soviet Union. 
These agreements are a continuation of all that began in Malta just six months ago, a foundation we can build on, proof that differences can be resolved, even while others remain. And let me assure President Gorbachev: Whatever deep differences divided us in the past, the United States and the American people approach every issue with a sincere belief that our two nations can find common ground. Indeed, because of our unique positions in the world, we must find common ground.
Mr. President, you deserve great credit for the course that you've chosen, for the political and economic reforms that you've introduced, and for creating within the Soviet Union this commitment to change. As I said this morning when I welcomed you to the White House, we want to see perestroika succeed. We want to see this transition now under way in the Soviet Union maintain its momentum.
Mr. President, it is said that your country is ''the land of possibilities.'' You have demonstrated the truth of that statement, and we've seen this past year that ours is a world of possibilities, that our time is a time of historic change, a time when men and nations can transform history, can turn possibility into progress, into peace.
So let us raise our glasses. To our guests, President and Mrs. Gorbachev; to the growing friendship between the American and Soviet people, and to the possibilities now open to us - to the prospect of progress, and lasting peace.
 
MR. GORBACHEV
Mr. President, Mrs. Bush, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, on behalf of Mrs. Gorbachev and myself and all the members of our delegation, to thank you for your warmth and for the kind words of President Bush.
We share the assessment of President Bush that we have done fruitful work today, and I'm sure that as a result of this meeting, our countries will go to a new level of cooperation.
Even now, our relations, to which history assigned such an important role in the events and lessons of the 20th century, differ dramatically from what they were before the 1985 Geneva summit. To achieve this we have worked together.
The enemy image is becoming a thing of the past. Ideological stereotypes are fading away. We have begun to understand each other's motives. As we are changing and becoming closer to each other, we have not ceased to be different. But it turns out that that is not so bad. Quite the opposite - it is useful. For diversity is a vital force of development.
 
Optimism About Results
I cannot say yet how we are going to conclude this meeting - what the results would be. That would be premature. But I think that my talk today with the President and also the meeting of the delegations makes it possible to expect major results from this meeting, and maybe even major results - the biggest results compared to all the other meetings and previous Soviet-American summits. Maybe I'm too optimistic, but let's wait and see. We have two days. I believe that maybe we will have those major results.
I feel that we are now witnessing the emergence of a general idea which is conquering people's minds on the eve of the 21st century. It is the idea of unity. To make this idea a reality is a truly monumental challenge.
In the world confronted with the nuclear, environmental and other threats, global unity means a chance for the survival of our civilization. But mankind cannot be merely a community of survival. It should be a community of progress - progress for all - the East, the West, the North, the South, the highly developed and the less fortunate.
But today we have to rethink the whole idea of progress. Mankind's ascent toward the realization of the idea of its history should not result in irreparable damage to the environment, in the exploitation of man or entire nations, or in irreversible moral and ethical losses.
It is a difficult and novel task to build a new civilization. Coming from a country in which more than a hundred nationalities live together, we know that perhaps better than anyone else. Our own house is in need of an overhaul and a fundamental restructuring along the lines of reason and justice. We are aware of the magnitude of this undertaking, unprecedented in the history of mankind.
 
Hopes for Soviet Society
We have not yet completed the task of creating a durable democratic system in our country, but I am convinced that the reserves of our society's energy, already committed to this great undertaking, are enough to bring it to its completion. I can say this firmly - we shall act on the basis of our values. We shall move resolutely but prudently.
The goal of our policy is to bring our society to a qualitatively new level. This will enable us to be predictable participants in the international process - partners to all who want a secure, just and free world. In building this world, we count on the long-term cooperation of the United States of America.
The most important developments in relations between our two countries and in world politics are probably yet to come. It is important not to lose sight of our goal - to resist the temptation of trying to secure unilateral advantages. Let us move ahead while overcoming both current and future problems and roadblocks. Let us cooperate and work together.
To the health of Mrs. Barbara Bush, and to your health, Mr. President.
To the success and well-being of all those present here.
To a life worthy of today and to our common and better future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (91%); WHITE HOUSE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR US PRESIDENTS (90%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



6 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1969 words

HEADLINE: Summit in Washington;
Excerpts From Remarks by Gorbachev at the Soviet Embassy Luncheon

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from remarks by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev at a luncheon today at the Soviet Embassy, as provided by the Federal News Service, a transcription agency:
Ladies and gentlemen - ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed happy to welcome all of you. And on my own behalf, on behalf of Raisa Maksimovna, and on behalf of my party, who have arrived to Washington for important work, for having accepted my invitation - I give you my cordial greetings.
When I recalled that we had similar meetings during our previous stay, it seemed to me that that was a landmark event of that particular visit. And I felt that we have to meet once again with the members of the American intellectual community, because it is indeed the stuff of which a society is made. . . .
We, back in our country . . . have been discussing this particular subject and I know that you are afraid sometimes and you think that the Russians should somehow quiet down and get down to work, and I believe that it shows that we have not been able for so long to realize our potential. And we are a huge nation speaking 120 languages, that means representing 120 nationalities, but that is not all. 
We'll figure out how to proceed in our country. We haven't yet done that, but the main thing has been done. Having understood our country, our history, we have come to the conclusion that we cannot proceed as we have been doing all along. That was said on March 11 during the night . . . from 11th to the 12th of March, and one day later I was elected General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. And I understood well, we cannot proceed like this anymore, so how should we live? And from that particular moment we began to search for answers.
 
Choosing a Path
Even those who are present here, my colleagues in the perestroika drive and in my party, you will see many people who work hard to promote perestroika to make it expand and become deeper. But the main thing is to make it sure that our country becomes more open and more open to the outside world, and this is indeed a difficult task. I am constantly asked - people ask me, ''After the last five years if you had found yourself back in April 1985, had you chosen the same path?''
I'm sure that especially after these five years, after all . . . ideas and today, which is the decisive moment -I will dwell on it - we have no other way to proceed, and there is no turning back.
I wouldn't like to impose on you, but I would like to brief you on what is going on in the Soviet Union at the present time. . . .
Today I said to the President that at any rate we would like to have answers to two major questions. The first one - what the Soviet Union would like to see. And I would like to tell you what - United States - we would like to see.
 
Being Together
In a nutshell - and I would not try to dwell in detail on what I said to the President - I would like to say that my idea boils down to the following. Being two major powerful nations at this very crucial stage in the life of our civilization, when we are involved in deep changes, we have to be together.
What does it mean - together? Let's think about it. Mr. Kissinger, my old man who always contests things, and when I want to ask - to say something critical - I turn to him, and I see that Mr. Kissinger is -has undergone evolution toward these kinds of ideas. And that is to his credit.
What does it mean - to be together? We could be competitors and we were, indeed, adversaries and we opposed each other. And I believe that a more sound conclusion, after thinking about the whole picture, I would like to say that there was a film, ''A Century-Long Romance,'' and that was a documentary on how the relationship between our two countries has been developing during the 20th century. And it is amazing, when you see this two-hour documentary, you feel awed at how many times we initiated things and then parted our ways. That is why it's so important not to let pass the chance that we have now. . . .
We have come to the conclusion that we have to search for new approaches, we have to adopt a new way of thinking to each other. And it looks as if we'll have to proceed from competition to cooperation.
 
Many Approaches
Let's not hurry, because such changes do not happen overnight. Because only in Lithuania, they can overnight decide a question about seceding from the Soviet Union, and after that they are at a loss what to do, and we are at a loss what to do. That is one way of proceeding, that is one approach.
But there is another one which is more right, it is more humane. That is to be very cautious, to consider a matter seven times, or even 100 times before one takes a decision. So let us not hasten to undertake certain measures. And if we manage to pass from confrontation to competition to cooperation, that would indeed be a major achievement. And if we manage to do that, I'm sure that our peoples will be able to live and cooperate. . . .
The latest public polls, both in our country and in your country, show, I believe agrees that people think that improved relations with the United States of America should be continued. And recall everything, the wartime years. . . . We recall the 30's, when there was cooperation in building plants and factories in our countries. Memories are still alive in the minds of our people, and we feel very good feelings toward the American people.
And I once discussed certain things with President Mitterrand, and we were talking about the fact, how it is difficult to be a politician nowadays, because a politician used to be a guy who sat in his study and was an analyst, but now one cannot divorce himself from the populist sentiments, from the sentiments of those who do not want to be simple bystanders.
 
Promoting Ties
And this year, during the day of my birthday, I received an enormous number of congratulations and 98 percent from the United States of America. Yes, we published one book about Americans writing to Gorbachev and we still - we have the material for a second edition. It's very interesting. This is what is happening.
So we have the atmosphere in which we could promote such trends in the relations between our two countries. This is not an easy task. And in both our countries people ask whether the United States are genuine in their desire. And sometimes we have situations when something is done which spoils the situation for decades to come.
And that is something we have to take into account, because I have certain information and today I read in one newspaper that Gorbachev is the man who is prone to make demagogic statements and who is a closet believer in the old ways, so to say.
But it seems to me that we haven't had a better time to undertake changes than today. And we are now at a watershed, at a very crucial moment and we are prepared, due to our experience in that past war and in that cold war which we've had, and considering all those concerns about the situation in the world. We had different camps, different civilizations, but, well, we found out that we live in one world, in one civilization. I said once that I am not a favorite of the theory of convergence, but I believe that everyone has to pray to his own god.
 
One Civilization
And the example given by the revolution proved to be an impetus, and capitalism had to prove to all that it could do something. And they used to say that regulating the economy is not a good thing, but now they are doing it. . . . So, we are living in one civilization. And regardless of all of the differences that we have - and I believe the differences are not a liability - it is a plus to a certain extent because it provides a good foundation for reaching a higher-level plane of knowledge. . . .
We welcome various forms of cooperation, exchanges, and we see that, in a search for positive ways, is replacing ideological competition. And we remain committed to the choice we have made. We are looking for ways to adapt it and in terms of more democracy - of greater democracy, so that we won't be polarized from intellectuals as well, and I believe that the Americans as well are faced with similar problems.
Well, if we are talking about the problems, perhaps we are in a more difficult situation right now. I said to the President and I am repeating it now, that some people say that we could apply some pressure on the Soviet Union because it's enfeebled now, but how can you say that some of these are weak when perestroika is under way, it's going on, and all the instability, all the changes is but an indication of its fundamental nature.
We are changing our political system, we are working to develop a new economic system given the situation in our country, drawing up on our round experience and we are always very specific in our endeavors. That will be not like in the United States, in Germany, because that will be our unique way, because we would founder if we decide to simply adopt the ways that are current in some other country, because we've become wiser now.
 
Making Choices
And I'm always skeptical when someone says, well, we have to adopt this or that model. I believe that we have to make the choice and following that, creation is the thing to do, drawing on the huge experience that has been amassed by our civilization. If we manage to do that, we'll be proceeding with more speed. And at any rate, we'll have to travel down this road because we have no other choice, and the only thing to decide is how quick we should - how rapid our progress should be, and what would be its modalities.
But now we are experiencing a crucial period of time. Like never before, we want to be understood right now. We would not like to see panic in our country because of very deep and profound changes.
And today, during my discussion on this particular topic, you know with whom I talk here in Washington but that was not the President, it was said that it's difficult to be half-pregnant with introducing a market economy. I said, I agree but at any rate one has to wait nine months before a child is born and the same thing is - otherwise it would be - (apparent off-mike comment) - yes, seven months, okay. . . . So in order to have a healthy child, one has to wait nine months.
So we have to travel a certain road. We'll be traveling down this road because the major difficulty and - is that we have become accustomed to certain ways of thinking about market. Because Americans know pretty well about what a market is and about the whole intricacies about the - all the intricacies of a market, but we are innocent, so to say as far as a market is concerned, we have to start from the scratch. Because some people believe that a market is a speculation, and for your speculation, there is a market, so to say. . . .
Once again, I would like to thank you. I'm glad to see all of you. Some of you, I have known for some time. And with Gregory Peck, Jane Fonda, I believe, and one I also mentioned, and other members of the intelligentsia, we have two science-fiction writers, Asimov and Bradbury. When we learned about who - decided to see the guest list - and my daughter said, well, all those writers are my favorites. I have read all of their works. So we know about all your work.
And once again, on my own behalf and on the behalf of Raisa Maksimovna, on behalf of the members of my party, I extend to you my cordial welcome and I count on your cooperation in this very critical time of change and special responsibility, and of great hopes and expectations. And on how we understand each other, much will depend. Thank you very much.
I now propose a toast during this meeting, to our being together and understanding very well what cooperation means.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anatoly F. Dobrynin, former Soviet Ambassador to the United States, taking snapshots of members of the Soviet delegation as they waited for the welcoming ceremony to begin outside the White House. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); SOVIET EMBASSY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; FOREIGN SERVICE; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (55%); 



7 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Summit in Washington;
Making the Ruble 'Hard': 3 Ideas Win Prizes

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31

 BODY:
An American and two Soviet citizens won $10,000 prizes on Wednesday for their proposals on how to make the Soviet ruble convertible into dollars and other internationally accepted currencies.
The winners were Guysel Anulova of the Moscow Institute of World Economy; K. Panov, a Soviet citizen who works for the United Nations Commission for Africa in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, and Franklyn Holzman of Tufts University in Medford, Mass.
The prizes, totaling $42,000, came from the Furth Foundation of San Francisco. The organizers said there would be a conference in Moscow in October where the winners and others would be asked to present their ideas. 
The winning papers ''have in common the underlying assumption that the only effective path to ruble convertibility is through the creation of a market economy,'' said a statement signed by the competition's six jurors. Three were from the Soviet Union and three from the United States.
The Soviet Union needs dollars and other ''hard'' currencies to buy essential imports like grain and machinery. To get hard currencies, it exports oil, natural gas, diamonds, furs, arms, vodka and other products.
Ordinary people and most Soviet Government enterprises cannot simply go to world currency markets and offer rubles, which are ''soft,'' or not freely exchanged for other currencies, for dollars or other ''hard'' currencies, which are freely exchanged for other currencies at market rates.
At the exchange rate set by Moscow, the ruble is worth about $1.56. In fact, Soviet importers reportedly got only 80 cents for each ruble last year; travelers get 16 cents per ruble and on the black market, the ruble can go for as little as 6.7 cents.
One of the American judges, Ed A. Hewett, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said the judges deliberately refrained from distinguishing publicly among the ideas of the three winners.
Another American judge, Anne O. Krueger, a professor of economics at Duke University and a former vice president of the World Bank, said the winning entries all agreed that a first step would have to be stabilization of prices within the Soviet Union.
Stabilization would have to be followed by a freeing of prices for all goods now regulated by the state, and finally by links between the Soviet domestic economy and the international economy that she did not detail.
The differences among the papers were small, she added, and concerned such matters as the relative time and importance given to the successive stages.
A second prize of $4,000 each was awarded to each of three other contestants, whose proposals called for the Soviets to introduce a new currency, parallel with the existing ruble, as a step toward convertibility. The jury said it was not convinced that a parallel currency would necessarily work but recognized that a large body of expert opinion supports the idea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ETHIOPIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

CITY: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); UNITED NATIONS ECONOMIC COMMISSION FOR AFRICA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FURTH FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONTESTS AND PRIZES CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); NATURAL GAS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); JURY TRIALS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); JUDGES (68%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (67%); TRENDS (60%); 



8 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Summit in Washington;
Seoul and Tokyo See Major Shift In Coming Gorbachev-Roh Talks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, May 31

 BODY:
South Korean and Japanese officials said today that the surprise meeting next week between Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet leader striving to rebuild a collapsing economy, and Roh Tae Woo, a former general who reversed his country's four-decade-long rejection of dealings with the Communist world, symbolizes the beginning of the biggest shift in northeast Asia's power relationships since the end of the Korean War.
At the meeting in San Francisco next week, the two men are widely expected to agree to establish diplomatic relations between the two nations in the near future, paving the way for broad economic ties. That move seems bound to further isolate North Korea and its enigmatic leader, Kim Il Sung, high-ranking aides to Mr. Roh said today.
But the initiative also places tremendous pressure on Japan, the region's economic giant, to abandon its continuing unwillingness to join the flow of newly warmed relations with the Soviets. Already Japanese business executives and politicians are speaking openly of their fear that the United States and South Korea will develop a tremendous head start in penetrating the Soviet market, and that Japan will lose a chance to become integrated into one of the world's largest economies. 
Two South Korean newspapers reported tonight that South Korea is considering a $4 billion low-interest loan to the Soviet Union and the establishment of direct telecommunications lines. Also, Reuters reported from Beijing that China and the Soviet Union were planning high-level talks on June 10 in Beijing on how to handle Korean peninsula issues.
 
Seoul Hails Meeting
Until three years ago, South Koreans involved in any contacts with the Communist world could easily be prosecuted in criminal court, and often were.
But in Seoul today, the announcement of the San Francisco meeting was hailed by the Government as the culmination of a Government strategy begun with the 1988 Seoul Olympics to turn its remarkable economic boom in the 1980's to political advantage in this decade.
It began with the establishment of diplomatic relations with Hungary in September 1988, and has been fueled by an increasing number of officially sanctioned business deals and the visit to Moscow two months ago of Kim Young Sam, the longtime opposition leader who has joined Mr. Roh's camp.
The San Francisco meeting, however, will be the first ever between South Korean and Soviet leaders. In restoring that relationship, Mr. Roh hopes to restore the prestige of his presidency, battered in recent months by a spring of violent strikes and a damaging economic slowdown.
But it also vindicates a controversial policy, one that many of Mr. Roh's army colleagues viewed with suspicion.
''We knew that we would have to pressure North Korea from three directions,'' said Lee Hong Koo, Mr. Roh's special assistant for political affairs and, until two months ago, the country's Minister for National Unification. ''The first was from our own talks with the North. The second is from the United States and other Western nations. But the third was to build pressure from North Korea's nominal allies. Now the United States, the Soviet Union and South Korea are joining forces to persuade the North to engaged in a new kind of constructive relationship.''
 
Relations May Sour
Over the next few months, however, both sides seem to be bracing for that relationship to sour, perhaps dramatically. Western diplomats say they expect Kim Il Sung's Government to lash out, not least because the Soviets are their primary supplier of aid and military support.
''Initially, North Korea will be in shock and full of bitter resentment,'' said Kim Dal Choong, president of the Institute of East and West Studies at Yonsei University. ''But eventually the North will realize that it now has no choice but to pull out of its own closed relationships. It has no leverage against the Soviets.''
It is a particular blow to the North Koreans, said Han Sung Joo, a professor of political science at Korea University, that the meeting will take place in the United States, the country that keeps 44,000 troops within striking distance of Pyongyang.
American, Soviet and Japanese diplomats in Asia all say they cannot predict what will happen when Mr. Kim dies, though they all view his probable successor, his 48-year old son Kim Jong Il, as an even bigger threat to regional security.
''This is a country that is still far, far removed from any sign of democratization,'' Seiki Nishihiro, Japan's Deputy Minister of Defense, said in an interview this week. ''And Mr. Kim's son is, at best, an eccentric individual.'' He alluded to the kidnappings, bombings and other terrorist acts - including the downing of a South Korean airliner several years ago - that have been linked to the North Korean heir apparent.
 
Warning From North Korea
TOKYO, Friday, June 1 (Reuters) - North Korea said today that a scheduled meeting between President Gorbachev and President Roh would have ''a serious political consequence'' on the future of the divided Korean peninsula.
It was Pyongyang's first reaction to news that Mr. Gorbachev was to meet the leader of its hated rival state, with whom Moscow still has no diplomatic ties.
A Foreign Ministry spokesman, quoted by the official North Korean news agency monitored here, said: ''We consider that the President of the Soviet Union, an ally of ours, is quite able to analyze and judge what a serious political consequence will be entailed by his meeting with Roh Tae Woo, who is seeking only the split of Korea.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (86%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH KOREA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); NORTH KOREA

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); OLYMPICS (64%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; ROH TAE WOO (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; KIM IL SUNG (PRES) ROH TAE WOO (92%); KIM JONG IL (71%); 



9 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Summit in Washington;
Muscovites Scoff at Talk of Summit

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, May 31

 BODY:
Igor Repka had little time to ponder the world travels of Mikhail S. Gorbachev as he grabbed the collar of an interloper and thrust him back from the line at the money-changing bureau for this summer's throng of would-be Soviet travelers.
''I know perfectly well Gorbachev is the patrician and I am the plebeian,'' Mr. Repka said, speaking above the commotion along the line and protecting his place - No. 125 after five days of waiting.
''Our life is like ancient Rome: the patrician goes one way and the plebeian another, and I see nothing in Gorbachev's visit for me,'' he said, speaking after two straight months of waiting in assorted bureaucratic lines to move inch by inch toward one of this nation's most sought-after and hard-won privileges, permission to visit the outside world.
 
'It Means No Changes Here'
In a nation of citizens ubiquitously waiting for everything from food to flight, President Gorbachev's latest gleaming trip to the summit occasions little reaction of relevancy from those who stand and wait. 
''I am the plebeian,'' Mr. Repka repeated, seeming amused at the notion that someone such as he should even be consulted.
Along the line, everyone was similarly self-absorbed, anxious about their own summit-scaling task of eventually securing first an invitation, then permission, then precious foreign currency and finally a seat on an outbound Soviet airliner, the latter line a year long for the most prized ticket to the United States.
''What is the sense of Gorbachev's summit?'' asked a Ukrainian engineer named Igor, one of the line's self-appointed monitors on guard for today's endless pushing, shoving, shouting interlopers. ''It means no changes here. Five years of perestroika mean no changes.''
 
For Most, the Summit Is So Far
Of all of Mr. Gorbachev's summit trips, the one under way in Washington is showing perhaps the fewest ripples across the reality of ordinary Soviet life. Hard economic times have left the public preoccupied with domestic survival in a mood generally ranging across crankiness, anxiety and malaise, if not quite the crisis description worn to death lately by Government economists.
The big news along the currency line today, for example, was not about German reunification. Rather it was the announcement from the bureaucracy that because of the pending currency unification, Soviet visitors would have to pay 2,000 rubles as of July 1 to buy the same amount in East German money that had cost 200 rubles.
''This is a hell that tortures people,'' a man in the currency line observed rather calmly.
The main state-controlled evening television news program still accorded President Gorbachev his usual chunk of coverage and time, lacing the report with much smiling abroad and scenes of appreciative foreign crowds. But this is no longer news here, and this time ordinary Russians seem to have to pause at length, searching for a comment when asked about the summit meeting.
''No, I am not interested in that,'' a young woman named Ermin finally commented, barely distracting herself with the summit question after what she said was a full year of trying to get Government clearance and an airline ticket to emigrate to Canada, where her husband has been waiting.
She and her family have been commuting to Moscow from Armenia for each step in the process: the struggle to get a visa, medical clearance, the shopping for an airline ticket with its clamoring around the cubby windows of peevish, glassy-eyed Aeroflot clerks.
 
'We Have No Hope Yet'
Some of those waiting said even the usual bribe of 2,000 rubles - about eight months' salary for the average Soviet worker - no longer is a reliable way to guarantee a ticket.
''We have no hope yet,'' a member of Ermin's family estimated as they waited once again all day at the Aeroflot ticket office. He said they have been waiting to buy a ticket the honest way, finally succeeding in getting on what they thought was a reliable waiting list that, however, collapsed last week after three months straight of daily waiting.
They sat silently staring in the ticket office. When asked, they politely thought a minute and recalled that they saw Mr. Gorbachev on television the other night after he had arrived in Canada and they had arrived back at the home of friends, where they have had to intrude for months.
''I saw him,'' Ermin said, watching an uncle quietly sidle up to a man standing and watching quietly, knowingly in the doorway as if he had some advantage to purvey.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eduard A. Shevardnadze, the Soviet Foreign Minister, and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d held an informal discussion of their own before the start of the official welcoming ceremonies in Washington. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GERMANY (85%); UKRAINE (75%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION TRENDS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); AIRLINES (67%); CURRENCIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (94%); IGOR REPKA (72%); 



10 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Finally, the G.O.P. Speaks

 BODY:
New York State's Republican Party (yes, there is one after all) produced two big surprises at its party convention this week - one laudable, the other late. For the first time, the party endorsed a woman's right to choose an abortion. It also ended a long and embarrassing search by conferring on Pierre Rinfret the dubious honor of running against Mario Cuomo for governor this fall. 
The delegates' decision to include in their platform a plank supporting ''reproductive rights for women'' was morally sound and politically shrewd. Ever since a Supreme Court decision last year gave states more authority to regulate abortion, pro-choice groups have become increasingly vocal. Meantime, many Republicans have tried to disengage themselves from President Bush's continuing courtship of the right-to-lifers.
The decision angered the G.O.P's traditional allies in the Conservative Party as well as some of its own senior figures. These included the majority leader of the State Senate, Ralph Marino, who mounted a futile last-ditch effort to get the plank removed. But the decision also deprived the Democrats of a formidable campaign issue. And it honored the memory of Gov. Nelson Rockefeller, who signed a state law legalizing abortion in 1970, three years before Roe v. Wade.
The action also suits Mr. Rinfret, who is outspokenly pro-choice. That's one of the few things known about him. An economic strategist who's offered occasional advice to three Presidents, Mr. Rinfret has no political experience. He was chosen only after 19 other potential candidates had said no during a humiliating 11-month search.
He seems bright, blunt and even brash. At his first news conference he accused the Governor and the Legislature, Republicans included, of reneging on their promise to cut income taxes. He said he would ask for the death penalty for drug dealers: ''Period. End of debate.'' He told reporters that they knew ''50 times more than I do'' about state programs, but predicted that by election time ''I will know more than Mario Cuomo.''
Maybe yes, maybe no. But at least someone will be out there asking Mr. Cuomo pointed questions. That's a lot healthier than no race at all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); EDITORIALS; ABORTION; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); ABORTION (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); APPEALS (55%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: RINFRET, PIERRE; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



11 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
'Weakness Is Strength'

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
At the Moscow summit of 1974, a Soviet leader did what he could to sustain an American President in the waning days of his power. With the shoe now on the other foot, we will see again how little one superpower can affect the internal turmoil of the other.
Unlike Mr. Nixon, however, Mr. Gorbachev has been using his nation's economic desperation and his own political weakness as the keystone of his negotiating strategy:
Unless you help me with trade, he suggests, and stop supporting the breakaway Baltic States; unless you permit me to modernize my heavy missiles, and delay the withdrawal of my troops from Eastern Europe until Germany is neutralized, perhaps through a security component to C.S.C.E., my replacement for NATO - I will fail and be overthrown by a Stalinist villain.
The latest wrinkle in this Marshal Foch strategy is the Weimar analogy: If you add to our humiliation by making us give up our conquests, you will stimulate resentment that will be exploited by a Soviet Hitler. 
Fearful of a who-lost-Gorbachev charge, the Bush Administration seemed on the brink of giving up its position of strength. In Moscow two weeks ago, Secretary Baker accepted a change of priority from the historic ending of Red Army occupation to another nuclear treaty; until Mr. Bush turned to Brent Scowcroft and Robert Gates, it seemed we would offer the desired package of economic aid despite strangulation of the Baltics.
Then came the election of Boris Yeltsin to the presidency of the Russian republic. Overnight, the nature of the threatened alternative to Gorbachev changed.
No longer would we be helping Gorbachev the reformer against the imagined evil emperors of Communist reaction; by making concessions to Gorbachev, we would be helping a dictator remain in place who resists a free-market economy and insists on continued army occupation and heavy-missile advantage.
The most likely alternative is no Sakharov (whom Mr. Bush properly quoted in his welcome), and has as many anti-Semitic connections as does one of Mr. Gorbachev's recent appointees. But he is not the anti-reform poltergeist so often conjured.
On the contrary, says a name-dropping Soviet correspondent hanging around the lobby of the Madison Hotel here, ''Boris Nikolayevich is much more radical than Mikhail Sergeyevich.''
Boris Yeltsin has been accusing the present regime of half-measures when drastic action is needed, while ''Measure seven times, cut once'' is the go-slow Gorbachev adage. On Baltic independence, Mr. Yeltsin is the Russian Jefferson Davis; his first acts were to assert Russian sovereignty and to announce interest in direct negotiations with these independent Baltic nations, undermining the Gorbachev sanctions even as the Soviet leader was threatening ''more strict measures.''
Nobody knows which way the cat of Kremlin control will jump, but our policy makers now know this: The Russian people, not the apparatchiks or the generals, have changed the likeliest alternative to Gorbachev in a way that removes our impetus to ''help Gorbachev.''
We should continue to say, as Mr. Bush does so often, that ''we want perestroika to succeed,'' because a prosperous free market in Russia and its confederated republics are in everyone's interest. The bone in the Kremlin's throat is giving up central control.
Mikhail Sergeyevich, for all his eloquence about the pain of transition, is not the man of the future because he is a specialist in the inside acquisition of control. A physicist-economist brought into town this week to push Soviet economic weakness blurted out the truth: ''Only a popular government can undertake unpopular measures.''
That was untrue for 70 years, but it's true today: leaders who draw their support directly from popular majorities in elections can impose temporarily unpopular policies; the people will grumble but will bear the burden without revolt because the choice was their own.
Gorbachev fears elections because he is not one who delivers. He broke the sclerotic grip of the Communist Party, but shrinks from delivering the free system that would have put bread on the table; he abandoned the corrupt puppets of the Soviet empire, but has not delivered the end of Red Army occupation.
After a decade of gaining complete personal control, the great improvisationist could not differentiate between stability and stagnation. The Soviet leader deserves gratitude for shaking up his world, but not the help he demands to relieve the pressure for more freedom.
''Weakness is strength'' was this too-cautious compromiser's most daring maneuver. Some of us have begun to miss him already.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BALTIC STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (77%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: CSC AUSTRALIA PTY LTD (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BORIS YELTSIN (54%); BRENT SCOWCROFT (54%); ROBERT MICHAEL GATES (54%); 



12 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: ABROAD AT HOME;
Democratic Imperative

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Mikhail Gorbachev and George Bush are doing important business, but this summit meeting seems somehow apart from the real movement of history. That is taking place 5,000 miles from here, in Moscow.
The election of Boris Yeltsin as President of the Russian republic, the open conflicts in Mr. Gorbachev's circle over economic policy, the growing challenges to central Soviet authority: All these are manifestations of a political earthquake.
We lived with astonishment last year through the revolutions in Eastern Europe. They were the throwing off of colonial Communist regimes. Now something even more striking confronts us. An enormous society is approaching the point of having no effective government, and none in sight to replace it. A 70-year-old political system is crumbling. 
The loss of authority in Moscow is as sudden as any in memory, apart from that brought about by military defeat. How is it to be explained?
When Eastern Europe was being turned upside down last December, the European critic George Steiner threw cold water on the idea that people were rising up for democracy. Writing in Granta, the British quarterly, he said the crowds in Berlin, Prague and Budapest were ''not inebriate with some abstract passion for freedom, for social justice.'' Rather, they wanted the American consumer culture.
''Video-cassettes, porno-cassettes, American-style cosmetics and fast foods,'' Mr. Steiner wrote, ''not editions of Mill, de Tocqueville or Solzhenitsyn, were the prizes snatched from every West Berlin shelf by the liberated. The new temples to liberty . . . will be McDonald's and Kentucky Fried Chicken.''
Of course economic factors have been important, in the Soviet Union as in Eastern Europe. People have had enough of struggling to exist in a despoiled environment. But I think Mr. Steiner was far too cynical in his dismissal of the longing for political freedom.
Yes, people want American material goods, but they also very much want the essential American political idea, representative government under a constitutional system of checks and balances. American professors of constitutional law are advising the Governments of Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Lithuania on how to adapt James Madison to their needs.
It was Madison and his colleagues at the Constitutional Convention of 1787 who gave the world its first written Constitution. It called for limited government, hemmed in by rules and always answerable to the people.
''The people, not the government, possess the absolute sovereignty,'' Madison explained later. It was a transformingly radical statement in its day. Now, in a rush, it has become the dominant belief of mankind.
The drama unfolding in Moscow shows us the importance of the democratic vision, in a country that has hardly experienced democracy in its long history. Mr. Gorbachev is manifestly losing authority, and one reason is that he lacks the legitimacy of popular election.
Many of his own economic advisers want to move quickly toward a market system, as Poland is doing. But that kind of boldness and risk would need a mandate that he evidently does not have from his people.
Andrei Sakharov urged Mr. Gorbachev to follow a path of constitutionalism, of reform by law. Mr. Gorbachev chose instead to impose reform and build his personal position. It is not clear how he now can obtain what turns out to be the necessary democratic validation.
Americans can rightly be proud that not only our wealth but our 200-year-old political ideas inspire the movement for change in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. But we should be wary of self-congratulation, for our own democracy has developed grave flaws.
As we learned in the Iran-contra affair, some of the most important American policies are carried out in secret these days, with no accountability to the public. Elections are distorted by money, and voters hear about Willie Horton instead of issues that matter.
Vaclav Havel reminded us here in February of Thomas Jefferson's statement, in the Declaration of Independence, that governments derive ''their just powers from the consent of the governed.'' To write those words, President Havel said, ''was a simple and important act of the human spirit. What gave meaning to that act, however, was the fact that the author backed it up with his life.''
Now as then, democracy requires courage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); LITHUANIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (55%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (55%); 

COMPANY: KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN JAPAN LTD (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); COSMETICS (65%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 



13 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Reporter's Notebook;
Republican Convention Is a Model of Confusion

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RYE, N.Y., May 31

 BODY:
As dark comedy, the Republican State Convention here was an unqualified success.
But for those who thought political conventions were supposed to be well-orchestrated celebrations of party unity, the 1990 convention was an intriguing departure.
''I don't want to call it a low point,'' said Assemblyman John C. Cochrane, the Suffolk County Republican chairman, ''but we're at a level now where we've got nowhere to go but up.''
Rather than staging festive floor demonstrations, party leaders spent their time searching for someone, anyone, who wanted to be nominated for lieutenant governor or attorney general. At a reception Tuesday night, where an elephant sculptured out of ice melted in a steady stream, legislators joked that they showed up only to insure that they were not nominated in absentia. 
There may have been no better indication of the convention's disarray than the last-minute search for a candidate for attorney general.
Mr. Barrett, who had been preoccupied with finding a gubernatorial candidate, did not turn his attention to the attorney general's post until last weekend. It was then that Mr. Cochrane, the Suffolk Republican leader, suggested Bernard C. Smith, a former prosecutor who retired from the State Senate in 1978.
''He took a flyer and asked me if I was interested,'' said the 66-year-old Mr. Smith. ''I decided I really would like to run. Even former politicians are egocentric.''
Mr. Smith made his decision to run on Monday, came to Rye on Wednesday, when he was interviewed by Mr. Rinfret, and was nominated by acclamation today.
 
Step Up and Cuomo-Bash
One purpose of political conventions is to provide a forum for rhetorical attacks on the opposition. But, as in past years, the Republicans' only elected statewide officials, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and Comptroller Edward V. Regan, studiously avoided taking shots at Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
''You want me to go out and hit him with a hammer? I'm not going to do it,'' Mr. D'Amato told reporters.
That left much of the Democrat-bashing to two of the unlikeliest Cuomo critics, the Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, and Representative Susan Molinari.
Mr. Marino, who shares culpability for this year's budget fiasco, told delegates that Mr. Cuomo was responsible for a ''reign of fiscal terror'' and said ''the only growth industry we've got is crime.''
Miss Molinari, the 32-year-old who was recently elected to Congress from Staten Island, used a keynote address to blast her fellow Republicans for not exploiting Mr. Cuomo's vulnerabilities on the budget.
''It is sad for all New Yorkers that we, at a time like this, are not united, confident and strong against the likes of Mario Cuomo,'' she said.
 
Like Son, Like Son?
Will Peter A. Rinfret, the son and business partner of the Republican gubernatorial nominee, be to his father what Andrew Cuomo is to the Governor?
Although both are 32 years old, the younger Mr. Rinfret winces at the analogy.
''I think I'll be a sounding board to a degree but Pierre's made it very clear that no one tells Pierre what to do,'' said Peter, who is president of Rinfret Associates, the economic forecasting firm founded by his father.
Unlike Andrew Cuomo, who has always played a leading role in his father's campaigns, Peter Rinfret said he would stay busy running Rinfret Associates while his father hits the stump.
Peter Rinfret may have more political experience than the elder Rinfret. During the late 1970's and early 1980's, he worked in Washington for the Carter White House, the John Connolly Presidential campaign, and Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah.
Like the Cuomos, the Rinfrets are extremely close. ''I'm 32 years old and I don't hesitate to put my arms around my father and kiss him,'' Peter said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LAWYERS (74%); 

PERSON: RINFRET, PIERRE A; RINFRET, PIERRE A; SACK, KEVIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



14 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: Review/Photography;
The Personal Side of Johnson as President

BYLINE: By ANDY GRUNDBERG

 BODY:
THOSE who were not around in the 1960's will find ''L.B.J.: The White House Years,'' a show of some 120 black-and-white photographs at the International Center of Photography, an intriguing and occasionally edifying pictorial history of the Presidency of Lyndon Baines Johnson. Those who experienced the years 1963 to 1968, however, may recognize the exhibition as something else: an ingenious attempt to rehabilitate the memory of a politician whose integrity and accomplishments are as much under attack today as they were some 25 years ago.
The exhibition, which is based on an illustrated book of the same title written by Harry Middleton and published by Harry N. Abrams, begins with an image that is etched into the memories of all Americans over the age of 40. Taken by the photojournalist Cecil Stoughton, it shows Johnson being sworn in as President in the cabin of Air Force One, with his wife, Lady Bird, to his right and Jacqueline Kennedy, still wearing a blood-stained wool suit, to his left. The photograph, which remains discomfiting because of its ungainly mix of public event and private grief, might be said to foreshadow the end of the exhibition, which is dominated by images related to the war in Vietnam. 
In between, there are pictures of Johnson campaigning for election in 1964, visiting Appalachia in a helicopter as part of what he called his War on Poverty, huddling with his staff, Congressmen and civil rights and labor leaders while organizing legislation for the Great Society he envisioned, face to face with Richard M. Nixon in a White House office, and entertaining visitors to his Texas ranch. Most are apparently behind-the-scenes views taken by Yoichi Okamoto, a United States Information Agency photographer assigned to the White House. Okamoto, who died in 1985, managed to cover the Johnson Presidency in a photojournalistic fashion, capturing such intimate moments as Johnson's 1968 phone call to console the family of Robert F. Kennedy after his assassination, as well as more reportorial ones, including images of the President in the hospital before and after a gallbladder operation.
But the notorious photograph of Johnson pulling up his shirt to reveal his scar from the operation - the scar was later transformed by a political cartoonist into a map of Vietnam - was taken by a United Press International photographer, not by Okamoto or any other photographer on his staff. This suggests that there were limits to the candid approach the White House photographers employed, limits determined at least in part by the public relations value of the images that were released to the news media.
Indeed, the image of Johnson portrayed throughout the exhibit - of an avuncular, high-spirited but sincere and caring man who tried to make the Presidency more human and humane, in the tradition of Andrew Jackson - is at radical odds with the portrait of venality and chicanery meticulously traced by Robert A. Caro in his best-selling biography of Johnson's political rise, ''Means of Ascent'' (Alfred A. Knopf). One might even say that the pictures of ''L.B.J.: The White House Years'' resemble a public relations campaign as much now as they did when they were first taken.
Johnson's Presidency could be said to have ended as it began, in tragedy. The war in Vietnam led to domestic protest and discontent, and the projected Great Society never materialized. A picture in the exhibition of Johnson with his head down while listening to a tape-recorded account of action in Vietnam speaks eloquently (albeit metaphorically) of the war's impact on his state of mind. But overall the show masks the extent to which the war had become a major public and political preoccupation by 1968.
This neglect is partly remedied by a second exhibition at the photography center, ''Sal Lopes: The Wall.'' Consisting of 50 vivid color photographs taken at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington by Mr. Lopes, a Boston photojournalist, ''The Wall'' gives the war's toll an emotional immediacy missing from ''L.B.J.: The White House Years.'' Mr. Lopes has done well with the powerful monument designed by Maya Ying Lin and dedicated in 1982, using it as a backdrop to highlight the human interactions it provokes. In some prints the monument is a dense ebony, isolating arms that reach out to touch the names inscribed in its surface. Elsewhere, it appears forest green, reflecting a visitor's pained expression.
Mr. Lopes's pictures of tear-stained faces and fatigue-clad men embracing one another convey some of the emotion one feels when experiencing the wall in person. This is no small accomplishment, but it is in the final analysis a derivative one: without the pre-existing power of Miss Lin's 250-foot-long wedge of granite, the photographs would not carry as much weight. In the final analysis, both the Lopes and Okamoto photographs are of interest primarily because of the information they provide, not because of any esthetic or pictorial values. This is a distinction that is essential to any definition of art, photographs or not, and one that the International Center of Photography has yet to clearly perceive.
''L.B.J.: The White House Years'' was organized by the International Center of Photography in collaboration with the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and Museum in Austin, Tex., and is sponsored by the professional division of the Eastman Kodak Company. ''Sal Lopes: The Wall'' was organized by the Chrysler Museum in Norfolk, Va. Both exhibitions remain on view at the photography center, 1130 Fifth Avenue, at 94th Street, through July 15.
 
Barbara Steinman: 'Icon'
Museum of Modern Art
11 West 53d Street
Through July 31
Although it is a video installation, Barbara Steinman's ''Icon'' resists video's seemingly inherent propensity for spectacle and entertainment. The installation is remarkably low key and understated: on passing a color photograph of a marble Madonna, one enters a room populated by a backlighted, black-and-white image of the same Madonna and two black-and-white video monitors. On the screens, which lie behind sheets of frosted glass with oval apertures, are images of test tubes. One tube remains still, while the other slowly fills with a dark fluid (blood, presumably), despite being tilted so that it normally would empty. At intervals of a minute or so, a voice fills the room with the words, ''Take a deep breath.''
Given the test tubes, and what appears to be an X-ray machine pointed at the photograph in the entry, Ms. Steinman seems to be making a connection between the technologies of medicine and art conservation. But there is more to it than that: the use of the Madonna figure within this technological arena suggests an eerie equation of religion, art and medicine. Art and Christianity, the Canadian artist seems to be saying, are linked by a faith in their transformative powers. And by alluding to the taking of blood and the X-raying of a painting, she implies that both are being emptied of their mythic vitality. These are large subjects for any artist to take on, especially in an installation this small in scope, but Ms. Steinman grapples with them with admirable economy and aplomb.
 
Edward Maxey
James Danziger Gallery 415 West Broadway (near Spring Street)
Through June 9
In the tradition of Elaine Sturtevant and Sherrie Levine, Edward Maxey reinterprets well-known 20th-century art, in Mr. Maxey's case, the photographs of Robert Mapplethorpe. What distinguishes Mr. Maxey, however, is that he apparently doesn't mean to. He is simply under the spell of the now much-talked-about photographer, who died last year. This is not particularly surprising, since Mr. Maxey is Mapplethorpe's youngest brother and one-time studio assistant, but it does make his first one-man show of 31 black-and-white photographs an unnerving experience.
Like his brother, Mr. Maxey makes crisp, dramatic photographs of nudes, still lifes, demimonde celebrities and himself. At their best, they may rival his brother's images - his portraits of Annie Lennox and Sandra Bernhard, in particular - and occasionally he strays into new territory, as in an untitled close-up of a cat's face. But to equal an already clearly defined style is clearly a Sisyphean enterprise, as followers of Henri Cartier-Bresson and Walker Evans have already discovered. Mr. Maxey needs to learn to despise his brother's style as much as he loves it; as it is, this exhibition is merely the season's most haunting curiosity.

GRAPHIC: photos: Yoichi Okamoto's 1968 portrait of Lyndon Johnson at his ranch is in a show of Johnson photographs. (Lyndon B. Johnson Library/ICP) (pg. C1); One of 50 photographs, taken by Sal Lopes at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, in an exhibit at the International Center of Photography. (Sal Lopes/International Center of Photography) (pg. C26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL INC (51%); INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (84%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (84%); INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY; 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; REVIEWS; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: GRUNDBERG, ANDY; JOHNSON, LYNDON BAINES (1908-73); STOUGHTON, CECIL RICHARD NIXON (58%); 



15 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
ABC said it would impose a new system for measuring the TV audiences that advertisers pay to reach. Ad executives, caught by surprise, said they would fight ABC's plans to base audience guarantees in part on a three-year trend of viewing levels, instead of only Nielsen reports. [Page A1.] 
 
Nynex was indicted by a Federal grand jury, charged with criminal contempt of the 1982 consent decree that broke up A.T.&T. because it sells computer data processing services over telephone lines to MCI. [D1.]
 
Chrysler swiftly realigned top management a day after the abrupt resignation of its vice chairman, Gerald Greenwald, but did so in a way that appears to add to uncertainty about who will succeed Lee A. Iacocca. [D1.]
 
Carolco Pictures sold a 10 percent stake to a Japanese electronics company for $60 million. The move is the latest illustration of the international business ties being forged by American entertainment companies. [D1.]
 
Paul Stuart will open more than 15 stores in Japan and elsewhere in Asia in a few years. [D3.]
 
Westinghouse Electric's board voted to exempt the company from coverage under Pennsylvania's new anti-takeover law. [D3.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
The Government should ''actively intervene'' to keep U.S. ownership of industries critical to national security, a Defense Department task force has recommended. [D2.]
 
Orders to U.S. factories slumped 2.3 percent in April, the Commerce Department said. The decline pushed orders down 2 percent for the year so far. [D2.]
 
Prices farmers get for raw products rose 2 percent in May, raising the overall commodity index 3.4 percent above a year ago, the Agriculture Department said. [D2.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
A meeting of finance ministers ended with officials saying they had made some progress in global trade talks despite sharp differences between the United States and the European Community over agricultural trade. [D1.]
 
MARKETS
 
The S.E.C. approved a pilot plan under which 100 stocks now traded in the over-the-counter market could also be traded on four exchanges, including the American Stock Exchange. [D1.]
 
Stock prices slid narrowly in late trading as investors turned skittish in advance of the release of economic data today that could show strong inflationary pressures. The Dow closed at 2,876.66, off 1.90. [D4.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities were narrowly mixed in light trading. [D11.]
 
The dollar advanced against most major currencies except the Canadian dollar in advance of today's release of employment figures for May. [D12.]
 
Prices of unleaded gasoline plunged the daily limit on the New York Mercantile Exchange because of an unexpected increase in the nation's stocks of crude oil and gasoline. [D12.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
The Stanford Law and Policy Review estiimates that the full cost of the savings and loan crisis will come to $456.3 billion over the 10-year period from 1989-99. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
Environmental companies in Europe are looking attractive, as a result of dirty water, dirty air, acid rain, hazardous waste, sewage and little room for landfills. Market Place. [D4.]
 
TV executives are questioning the analysis used by Whittle Communications to support its claim that its broadcasts into doctors' waiting rooms will reach consumers whom network television does not attract. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D15.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (52%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (86%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (86%); CURRENCIES (85%); ELECTRONICS (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INDICTMENTS (76%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (75%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); TRENDS (72%); GRAND JURY (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INFLATION (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); GASOLINE (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); AGRICULTURE (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (68%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (68%); FUEL MARKETS (68%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (66%); BOND MARKETS (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (63%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (56%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%); 



16 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: Going to the Rescue of an Insurer

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
Richard H. Jenrette loves to restore stately old homes as a hobby. ''I like working with something that's beautiful, strong and powerful, but that has stumbled,'' said the 61-year-old executive who helped found the brokerage firm of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and who today owns estates in the Hudson Valley, on the Battery in Charleston, S.C., and on St. Croix.
His next undertaking, he notes, is much the same. As the new chief executive of the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, he is being asked to turn around a 131-year-old company that is the nation's third-largest insurer, with more than $135 billion in assets, but that has faltered of late. To start, earnings have declined steadily since the mid-1980's and last year's profits of $126 million were only half the earnings of 1986.
The company is also reeling from a disastrous foray into ''guaranteed investment contracts,'' which are long-term annuities that assured high returns to buyers. Equitable underwrote about $17 billion of these contracts, and when interest rates turned down, losses mounted; they are expected to reach about $1.5 billion before most of the contracts mature later this year. 
And Mr. Jenrette is also being asked to reverse an overreaching corporate expansion that drove up operating costs - so much so that Mr. Jenrette has pledged to cut $100 million in costs within 100 days. Equitable's board also wants the company's credit rating improved. Equitable, which is more highly leveraged than other life insurers, was downgraded two years ago by Moody's Investors Service to a level three steps below that of its industry peers.
Despite these problems, Mr. Jenrette, who joined Equitable as its chief investment officer after its 1985 acquisition of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, thinks Equitable's worst days are behind it, and he points to an improving capital ratio to prove it. ''It's a fundamentally stronger and better company than recent accounts suggest,'' he said. ''Those get my dander up and I want to polish up Equitable's image.''
A mutual company, Equitable is owned by its policyholders and competes with such mutual life giants as Prudential, Metropolitan Life, Mutual of New York and John Hancock. But as the world of financial services has become more competitive and complex, what was once the sleepy business of selling profitable long-term life insurance policies and investing the proceeds has been radically transformed over the last decade. Insurance giants are affected by the same financial strains as banks, brokerage firms and savings and loan institutions.
Buyers of insurance products are demanding more in the way of investment returns and less in the form of straight insurance - which means less profit for insurers like Equitable. And the search for high returns has led companies like Equitable into such risky investments as ''junk bonds,'' real estate and leveraged buyouts.
Nor is Equitable simply an insurance company. In addition to DLJ -as Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette is generally known today - the parent owns a broad array of financial service companies that are collected under the Equitable Investment Corporation. Among them are Equitable Capital Management, which acts as a private investment bank; Alliance Capital Management, which manages pension assets, and Equitable Real Estate, which holds more than $35 billion in real estate assets.
Mr. Jenrette's vision is to marry the insurance and investment sides of the company, all the while keeping costs down. Specific parts of this plan include redesigning some of the company's insurance products to make them more profitable and more sensitive to interest rates, switching to more fee-generating business like managing money for pension funds and other institutions, and increasing the profitability of Equitable's own investment portfolio.
Mr. Jenrette talks of having Equitable's force of 11,000 insurance agents sell more securities-like products invented by the investment side. It is hardly a new idea; it was the theory behind Prudential's acquisition of Bache Securities and American Express's purchase of Shearson Lehman. None of these acquisitions, including Equitable's, have lived up to their stated promise, but Mr. Jenrette thinks he can change that.
 
'No Miracle Formula'
''This is a gradual process that we've begun only five years ago,'' said Mr. Jenrette, in a 48th-floor office filled with Federal-period antiques. ''Then, only a small number of agents were licensed to sell securities; now a majority are. It comes down to focus and commitment. Insurance people have always felt their job was selling insurance. Now we've got to wed the two together. There's no miracle formula, I just feel that more can be done along these lines.''
To take this position, Mr. Jenrette had to turn down an appealing alternative. Last month, a nominating committee from the New York Stock Exchange appoached him about replacing John J. Phelan Jr. as the exchange's chief executive. In the cutthroat world of Wall Street, the soft-spoken Mr. Jenrette is a survivor.
Twice he has risen to the top spot at major financial institutions - and at both DLJ and Equitable he was not the obvious man for the job. DLJ's two other founders were far more visible, while Equitable has a well-entrenched cadre of executives. But his tenacity, Southern charm and investment acumen paid off for Mr. Jenrette when both firms faced hard times and turned to him for leadership. At DLJ, for instance, he turned around the firm with a strategy of catering to institutional investors after it had gone public and floundered.
Equitable's board, worried about the lagging profitability and the unimpressive credit rating, two weeks ago replaced John B. Carter, a career executive, with Mr. Jenrette.
 
'The Ideal Candidate'
''The change reflects the desire of the board to seek an improvement in bottom-line results,'' said Arthur Levitt Jr., a board member and former head of the American Stock Exchange. ''Dick Jenrette's record prior to and subsequent to his arrival at Equitable makes him the ideal candidate.''
Outsiders say Mr. Jenrette's success at Equitable will depend on the company's ability to hold on to its traditional life insurance business while broadening its investment activities. ''The individual life insurance marketplace is now growing by leaps and bounds and Mr. Jenrette will have quite a challenge to keep commission businesses up,'' said Weston M. Hicks, a vice president at Moody's. ''How well they emerge from their past problems is a function of how their investments perform and whether they avoid major investment problems.''
On the investment side, Mr. Jenrette is confident. He brushes aside concerns about nearly $2 billion in junk bonds held in Equitable's investment portfolio by making a distinction between high- and low-quality junk bonds. ''We don't have a very risky portfolio,'' he said. ''We have a vast analytical capability and our batting average is better.'' And he notes that real estate represents about 10 percent of Equitable's equity holdings, compared with an industry average of 6 percent, and down from 12 percent a year ago. ''I don't think that's an extreme position,'' he added.
The DLJ subsidiary, which Equitable bought for $435 million, has returned about $100 million in cash annually to the parent, Mr. Jenrette said. While some on Wall Street have expressed concern about DLJ's extensive involvement in risky but highly lucrative bridge-loan financing and junk-bond underwriting, DLJ has so far been adept at thriving in the current junk-bond downturn. $300 Million Junk Debt Move Last week, for instance, DLJ privately placed some $300 million in junk debt for Caldor retail stores, which was used to pay off a DLJ bridge loan. To have placed so much debt in a weakened junk-bond market was generally seen on Wall Street as a sign of DLJ's prowess.
Mr. Jenrette said one overlooked element of Equitable's financial strength is what he calls his ''hidden equity'' portfolio, which consists of equity stakes in leveraged buyouts that Mr. Jenrette estimates will produce some $1 billion over the next four to five years.
He therefore thinks Equitable is a stronger company than its rating indicates, and he said he would consider selling pieces of his investment subsidiaries to establish a market value for them and prove his point. But he rejects the idea of taking Equitable public. Insurance agents have generally opposed the idea, thinking it would hurt policyholders, and he notes that the equity market is soft for financial institutions.
''By selling some of the pieces we could demonstrate the value of this stream of earnings from our investment subsidiaries,'' Mr. Jenrette said. ''And that might convince Moody's and Standard & Poor's about our hidden assets.''
In fact, it was to protect those investment subsidiaries that the board turned to Mr. Jenrette. Under Mr. Carter, growth came so fast and at such a cost that Equitable was faced with two choices: drastically cut costs or begin to sell major subsidiaries. Mr. Carter was also a protege of Leo Walsh, Equitable's former chief investment officer, who was ousted in 1988 and blamed for the debacle involving guaranteed investment contracts.
''I think the board's patience ran out,'' said Mr. Jenrette, who himself is a board member. ''They wanted to get the rating up. And people had convinced Mr. Carter that one way was to sell the subsidiaries and return to just being an insurance company. But when the board saw that staring them in the face, they decided that we should take the cuts and not sell the crown jewels.''

GRAPHIC: photo: As the new chief executive of the Equitable Life Assurance Society, Richard H. Jenrette hopes to turn around a 131-year-old company that is the nation's third-largest insurer, with more than $135 billion in assets. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DLJ (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF THE US

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FINANCES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (69%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: JENRETTE, RICHARD H; WAYNE, LESLIE RICHARD H JENRETTE (94%); 



17 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: World Trade Talks Advance Despite Farm-Price Dispute

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, May 31

 BODY:
A meeting of the industrial democracies' finance ministers ended today with officials saying they had made some progress in global trade talks despite sharp differences between the United States and the European Community over agricultural trade.
The finance ministers said in a communique issued today that ''the successful outcome'' of the current four-year round of trade talks, known as the Uruguay Round, was of ''the highest priority.''
Notwithstanding the sharp disagreements between the United Staes and the European Community on how best and how fast to reduce farm subsidies, the ministers said they had agreed to take ''urgent steps'' to reshape agricultural policy.
On Wednesday, the first day of the two-day annual meeting of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the United States and members of the European Community detailed their differences on farm trade and acknowledged that they were stalemated on that issue. 
American officials said they worried that the standoff on farm trade could imperil the success of the Uruguay Round, a comprehensive set of talks that aims to liberalize world trade rules. The round, involving 105 nations, began in Uruguay in 1986 and will end in December.
But many officials said the meeting had helped move trade negotiations forward by allowing the two sides to voice their differences.
''It is quite normal in negotiations to have positions that are not the same,' said Jean-Claude Paye, Secretary General of the O.E.C.D., a 24-nation organization that seeks to foster economic growth and cooperation. ''This was not the time for the gap to be bridged.''
O.E.C.D. officials said that since the positions had been clarified, there might soon be some compromises. The ministers said they would ''make every effort'' at the July trade talks in Geneva to develop ''an appropriate framework to achieve the objective'' of reducing farm subsidies.
But some officials said they expected the negotiations to go down to the deadline in December.
This week the O.E.C.D. released a report stating that farm subsidies cost consumers and taxpayers $245 billion last year.
To advance the stalled agricultural talks, the United States sought to get the 12-nation European Community to commit itself to eliminating export subsidies, reducing import barriers and cutting price supports.
But community officials refused to commit themselves in all three areas, saying they preferred ''a global approach'' to reduce overall farm aid. Under the European proposal, some farm supports would be reduced, while others might be increased.
 
Unusual in Its Candor
Today's communique was unusual in its candor, stating that ''only limited and uneven progress'' has been made in reducing farm subsidies. In a rare move, the communique stated that Washington and Brussels had clashing views, and it outlined their differences.
The communique issued today made several key points:
* The ministers called for an increase in the savings rate in industrialized nations. In recent months, many ministers have voiced dismay about the shrinking savings rate because savings are needed to help increase investment to spur growth in the West.
* The ministers said ''countries where public-sector borrowing is still too high'' should make further efforts to reduce their budget deficits as quickly as possible. Many officials said this reference was aimed at the United States.
* The O.E.C.D. members said they ''are determined to continue to offer all feasible support to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.'' The O.E.C.D. has set up the Center for Cooperation with European Economies in Transition to provide Eastern European nations with expert economic advice on privatization, labor retraining and other aspects of moving toward a market economy.
* The ministers expressed growing concern about the high level of subsidies that prop up declining industries. The communique said these subsidies hurt economic growth by diverting money and manpower away from more efficient industries.
The ministers also said that mechanisms for resolving trade disputes should be strengthened and that more steps should be taken to liberalize trade in textiles and tropical products.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); URUGUAY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AGRICULTURE; URUGUAY ROUND (TRADE TALKS); CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; PRICES; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US) TRADE DEVELOPMENT (94%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); IMPORT PRICES (84%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); EXPORT PROMOTION (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); AGRICULTURE CONSOLIDATION (72%); IMPORT CONTROLS (66%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN



18 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Savings Rescue: Figuring the Cost

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
THE cost of the savings and loan bailout could be a lot larger than anyone has expected - indeed, more than $1 trillion.
In the most comprehensive look at the problem to date, the Stanford Law and Policy Review has tried, in a series of articles in its spring issue, to take the full measure of the savings and loan crisis and the costs of a bailout. The estimates in the Review, based on reports of the Office of Management and Budget, the General Accounting Office and the U.S. League of Savings Institutions, are that the costs will come to $456.3 billion over the 10-year period from 1989-99.
The G.A.O. the investigative arm of Congress, has put the cost at $325 billion to $500 billion over three decades. 
But the costs will go on rising as taxpayers put up the money to pay off bondholders. The Stanford Review, published by Stanford University, presents a second table extending the costs out over 40 years, since the rescue is being financed with 30- to 40-year bonds: the total cost estimate climbs to $1,369.9 billion.
That figure breaks down into three categories: the initial $456.3 billion for 1989-99; $274.8 billion for interest on non-Treasury debt during the years 2000-29, and $638.8 billion for Treasury debt from 2000-29. That projection assumes that all costs except interest end by 1999. And it excludes the interest costs of borrowing to pay Treasury interest -that is, the compounding effect of paying interest on interest.
Some Administration economists have been seeking to minimize the costs of the bailout by discounting the outlays, at interest rates assumed to continue at about their present level, back to their present value, as though they represented an investment decision. But Charles L. Schultze, a senior fellow of the Brookings Institution, regards the present-value method of estimating the costs of the bailout as inapplicable to its continuing costs. Money for interest payments will still have to be raised from taxpayers, year after year.
Mr. Schultze said in an interview that the cost of paying off depositors would come to about $160 billion plus interest of roughly $13 billion a year ''forever,'' assuming an average interest rate of only about 8 percent. He says it would be more sensible to create a sinking fund to pay off the bonds in, say, 16 years; that would raise the annual cost to taxpayers to about $22 billion from $13 billion, but would hold the total cost of the bailout to about a third of the Stanford Review's 40-year cost estimate of $1.3 trillion.
Joseph A. Grundfest, who served as a commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission from 1985 to 1990 and is now teaching at the Stanford Law School, contends in his article in the Review that the savings crisis was caused primarily by underpriced deposit insurance and inadequate supervision by the regulators. This, he asserts, was no accident but was a result of intense lobbying by the U.S. League. The league declined the Review's invitation to contribute to its symposium.
''Although the losses generated by hundreds of poorly or criminally managed thrifts came to dominate the industry,'' Mr. Grundfest writes, ''well-managed S.&L.'s wanted no part of the fiscal shenanigans that characterized much of the industry's behavior.'' He notes that Warren E. Buffett, the investor, took his solvent and well-managed savings institution out of the league, describing its lobbying campaign as ''so flawed, indeed disgraceful'' that he was resigning.
Even if one believes that the savings crisis is now past, Mr. Grundfest warns that ''complacency is premature'' because ''several other constituencies operate under conditions similar to those that gave rise to the S.&L. debacle.'' To one degree or another, he maintains, other constituencies have broad geographic bases, provide political contributions, and seek off-budget benefits with dollar costs that are either negligible or difficult to measure but have the potential to generate multibillion-dollar losses.
The problems facing the commercial banking industry, he says, are ''hauntingly reminiscent of the difficulties faced by the savings and loan industry in the early 1980's.'' Stressing the need for deposit insurance reform, he quotes analysts like R. Dan Brumbaugh Jr. of Stanford University, who contributes an article to the symposium, as warning that ''more than 1,000 banks with about one-half of the nation's banking assets are undercapitalized.''
Outside the banking industry, Mr. Grundfest says, the Government has more than $745 billion in outstanding loans and loan guarantees. The Federal Government's total exposure is much larger, coming to $5.6 trillion, according to the latest data of the Office of Management and Budget. That includes $2.7 trillion for insured checking and savings accounts, and credit unions; $1.3 trillion in insurance for pensions, crops, overseas investment, etc.; $800 billion for Government-sponsored home mortgages, farming agencies, etc.; $600 billion for F.H.A. and V.A. housing loans, student loans, and small-business loans, and $200 billion in agriculture and other direct loans.
After the savings and loan debacle, as the Stanford symposium makes clear, it has become crucial to examine and repair the entire Government ''financial safety net.''

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (83%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (83%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (83%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY; GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE (GAO); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET; US LEAGUE OF SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS UNITED STATES LEAGUE OF SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS; 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; FINANCES SAVINGS & LOANS (93%); BAILOUTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BONDS (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ACCOUNTING (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD JOSEPH AGRUNDFEST (74%); 



19 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Prices Paid To Farmers Up 2% in May

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31

 BODY:
Prices farmers get for raw products increased 2 percent in May from April, raising the overall commodity index 3.4 percent above a year ago, the Agriculture Department said today.
Higher prices for hogs, corn, hay, broilers and lettuce fueled the increase over the last month, the department's Agricultural Statistics Board said in its preliminary report.
The average price for all hogs of $60.50 per hundred pounds of live weight was the second highest on record, topped only by $62.10 in August 1986. 
Lower prices were reported for eggs, onions, milk and cattle.
While beef cattle prices showed a slight decline, calf prices increased. Prices for sorghum and soybeans were also up from April levels, but barley, wheat and rice dropped slightly.
Agriculture economists said the climb of 3.4 percent in the index of all commodities over a year earlier was propelled by increases in hogs, cattle, milk and grapefruit.
 
Farm Income Expected to Rise
The economists have been saying that net cash income of farmers in 1990 may be in the range of $55 billion to $59 billion, compared with about $53 billion last year. The record was $57.2 billion in 1988.
Net cash income is the money nationally that farmers have left from gross cash income during a calendar year after deducting cash expenses. It includes Government payments and proceeds from crops grown previously but sold during the year.
Consumer food prices are forecast by the department to rise 3 percent to 5 percent this year after posting an average gain of 5.7 percent in 1989, the sharpest rise since 1981.
Based on the preliminary figures, the May price index for livestock and poultry rose 1.2 percent from April and averaged 10 percent above the level of a year ago.
Milk prices dropped 20 cents from April to an average of $13.20 per 100 pounds. Even so, the preliminary May price remained 90 cents above the level of a year ago.
Crop prices, over all, rose 3.1 percent from April but averaged 4.9 percent below the level a year earlier. Fruit prices fueled by oranges and grapefruit were up 3.6 percent from last month, about the same level as a year ago.
The index for commercial vegetables climbed 3.4 percent from the April level but was down 21 percent from a year earlier. Lettuce and tomatoes were up while carrots and onions were down.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; PRICES; INCOME AGRICULTURAL PRICES (96%); AGRICULTURE (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); MILK (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (79%); RICE MARKETS (79%); POULTRY (79%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); 



20 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders, Barometer for Output, Fell 2.3% in April

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31

 BODY:
Orders to United States factories slumped 2.3 percent in April, the Commerce Department said today. Despite increased orders in February and March, the decline in April pushed orders down 2 percent for the year so far.
''Basically, it shows the manufacturing sector is still dead in the water,'' said Evelina Tainer, senior domestic economist with the First National Bank of Chicago. ''It's just not going anywhere.'' 
The department said orders to factories for both durable and nondurable manufactured goods totaled a seasonally adjusted $235.6 billion.
The April slide followed gains of 4 percent in March and 1.8 percent in February and a tumble of 5.5 percent in January; overall factory orders have fallen 2 percent in the year's first four months. The department said orders have been relatively flat since the beginning of 1989.
 
Steepest Drop Since '74
The January decline was the steepest since a 7 percent plunge in December 1974.
Factory orders are an important economic barometer of manufacturers' plans for production. A decrease in orders may forecast an industrial slump with future layoffs.
''The decrease in April new orders was concentrated in the durable goods sector, which declined 4.3 percent, to $123.4 billion,'' the department said, revising the drop in durable orders from the 4.1 percent decline first reported last week.
''The largest decrease was in transportation equipment, down 14.7 percent, to $31.7 billion,'' it added. ''Both motor vehicles and aircraft were down.'' Excluding transportation, orders were unchanged.
Transportation orders rose 24.1 percent in March and 10.1 percent in February.
Also unchanged during April were nondurable orders, which remained at $112.2 billion.
 
Barometer of Investments
In the category of nonmilitary capital goods, a barometer of business investment plans, orders fell 9.8 percent, to $36.9 billion, after a 13.3 percent gain the previous month. Excluding aircraft, they were off two-tenths of a percent in April and 1.1 percent in March.
Michael K. Evans of Evans Economics Inc., a Washington forecasting firm, said the capital goods spending report spelled bad news for industrial production.
''Businesses are starting to pull in their horns,'' Mr. Evans said, because of high interest rates and a 16 percent decline in profits last year. He said profits in the first quarter are ''not getting any better.''
The volatile military category posted a 2 percent gain, to $8 billion, after advances of 4.5 percent in March and 18.3 percent in February. Excluding the military category, orders fell 2.4 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); FACTORY ORDERS (94%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); NEW ORDERS (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL K EVANS (72%); 



21 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Panel Seeks to Preserve U.S.-Owned Technology

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31

 BODY:
A Defense Department panel has recommended that the Government ''actively intervene'' to maintain American ownership of industries critical to national security.
The report, by the Defense Science Board Task Force on Foreign Ownership and Control of U.S. Industry, recommended that the Government obtain better data on industries identified as crucial, take specific steps to encourage them to remain in American hands and improve the oversight process of foreign acquisitions of United States companies.
The document represents the latest broadside in a growing debate between those who believe that the Government should have a clearly defined industrial policy and work to nurture and save industries critical to national security and economic growth, and those who advocate a laissez-faire approach and contend that Washington is ill equipped to save any industry that is doomed by the laws of economics.
 
Cheney to Get Report
The report, approved this week by the Defense Science Board, will be presented to Defense Secretary Dick Cheney for action. 
''The task force believes that the Government should, after it makes appropriate investigations and before weak firms are put up for sale, actively intervene to help negotiate U.S. mergers, provide refinancing, or offer other support to assist the critical industry,'' the report said.
The report noted that early last year the Hitachi Corporation of Japan purchased the Ceraclad Corporation, a small ceramics company based in Long Island. Before the buyout, Ceraclad was chosen as one of two American subcontractors to supply highly specialized ceramic ''bodies'' for a fourth-generation, ceramic single-memory chip carrier. ''Two months after the buyout, Hiatchi shut down Ceraclad,'' the report said.
The report also cited the 1985 Minebea acquisition of New Hampshire Ball Bearings, a manufacturer of miniature ball bearings needed to insure the production of militarily critical parts in the United States.
 
Purchase by Sony
Also, while the Sony Corporation's purchase of the MRC Corporation gave the New York-based company access to needed capital and kept the company in the United States, the report noted, control of the only important American maker of some specialized equipment for the manufacture of semiconductors was transferred to the Japanese.
The report found that a built-in conflict with the panel that monitors foreign acquisitions of American companies from the standpoint of national security, the Interagency Committee on Foreign Investment. The panel's chairman, a Treasury Department assistant secretary, has a primary goal of alleviating the overall budget and foreign trade deficits.
''The main failing'' of the interagency committee, the report said, ''is that it does not take a long-term perspective in dealing with foreign ownership and control.''
In addition, ''reviews of proposed foreign acquisitions are further hampered by a shortage of data with which to assess the effects on national security,'' the report said, noting that at least 16 Government agencies now monitored foreign investment.
The report noted that the increasing interdependence in the world economy made complete self-sufficiency ''almost impossible and undesirable.'' It could be argued that interlocked economies and defense procurements really helped to stabilize world security, the report said.
Nevertheless, dependency on foreign manufacturers ''still must be controlled by D.O.D. to retain necessary freedom from foreign industrial constraints,'' the report said.
The 15 panel members from business, Government and universities represented a spectrum of economic philosophies.
The panel chairman is Deborah Coleman, vice president of the Apple Computer Corporation. Other members included C. Fred Bergsten, president of the Institute for International Econmomics; Prof. George Lodge of the Harvard Business School and Malcolm Lovell of George Washington University; Bernard Schwartz, chairman of the Loral Corporation; Pat Choate, vice president of TRW, and Clyde Prestowitz, president of the Economic Strategy Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (82%); SNE (NYSE) (82%); 6758 (TSE) (82%); 6501 (TSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (82%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (82%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (82%); HITACHI LTD (82%); DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDUSTRIAL POLICY; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; NATIONAL SECURITY FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ACQUISITIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BALL & ROLLER BEARING MFG (71%); POTTERY & CERAMICS MFG (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); COMPUTER CHIPS (64%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN; CHENEY, RICHARD B (SEC) DICK CHENEY (88%); 



22 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Cleaning Up In Europe

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
ENVIRONMENTAL companies in Europe are looking attractive, as a result of dirty water, dirty air, acid rain, hazardous waste, sewage and little room for landfills.
One of the pluses, analysts and executives say, is the growing pressure for central regulation of the environment in a united Europe, which is likely to mean stricter and more uniform standards in different countries so that, for example, a business in France does not have an advantage over a company in Germany.
But these analysts and executives warn that the environmental industry is still fragmented and immature. And they say that investment decisions must be made with caution and a long-term view. (Analysts of environmental stocks in the United States are also cautious now because the prices have already moved too high.) More important, European analysts say the euphoria over the profit potential should not spread to East Germany and the rest of Eastern Europe, where the environment has suffered severely under 40 years of Communist rule. Because of a lack of money, analysts and executives do not expect real environmental business to develop in Eastern Europe until at least the mid-1990's. 
''It's for the very brave,'' said David Owen, senior environmental analyst for Paribas Ltd. in London.
But he also argues that the environment will have to be dealt with. He said the quality of water in Eastern Europe was now so bad that much of it could not be used in regular processing, as in chemical plants.
Jerry Leitman, president of ABB Flakt Industrial Processes, the environmental company in the Swedish and Swiss industrial group of Asea Brown Boveri Inc., said the question is: Will ''these needs translate into demand and how soon will that happen?'' He added that ''there is definitely a shortage of money, especially for transnational solutions.''
Jurgen Jung, director of strategic planning for RWE Entsorgung A.G., said, ''At the moment there is not a big environmental opportunity to earn money in these countries.'' He said the opportunity may be there in several years if the countries move toward market economies. But he said that RWE Entsorgung intended to concentrate its pollution efforts in East Germany. ''Because we have to earn money and we are a small company, we will not go into these countries,'' he said, referring to the rest of Eastern Europe.
RWE Entsorgung, which specializes in incineration, sewage sludge treatment, and energy and resource recovery, is the waste management subsidiary of RWE, the West German power company that, as Mr. Owen said, is ''an environmental poacher turned gamekeeper.''
On the environmental play in Europe, Mr. Owen favors companies that have the wherewithal in earnings elsewhere to wait out the fits and starts of environmental development, which he likens to a staircase. Up, with some new regulations, and then flat for a while before rising again. RWE, with electricity accounting for about 40 percent of sales; Asea Brown Boveri, the world's largest capital goods company, and Waste Management Inc., an American-based concern with a growing presence in Europe, fit this category.
He is also interested in the small niche company. Over the next several years these will include the consulting firms and environmental services companies that will grow up with the newer and more complex environmental regulations. He also looks for companies that do special environmental work that larger concerns are not expected to be interested in.
One of these companies is Powerscreen International P.L.C., which makes equipment used in recycling sewage and demolition waste. The company is based in Northern Ireland and Ireland, with operations also in South Wales and Pennsylvania. The Pennsylvania arm, Royer, makes machinery for soil and waste shredding and separation.
Mr. Owen of Paribas also argues that investment in water treatment will be a major environmental opportunity in the 1990's. In his analysis, he said that the spending on water treatment would be far larger than expected because water quality is far below 1980 directives from the European Community. He said, for example, that in Italy 20 million people drink water that is below World Health Organization standards.
In Britain alone, he notes that estimates for capital investment needed to bring water quality to the levels set by the European Community have leaped from several billion pounds, when the privatization of the water authorities was first considered in 1988, to an official 24.6 billion. And he estimates the cost could be as high as 36 billion.
Among the companies that excite his interest in this area are Simon Engineering of Britian, which is involved in ground water decontamination and sewage treatment; KSB of West Germany, a manufacturer of water and fluid pumps and systems handling toxic effluents, and Compagnie Generale des Eaux of France, which does business in water and waste management and treatment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: ABJA (FRA) (67%); ABJ (FRA) (67%); ABBN (SWX) (67%); ABB (STO) (67%); ABB (NYSE) (67%); ABB (NSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (83%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (83%); SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS (83%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: ABB INC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; STOCKS AND BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES LANDFILLS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (90%); ACID RAIN (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (89%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (74%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); BONDS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); WATER QUALITY (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN DAVID ANTHONY LLEWELLYN OWEN (55%); 



23 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 11, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries End Narrowly Mixed

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were narrowly mixed in light trading yesterday, as dealers awaited this morning's release of May employment data.
Market participants sold securities early in the session after results of surveys from purchasing managers in Detroit and Chicago showed that manufacturers there experienced an uptick in activity during May.
The reports, which are separate from the national purchasing managers survey that will be released a few hours after the employment numbers today, were not welcome news.
 
A Quick Selloff
''The purchasing managers' reports caused a quick selloff,'' one government-bond trader said, ''but people are still positive about the employment numbers.'' 
Victor Chang, president of the VC Management Company, said, ''I expect the employment numbers will confirm the slower pace of the economy in the second quarter.''
''But the Federal Reserve Board won't budge from their current approach to monetary policy,'' he added, ''and I don't believe they will move until sometime in the summer, when they will ease policy marginally.''
Most analysts are forecasting the job figures will show that non-farm payroll employment rose by around 150,000 last month, excluding temporary workers hired to participate in the 1990 Census.
''By and large, the employment forecasts, if borne out, should be pretty favorable for the credit markets,'' said Robert Chandross, chief economist at Lloyds Bank. ''The bulk of the data suggest an economy that is having very modest growth at best.''
 
Firmer Long-Term Prices
While prices of shorter-term Treasury notes dipped slightly, a drop in oil prices and a firmer dollar helped to buttress prices of long-term notes and bonds during afternoon trading.
The Treasury finished a heavy week of short-term borrowings by auctioning $10 billion of one-year bills. The bills were sold at an average discount rate of 7.65 percent, down from an average rate of 8.05 percent at the last one-year bill auction on May 3.
In addition to sales of three-month and six-month bills on Tuesday, the Treasury sold $12 billion of cash management bills on Wednesday. This flood of new short-term paper had a marginally negative impact on bills and notes yesterday.
In late trading, three-month bill rates were offered at a discount rate of 7.74 percent, up one basis point, or hundredths of a point. Six-month bill rates rose by seven basis points, to a late offered rate of 7.72 percent.
 
Benchmark Issue Up 6/32
In the secondary market for Treasury notes and bonds, the 8 3/4 percent bonds of 2020 were offered at a price of 101 7/8 late yesterday, up 6/32, to yield 8.57 percent. Late Wednesday, the benchmark issue was offered at a price to yield 8.58 percent.
Among note issues, the 8 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 101 29/ 32, up 1/8 point, to yield 8.58 percent. And the 8 1/2 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 1/32, down 1/32, to yield 8.48 percent.
Activity in the secondary markets for investment-grade corporate bonds and tax-exempt municipal securities was very light, dealers said. Prices of actively traded issues in both markets were little changed.
In other developments, the Federal Reserve Board reported that two of the three measures of the nation's money supply fell during the week ended May 21. The narrowest measure, M-1, rose by $4 billion. The report had no impact on prices in the credit markets.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of one-year Treasury bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Average Price	92.265	Discounted Rate	7.65%	Coupon Yield	8.24%	High Price	92.275	Discounted Rate	7.64%	Coupon Yield	8.23%	Low Price	92.255	Discounted Rate	7.66%	Coupon Yield	8.25%	Accepted at low price	7%	Total applied for	$25,562,265	Accepted	$10,008,655	N.Y. applied for	$22,469,755	N.Y. accepted	$8,690,955	Noncompetitive	$869,020	
 
The one-year bills mature June 6, 1991.

GRAPHIC: graphs: 1-year treasury bills; tax exempt yields (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LYG (NYSE) (54%); LLOY (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (54%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); US DOLLAR (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); DEBT NOTES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); CENSUS (73%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



24 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Gasoline Prices Fall Sharply On Report of Higher Supply

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Prices of unleaded gasoline plunged on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday.
Falling prices are unusual at this time of year because the amount of driving normally rises after Memorial Day. Analysts attributed much of the selloff to an unexpected increase in the nation's stocks of crude oil and gasoline. 
''Given the facts that roughly half the crude oil ends up as gasoline at this time of year and that demand for gasoline has slowed with the economy, the rise in stocks knocked the legs from under the gasoline market.'' said Peter C. Beutel, energy analyst at Elders Futures Inc.
At the close of trading, the spot June unleaded gasoline contract, which expired yesterday, settled at 63.89 cents a gallon, down 2.98 cents on the day.
Unlike the spot contract, which has no daily limits on price movements, the other gasoline contracts for delivery in later months closed down the limit of 2 cents a gallon.
Prices for crude oil and heating oil also fell.
 
Rising Oil Imports
The American Petroleum Institute reported that imports of crude increased almost 800,000 barrels from the previous week and 500,000 from a year ago.
In addition, the nation's crude oil stocks were some 40 million barrels higher than a year ago, when supplies from Alaska were sharply curtailed by the Exxon Valdez oil spill. Crude stocks were up two million barrels from the week before.
But the real surprise, said Bradford H. Hughes, an energy analyst at Cargill Investor Services, was that gasoline stocks were up a million barrels in the latest week, while many traders expected a drop of two million to three million barrels.
''Gasoline prices had been rising for weeks because stocks have been running below year-ago levels,'' Mr. Hughes said.
The latest A.P.I. statistics show gasoline stocks are down about 7.5 million barrels from a year earlier.
Traders were also unnerved after Saudi Arabian officials complained that some members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries were cheating on their export quotas.
''Saudi threats to punish the cheaters by flooding the market with oil shouldn't be taken lightly,'' Mr. Beutel said. ''They have used their huge supplies of low-cost oil to punish other OPEC members before.''
The spot crude oil contract for July delivery dropped 68 cents to settle at $17.40 a barrel for West Texas Intermediate crude.
The prices of heating oil also fell. The spot June contract, which expired yesterday, settled at 50.07 cents a gallon, down 1.08 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CARGILL INVESTOR SERVICES INC (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES GASOLINE MARKETS (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); GASOLINE (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FUTURES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); SPOT MARKET (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (87%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (74%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (73%); STATISTICS (67%); EXPORT CONTROLS (61%); 

PERSON: BRADFORD H HUGHES (65%); PETER C BEUTEL (65%); 



25 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Is Mostly Higher In Speculation on Job Data

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar advanced yesterday against all major currencies except the Canadian dollar in advance of today's release of employment figures for May.
Gold prices gained slightly in the United States after weakening abroad.
The start of the summit meeting between President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union in Washington set the market on edge, particularly because a dispute appeared possible over the future role of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization after German unification. 
Tension elsewhere, including in the Middle East, also helped the dollar, traders said. Dollar investments are typically favored in times of uncertainty.
 
Signs of Health
A strong undercurrent influencing trade in dollars was speculation in foreign exchange markets that the employment figures could indicate economic health. The monthly report will furnish the first information on the economy for May.
The pound tumbled yesterday after remarks by the president of the West German Bundesbank, Karl Otto Pohl, who on Wednesday said the time was not right for British entry into the European Monetary System.
Sterling had been bought aggressively in recent days on the assumption that Britain would soon relent in its opposition to joining the exchange rate mechanism in which many European countries participate.
The pound traded in London at $1.676, compared with $1.693 late Wednesday, and continued to stumble in United States trading. A pound fetched $1.678 late in New York, down from $1.695 Wednesday.
The dollar's trading day began on a strong note in Tokyo. It closed in the Japanese capital at 151.75 yen, a gain of 1 yen from Wednesday. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 152.65 yen. It was quoted at 152.10 yen at the end of New York trading, up from 151.45 yen late Wednesday.
Selected late dollar rates in New York, compared with Wednesday's late quotes, included: 1.6965 West German marks, up from 1.6825; 1.4290 Swiss francs, up from 1.42265; 5.724 French francs, up from 5.6735; 1,248.25 Italian lire, up from 1,237.75, and 1.17285 Canadian dollars, down from 1.17675.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, a troy ounce of gold for June delivery added 20 cents to close at $364.30.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CANADA

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); GERMAN MARK (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



26 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Two Views On Whittle's TV Reports

BYLINE: By Randall Rothenberg

 BODY:
A PLAN by Whittle Communications to put advertiser-supported television programming into doctors' waiting rooms is meeting with widespread interest from advertising agencies. But television executives are questioning the analysis used by the Tennessee company to support its claim that the programming will reach consumers whom network television does not attract.
Whittle said two weeks ago that it was developing an hourlong television news program aimed primarily at young mothers. The program would play continuously on a combination large-screen television and videodisk player to be installed in 20,000 physicians' waiting rooms. The program, called Special Reports Television, will change 24 times a year. Whittle says the program will reach 44 million people. 
Advertisers are being offered $5.5 million packages that will combine two 30-second commercials an hour on all 24 shows with a page of advertising in Whittle's three quarterly Special Reports magazines for doctors' offices.
Whittle argues that its target audience - women between 25 and 54 years old, particularly those in their late 20's and early 30's with children - is barely touched by network television. The company says that the people who watch the most television account for 51 percent of all prime-time viewing but are not a desirable market for most consumer-products companies. Citing data from the Simmons Market Research Bureau, Whittle says that 63 percent of this group are unemployed and 52 percent have household incomes under $20,000.
Whittle says 46 percent of the 38 million women with children in the United States are among the most infrequent television viewers. The waiting rooms of pediatricians, obstetrician-gynecologists and family practitioners, the company says, are the places to reach them.
Marketing executives, having heard that argument before from Whittle, have spent $80 million on advertising during the first two years of the company's Special Reports magazines.
Some advertising executives had been critical of Whittle's projections and research for the magazines, and some advised their clients to reduce their ad expenditures in them. But many of these executives say they have been impressed by the rigor of the research the company has used to support Special Reports Television.
Calling Special Reports Television ''extremely creative,'' John J. Sisk, Jr., the director of network negotiations at J. Walter Thompson U.S.A., said it could turn out to be ''a form of television that can reach potential customers no one else can reach.''
Nevertheless, questions have arisen about Whittle's new project.
The company is basing the marketing of its waiting-room network on what is known in television as a quintile analysis, in which a large market is divided into five groups, from the heaviest to the lightest viewers. Whittle says the networks draw primarily from the heaviest, but least desirable viewers, in quintiles one and two, instead of what it calls the more attractive, light viewers in quintiles four and five.
But television executives say the fifth quintile is of little interest to marketers. Robert Niles, vice president of research at NBC, characterized that quintile as largely ''a downscale audience'' made up of ''second-shift workers, blue-collar and older people who go to bed early.''
Others question the lengths to which Whittle takes its quintile analysis. Willard Hadlock, the head of media services at the Leo Burnett advertising agency, said: ''Quintiles four and five are not necessarily the lightest viewers. In some cases, they're the heaviest viewers. When they're home with a baby, they watch a lot of TV.''
Furthermore, both network and agency executives say that network schedules can be tailored to reach the light viewers, and they question whether even pregnant women or young mothers go to their physicians often enough to give the advertising punch.
''Effective advertising is a combination of reach and frequency,'' said David F. Poltrack, senior vice president of research at CBS. ''With Whittle's program, you don't get frequency. I don't know too many people who go to the doctor's more than once every two weeks.''
Mr. Poltrack compared Special Reports Television to airline advertising, which also reaches a selective, affluent audience, but too infrequently to represent a threat to network television.
Mr. Sisk of J. Walter Thompson, nevertheless, called Whittle's television project ''another form of chipping away at the networks.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: JWT (62%); SIMMONS MARKET RESEARCH BUREAU INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITTLE COMMUNICATIONS

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; DOCTORS; TELEVISION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (93%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); PEDIATRICS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WOMEN (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (73%); FAMILY PRACTICE (73%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (73%); SALES PROSPECTING (68%); 



27 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 2; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Kipp Alan Rogers, 32, Entertainment Lawyer

 BODY:
Kipp Alan Rogers, a lawyer who represented entertainment figures and organizations, died of AIDS on Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 32 years old. 
Before moving to Los Angeles last year to become the director of business affairs for Home Box Office, Mr. Rogers was a lawyer at the New York firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison. While there he worked with theater, film and television clients and did legal work on plays, including ''The Phantom of the Opera,'' ''Starlight Express'' and ''Lend Me a Tenor.'' He was also a pro bono counsel for a 1987 benefit at Lincoln Center that raised about $1.3 million for AIDS care, research and education.
Mr. Rogers was born and grew up in Wellington, Kan., and graduated with honors in economics from Harvard College in 1979. He worked for a year for the producer Richard Horner in New York, then returned to Cambridge and graduated with honors from the Harvard Law School in 1983.
He was a corporate lawyer on Wall Street for a year, at Cravath, Swaine & Moore, before joining Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison.
Mr. Rogers's companion was Harold Gunn of Los Angeles.
Surviving are Mr. Rogers's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Rogers, of Wellington; two brothers, Jeffrey, of Wellington, and John, of New Haven, and a sister, Anne, of Belchertown, Mass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); KANSAS, USA (53%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PAUL WEISS RIFKIND WHARTON & GARRISON LLP (93%); CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (91%); HOME BOX OFFICE INC (58%); NEW YORK (69%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); LAWYERS (92%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); AIDS & HIV (88%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); PRO BONO LAW (73%); FILM (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); THEATER (57%); 

PERSON: ROGERS, KIPP ALAN GERALD D ROGERS (92%); CHRISTIAN PAUL (72%); 



28 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Yeltsin Meets Lithuanian
Boris N. Yeltsin, the Gorbachev rival and newly elected president of the Russian republic, discussed areas of cooperation with Vytautas Landsbergis, president of the independence government of Lithuania. Page 9. 
 
Mixed Report on Jobs
The unemployment rate inched down to 5.3 percent in May, but for the third consecutive month business payrolls failed to expand. Page 11.
 
A Gain in Drug Prevention
Federal health officials reported the first evidence that drug prevention programs can curtail adolescents' use of cocaine. Page 10.
 
Warning on Quake Safety
A California panel said a 17-year improvement program had failed to make many bridges and freeways safe from earthquakes. Page 10.
 
Planes Get Safer Seats
The major airlines in the United States are installing new and safer seats, but they are not telling passengers. Consumer's World, page 52.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PREVENTION & WELLNESS (86%); DRUG POLICY (86%); AIRLINES (85%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); COCAINE (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: VYTAUTAS LANDSBERGIS (74%); 



29 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON;
Family First, Mrs. Bush Tells Friend and Foe at Wellesley 44

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WELLESLEY, Mass., June 1

 BODY:
Barbara Bush today gently confronted seniors at Wellesley College who had protested her choice as their commencement speaker, telling them that husbands and children are ultimately more important than careers.
''As important as your obligations as a doctor, a lawyer or a business leader may be,'' said Mrs. Bush, with her fellow speaker, Raisa M. Gorbachev, seated behind her, ''your human connections with spouses, with children, with friends, are the most important investment you will ever make.
''At the end of your life, you will never regret not having passed one more test, not winning one more verdict or not closing one more deal,'' said Mrs. Bush, wearing a black academic gown. ''You will regret time not spent with a husband, a child, a friend or a parent.''
 
A Spouse of Another Stripe
But Mrs. Bush softened her lecture on family values with wit. ''Who knows,'' she told the graduating seniors, their family members and professors, ''somewhere out in this audience may even be someone who will one day follow in my footsteps and preside over the White House as the President's spouse.'' 
Then, after a pause, she added, ''And I wish him well.''
The audience of 5,400 people, seated under a huge white tent, roared with laughter and gave Mrs. Bush a ringing ovation.
Her appearance at Wellesley, which started with a seemingly innocuous invitation from the senior class, ignited a debate around the country about women's roles. What Kind of Role Model? The conflict started with a petition by 150 students who said they were outraged by the selection of Mrs. Bush as graduation speaker since she did not represent the career woman they believed Wellesley seeks to educate. Mrs. Bush dropped out of Smith College after two years to marry and has been best known as a supportive wife and mother in the family of a politician.
But as the debate over her appearance here grew more heated, the invitation to Mrs. Bush paid an unexpected dividend when the summit meeting between President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union happened to coincide with Wellesley's commencement and Mrs. Bush asked Mrs. Gorbachev to join her.
''It's a public relations dream for Wellesley,'' said Marshall Goldman, a professor at the college and a specialist on the Soviet economy.
 
Mrs. Bush Triumphs
It was also a triumph for Mrs. Bush, who not only won over most of her audience but to many listeners delivered a more interesting talk than Mrs. Gorbachev, who holds the Soviet equivalent of a Ph.D. and was a university professor before her husband became head of the Soviet Communist Party.
Mrs. Gorbachev, perhaps mindful of earlier criticism of her for sounding too preachy, stuck to safe sentiments about friendship, peace and perestroika, echoing many of her husband's recent themes.
Professor Goldman said later: ''I was disappointed with her. I was really hoping she was going to say something more.''
Mrs. Gorbachev waited until an appearance at Boston's Public Garden to state her own views on the contradictions of the modern woman's role.
Women's careers, she said, have less to do with earning a living than ''expressing themselves as individuals.'' But at the same time, she said, ''I am among those who believe that children and family are very important for a woman and a life without them is one-sided.''
 
A Contradiction Seen
Mrs. Gorbachev said that striking the balance between the two facets of womanhood ''is one of the contradictions of our time.''
''At this juncture, each of us looks for her own solution to the problem,'' she said. ''This is one of the problems society had to deal with.''
While she was willing to discuss a woman's role, she shied away from the use of the word ''feminist,'' which in the Soviet Union carries a strong negative connotation of radical female separatism.
Earlier, as she left the commencement tent at Wellesley, a Russian-speaker asked her, ''Are you a feminist?''
Instead of answering, Mrs. Gorbachev demurred, saying she had to get back to the motorcade.
But a minute later, she was answering the question of another Russian-speaker who wanted to know her feelings about the impasse between Moscow and the independence-minded Lithuanians.
''All of my compatriots are suffering because of the developments there,'' she said. ''There are several nationalities, several opinions there, and we have to take into consideration all their opinions and the will of all the people.
''I do believe on these grounds we shall arrive at the best results.''
 
The Preferred Speaker
Mrs. Bush, in her talk at Wellesley, poked fun at herself. ''Now I know your first choice today was Alice Walker,'' she said of the novelist who had been the students' preference for commencement speaker.
''Alice Walker is known for 'The Color Purple,' '' Mrs. Bush said, referring to the author and her Pulitzer Prize-winning novel. ''Instead you got me, known for the color of my hair.''
''I thought it was wonderful,'' said Meliti Dikeos of Bronxville, N.Y. ''She knew how to direct us. She is very caring.''
Ms. Dikeos, like most of the seniors, was wearing a purple felt armband designed both as a gesture of reconciliation with Mrs. Bush and as a reminder to the First Lady of what the students feel is the unfinished agenda of women's needs.
In a new petition made public today, a group of students said, ''In honoring Barbara Bush as our commencement speaker, we celebrate all the unknown women who have dedicated their lives to the service of others.'' The purple armbands, the petition said, were to honor these unsung heroes among ordinary women.
The petition also asked Mrs. Bush, ''as a concerned mother,'' to ''take a definitive stand'' on a series of issues, including more affordable day care, cuts in welfare funds and the gap in wages between men and women.
 
Some Are Unreconciled
Despite the warm reception for Mrs. Bush, some students stuck to their original position - that they would have preferred a speaker with a record of accomplishment in the working world.
''Wellesley encourages us to make our own niches in life and be our own person,'' said Joyce Anagnos, from Toledo, Ohio. ''Perhaps there are better speakers out there who would exemplify that.''
The college's president, Nan Keohane, told the students that the controversy over the invitation to Mrs. Bush had actually proved beneficial, providing an opportunity for people to re-examine what the proper role for a modern woman should be. The reaction to the dispute around the country had also served as a ''interesting lesson,'' she said, in the importance of free speech.
Many people outside Wellesley had sharply attacked the students, believing that they were criticizing the First Lady, President Keohane said. She reported that she had even received a letter from a sixth-grade class in Jacksonville, Fla., which said ''the Wellesley students must be very dumb to express such views and must not have learned anything at our fancy college.''
President Keohane said she was particularly startled by a warning in the letter, presumably drafted by the class's teacher, ''not to give us any of this First Amendment stuff,'' about the right of free speech.
In any case, she said, this year's commencement will not be like most such exercises, that ''no one remembers very clearly.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Barbara Bush and Raisa Gorbachev attending the commencement ceremony yesterday at Wellesley College, near Boston. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg1); Raisa Gorbachev talking with a youngster yesterday at the Common's public garden after attending Wellesley's commencement. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WELLESLEY COLLEGE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: WELLESLEY COLLEGE

SUBJECT: FAMILY (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PETITIONS (73%); WOMEN (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, BARBARA (MRS GEORGE BUSH); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S (MRS); BUTTERFIELD, FOX GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



30 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON: Reporter's Notebook;
Masters of the Sound Bite Cede Match to Gorbachev

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
If a K.G.B. villain in a John Le Carre novel had devised a fiendish torture for American politicians, it could not have been more effective than the one that Mikhail S. Gorbachev inflicted on Congressional leaders this morning.
Mr. Gorbachev invited a dozen Democratic and Republican lawmakers to the Soviet Embassy for a televised question-and-answer session. Then he did all the talking. The legislators were primed to put the Soviet President on the spot with some tart questions that would impress the folks at home. But when Mr. Gorbachev began answering his first question, a query posed by George J. Mitchell, the Senate Majority Leader, about the Soviet economy, the lawmakers around the table watched in growing consternation as the Soviet leader droned on about state property, collective property, comparative property, lease property, private property, shareholders' societies, leaseholds, private initiatives and entrepreneurship.
They knew they were in trouble when Mr. Gorbachev said, ''This is a very important matter and therefore a bit of history is necessary.'' He finished 28 minutes later, half the allotted time for questions. 
For his second question, on Lithuania, the Soviet leader took 10 minutes to lecture on Soviet shipping rights in Klaipeda, a Lithuanian port.
The Senate Minority Leader, Bob Dole, looked on with a tight little smile. Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas rubbed his forehead wearily. Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia offered a glazed stare. Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri and Senator Alan Cranston of California looked like candidates for Mount Rushmore.
 
A Talent for Filibuster
As a closet reformer in the Communist system, Mr. Gorbachev long ago developed a talent for filibuster that would have impressed even that master of the long-winded art, Senator Huey P. Long of Louisiana.
When Mr. Gorbachev met with Congressional leaders during the 1987 summit meeting, even the biggest skeptics came away rhapsodizing about his political finesse, marveling that he was just like them.
This time, the fact that he was just like them, wanting to talk and talk as the cameras rolled, 10,000 words in all, was no longer so charming. In fact, it made the Americans impatient.
''He does have long answers,'' Mr. Dole noted wryly, afterwards. ''He'd fit right in in the Senate.''
Senator Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island agreed: ''He wanted to get across his propaganda points. He did it very ably, but not very briefly.''
The members of Congress were so rattled at being upstaged that they also complained that Mr. Gorbachev outfoxed them by inviting Cable News Network to film the session, without warning them that it was being carried live throughout the world. (Although it was hard to imagine what they thought four cameras and lights were doing there.) Mr. Dole was not pleased when he found out that he had been caught nodding his head in apparent assent as Mr. Gorbachev lambasted Israel for resettling Soviet Jews in the occupied West Bank.
''It would have been nice to have a heads-up,'' sniffed Walt Riker, Mr. Dole's spokesman.
But Mr. Gorbachev found a sympathetic fellow executive in George Bush, who often meets with the same legislators. Greeting the Soviet President at the White House afterward, Mr. Bush told him he had seen the session on television.
''You earned your paycheck,'' Mr. Bush assured Mr. Gorbachev.
 
The Charisma Contest
Chemistry 101: One of the ways Mikhail Gorbachev manages to project confidence, even as he stands on quicksand, is to use President Bush as a foil to convey the impression that he is open and upbeat and daring.
Even though Mr. Bush is taller, older, fitter and possessed of a better gross national product, Mr. Gorbachev seems more the sparkplug when the two are interviewed together.
Mr. Gorbachev always stops to chat longer with reporters, while Mr. Bush keeps trying to move away. Mr. Gorbachev speaks positively about the progress made, while Mr. Bush, when he can get a word in edgewise, speaks more cautiously.
Many Bush Administration officials get edgy and envious when Mr. Gorbachev is in town. They don't like the way he is hailed as a leader of vision while Mr. Bush is criticized as one who replaces vision with pragmatism and boldness with incrementalism.
They whisper insistently that it is really Mr. Bush who has the vision because he pushed early on for a unified Germany and he ''put his chips'' on the Japanese.
''Gorbachev's like Jimmy Carter,'' one Bush adviser said. ''He's a technocrat who can't see the larger patterns.''
 
A Hard Day's Rewards
The Soviet leader was swathed today in the sort of adulation accorded rock stars. In a scene reminiscent of a Beatles concert, one woman wept openly and pulled at her clothes and screamed, ''Gorbachev! Gorbachev!'' as she tried to fight her way past a police officer. Men and women screamed, ''We love you!'' as he passed.
There were times when, like an actor, he seemed almost addicted to the applause and waves of validation. Oblivious to security concerns, he leaned half his body out his limousine window, waving to the Washingtonians lining the streets and hanging from balconies and windows.
His aides had to force the reluctant Mr. Gorbachev back into his limousine after he made another unscheduled stop on Connecticut Avenue, grabbing people by the arm on the same spot where he wowed crowds in 1987.
 
Late Bloomer
Arkady A. Maslennikov did not start off with a bang.
American reporters complained that the new Soviet spokesman was like ''a potted plant'' at the podium, and Soviet reporters and White House officials complained he was nowhere to be found.
Mr. Maslennikov, an earnest fellow, is a far cry from the spokesman Americans are used to, the urbane lover of good brandy, expensive clothes and crackling bon mots, Gennadi I. Gerasimov. When Mr. Gorbachev got his new title of President, he created his own spokesman's job, patterned on the White House model.
Although it would seem on the surface that Mr. Gerasimov was more suited to the sophisticated image that Mr. Gorbachev wants to project to the West, Mr. Gorbachev apparently likes Mr. Maslennikov's less flashy and less sarcastic style.
Mr. Maslennikov, a 59-year-old former correspondent for Pravda, is not the sort to come up with clever formulations like ''the Sinatra doctrine,'' which Mr. Gerasimov coined to describe the Kremlin's agreement to let Eastern European satellites do things their way.
While Mr. Gerasimov's joint briefings with the White House press spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, tended to be good-natured contests, Mr. Maslennikov more often defers to his American counterpart. Asked about Mr. Gorbachev's goals for Germany, the Soviet spokesman replied, ''Mr. Fitzwater very ably speaks for both Presidents.''
Mr. Maslennikov was nearly three hours late for his first American briefing, at the summit press center at George Washington University, and he failed to take his seat in the summit meeting on Thursday at the White House. Mr. Fitzwater scribbled frantic notes to his aides, ''Where's Arkady?'' and the answer came back, ''We don't know.''
But today Mr. Maslennikov began to get some self-confidence.
Evelyn Y. Davis, an American who has made a career of buying small amounts of stock in corporations and then heckling corporate honchos at annual shareholders' meetings, showed up at the briefing to ask a question.
''I'd like to know under this forthcoming trade agreement, what is being done to protect our corporations and stockholders from holding the bag?'' Ms. Davis asked, adding that she might be a gadfly, but she is also a millionaire.
Mr. Fitzwater joked that Ms. Davis was ''one of the fruits of capitalism,'' but Mr. Maslennikov spoke up with a new smoothness.
''Ms. Davis,'' he said, ''if you want to invest in the U.S.S.R., you may be sure your millions will not be expropriated.''
 
Shields and Champagne
Mikhail Gorbachev may not have had any concern for his safety on the streets of Washington, but at the dinner tonight at the Soviet Embassy, he and President Bush were protected by towering bullet proof shields.
The shields were placed between the two Presidents and the windows behind their seats in the ornate embassy dining room.
About 80 guests - a mix of White House officials, Cabinet members, Congressional leaders and industry executives who do business with the Soviet Union - were present as Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Bush toasted their summit agreements with Zolotoye golden Soviet champagne.
The guests wore business attire, but there was an echo of the splendor of the czars in the menu: baked sevruga fish, roast suckling pig, strawberry parfait, apple puff pastry and renowned 1987 Georgian wines - a dry white Tsinandali and a dry red Mookoozani.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Mikhail S. Gorbachev riding to the White House yesterday after meeting legislators. (Reuters)(pg1); Mr. Gorbachev acknowledging the cheers of workers in a Washington office building. (Agence France-Presse)(pg5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LITHUANIA (93%); GEORGIA (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FILIBUSTER (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); CABLE TELEVISION (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (53%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE J MITCHELL (57%); 



31 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1997 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON;
BUSH AND GORBACHEV SIGN MAJOR ACCORDS ON MISSILES, CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND TRADE

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev today consolidated the gains of their new relationship by signing the broadest Soviet-American understandings in two decades, including commitments to cut stockpiles of long-range nuclear arms and to eliminate most of their chemical weapons.
Mr. Bush unexpectedly signed the trade treaty that Mr. Gorbachev had been hoping to take back to a restive and hungry nation, even though the Soviet Union has not yet carried out a promise to enact emigration laws that are the condition for removing long-standing restrictions on tariffs and loans to Moscow.
To avoid a confrontation with Congress, American officials said, Mr. Bush told Mr. Gorbachev that he would not send the pact to Congress or move to grant preferential tariffs until the emigration law had been enacted. The Soviet President had held up an agreement on long-term grain sales to get the trade pact in his pocket.
 
Lithuania Is an Issue
Mr. Bush apparently set aside his concerns about Lithuania in signing the trade treaty. But Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d said tonight that it would be very difficult to get the treaty through Congress or to lift the restrictions on Soviet trade as long as the standoff persisted betweeen Moscow and Lithuania over the Baltic republic's demand for independence. 
At a ceremony replete with the power and majesty of superpower summitry, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev appeared in the East Room of the White House and sat at a table where treaties have been signed since 1898.
With the hammer-and-sickle flag at Mr. Bush's elbow and the stars-and-stripes flag at Mr. Gorbachev's, and dozens of senior American and Soviet officials seated before them, the two leaders also signed or announced a series of agreements covering topics including nuclear testing, grain sales, student exchanges, scientific and technical cooperation, civil aviation and maritime transportation. [The text of the statement on missiles and summaries of other accords are on page 8.] Strong Flavor of Optimism In some ways, the two Presidents were carrying on work started in an earlier era, a cold-war agenda initiated by Presidents over the past two decades before the emergence of democracy ripped asunder the postwar military and political structures of Europe.
The two leaders infused the event with a strong flavor of optimism, of two nations once adversaries and now striding together into a new era.
''Not long ago, some believed that the weight of history condemned our two great countries, our two great peoples, to permanent confrontation,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Well, you and I must challenge history.''
Mr. Bush declared, ''We may not agree on everything, indeed we don't agree on everything. But we believe in one great truth: the world has waited long enough, the cold war must end.''
Mr. Gorbachev, who quoted from Franklin D. Roosevelt's ''Four Freedoms,'' spoke in his turn of ''building a new civilization.''
Glancing at his formal surroundings, Mr. Gorbachev said, ''This room has seen many important events and agreements signed, but I think that what has happened now represents an event of momentous importance, not only for our two countries but for the rest of the world.''
The first phase of the summit meeting came to a formal end after two days of talks and was remarkable for its sheer numbers: about 15 agreements, protocols and joint statements were signed this evening in the White House.
 
Weekend Talks at Camp David
Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev will continue their talks on Saturday at Camp David, the Presidential retreat in the Catoctin Mountains of Maryland.
Mr. Gorbachev had a chance to revel in the respect of the American President and in the adulation of Americans, receiving a series of awards today at the Soviet Embassy, taking another of his trademark strolls through downtown Washington and spending 90 minutes bantering with the leaders of Congress. The day ended with a dinner at the Soviet Embassy where Mr. Gorbachev paid tribute to Andrei D. Sakharov, the dissident whom Mr. Gorbachev freed from years of internal exile within the Soviet Union. The Soviet President called the late dissident a person ''ahead of his time.''
The two leaders had the chance to carry through on some of the promises they made at their first summit meeting in Malta last year. They signed an agreement outlining a treaty that would reduce by 30 percent the two countries' stockpiles of nuclear missiles that can span the oceans, called on their negotiators to finish the actual treaty by year's end and agreed to a whole new round of nuclear disarmament talks.
 
Vast Cuts in Poison Gas
They also agreed to make vast cuts in their stocks of poison gas weapons, reducing them by about 80 percent, and pledged to work toward a worldwide ban on chemical weapons.
But the pomp was shadowed by the larger problems already testing the new superpower comity - the future of Europe and its shaky military alliances. The signing ceremony today marked only the start of what may be the hardest work, the talks at Camp David, which are expected to focus on Germany and European security issues.
For today, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev glossed over their differences with a vague commitment to accelerate the effort to conclude a treaty on conventional, or non-nuclear, weapons by the end of the year.
The leaders agreed that the treaty is ''essential to the future stability and security of the continent,'' but they offered no new formulas for resolving their technical differences or their more sweeping disputes over the future of the Germanys and the Continent's military alliances.
Mr. Baker said tonight that the two leaders had made no progress in resolving their differences over Washington's insistence that a united Germany must remain a full member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
 
Some Issues Unresolved
The joint statement on strategic nuclear weapons, those with a range of more than 3,000 miles, suggested that the two sides had not been able to resolve several important issues on which they had been working frantically over the last week, including a last-minute conference this afternoon between Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze and Secretary of State Baker.
These disputes involve American demands for further limits on the production of the Soviet Union's SS-18, its biggest intercontinental missile, questions about the treaty's handling of mobile launchers for intercontinental missiles and on missiles that carry more than one nuclear charge.
The statement outlined the framework of a treaty that would make the first actual cuts in the number of nuclear warheads that each side has put into ballistic missiles, nuclear bombs dropped by aircraft and the jet-propelled, pilotless weapons known as cruise missiles.
Previous agreements simply sought to put caps on the growth in such arsenals. The treaty has been presented as a 50 percent reduction in long-range nuclear arms, but that is somewhat misleading.
It does provide for a roughly 50 percent reduction, to 4,900, in the number of warheads deployed on intercontinental missiles, the weapons that the United States considers to be the most threatening.
 
Rules Are Complex
But the rules for counting and reducing other kinds of weapons are extremely complex and there are a number of uncertainties in the treaty that will provide for smaller reductions than 50 percent.
For example, an aircraft that drops nuclear bombs is counted as having only one charge, or ''warhead,'' aboard even though it actually carries many more weapons. The treaty also does not place any formal limits on cruise missiles launched from ships and submarines.
In the statement on future negotiations on strategic arms, the Americans won a provision speaking of possible steps to further constrain the biggest missiles, a response to conservative critics of the current agreement. Moscow is likely to use the statement to press its demands that American sea-based missiles be subject to further limits.
 
Doubts on Chemical Accord
Some critics have contended that the chemical weapons agreement signed today is flawed, because of verification problems and because the Soviet Union lacks the equipment to actually destroy the weapons. But it is a significant step toward eliminating poison gas from Soviet and American weapons stockpiles.
The agreement calls for the countries to begin destroying chemical weapons in 1992, eliminating half of their stockpiles by the end of 1999. By 2002, stocks are to be no more than 5,000 metric tons, or about 20 percent of the current American stores of poison gas agents. The exact size of the Soviet arsenal is not known.
The document also reaffirms Mr. Bush's previous commitment to cancel production of a new generation of chemical weapons. The Soviet Union says it has stopped producing chemical arms.
 
An 'Agreement,' Not 'Treaty'
The accord was deliberately not cast as a treaty. Under the Constitution, a formal treaty would require the Senate's advice and consent to ratification, with approval by a two-thirds majority. In this case, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev signed an ''agreement'' that will require only a simple majority in each house.
The only other arms control agreements signed at the summit meeting today were two documents outlining verification for old treaties limiting the size of underground nuclear explosions. Those treaties have not been ratified, but have been observed by both sides.
The final working day of the summit meeting saw Mr. Gorbachev plunge once again into his single-handed public relations campaign.
For the second day, he screeched up to a Washington curbside in his limousine. Diners streamed onto a restaurant balcony. Sirens wailed. Men in business suits ran down the sidewalk as Mr. Gorbachev shook hands on both sides of the street.
 
Some Flashes of Annoyance
But when he seemed to feel pressed, there were flashes, too, of iron will and resentment of what he calls meddling and preaching by the West.
For 90 minutes this morning, in a gilt room in the Soviet Embassy, Mr. Gorbachev lectured leaders of Congress on his country's economy, on his programs for reform and on his policy toward the movement by the Baltic republics to leave the Soviet Union.
When Senator Bob Dole, the minority leader, complained about Moscow's battle with Lithuania, which declared independence March 11. Mr. Gorbachev fired back with a gibe on the invasion of Panama. His smile faded again when Representative Richard Gephardt, the House majority leader, referred to a promised new Soviet law on free emigration and the American desire to link that bill to American-Soviet trade relations.
''When we hear there is a debate in Congress about our affairs, about our legislation, about what we should do, well, then this is resented in our society,'' Mr. Gorbachev said. ''This is a matter of dignity. This is a matter of prestige. This is a matter of sovereignty and national dignity.''
 
Benefit to China Noted
During the discussion about giving the Soviet Union most-favored-nation trade status, Yevgeny M. Primakov, a member of Mr. Gorbachev's Presidential Council, interjected that Mr. Bush had recently recommended extending favored tariff treatment to China for another year, despite the crackdown on political dissent and the violence in Tiananmen Square last year.
''What should we do for you to give us M.F.N.?'' he asked. ''Maybe we should introduce martial rule in the Baltics and at least fire some rounds.''
In the afternoon, Mr. Gorbachev received four awards from American organizations: the Franklin D. Roosevelt International Four Freedoms award from the Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute, the Martin Luther King International Peace Award from Friends World College, the Man of History Award from the Appeal of Conscience Foundation and the award of the Albert Einstein Peace Prize Foundation.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev signing treaties on weapon reductionsand trade relations yesterday at the White House (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)(pg1); Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, left, conferring yesterday with Eduard A. Shevardnadze, the Soviet Foreign Minister. With them at the Soviet Embassy was an interpreter, at right. (Tass)(pg4); Chart showing the current U.S. and Soviet arms outlook. (Source: Arms Control Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LITHUANIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); BALTIC SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TREATIES; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; CHEMICAL WARFARE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; MISSILES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); IMMIGRATION (74%); CIVIL AVIATION (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



32 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 2-9
 
Broad Soviet-American agreements were signed by President Bush and President Gorbachev that include cutting their stockpiles of long-range nuclear arms, the elimination of most of their chemical weapons and steps toward normalized economic relations. Page 1
 
News Analysis: Halting the cold war has come easier for President Bush and President Gorbachev than building on its ruins. 5
 
An agreement on U.S.-Soviet trade that could lead to normalized economic relations marks a shift by President Bush, indicating that he may have received Soviet assurances on free emigration and Lithuanian independence. 7
 
Talks fail to end disputes on long-range arms 4
 
Differences over Germany are still said to remain 7
 
Text of the agreement on long-range arms 8
 
Summary of accord on nuclear testing 8
 
Summary of U.S.-Soviet agreement on chemical arms 8
 
Reporter's Notebook: Filibuster, a prized American political art, was used by President Gorbachev to great effect, as he manipulated a televised question-and-answer session with 11 Congressmen by giving his questioners little chance to speak. 1
 
Barbara Bush defended motherhood in her address to Wellesley College graduates, some of whom opposed her receiving the honor. Raisa M. Gorbachev, who also spoke there, appealed for peace, perestroika and friendship. 1
 
Leaders of Lithuania and Estonia met separately with Boris N. Yeltsin, the newly elected President of the Russian republic, to discuss his plan for strengthening ties among the Soviet republics. 9
 
Romania's Hungarians shun rulers' coalition 9
 
Pretoria moved to end apartheid, at least in its most public form, by introducing legislation in Parliament permitting blacks to use parks, swimming pools, restaurants, buses and other public installations. 3
 
Liberian rebel forces still advance, prompting President Samuel K. Doe to announce that he would not seek reelection next year. 3
 
U.S. worried about safety of Americans in Liberia 3
 
Israel said Libya aided an attack aimed at Tel Aviv by supplying the ships, weapons and training for crew members. Israel forces intercepted the attackers at sea. 3
 
Stunned North Korea warns Soviets on meeting with Seoul 9
 
Anger in Britain growing over France's ban on British beef 9
 
National 10-13, 28
 
Chimps were protected from AIDS, said researchers who called the findings important evidence that an effective human vaccine against the deadly disease may be able to be developed. 1
 
A strained trust for asbestos victims has lead two judges in New York to take the extraordinary legal step of reopening the bankruptcy proceeding of the Manville Corporation in order to overhaul its compensation plan. 1
 
The number of factory jobs declined, according to the Labor Department's figures for May, and for the third consecutive month business payrolls did not grow, indicating a further withering of economic growth. 11
 
NBC may account for viewers under a different system, following the lead of ABC. The networks want to protect themselves from losses in advertising revenue stemming from reports showing diminishing viewership. 35
 
How earthquake-proof is California? According to a long-awaited state study, not only are many freeways and bridges unsafe, many thought to have been made safe remain dangerous. 10
 
Evidence that drug education works was provided by Federal health officals for the first time. Based on a study of high school students in Kansas City, Kan., the evidence is said to bolster drug prevention efforts. 10
 
Cuts in food program affect people on welfare 10
 
Surprise break in Texas tax impasse 12
 
Valdez spill oil vapors found to pose risk 11
 
Critics say draft report on climate ignores urgency of problem 11
 
Lawyers begin talks in case of Mayor Barry 13
 
tronger action is urged against campus bigotry 28
 
Regional 29-32
 
Nelson Mandela in New York City: Scores of people and organizations have an idea of how the acclaimed foe of apartheid should spend his time in the city this month, and they are telling that to the committee responsible for planning his visit. 1
 
Woman in the News: The chancellor of CUNY, Dr. W. Ann Reynolds, begins her new position in familiarly controversial circumstances. Dr. Reynolds said she would reassure students who complain that CUNY did not consider a minority candidate for her job. 29
 
A drunken driver's freedom, which was insured by a Supreme Court decision on protection against double jeopardy, has left emotional scars on the family that lost a daughter in an accident involving the driver and on the prosecutor who concedes he botched the case. 29
 
Kennedy International Airport is losing its role as the dominant U.S. gateway for international travelers because big American carriers are choosing to fly from their own hub cities. 35
 
A convicted Long Island murderer, Robert Golub, was given the maximum sentence, 25 years to life, by a judge who said the punishment was not harsh enough. 29
 
Gov. Cuomo visited Flushing, Queens, telling Asian merchants there that blacks had a much different immigrant experience from their's. Gov. Cuomo's tour mixed campaigning with sociology, alluding to tensions between blacks and Korean store owners. 31
 
Queens college honors nun for aiding the poor 30
 
Token magician shows what's up his sleeves 29
 
Gunfire from nearby parking lot kills doctor in Harlem 31
 
Race for Courter's seat revives issues of 1989 31
 
Prosecutor interviews mystery witness in Bensonhurst case 31
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment
 
Buchi Emecheta, writer, discusses her work 15
 
Rift causes arts endowment official's departure 15
 
Joffrey's tour revived 16
 
Art museum at a New Mexico race track 18
 
Theater: ''Hannah . . . 1939'' 16
 
Music: Erich Leinsdorf and the Philharmonic 14
 
Phil Collins concert 15
 
Dance: Ballet Theater's ''Violin Concerto'' 19
 
Consumer's World 52
 
Airlines phasing in safer seats
 
Price war forces some air fares down
 
T-shirt offers sun protection
 
Coping with cleaning a pool
 
Obituaries 33
 
Joseph A. Gimma, led New York State racing panel 33
 
Sports
 
Baseball: Yanks top Orioles 47
 
Mets shut out Phillies 47
 
Basketball: Blazers gain respect 48
 
Boxing: Holyfield wins by knockout 47
 
Column: Anderson on boxing 47
 
Golf: Rhyan leads in seniors event 49
 
 Soccer: U.S. confident on tune-up 50
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
 
Editorials 26
 
The summit: verify, but trust
 
Best medicine for Medicaid
 
G.S.E.'s: cuddly, dangerous
 
Overdue discipline in Albany
 
Letters 26
 
Flora Lewis: Gorbachev could do it 27
 
Russell Baker: Busy, busy, how romantic 27
 
Jude Wanniski: To ease Northeast budget strains 27
 
Daoud Kuttab: Threats to the P.L.O. will backfire 27
 
Gary Alan Fine: Those preadolescent ninja turtles 27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LITHUANIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ESTONIA (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (68%); 

COMPANY: JOHNS MANVILLE CORP (61%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BEEF (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); AIDS & HIV (64%); LEGISLATION (63%); VACCINES (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); ASBESTOS (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



33 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Worried Over Safety of Americans in Liberia as Crisis Grows

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
Bush Administration officials expressed concern today that the increasing turmoil in Liberia is posing a threat to American lives and property.
The Administration is especially worried that important United States communications installations outside the Liberian capital could be damaged by the escalating violence, the officials said. Relay stations for Voice of America and United States diplomatic communications near Monrovia are each valued at $200 million, and officials say they are virtually unprotected.
Charles Taylor, the guerrilla leader who is challenging the Government of President Samuel K. Doe, has assured Washington that American property and citizens are not targets. But Administration officials remain skeptical. 
''What we're concerned about,'' said Herman J. Cohen, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, ''is getting caught in a crossfire of combat and the development of uncontrolled, undisciplined military operations. The security situation is deteriorating.''
 
Leery of Both Sides
American officials expressed little sympathy for Mr. Taylor or General Doe. One State Department official characterized the conflict as one for ''power and control'' over the West African nation rather than one of ideology.
Increasingly frustrated by General Doe's human rights record, Washington has steadily reduced assistance to his country. In 1986, the United States provided $53.5 million in economic and military assistance to Liberia; in fiscal 1990, it offered no military aid and just $10 million in food and other humanitarian assistance.
American officials are also leery of Mr. Taylor, whose original force of 60 rebels was armed and trained by Libya. After invading Liberia from the Ivory Coast in January, his movement successfully turned the Gio and Mano tribes in Nimba Province against the central Government, which is dominated by members of the Krahn tribe.
Like most members of the Liberian elite, Mr. Taylor was educated in the United States. While attending Bentley College near Boston, he organized Liberians living in the United States in opposition to President William Tolbert, whose Government was dominated by a minority group of descendants of freed American slaves who migrated to Liberia in the early 19th century.
When General Doe overthrew the Tolbert Government in 1980, Mr. Taylor returned to Liberia to join the new Government as a mid-level manager. Exile in U.S. Mr. Taylor fled Liberia for the United States in 1983 after a falling out with General Doe. The Liberian Government sought his extradition on charges that he diverted $900,000 of Government money, and a Federal court in Boston found the evidence sufficient to detain him in a county prison.
Mr. Taylor broke out of jail with two other prisoners and escaped to Liberia, where he joined in an unsuccessful coup attempt in 1985.
''He's a driven person,'' said Ramsey Clark, the former United States Attorney General who served as Mr. Taylor's lawyer during the extradition proceedings. ''He is single-minded in his determination to liberate his country.''
Mr. Clark said that his former client was a believer in free enterprise and democracy.
The Administration's two immediate policy goals are to ease the way for talks between Mr. Taylor and General Doe and to evacuate as many of the 1,200 American citizens from the West African nation as possible.
The United States Navy has dispatched six ships and 2,300 Marines to positions off the Liberian coast so that they will be available to evacuate American citizens should the Robertsfield International Airport be closed by fighting. Of the 102 American officials stationed in Liberia, all but about 25 will leave within days.
 
Abductions Add to Fears
Mr. Cohen said his fear that violence might spiral increased when undisciplined Doe forces entered a United Nations refugee facility on Wednesday and abducted 40 refugees. Several of them reportedly were killed. ''The development of a chaotic situation concerns everybody,'' he said.
So far one American, a missionary caught in a crossfire two months ago, has been killed in the fighting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); LIBERIA (97%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: VOICE OF AMERICA (58%); VOICE OF AMERICA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBERIA

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EXTRADITION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); COUPS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CIVIL WAR (73%); PRISONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); SLAVERY (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DOE, SAMUEL K (PRES); TAYLOR, CHARLES (LIBERIA) MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



34 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Test of a Summit

BYLINE: By R.W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union have done much better at their second summit conference on the agenda from the past than on the agenda for the future. They have done better on the issues that constitute the legacy of the cold war than on the issues thrown up by its demise.
With two days of formal negotiations complete and a Saturday of informal conversations at Camp David still to come, it is not entirely clear if this meeting has met the test for success that was suggested beforehand by Aleksandr A. Bessmertnykh, the new Soviet Ambassador to Washington: Are the leaders ''sincerely convinced that relations are on the right track''?
The two men talk to each other ''sometimes bluntly but never belligerently,'' a participant in the meetings said, and they ''respect each other's perspectives.'' But except in the most basic sense of wishing to avoid war, their goals for the years ahead have not yet meshed. Another participant added, ''So far, on the issues that really drive the relationship, they have not fully engaged.'' 
 
'Toward a New World'
To use a bit of political patois made famous by the former Speaker of the House, Thomas P. O'Neill, what has been achieved ''ain't beanbag'': a landmark treaty on chemical weapons; lesser accords on topics like nuclear testing and grain and the environment and cultural exchanges, and an agreement outlining a strategic arms treaty, which came only after eight grinding years of bargaining and a last-minute hitch that for several hours threatened to delay the whole thing.
''We are making steps toward a new world,'' Mr. Gorbachev said at tonight's gala signing ceremony. ''The area of disagreement is being narrowed.''
The strategic arms treaty will be the first ever to require the destruction of any of the weapons that the United States and the Soviet Union have been using for decades to threaten each other with nuclear annihilation. The reductions in the strike forces will amount to about a third, not a half, as originally envisaged. The terms have upset many American conservatives, and some points had to be deferred.
Old questions related to new ones have proved more nettlesome: a trade agreement to which both sides committed themselves 18 years ago remains entangled in the crisis in Lithuania, even though Mr. Gorbachev got the economic trophy that he had lobbied for, and progress in the negotiations on conventional forces in Europe was limited by the issue that undergirds almost all diplomacy these days - the military posture of a unified Germany.
 
Filled With Political Peril
The nationalities question, as epitomized by but not limited to Lithuania and the other Baltic republics, is filled with political peril for Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev.
Still, the package of documents signed by the two presidents late this afternoon represents a body of accomplishment that is unsurpassed in Soviet-American relations since the days of detente almost 20 years ago.
But so far at least, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev have found it much harder to set out a course for the new Europe, with clearly understood, mutually acceptable roles for the United States, the Soviet Union and a unified Germany, than to undo some of the grosser military excesses of the recent past.
If Dean Acheson was ''Present at the Creation'' of a new world order almost a half-century ago, as the title of his memoirs asserted, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev have been chosen by history to be present at the re-creation. But they have not reached real agreement on what sort of a world they want to see, and even if they did so, neither has the authority any longer to impose his vision on the rest of the world.
 
Seeking to Preserve Power
Mr. Gorbachev came to Washington seeking to preserve his power and that of his country, apprehensive like every Russian leader from Peter the Great to Nikita S. Khrushchev about whether foreigners would treat his country with sufficient dignity. His wife thanked the audience at the Library of Congress on Thursday for according respect to Soviet art, and Mr. Gorbachev told a Congressional delegation that ''it would be humiliating if we were to ask, to beg for something from you.''
He and Mr. Bush both have a vested interest in stability; incumbents always do. But the real question before them was not, as Mr. Gorbachev framed it, ''Does the United States want a Soviet Union which is weak, torn by complexes and problems and turmoil, or do you want a dynamic Soviet state that is open to the outside world?'' It was: ''How do we get there? Who yields what?'' Like Charles de Gaulle in World War II, Mr. Gorbachev has transformed his weakness into strength at the bargaining table, implicitly warning Mr. Bush that a successor might be less to American liking. But the efficacy of that tactic has been reduced by the emergence of Boris N. Yeltsin, the new President of the Russian republic, as a formidable rival. It now seems to many American policy makers that Mr. Yeltsin is as credible an alternative, apres Gorbachev, as the deluge of neo-Stalinism.
 
Forcing the Pace
Mr. Gorbachev, tired as he is, has worked furiously, appealing to every constituency he can think of, from actors to senators to pedestrians to the television networks, in addition to Mr. Bush.
He has forced the pace. When he said at the White House on Thursday evening that new ideas had been put forward on Germany, surprised Administration officials from the President on down had to scramble to match him, with the result that they contradicted one another.
For his efforts, he appears to have achieved at least one important goal beyond the formal agreements: he has driven home to many American officials, one of them said, the intensity of his country's apprehension about Germany. That has made it more likely that the West will eventually go further to reassure him, through more radical changes in the shape of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization or indirect limits on the size of the German army or a greater role for the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, if not all three, in exchange for his acquiescence to German membership in NATO.
Although the Soviet Union is in trouble and the United States and Western Europe are not - although ''we won and they lost,'' in the political shorthand of American conservatives -there seems no disposition in Washington to ''impose a solution on us,'' as a senior Russian negotiator put it.
Mr. Bush, in the words of a Western European Ambassador here, ''has kept Gorbachev engaged in the search'' for a new European architecture.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LITHUANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); GERMANY (50%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (55%); NEW WORLD WINES (55%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); COLD WAR (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (69%); CONSERVATISM (66%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



35 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1983 words

HEADLINE: Summit in Washington;
Excerpts From Gorbachev's Remarks at Breakfast With U.S. Lawmakers

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from remarks by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev at a breakfast with Congressional leaders at the Soviet Embassy this morning, as provided by the Federal News Service, a transcription agency. Mr. Gorbachev spoke through an interpreter.
 
GORBACHEV STATEMENT
I think that this meeting has a kind of set of issues and agreements that makes this summit a very important one. Of course, the central issue is that of 50 percent reductions in nuclear strategic arms. We have done a lot of difficult work - I am frank with you, very difficult work - and we feel that the U.S. side has done a lot of difficult work, too. . . . And I think that as a result, we can say now that the document, and that is the statement on the main provisions of the future treaty, can be signed. And the remaining issues will be worked on by our negotiators. ...
Yesterday we discussed the German question . . . the external matters related to the unification of Germany. And I felt that this rather rigid position of the Administration that the united Germany should absolutely belong to NATO, that position, to a large extent, is because the United States would like to assure its military presence on the European continent and its role on the European continent - strategic role and the role for stability. Those are the two elements of the same strategic situation, of course. 
And I said to the President . . . ''There is not a problem for us. We're not arguing that the United States should not be in Europe, regardless of how we resolve this issue of the membership of the united Germany and the question of European structures. We can say that regardless of those structures, it is necessary at this stage - it is necessary at the stage of rapid change in Europe, very dramatic change in Europe, we would like to have stability.
We want stability. We don't want any turmoil in this central focus of world politics. If we fail to develop this process in Europe and if we have concern on both sides, then it will be very difficult to move forward generally in our relationship.
And that is why I said very directly to the President, and I would like to say that to you, that if we in the Soviet Union feel that we are being squeezed out, that we are - that pressure is being applied on us for a unilateral advantage of the other side, well, it's - that is something that does more than just cause concern. ...
 
The Military Balance
It is a question of imbalance - of a possible imbalance, of a possible disparity. And then, if there is such a disparity, such an imbalance, our side or your side will have to think - to think about what to do next, whether we should continue on the course that we are proceeding now or we should stop and think about what to do about arms reduction, what to do about Vienna, to reconsider our entire position, to reassess our position. ...
Sometimes we hear voices here in America saying, Well, let's see, what is happening in the Soviet Union? Maybe the Soviet Union is so weak that we can defeat him just with one step. That's not serious. Now, Western press and the American press is saying, Gorbachev, compared to any other Soviet leader, has come to Washington very weak and he will not get anything. But I am not going to ask for anything, to beg for anything, even when I for example raise important matters such as trade, and it's important for us now to expand trade because we are moving toward a market economy and it's important for us to have the Americans participating in that process. But certainly we are not asking for a free ride. We will be asking for normal credits and of course we will be paying and paying the interest. For us it would be humiliating if we were to ask for - if we were to beg for something from you, and of course hopeless. ...
 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
The Soviet Economy
SENATOR GEORGE J. MITCHELL. . . . I wonder if you could tell us what further steps you anticipate taking with respect to the economy and when? . . .
GORBACHEV. . . . We will be replacing the old, command planned system with a new regulated market system. . . . When we began perestroika, we thought that we would be able just to add a certain dynamic to our society, to improve the state of research and development in the Soviet Union, to improve productivity in the Soviet Union, and through that we will be able to get a better Soviet Union.
But we found out that the old economic system rejected any kind of progress, rejected any kind of scientific and technological progress. It really was not receptive to that . . . There was no incentive, there was not motivation for people to work.
People worked really just taking commands from their bosses, no initiative . . . no thinking on the part of every worker was really necessary. He was estranged from this process of economic development and we have seen as a result of analyzing the situation, that we have to change our economic system, to change the format of our economy.
First, we began by introducing some new forms of the economy like leasehold, cooperatives, some others. We tried various approaches but they did not work. . . . Trying to inject those new elements and the new forms of economic life, we continued to retain the entire old superstructure of economic management and we understood that really we were being very naive, because that system, that system which evolved over decades, was really a kind of vice, was really a kind of cramp on our entire economy. And it made impossible any initiative, any decision making at various levels, and therefore we had to try and dismantle that command system. And to dismantle that command system we needed the political reform in order to really dismantle the command and bureaucratic system. . . . In combination with democracy, glasnost, the dismantlement of old management, we were able to open up for the people possiblities of participating, of becoming involved. Now that this is happening . . . we see that really we are lagging behind in the economy. . . .
We have dismantled the old system but we have not yet put in place a working system, a new system, and our ship has lost anchor and therefore we're all a little sick. And looking at this process, we see that if that process of transition from that old dismantled system to the new system, if that process takes too much time, it can create the kind of instability and the kind of implications that will just disorganize our entire society.
So, we decided that we have to radicalize our reform. We have to radicalize that transition to new forms of economic management. So this is how our proposals evolved. . . . We saw that we need a new kind of system of ownership, a new system of property. . . . And we have now adopted a law on property, and we're going to have a system of various forms of property, which will have state property, collective property, comparative property, lease property, and private property. . . . We are discussing now the law on taxes. Anti-monopoly legislation will be discussed because we have the kind of monopoly that exists only in our country. . . .
We need competitiveness in our economy, and that is why we will be adopting laws on entrepreneurship, on small and medium-size business. We do not have a system of markets. We do not have systems of stock exchanges, monetary or labor exchanges. . . . Of course, in order to cover all this gamut, matters such as credit, finance, banks, property, taxes and so on, in order to do that, we also need to address the question of prices, because it is only in our country that we have such a skewed system of prices. . . . They do not reflect real costs. They do not take into account demand. They reflect just the dictates of the producer - the producers who do not want to increase their productivity, they just do not want to increase quality, they are monopolists. ...
 
Changing Directions
We have to begin. We have to begin this change of direction which is very dramatic, and some people are scared. People are scared about price increases. . . . We will introduce social protection measures with regard to pensioners, families with many children, students, all those with fixed incomes. And of course it applies to workers. ...
Certain limits will be introduced. Next year we're going to retain only control over foodstuffs and in industry a little more than that. . . . We are doing that deliberately, not in order to slow down things, but because our people and society at large are not simply prepared in conditions of market economy how to behave themselves. They don't even know that. And also we do this to prevent an explosion of inflation. But the degree or extent of freedom in terms of prices will increase as the mechanism of the market system grows. ...
 
State of the Baltics
SENATOR BOB DOLE. . . . When it comes to trade, there will be certain . . . questions raised in Congress about the Baltic states, about Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia independence if it comes to, say, most favored nation or whatever it might be. . . . So if you can shed any light on that. . . .
GORBACHEV. Well, of course, I have spoken so much on the subject that I must now try to crystalize the most important things. ...
They held an election in Lithuania. Some part of constituencies, about one-third, did not complete the electoral process. In two weeks, they were supposed to hold another round of elections, but, at that time, our Congress was to open, an extraordinary Congress, in order to establish the institute of presidency.
So, the Lithuanians decided to repeal the old decision, moved up the election two days before the Congress, before our Congress, in order to create that artificial situation and confront the entire Congress with that fait accompli. So, they elected their parliament, proclaimed - and they assembled at night to vote for secession from the union.
Well, let me say, this caused very acute reaction in our society. This is kind of a night coup d'etat, a coup, if you wish. Who can be given the right to participate in elections? It takes months and months to discuss a question like that. But here, they met at night, raised their hands, and said, We are now out of the Soviet Union. This is absurd. ..
Recently Ryzhkov and I, myself, met with Prunskiene, and we said, Let us find our way out of the situation by saving our face. . . . I am saying, well, let us decide that this is not rescinded. That it continues to exist, but you just suspend it, and then we will be able to talk, because we will be able to say that there is a return to the old situation, but you will be able to say that you have not rescinded the declaration. . . . Well, we will be trying to use every opportunity in order to find a solution without extreme measures within the framework of the constitutional process. We want to find a solution within the framework of the constitutional process because this is the key to resolving similar issues with other republics. ...
 
Middle East Peace
REPRESENTATIVE ROBERT MICHEL. . . . The Middle East is also a destabilizing thing. Could you help us in any way to solve that particular problem? Is it within your province to assist us in any way?
GORBACHEV. . . . We are ready to cooperate with you, we are ready to use our influence . . . . We are already doing it. ...
We are really in a difficult situation now as a result of certain actions of the Israeli Government. We have democratized our emigration procedures, people are leaving and they settle then on the occupied territories and provoke clashes. They are provoking a problem between us and the Arabs. The Arab Presidents are remonstrating with us. This is something that I think the Israelis are doing on purpose in order to make a solution very difficult.
Now, thank you for this meeting. I'm very pleased.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, center, at meeting with Congressional leaders yesterday at the Soviet Embassy. To his right was the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze. (Tass); True to style, President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and his wife, Raisa, stopped to greet well-wishers. (Mark Reinstein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (66%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



36 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Summit in Washington;
Wide Differences Over Germany Are Still Said to Divide the Superpowers

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
Despite some vague remarks on Thursday from both President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev about narrowing their differences on Germany, American and Soviet officials said today that the gaps between them on this critical issue still appeared to be wide.
Indeed, Mr. Gorbachev used a meeting today with Congressional leaders at the Soviet Embassy to complain about the Administration's ''rather rigid position'' that ''a united Germany belong to NATO.''
Mr. Bush telephoned the West German Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, first thing today to assure him that he did not diverge from his position that a unified Germany must remain a member of the NATO alliance.
The discussion that took place on Thursday afternoon between the two Presidents on the German question appears to have been a combination of diplomacy and public posturing. On the diplomatic side, an Administration official said, the two men laid out their longstanding positions on the German question, with a new nuance here or there, but no surprises. 
 
Insistence on NATO Role
That American position in short, the official said, is that Germany is going to be united, it is going to be in NATO, and the United States stands ready to make that fact as politically, economically and militarily acceptable to Moscow as possible.
Mr. Gorbachev countered with what one American official described as ''an extremely peculiar'' performance on Germany. In an ''animated, confident and thrusting'' speaking style, the official said, Mr. Gorbachev gave ''an extraordinarily vague presentation - it was elaborate, convuluted and imprecise.''
Through the haze, officials said, he made clear that the Soviet people simply could not accept the idea that their enemy of World War II - a united Germany - and their enemy of the cold war - NATO - should now be joined in one alliance. Germany should be in both alliances, he said, which should eventually give way to some new pan-European security framework.
At the close, however, Mr. Gorbachev asked aloud whether it ''shouldn't be the German people who decide whether or not they are in NATO.'' Mr. Bush, confident that the German people want to remain in the alliance, tried to press the Soviet leader on how they might establish this point, but he could not pin him down, officials said.
 
Gorbachev Seemed Upbeat
Public relations came into play when Mr. Gorbachev left the White House saying ''something emerged'' in their discussions on Germany, and appearing generally quite upbeat. He also said Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, would be holding ''in depth'' talks to work on details, giving rise to speculation that a breakthrough on Germany was imminent.
Mr. Gorbachev's upbeat approach seemed consistent with Soviet efforts to avoid being depicted as the ''spoiler'' standing in the way of a smooth, speedy German unification and to emphasize that Moscow is the one spinning out new ideas for an idyllic Europe free of all military alliances.
Mr. Bush, apparently not wanting to contradict Mr. Gorbachev at the very outset of the summit talks and intrigued by the Soviet leader's closing remark on letting the Germans decide, said he too was ''encouraged'' by their discussion.
 
Nothing Fundamentally New
As the day wore on, though, Administration officials, speaking not for attribution, began letting it be known that Mr. Baker and Mr. Shevardnadze were not planning any more talks on the German question and that nothing fundamentally new had really come up in the Bush-Gorbachev talks on this issue.
Today, the White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, tried to get the two Presidents down from the tree they had climbed together by saying: ''I think the confusion just arose over the interpretation of what the word 'new' means, if you can believe that. We had some new - meaning different, is the way I would describe it - different formulations of our positions, but nothing was agreed to.''
Many Administration officials say they believe that if there is going to be any real movement by the Soviets on the German question, it might be foreshadowed in the private meetings between Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev at Camp David on Saturday. But more likely, officials say, is that Mr. Gorbachev will not make any new move on Germany - an explosive domestic political issue for him - until after the Communist Party congress in early July.
 
On Repackaging NATO
President Bush's position, as laid out on Thursday, is that to make a unified Germany in NATO palatable to the Soviets, the United States, West Germany and the NATO allies have agreed to package it in this way:
* After German unification, no NATO troops will be extended to the territory of what is now East Germany, so there will be no increased threat to Soviet forces.
* The 300,000 to 400,000 Soviet troops now in East Germany will be able to remain there for a transitional period of a few years.
* The West German Government will pay the estimated $180 million cost of maintaining the Soviet troops in East Germany for the transition period, and will also pay for the construction of new housing for them back in the Soviet Union.
* NATO will begin revamping its force structure - downgrading readiness of certain units, scaling back its military training programs, developing multi-national fighting units, scraping plans to modernize its short-range nuclear missiles - to respond to the diminished threat from the East and to make NATO less threatening to Moscow.
* As soon as the Soviets agree to conclude the current conventional forces treaty now being negotiated in Vienna - the treaty would sharply reduce Soviet and American troops, armor and artillery forces in Europe - the Germans, in conjunction with NATO, will be prepared to begin immediately discussing limitations on the size of a united Germany's armed forces.
* The United States has offered to begin looking for ways to institutionalize the 35-nation Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe to transform it into some sort of ''club'' that every nation in Europe could belong to, an official said. The Conference could be given a permanent secretariat, hold more frequent meetings and be given responsibilities for everything from crisis management to election monitoring. With the Soviet-led Warsaw pact disintegrating and NATO remaining intact, the idea is to use the Conference as a framework that could give the Soviets a sense of both belonging to and playing a leading role in a pan-European organization - but one that would be a compliment to NATO, not a substitute.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mikhail S. Gorbachev had a friendly greeting for the crowd along his motorcade route yesterday as he left the White House after his meeting with President Bush. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); WEST GERMANY; EAST GERMANY; EUROPE

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); WORLD WAR II (63%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L GEORGE W BUSH (91%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 



37 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Summit in Washington;
Trade Accord Holds Many Prizes, But Obstacles to Passage Remain

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
The decision by President Bush to sign a trade agreement with the Soviet Union today paved the way for a process that would normalize commercial and economic relations between the two countries for the first time in a half-century.
Just five days ago, the President had said the agreement was ''not on the table'' because Moscow had yet to approve a free-emigration law.
Today's signing suggests that the President has received assurances from Mr. Gorbachev on the emigration issue and on Soviet efforts to resolve the crisis in Lithuania.
But the Soviet Union has been applying leverage as well. Soviet officials said they would not sign a new long-term grain agreement committing the Soviet Union to higher levels of purchases from the United States over the next five years unless the United States signed the trade agreement. Both accords were signed this afternoon. 
 
Lower Tariffs, More Options
The trade pact would clear the way for much lower tariffs on Soviet products, according them ''most favored nation'' treatment, while expanding American business opportunities in the Soviet Union.
While the agreement has now been signed, technical as well as political obstacles could delay its being sent up to Congress for a few weeks.
The President still has to waive restrictions imposed by the Jackson-Vanik amendment to the Trade Act of 1974. The Jackson-Vanik restrictions bar most-favored-nation trade status from countries that place emigration curbs. Congressional experts said the agreement cannot go up until the President issues his waiver, a report declaring that the free-emigration conditions have been met.
Both Governments came to terms on a trade agreement during the 1972-74 period of detente. But that agreement was never implemented because of the Jackson-Vanik restrictions.
''Given the President's long-standing condition that we will not be granting 'M.F.N.' until the Soviets pass their emigration legislation, this agreement will not be sent to the Congress until after such legislation has been enacted,'' Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d told reporters today.
 
Lawmakers Assess Chances
Lawmakers and their aides said the chances of approval appeared good, provided the Soviet Union lifts its economic blockade of Lithuania and continues policies of freer emigration.
Because it could spur not only commerce but the flow of capital and technology, the decision was eagerly sought by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev to back his market-oriented economic reforms and help him get more food and other consumer goods on store shelves.
Yet it has been almost as avidly desired by American business leaders, who see huge markets in the Soviet Union but shy away from making deals without the seal of approval from Washington that a trade agreement represents.
''It is the psychological indicator of re-engagement in one of the most important markets of the world,'' said Michael J. Johnson, a vice president at the FMC Corporation, a Chicago manufacturing company.
 
Desire for Soviet Markets
Business people also saw the situation in terms of American competitiveness. ''Without some clear indication that the pending U.S.-Soviet trade agreement will be implemented, American business proposals will get short shrift in the Soviet Union compared with those from Europe and Japan,'' the president of the National Association of Manufacturers, Jerry J. Jasinowski, wrote the President last Wednesday, Should it come into force, the trade agreement would qualify the Soviet Union for the lowest tariffs granted to any other country. The Soviet Union is among only 12 countries that do not get the favored trade status.
 
Cheaper Vodka Is Nearer
Soviet products sold in the United States currently bear duties as much as 10 times higher than imports from other countries. By one estimate the price of Soviet vodka could drop by $1.25 a bottle.
There might not be large short-term increases in trade because the Soviet Union now makes little that Americans want to buy, and has trouble paying for goods it needs from the United States.
However, over the next three to five years, American officials think, the current $5 billion in annual trade between the two countries could double or even triple.
Largely because of Soviet grain-buying, the United States had a $3.5 billion surplus last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); LITHUANIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TREATIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SUMMIT CONFERENCES TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); APPROVALS (76%); TRENDS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



38 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
Stunned North Korea Warns Soviets on Meeting With Seoul Leader

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 1

 BODY:
Despite President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's plans to meet in the United States with the South Korean President next week, experts on North Korea say they do not expect the diplomatic opening to dislodge Pyongyang soon from its hard line against any contact with the South.
The North Korean Government expressed incredulity and directed vague warnings at the Soviet Union today in response to Mr. Gorbachev's plans to meet President Roh Tae Woo, which were disclosed by United States officials on Wednesday and confirmed by South Korea the next day. The meeting is expected to take place in San Francisco on Sunday or Monday, after the Soviet leader ends his talks with President Bush in Washington.
Clearly stunned by this recognition of South Korea by one of North Korea's few remaining allies, the official Korean Central News Agency quoted an unnamed Foreign Ministry spokesman as having said: ''If President Gorbachev has a meeting with Roh Tae Woo, which we do not think will take place, it will be a serious political issue.'' 
The spokesman added that such a meeting would ''freeze the division of our country.''
Despite the threatening tone of the report, diplomats and experts on North Korea said there did not appear to be much Pyongyang could do, although the move sharply increases the pressure on North Korea to consider altering its policies. North Korea is believed to receive about 70 percent to 80 percent of its military supplies from the Soviet Union, and they are essential to supporting on a war footing a standing army of more than one million.
The North Koreans have made some modest gestures recently toward better relations with the United States, engaging in some inconclusive discussions in Beijing. On Monday, the North Koreans turned over the remains of five of the several thousand American soldiers still missing from the 1950-53 Korean War.
 
Inflexible Stand on Seoul
But all this has not seemed to ease the North Koreans' inflexible stand against their foes in the South, as hoped by some in Seoul.
''We think this should ease tensions and induce the North Koreans to talk,'' said Chung Jae Moon, a member of South Korea's National Assembly and the ruling party, who has been instrumental in establishing the links with the Soviet Union. ''Otherwise, they will just be more isolated.''
Diplomats who monitor the tightly controlled North Korean press and broadcasting said that the Government had not informed its people of the coming meeting.
''The Soviet Union is emphatically admitting there are two Koreas,'' said a Japanese Foreign Ministry official. ''This proves the whole basis of North Korea's foreign policy is groundless.''
The North Koreans insist that there is only one legitimate Korean Government, their own, and they refuse to refer to Mr. Roh as President.
The Japanese diplomat added, ''I can't say we expect a hardening of their position but we just don't expect this will change their policy, either.''
The North Korean press agency report, monitored here, said North Korea had not been officially informed of a meeting between President Gorbachev and President Roh.
''We consider that the President of the Soviet Union, an ally of ours, is quite able to analyze and judge what a serious political consequence will be entailed by his meeting with Roh Tae Woo, who is seeking only the division of Korea,'' the North Korean official said, South Koreans Took Initiative While hosting the Olympic Games of 1988, South Korea undertook an effective campaign to break the ice with Communist Eastern Europe, offering increased trade and cheap consumer goods as an inducement.
Starting with Hungary in the fall of 1988, Seoul established diplomatic relations with all the East European countries except East Germany and the Soviet Union.
South Korea and the Soviet Union opened consular offices in each other's capitals. The meeting next week is expected to lead toward full embassies.
 
Moscow to Supply Uranium
After a visit by a group of leading Seoul politicians in March, Moscow agreed to a long-term contract to supply uranium for South Korean nuclear energy plants.
The Soviet Union has also agreed to sell advanced technology to Korean companies. On Thursday, the Samsung Group, a leading Korean conglomerate, said it had signed a deal to provide telecommunications equipment to the Soviet Union.
One sign of North Korea's difficulties in responding to the success of South Korea's diplomatic and economic offensive came last year. Kim Pyong Il, the son of North Korea's leader, Kim Il Sung, arrived in Hungary as ambassador shortly before Hungary recognized South Korea.
Western diplomats said Mr. Kim was quickly transferred to Bulgaria, which then followed Hungary's example and moved to open relations with Seoul. Mr. Kim is believed to be still in Bulgaria.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (53%); TOKYO, JAPAN (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH KOREA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); NORTH KOREA

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); ARMIES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); 

PERSON: ROH TAE WOO (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; STERNGOLD, JAMES GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



39 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Critics Say Draft Report on Climate Shift Ignores Urgency of Problem

BYLINE: PHILIP SHABECOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
A draft report by an American-led policy group of the United Nations has proposed international measures to cope with global warming caused by pollution, but it calls for no specific goals or timetables for action.
Environmentalists and some European diplomats who have seen a summary of the report, which was prepared by American officials, complained that its recommendations did not reflect the urgency evident in a report on scientific knowledge about global warming.
That report, prepared by a British-led panel and released last week by another United Nations panel, , found that unless the emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases that are trapping heat from the sun are immediately cut by more than 60 percent, global temperatures would rise sharply in the next century with unforeseeable consequences for humans. 
The draft policy report by the American-led panel calls for a general international treaty to address global warming, but none of the signers would be obligated to take specific action. Other recommendations are to use energy more efficiently, to strengthen existing institutions that could address the climate change issue, and to accumulate more information on scientific, technical and economic implications of the problem. #3 Panels Examine Problem Three United Nations-sponsored working groups are gathering information to help nations decide what to do about global warming. The British-led panel completed its report last week. A Soviet-led group studying potential effects of global warming is still working on its report. The American-led group was assigned to examine strategies for dealing with the problem.
The information provided by the three groups is intended to form the basis of further international action to deal with the problem. An international conference will be held in Geneva this November to plan the next steps.
The policy group's recommendations generally parallel the Bush Administration's approach to the problem. The Administration wants to delay specific international action, like mandatory reduction of carbon dioxide and other pollutants, and to focus on more study of the scientific and economic implications of the shift in climate.
European governments are expected to press for a stronger report when the members of the American-led working group meet in Geneva next week to prepare its final report, said an official in the Netherlands Embassy here.
The official said Western European governments were concerned that the policy summary prepared by the United States put more emphasis on uncertainties than was warranted by the findings of subcommittees that did the research for the report. But he said that his government could not comment officially on the report because it was still in draft form. #2 Panels at Odds Daniel Lashof, a global warming expert for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group, said ''there is a real disconnect'' between the recommendations of the science panel and the draft report by the working group on policy responses. He said the science panel ''made a strong statement about the science and the need for at least a 60 percent reduction in carbon dioxide, while the policy group did not even analyze the policy measures needed to reach that reduction.''
Frederick M. Bernthal, deputy director of the National Science Foundation and chairman of the policy working group, did not respond to several telephone calls over the last two days.
The draft report on policy options was prepared by the Response Strategies Working Group, one of three working groups that make up the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which was created in 1988 by the United Nations Environmental Program and the World Meteorological Organization, another United Nations organization.
The response strategies working group identified a number of measures that it said would be ''particularly important and feasible in the short term.''
It suggested the development of a ''framework convention,'' or general treaty on climate change, without specifying any particular obligations or deadlines for reducing the pollution that is accumulating in the atmosphere and trapping radiation from the sun in a phenomenon known as the greenhouse effect.
It proposed carrying out measures that ''are already economically and socially justifiable in their own right and which also provide benefits from a climate change standpoint.'' Such measures would include increased energy efficiency and improved use of forests and other natural resources.
It urged increased research into scientific, technical and economic uncertainties about the magnitude, time and regional effects of global warming; potential policies to lessen its impact, and measures to adjust to a warmer earth when and if that happens. it Unlike the Bush Administration, several Western European countries have concluded that enough is known about the potential dangers to warrant substantial countermeasures, including stabilizing and reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

SUBJECT: WEATHER; AIR POLLUTION; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; HEAT GLOBAL WARMING (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); 

PERSON: SHABECOFF, PHILIP



40 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Rate Dips but Economy Is Weak

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
In a report signaling further withering of economic growth, the Labor Department said today that business payrolls in May failed to expand for the third consecutive month and that the number of factory jobs dropped by 35,000.
Most analysts had expected moderate growth in jobs. The decline touched off a major rally in the money and bond markets, pushing interest rates down sharply in the expectation that the Federal Reserve Board would have to relax its grip on the money supply to keep the seven-and-a-half-year business expansion intact. Because of these interest rate developments, stocks also posted gains, though less spectacular, reaching new record levels. 
''This shows that the economy has more weak sectors than strengths,'' said Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist for the Pittsburgh National Bank. He said it was now clear that the economy's rapid pace earlier in the year was an aberration, caused mainly by unusually warm winter weather. ''The forward momentum is now pretty minimal,'' he added.
 
Jobless Rate Down Slightly
Yet today's report, generally regarded as the single best indicator of economic performance, was not uniformly grim. The civilian unemployment rate as measured by the department's survey of households fell by one-tenth of a point in May, to 5.3 percent, helped by the Census Bureau's hiring of temporary workers. A shift of less than two-tenths of a point is not considered to be statistically significant, but the figures did reflect some job gains.
In addition, there was a decline in the ranks of the newly unemployed -those idled for less than five weeks -and, in contrast with April, more industries added workers than shed them.
Jay N. Woolworth of the Bankers Trust Company said that while the overall figures were ''a whole heck of a lot softer'' than expected, ''there are some pieces of strength'' in the nation's economy.
One of the more surprising elements in the report was an increase of four-tenths of an hour in the length of the average factory work week, to 41.1 hours, and an increase of five-tenths of an hour, to 4 hours, in factory overtime work.
 
More Hours for Auto Workers
Such advances sometimes suggest rising economic activity, but this time they mainly reflected activity at 15 automobile plants producing fast-selling models, Labor Department officials said. With overall sales generally lackluster, the auto makers decided to preserve flexibility by adding hours rather than hiring new workers.
W. Van Bussman, an economist for the Chrysler Corporation, said another reason for this was the coming labor negotiations in which job security is expected to be high on the agenda, making companies ''a little wary about adding to the work force.''
In the aggregate, however, the May figures showed an economy probably growing only half as fast, after adjusting for possible inventory buildup, than the rate experienced in the first three months of the year.
''Labor market developments over recent months are now fairly clear,'' Dr. Janet L. Norwood, the Commissioner of Labor Statistics, told the Joint Economic Committee of Congress this morning. ''Employment growth has been very slow, and what growth there has been was concentrated in a very few industries,'' she said, adding that the only real job strength came from the 325,000 people who were hired temporarily as census workers in the last few months.
''The private sector has been stagnant for the past three months, with job losses in construction and manufacturing,'' Dr. Norwood said.
 
Easing of Policy Debated
Despite this evidence of economic weakening, the Federal Reserve is likely to ''sit tight'' for awhile, analysts at Salomon Brothers suggested today, at least until the next readings on consumer and producer inflation, which are to be published in about two weeks. Then, easing of its policy on money supply ''depends more on extending April's favorable price news through May and June,'' the economists said.
Today's report also showed that both hourly and weekly earnings of private production workers rose four-tenths of 1 percent in May, up from an increase of three-tenths of 1 percent in April.
The department's survey of business payrolls for May showed a total increase of 164,000 jobs, but when 145,000 new census workers are subtracted the gain was considered negligible. The latest decline in factory jobs means that 310,000 of these have now been lost since the recovery peak in March 1989.
In addition, business payrolls are now shown as falling 126,000 in April, twice as much as when initially reported a month ago.
 
More Jobs in Health Services
For May, manufacturing jobs fell for the seventh month in the last nine, with construction falling by 20,000 jobs after seasonal adjustment. In services, employment in retail trade has now been weak for four consecutive months, particularly in general merchandise stores, where 55,000 jobs have been lost. Health services, the only sector of the economy that showed a big gain, added 45,000 more jobs; this sector now accounts for one-third of the total increase in private payroll jobs over the last year.
Partly reflecting the exceptionaly long factory hours last month, the index of hours worked remained unchanged at 130, although the figure for May was revised down to that level from 130.2.
The household survey, on which the unemployment rate is based, showed civilian employment up by 234,000, slightly more than April's decline. Half the new jobs went to those who had been jobless, reducing their ranks by 117,000, and the other half went to those who joined the labor force.
Except for an increase of eight-tenths of a point in the teen-age jobless rate, to 15.5 percent, there was little change among the various population groups.
And despite considerable shifting among geographic regions over the last year, with the jobless rate for New England up nearly two points and that for the South showing a moderate decline, few states showed statistically meaningful changes in May. The exceptions among the 11 largest states were Illinois, showing a decline of eight-tenths of a point, to 5.3 percent, and Pennsylvania, also showiing a decline of eight-tenths of a point, to 4.9 percent.
New York's jobless rate was put at 5.1 percent, up from 4.9, while New Jersey's edged down one-tenth of a point, to 4.8.
The overall national jobless rate, which includes the 1,639,000 members of the armed services stationed in the United States, was 5.3 percent, the same as the civilian rate. Enserchd(Pittsburgh National Bank)

GRAPHIC: List of the Labor picture; Graph of the jobless rate. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (60%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (53%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); OVERTIME (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); CENSUS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); BOND MARKETS (71%); BONDS (71%); WORK WEEK (69%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (69%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR



41 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON;
The Other Agreements, in Brief

 BODY:

SIGNED BY BUSH AND GORBACHEV
 
AGREEMENTS
 
Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy
Opens the way for increased cooperation by Soviet and American scientists studying subatomic particles and the safety of civilian nuclear reactors. Researchers will work to study health and environmental effects of the 1986 accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.
 
University Exchanges
Establishes a general agreement expanding undergraduate university exchanges by 1,000 full time students in each direction. A mix of private and Government funds is to be used to cover the cost of Soviet participants in the United States, while the Soviet Government will cover all in-country costs for Americans. 
 
Trade
Would normalize trade and economic relations between the United States and the Soviet Union. Clears the way for much lower tarifs on Soviet products in this country and eligibility for the Soviet Union for American Government credit and guarantee programs. American companies would get better copyright protection for computer software in the Soviet Union and an accelerated process for obtaining commercial representation in Moscow. Although Mr. Bush signed the treaty, the White House is saying he will not send it to Congress or apply the most-favored-nation provision until he is satisfied that the Soviet Union has ended restrictions on emigration and resolved the crisis in Lithuania.
 
JOINT STATEMENTS
 
Conventional Forces
Agrees to speed negotiations in Vienna so the U.S. and the Soviet Union can sign an agreement this year reducing non-nuclear military forces in Europe. The 35-nation conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe should not hold a summit meeting until the treaty on conventional forces is ''ready for signature,'' they said.
 
International Park
Announces the intention to create a large park, the Beringian Heritage International Park, along the Bering Strait. Would include land and water in Alaska and Siberia. The Soviets and Americans would cooperate in studying the ecology, archeology and cultural heritage of both sides of the strait, once the site of a land bridge linking North America and Asia.
 
AGREEMENTS CONCLUDED BY OTHERS

 
These were concluded by Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d or other Administration officials and by Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze.
 
Maritime Transportation Opens 42 cities in each country to shipping. Permits Soviet vessels to engage in trade between the United States and third countries. Sets annual targets for market share.
 
Ocean Studies Renews previous arrangements. Provitdes for the shared use of research vesels and ports, open publication of joint studies in marine science and oceanography, and scientific exchanges.
 
Expanded Civil Aviation Opens six new Soviet cities and four new American cities to Soviet-American air traffic; Chicago, Miami, San Francisco, Anchorage, Kiev, Tbilisi, Minsk, Riga, Magadan and Khabarovsk. (New York, Washington, Moscow and Leningrad are now served.) Total passenger and cargo flights would increase to 58 per side by April 1, 1992. U.S. airlines are guaranteed that about 9 percent of their seats will be filled by Soviet passengers.
 
Maritime Boundary Resolves differences about jurisdiction over fishing and oil and gas resources. The agreed-to maritime boundary is the ''western limit'' in the 1967 convention ceding Alaska to the United States. The United States transfers to Soviet jurisdiction one ''special area'' inside the American 200-mile limit. The U.S.S.R. transfers to American jurisdiction the three ''special areas'' comprising five Arctic islands, inside the Soviet 200-mile limit.
 
Cultural Centers Would establish reciprocal institutions in Washington and Moscow. The nonprofit centers would be open to the public, and operate libraries and sponsor seminars and other events.
 
Customs Cooperation Provides for cooperation between the United States and Soviet customs services in deterring and detecting narcotics trafficking, in export control and in commercial fraud.
 
Government Publications Memorandum of understanding to increase circulationn of ''America'' and''Soviet Life'' magazines. Would raise the circulation ceilings of the publications to 250,000 in 1991; after that, distribution to be determined by demand.
 
Grains Long-term guarantee for an export market in the Soviet Union for an additional 1 million tons of American wheat, feed grains and soybean a year. Current agreement expires this month.

GRAPHIC: Facsimiles of signatures of George Bush and Mikhail S. Gorbachev.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); UKRAINE (91%); LITHUANIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BELARUS (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); BERING SEA (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;AMERICA (PUB); SOVIET LIFE (PUB)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: TREATIES; ATOMIC ENERGY; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; OCEANS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; CULTURE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GRAIN SCIENCE NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (89%); OCEANS (84%); MARINE SHIPPING (84%); AIRLINES (83%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); CITY LIFE (65%); AIR FREIGHT (65%); ARCHAEOLOGY (63%); CIVIL AVIATION (61%); CITIES (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (53%); COPYRIGHT (53%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (53%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD A (MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



42 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Token Thief Shows Millions Are Up Sleeve

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
At the 110th Street IRT subway station, where all the turnstiles were recently broken, an unidentified man held open the fare gate and instructed passengers to place their tokens in a large black fare box.
''Come right this way through the gate; the turnstiles are broken. Put your tokens in the box,'' he said in an official tone, directing the confused subway riders with his hand. And the passengers complied. 
A few minutes later, the 33-year-old man, dressed in jeans and a T-shirt, pulled a homemade metal sleeve from the top of the fare box, emptied it of the tokens, and reinserted it. The man, an unemployed printer who asked to remain anonymous, said that he made about $300 a day that way.
The man demonstrated his new craft in videotaped testimony presented to the New York City Council's Transportation Committee yesterday. The videotape, which was made by city investigators, shows the relative ease with which hundreds of people are jamming turnstiles throughout the subway system and stealing millions of dollars worth of tokens from fare boxes.
The Transit Authority estimates that it loses about $60 million in revenues each year to fare evasion, which includes tokens lost to people who vandalize turnstiles and fare boxes. The agency receives about 2,400 ''trouble turnstile'' calls each week. There are 2,730 turnstiles in the subway system.
''People are so frustrated and confused by the lack of working turnstiles that they respond to anyone who appears to be in control, mainly individuals like the one in the video,'' said Jonathan Drapkin, chief of the City Council's Office of Legislative Oversight and Investigation, which is conducting an investigation into the growing problem of turnstile vandalism.
City investigators made the videotape on Thursday when they discovered the unemployed printer putting tape over the token slots of the turnstiles. The man agreed to demonstrate the scheme provided that his name and face not appear in the video. He also agreed to return all tokens acquired during the videotaping to the token booth clerk. The man was not arrested.
Mr. Drapkin said that while many token thieves jammed turnstiles with paper or metal and sucked the tokens out with their mouths, a growing number of the thieves were using fare-box sleeves, which were more lucrative.
A typical fare-box sleeve is usually made from a beer can and is about the size of a pocket comb. It can be slid through a token slot until it is almost entirely inside the turnstile or fare box. Thin, barely visible metal edges atop the sleeve prevent it from falling all the way inside and enable the thief to pull it out. The sleeves allow thieves to take six to 10 tokens in one swoop.
''I don't like jamming and sucking; it takes extra time. I just put paper and tape over the turnstile slots because people are so used to the turnstiles being jammed that they automatically use the black fare box,'' the man in the videotape said.
Appearing before the Transportation Committee for the first time yesterday, Alan F. Kiepper, who took over as president of the Transit Authority in February, said that the agency was experimenting with a number of programs aimed at ending fare evasion. Mr. Kiepper said that the agency had just completed a successful program that placed unarmed security agents at heavily used stations. He said they had discouraged turnstile vandalism and people who jumped over turnstiles or walked through the fare gates without paying.
 
Thief Discovers Thievery
Transit officials say, however, that the authority cannot assign an officer to monitor each fare box and unlocked gate because they have too few officers and a rising number of other, more serious crimes.
Not all passengers who go through the fare gates pay their fares. In the video, the unemployed printer retrieved the beer-can sleeve from the fare box and found that one passenger had deposited a nickel in the box and another passenger, a penny. ''Some people don't pay,'' the man said. ''Sometimes you find no tokens, just pennies and nickels.''
Mr. Kiepper said the agency had established an internal task force to develop ways to curb fare abuse. The task force, Mr. Kiepper said, is considering changes to fare-control areas, including better lighting and higher railings.
In a trial program to start next week, the Transit Authority will appoint managers to a group of stations to supervise cleaners, maintenance workers, police and operations personnel, Mr. Kiepper said.
Mr. Drapkin of the council's investigation office said the Transit Authority could thwart many fare box thieves by reducing the size of the token slot in the fare box, leaving no extra space to insert the sleeve.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TRANSIT AUTHORITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (NYCTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; TOKENS; FARES; VANDALISM; SUBWAYS VANDALISM (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); CITIES (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); WITNESSES (68%); TESTIMONY (68%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN ALAN F KIEPPER (82%); JONATHAN DRAPKIN (64%); 



43 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Race for Courter's Seat Revives Issues of 1989

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J., June 1

 BODY:
After losing the race for governor last year to Representative Jim Florio, the 12th District's own Representative, Jim Courter, decided not to seek re-election to Congress. But the spirited Republican campaign to succeed him has been dominated by the very same issues that were at the center of the statewide campaign.
The sprawling district in the northwestern part of the state meanders through seven counties and includes 79 municipalities.
Its 571,600 residents range from blue collar to silk stocking, and interviews with several Morris and Hunterdon County residents before the primary on Tuesday show they are concerned about economic issues, chiefly the prospect of increased state and Federal taxes, as well as overdevelopment, pollution, automobile-insurance costs and crime. 
The litany of concerns was occasionally recounted with some anger. Donald H. Ort of Neshanic, who retired in December from the marketing division of A.T. & T., said, ''We should have another Boston Tea Party and toss all the politicians into Newark Bay.''
He said taxes were the top issue. ''They're killing us in this state,'' he said. ''When Kean was in, we were told we had a surplus. And now we're told there's a deficit and we have to jack up all the taxes.''
 
'Rampant Uncontrolled Growth'
Mr. Ort, who likes to hunt, also opposes Mr. Florio's successful drive to enact a law banning the sale or possession of assault rifles. ''If the courts and law-enforcement system put the criminals away, we would't be passing laws to disarm law-abiding citizens in the name of keeping guns away from criminals.''
Bruce Brodack, owner of Light Fare, a lighting and decorating store on Main Street in Flemington, said: ''Overdevelopment, rampant uncontrolled growth is one of our most serious problems. It's crazy. It's nuts.''
He said the proliferation of office parks and light industry in the once bucolic western counties had inspired unplanned housing and increased traffic to the point where streets in small towns like Flemington are jammed several hours a day.
''It's also displacing animals,'' he said. ''The number of road kills is up tremendously.''
 
Taxes and Traffic
Richard Huyler, a retired school maintenance worker who was sunning on a bench on South Street in Morristown, said he was worried about trying to live on his pension and Social Security.
''I always looked forward to my retirement and made plans,'' he said. ''But you just can't make it these days without trying to find some work.
''It seems the economy went into a turnover when Bush got in there. They all say they're interested in lowering taxes, but they never do it.''
Valerie Cunningham, a licensed practical nurse who moved here six years ago from Jamaica, said that ''racial problems and traffic congestion,'' which forces her to leave earlier and earlier to catch a bus to her job at Morristown Memorial Hospital, were her chief concerns.
In January 1989, John Jackson, a 22-year-old black, died after being arrested by in connection with a traffic violation here. An autopsy found that he had died of cardiac arryhthmia brought on by cocaine use. But the incident prompted an examination of racial relations in the town.
 
'Job Is Not Being Done'
Thus far, Ms. Cunningham said, the efforts have not been successful. ''One group is meeting behind closed doors, and the other is meeting out in the open,'' she said. ''They're not getting together. They're not hitting the nail on the head.'
Margaret Hyland, owner of Pegeen, a children's-clothing store on South Street, said: ''I'm worried about water pollution, and I'm glad to see the Governor doing something about that. But I'm also worried about drugs and the deterioration it brings, even to small communities. The job is not being done, and Bush has been dancing around the issue with his program.''
She said he was glad to see Mr. Florio's ban on assault weapons become law. ''It's a step in a better direction,'' she said.
Four candidates are vying for the Republican nomination, with two legislators, State Senator Richard A. Zimmer, 45, of Flemington, and Assemblyman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen, 44, of Morristown, leading a field that includes Phil McConkey, 33, a former player for the New York Giants, and Joseph F. Shanahan, 76, president of the Hunterdon County Citizens and Taxpayers Association. Tossup for G.O.P. Marguerite Chandler, 46, an executive, has been endorsed by all the County Democratic organizations in the district and is expected to win her party's nomination. She is opposed by James J. Cleary, 53, a supporter of Lyndon H. LaRouche.
Steven A. Salmore, a professor of political science at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University, said the Republican race appeared to be a tossup between Mr. Zimmer and Mr. Frelinghuysen.
''Frelinghuysen was better known at the start and was better plugged into established money,'' Professor Salmore said. ''But Zimmer has run before in more of the district and is very strong in Hunterdon and Warren.''
Each man is fiscally conservative and moderate on social issues, and each supports a woman's right to choose an abortion. Each has produced a campaign video that includes warm comments by former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, and each had been going his own way in the campaign until the last two weeks. Former Representative Millicent H. Fenwick has endorsed Mr. Frelinghuysen, and State Senator Wayne Dumont Jr. of Phillipsburg backs Mr. Zimmer.
 
Differences Over Budget
Mr. Frelinghuysen's family includes four United States Senators and a former Representative, his father, Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen. He stresses his record as a Morris County Freeholder and Assemblyman, including chairman of the Appropriations Committee.
Mr. Zimmer, a former head of New Jersey Common Cause, spoke of his sponsorship of legislation to preserve farmland and his leadership in passing a radon-protection bill.
About two weeks ago Mr. Zimmer personalized the campaign by comparing his actions as a member of the Appropriations Committee with those of Mr. Frelinghuysen.
Mr. Zimmer pointed out that as chairman, Mr. Frelinghuysen had helped draft the current budget, which Mr. Florio says is $600 million out of balance. Mr. Zimmer voted against the spending plan, saying it was balanced with gimmicks and smoke and mirrors. He has voted against five of the last eight budgets.
Mr. Frelinghuysen has responded by accusing Mr. Zimmer of mudslinging and waging a negative campaign, but he has decided not to defend his role in drawing up the budget.
Although he has not held elective office, Mr. McConkey's name was known because of his football career, and he has established himself as the most conservative candidate in the race. He is opposed to abortion and has the endorsement of the National Right to Life Political Action Committee. On Thursday, the Housing and Urban Development Secretary, Jack F. Kemp, visited Flemington for a fund-raising event for Mr. McConkey.
The Zimmer and Frelinghuysen camps plan to spend $500,000 each to win a nomination that both sides say will go to the candidate who receives 18,000 votes.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bruce Brodack: Lighting- and decorating-store owner/''Overdevelopment, rampant uncontrolled growth is one of our most serious problems''; Valerie Cunningham: Licensed practical nurse/''Racial problems and traffic congestion,'' which forces her to leave work earlier, are main concerns; Margaret Hyland: Children's-clothing store owner/''I'm worried about water pollution, and I'm glad to see the Governor doing something about that. But I'm also worried about drugs and the deterioration it brings''; Donald H. Ort: Retired A.T.&T. employee/''When Kean was in, we were told we had a surplus. And now we're told there's a deficit and we have to jack up all the taxes'' (Photographs by Eddie Hausner/ The New York Times); map: 12th Congressional District in New Jersey (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (69%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (69%); FIREARMS (64%); 

PERSON: COURTER, JIM (REPR); SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F; ZIMMER, RICHARD A; FRELINGHUYSEN, RODNEY P (ASSEMBLYMAN); MCCONKEY, PHIL; SHANAHAN, JOSEPH F JAMES A COURTER (92%); RODNEY P FRELINGHUYSEN (58%); 



44 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST: SATURDAY, JUNE 2, 1990

 BODY:

 
 
Companies
 Two judges reopened Manville's bankruptcy proceeding by ordering a Federal bankruptcy judge to overhaul the procedures for compensating victims of asbestos. The extraordinary ruling comes in response to troubles at the trust set up two years ago by Manville, its insurers and a Federal bankruptcy court. [Page 1.] Scientists at Genentech have developed an experimental vaccine that protects chimpanzees against infection from the AIDS virus. [1.] The stock of L.A. Gear plummeted after it said it expected sharply lower second-quarter earnings. The shares, which traded as high as $50 last month, dropped by $8.50 on the New York Stock Exchange, a 20 percent decline, to $30.75. [35.] NBC is considering a new system to account for television viewers when it sets its advertising rates for the fall television season. Like ABC, the network wants to protect itself from losing tens of millions of dollars in advertising revenue. [35.] The court-appointed trustee for Eastern Airlines, Martin R. Shugrue Jr., offered to cooperate with a Brooklyn grand jury investigation of whether the airline had ordered some employees to falsify maintenance records more than a year ago. [35.] Three investment bankers submitted itemized accounts of their monthly fees to a Federal court overseeing the voluntary bankruptcy of Federated Stores. [35.] The husband-and-wife founders of Esprit de Corp. will transfer ownership of the company to a group headed by the wife. [37. ] The major airlines are quietly installing new and safer passenger seats on airplanes but the level of seat safety varies from plane to plane and even between sections of the same aircraft. [52.]
 
 
 
The Economy
 Business payrolls in May failed to expand for the third consecutive month and the number of factory jobs dropped by 35,000, the Labor Department said. Most analysts had expected moderate growth in jobs and the decline heightened speculation that the Federal Reserve would have to relax its grip on the money supply to keep the seven-and-a-half-year business expansion intact. The civilian unemployment rate as measured by a household survey fell by one-tenth of a point in May, to 5.3 percent, helped by the Census Bureau's hiring of temporary workers. [11.] The economy grew in May to its highest level since January 1989, the National Association of Purchasing Management said. But economists cautioned that the report should not be taken as reflecting dramatic improvement in the economy yet. [36.] Construction spending fell 0.7 percent in April. [36.]
 
 
 
Markets
 Interest rates plunged and there was strong demand for Treasury and other fixed-income securities. The yield on the Treasury's long bond tumbled to 8.44 percent from 8.57 percent. [35.] Stocks surged in response to the bond market rally, as the Dow scaled the 2,900-point benchmark to set another high just as the final bell sounded. The average closed at 2,900.97, up 24.31. [38.] The dollar gained against the West German mark and Swiss franc but lost ground to the Japanese yen and to the pound. [43.] Precious metals prices plummeted as did grain and soybean futures. [43.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 A patent for a beverage container that can simultaneously chill a drink and heat food without electricity was awarded to an inventor in Miami Beach. Patents. [36.] Some owners of small businesses and professional practices who have been putting sizable sums into tax-deductible pension plans are facing I.R.S. audits of their plans. Your Money. [36.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (67%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ESPRIT DE CORP (67%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (56%); MACY'S INC (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JUDGES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (77%); VACCINES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); GRAND JURY (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); AIDS & HIV (72%); INSURANCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); VIRUSES (71%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); MONEY SUPPLY (67%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%); CENSUS (64%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (63%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (56%); 



45 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1781 words

HEADLINE: Kennedy Still No. 1, but Slipping

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
Kennedy International Airport, long the biggest and most popular United States gateway for international travelers, is seeing its dominant position erode as major American carriers increasingly choose to fly abroad from other cities they use as hubs.
The change has implications not only for the airport but also for its two biggest airlines, Pan American World Airways and Trans World Airlines, and for the metropolitan New York economy.
In just five years, the airport's share of international passengers boarding flights at United States airports fell to 32.2 percent in 1988, the most recent year for which figures are available, from 37.1 percent, and the percentage has continued to drop since then.
 
Slower Traffic Growth
All told, traffic at Kennedy is expected to grow at about 2.5 percent to 3 percent a year in the next decade, a rate slower than at other major airports. International traffic at major hub airports, including Newark, Dallas, Chicago and Atlanta, is growing far faster than at Kennedy. 
''It used to be that when you went to Europe you went to New York first,'' said Donald J. Carty, the senior vice president of planning at the AMR Corporation, parent of American Airlines.
International traffic has grown fast enough that Kennedy has not suffered severely from the loss of market share; it handled 8.95 million international passengers in 1989, down from 9 million in 1988, which was a record. But the airport has clearly lost the momentum that made it the jewel of the Jet Age, with enormous growth in the 1960's and 1970's as the industry converted to jet planes and foreign travel became far more convenient. Kennedy's weakening position affected the recent decision of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which oversees the airport, to postpone a planned $1 billion central terminal and monorail system. That project would have meant thousands of jobs in construction and in airport services. Kennedy handles 11 domestic and 48 foreign carriers, and 40,500 people are employed at the airport.
And because more international flights are leaving from and arriving at other cities, New York City itself will not become as big a gathering place for business and pleasure as it might have. The growth at Newark has softened the impact, however.
The expansion at other airports at the expense of Kennedy is also hurting Pan Am and T.W.A., which together account for 50 percent of the operations at Kennedy.
Many international travelers who once flowed to those two airlines at Kennedy now fly on other airlines, like American, United and Delta, that have recently introduced or expanded overseas service and send passengers through their own hubs.
''As the hubs have became bigger and bigger, there have emerged a lot of connecting points which made more sense than going to Kennedy,'' Mr. Carty said. Since 1982, American Airlines has added seven daily flights to Europe and East Asia from its hub at Dallas-Forth Worth International Airport, and nine flights from O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. But the airline reduced its service from Kennedy earlier this year.
 
Other Hubs Win Flights
When United Airlines began flying to Europe on May 15, the flights to Frankfurt went from United's hubs at O'Hare International and Dulles International Airport near Washington.
''We never even considered Kennedy,'' said John C. Pope, the executive vice president in charge of finance at United's parent, the UAL Corporation. ''Why would we ever start European service to Frankfurt there when we have a powerhouse hub in Chicago?''
Since the industry was deregulated, all leading United States carriers have built domestic hubs at which they collect passengers from many destinations and send them on to other cities. They no longer needed Government permission to fly anywhere within the United States.
Major increases in the range of some of the larger aircraft - like the Boeing 747-400, which can fly about 8,000 miles without refueling - have given major carriers more flexibility on where they originate their flights. (The longer-range planes can also benefit Kennedy, however, putting such flights as New York to Tokyo, which is 6,800 miles, within easy reach.) Foreign carriers have also added United States destinations other than Kennedy, although most have expanded service at Kennedy as well.
 
Overseas Lines Fly to Hubs
British Airways, for example, has added Orlando and Tampa, Fla., Seattle and Pittsburgh during the last decade and in 1988 took on Atlanta, Dallas, Houston and San Diego when it acquired British Caledonian Airlines.
Despite its slowdown in growth, Kennedy might appear to have more than enough business, at least to judge by the rate of flight delays there - among the nation's highest -and the crush of passengers at peak travel times.
But the flight delays occur largely because the airport operates in a heavily congested region. In fact, Kennedy has plenty of extra capacity to handle more flights at times other than the peak hours of the afternoon and early evening, said Donald Z. Plavin, the director of aviation redevelopment programs for the Port Authority.
And the crush of travelers at certain places within the airport has much to do with access roads, parking lots and terminal reception areas in need of expansion and improvement to meet past growth.
 
Catching Up With the Past
Mr. Plavin said the Port Authority planned to spend about $2 billion in the next five years to upgrade. ''We're going to catch up to the growth that we have had in the past,'' he said.
One reason that Kennedy is not growing faster at this point is that no major carrier has solved the problem of how to establish a domestic hub at Kennedy that would feed its international flights while attracting enough domestic travel to make the network profitable, said Mr. Carty of American Airlines. Part of the problem is that New York has two competing major airports, La Guardia and Newark. Another concern is that New York is not well situated as an airline hub.
As a result, Kennedy relies far less than others on domestic traffic.
Even with Kennedy's decline in market share, the airport is still by far the largest international airport in the country and it will maintain that position for a long time.
The airports at Miami and Los Angeles are neck and neck as a distant second, handling a little more than half as many international passengers in 1988. (The world's biggest international airport, Heathrow in London, handles almost twice as many international passengers as Kennedy or any other airport.) New York Still a Favorite James T. Murphy, an aviation consultant who recently advised airlines on the planned expansion at Kennedy, said New York was still the favorite destination among vacationers coming from overseas with Orlando second.
''New York itself is a target destination for people who want to come here and see the Big Apple even as they leave to go elsewhere,'' said Robert Falkner, executive vice president of North America for British Airways.
The airline is spending $80 million to improve its terminal at Kennedy in cooperation with United Airlines, which formed a marketing alliance with British Airways under which they feed each other passengers and jointly market their flights.
Mr. Falkner and Mr. Murphy both believe that Kennedy will continue to see its share of international passengers drop as domestic carriers add foreign flights at their hubs.
Delta, for example, will have four international gates at a new terminal being built at Orlando International Airport, where the airline now has a flight to Frankfurt.
 
Expansion in Atlanta
Delta is also seeking to have a concourse added at Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta. The carrier began international service there in 1978 with a daily flight to London. It now has eight daily flights to Europe.
Trying to make up for the loss of passengers at Kennedy from other airlines, Pan Am and T.W.A. have tried to build up their own domestic networks to feed passengers to Kennedy. T.W.A. acquired Ozark Airlines and has built a hub at St. Louis. Carl C. Icahn, the chairman of T.W.A., has unsuccessfully sought to strengthen the network by trying to buy carriers like Eastern, most recently last year.
But maintaining domestic networks is becoming more difficult for both carriers as their United States competitors add flights abroad.
Delta Air Lines, for example, now flies directly from Cincinnati to London and Frankfurt and plans to add Paris on July 1. Pan Am flies a Boeing 727 to and from Cincinnati to bring passengers to its international hub at Kennedy. That is highly inefficient because the plane must often lay over at Cincinnati for up to 16 hours before its flight back.
 
Advantage for Domestics
For overseas flights that do connect at Kennedy, the United States airlines count on the ability to bring passengers directly to their terminals, enabling them to board international flights easily. That gives them an advantage over foreign carriers, which cannot operate domestic flights.
The reluctance to give up such an advantage was an important reason that the domestic carriers were unwilling to support the Port Authority plan for a $1 billion central terminal and monorail system. The Port Authority said last month that it would put off the project.
Under the Port Authority plan, passengers on all domestic and international flights would have checked their luggage at the central terminal at Kennedy and then boarded the monorail to terminals operated by the airlines.
Another factor was the financial pressures on Pan Am and T.W.A., which said they could not pay for both the renovations that had to be made at their terminals and the higher user fees at Kennedy to help finance the new central terminal.
Pan Am has been able to keep operating by selling assets. Last month it put its shuttle up for sale to raise enough money to survive the autumn and winter, when traffic declines.
The carrier has also sought to be taken over by a stronger airline. Other carriers have been reluctant, however; Pan Am's valuable international routes are offset by an old fleet and a heavily unionized work force.
At T.W.A., Mr. Icahn has begun to cut back the airline's operations in his struggle with the pilots' union for concessions. Mr. Icahn maintains that unless the pilots' union provides further concessions on wages and benefits he will not invest in more new planes and will shrink the airline.
If both carriers are forced to sell more international routes to keep operating, there will be buyers, most executives and consultants agreed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: British Airways is spending $80 million to improve its terminal at Kennedy International Airport, but has also added other United States destinations as Kennedy's dominant position erodes (John Sotomayor/The New York Times); chart: percentage growth of international traffic at some large airports from 1980- 1990 (Source: Airport Operation International) (pg. 35); American Airlines has expanded its schedule of daily flights to Europe and East Asia from O'Hare International Airport in Chicago, where passengers for international flights were checking in last week (Jonathan Kirn for The New York Times) (pg. 37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMR (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); EASTERN ASIA (77%); ASIA (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (74%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (74%); AMR CORP (68%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS; KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT; NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT AIRPORTS (98%); AIRLINES (91%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); CITIES (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS



46 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Reports 0.7% Decline In Construction Spending

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
Construction spending fell seven-tenths of 1 percent in April, the Government reported today. Analysts said the report signaled weakening in the building industry.
The Commerce Department said residential, nonresidential and government construction spending totaled a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $432.4 billion in April. The March figure was revised to show a similar decline of seven-tenths of 1 percent, down from the 1.4 percent decrease originally reported. 
The decreases in spending in March and April followed gains of 3.2 percent in February and 2.4 percent in January. The declines resulted in the loss of 159,000 construction jobs.
 
'Quite a Decline'
''We had strong construction employment in the first quarter when we had great weather,'' said David F. Seiders, chief economist for the National Association of Home Builders. ''But if you look at the next two months, that's really quite a decline.''
Along with new employment data, the construction spending report provides ''two more signals of a pretty sluggish economy,'' Mr. Seiders said.
Other reports also indicated further weakening in the economy. Government job data released today showed that although the unemployment rate fell to 5.3 percent in May, virtually no new jobs were created in the private sector. The Labor Department reported 20,000 more construction jobs were lost in the month.
On Wednesday, the F. W. Dodge division of McGraw-Hill Inc. reported that contracts for new construction declined 6 percent in April.
Analysts attribute the construction slump to high interest rates and tighter restrictions on lending.
Residential building edged down three-tenths of 1 percent, to an annual rate of $202.7 billion. It had risen 2 percent in March, higher than the 1.8 percent increase first reported.
 
More Apartment Construction
Single-family building dropped 2.2 percent, to an annual rate of $120 billion, after a 1.2 percent increase in March. But apartment construction rose 6 percent, to $21 billion. It had dropped 4.3 percent in March.
With mortgage rates in the double digits and new-home sales declining, residential construction ''is destined to keep going down,'' Mr. Seiders said. He said the jump in multifamily building was an aberration.
Nonresidential construction, including office and industrial buildings, edged up six-tenths of 1 percent, to $104.2 billion, after rising 2.4 percent in March.
The volatile government sector fell for the second straight month, down 3.5 percent, to $87.6 billion. Spending for highways and streets paced the drop, declining 8.2 percent.
Government construction spending had fallen 4.9 percent in March after gaining 5.2 percent in February.
Overall construction spending in April was 5 percent above that of April 1989, when it was $411.9 billion.

GRAPHIC: Graph: total construction spending, Nov. 1988-April 1990 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MCGRAW-HILL INC (66%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (94%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (69%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: DAVID F SEIDERS (83%); 



47 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Precious Metals in Plunge; Livestock and Pork Climb

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Precious metals futures plunged yesterday on the New York Commodity Exchange in the wake of weak May employment figures and amid uncertainty on whether a trade agreement will result from the United States-Soviet summit talks.
On other markets, grain and soybean futures fell; livestock and pork futures were higher, and energy futures were mixed.
Peter Caudillo, an analyst with Josephthal & Company in New York, said the precious metals market was monitoring the talks between President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union in Washington. ''If nothing positive comes of out of the summit, there are fears the Soviets will be forced again to sell gold in the open market'' to pay for overseas purchases, Mr. Caudillo said. 
He noted that gold has not been able to rally since mid-May, when heavy cash market selling of the metal sent prices tumbling.
The Labor Department announced yesterday that the nation's unemployment rate fell to 5.3 percent in May, and that a smaller-than-expected 164,000 jobs were created in that month.
''The figures are indicating economic weakness, translating into a downward trend in inflation,'' he said. Gold is seen as a haven during inflationary periods.
Silver futures were battered by gold's plunge, with the day's gains erased when investors liquidated near-month contracts.
Gold settled $5.10 to $5.80 lower, with the contract for delivery in June at $359.20 an ounce; silver was 2.8 cents to 4.4 cents lower, with June at $5.046 an ounce.
 
Soybeans Mostly Down
Grain and soybean futures were mostly lower on the Chicago Board of Trade as improving weather depressed prices. Soybeans dropped sharply when the July support level of $6.05 a bushel was breached and selling set in.
Forecasts called for dry conditions much of next week, which will facilitate planting of soybeans, said William Biedermann, an analyst with Allendale Inc. in Chicago. Soybean plantings had been delayed by soggy fields.
Corn futures were pushed lower by progress made this week in planting the corn crop.
Mr. Biedermann said that sparse export business and a lack of progress in trade talks during the Bush-Gorbachev talks influenced corn futures.
Fairly good weather, allowing for progress in the harvesting of the winter crop, pushed wheat futures lower.
Wheat was 1 cent to 4 1/2 cents lower, with July at $3.29 1/4 a bushel; corn was 1 3/4 cents to 2 1/4 cents lower, with July at $2.75 3/4 a bushel; oats were a 1/2 cent lower to 1 cent higher, with July at $1.44 a bushel, and soybeans were 5 1/4 cents to 7 1/2 cents lower, with July at $6.02 a bushel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (91%); JOSEPHTHAL & CO INC (72%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COMMODITY EXCHANGE

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; COMMODITIES; PRICES; METALS AND MINERALS FUTURES (96%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); OATS MARKETS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); SOYBEAN FARMING (77%); TRENDS (77%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); LIQUIDATIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CORN FARMING (66%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



48 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Gains Against Mark But Loses Ground to the Yen

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was mixed yesterday, gaining against the West German mark and Swiss franc and losing ground to the Japanese yen and British pound.
The report on the United States labor market in May initially had a negative impact on the dollar. The report indicated continuing sluggish growth, which drove down interest rates in the bond market. Lower interest rates reduce returns on dollar-denominated holdings and can curb demand for dollars.
The unemployment rate dipped to 5.3 percent in May from 5.4 percent in April and non-farm payrolls expanded by an unexpectedly small number.
Sales of other currencies to collect profits from recent advances helped the dollar recover from its lows of the day.
Lingering concerns about various international matters also benefited the dollar. Confidence in the West German currency has been eroded by speculation that German unification could undermine the mark's value.
Trading slowed during the day as currency dealers usually refrain from establishing significant new positions on Fridays because events over the weekend might have an impact on exchange rates.
The dollar's performance against the Japanese yen was mixed. In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 152.17 yen, up 0.42 yen from Thursday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 151.45 yen.
The currency was quoted at 151.85 yen near the end of New York trading, down from 152.10 late Thursday.
The British pound rose to $1.6840 in London, from $1.6760 late Thursday. Sterling rose to $1.6810, from $1.6780 late Thursday.
Selected late dollar rates in New York, compared with Thursday's late quotes, included: 1.6985 West German marks, up from 1.6965; 1.4375 Swiss francs, up from 1.4290; 5.7295 French francs, up from 5.724; 1,250.375 Italian lire, up from 1,248.25, and 1.17465 Canadian dollars, up from 1.17285.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; FUTURES TRADING; PRICES CURRENCIES (92%); GERMAN MARK (90%); BRITISH POUND (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FUTURES (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BOND MARKETS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); BONDS (72%); 



49 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 52, Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER'S WORLD;
A Price War Forces Some Air Fares Down

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
Travelers who plan to vacation in the United States this year - and already know when and where they are going - can get a very good deal if they buy airline tickets by next Thursday and are willing to put up with restrictions on their flights.
That's because domestic airlines are in another big price war. Some fares are being cut by more than half. The number of seats is limited, some dates are blacked out and the fares are not refundable, but the savings are significant. 
Tickets must be purchased by June 7 and at least seven days in advance of departure, and the trip must be completed by Dec. 13. You must fly on Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, both going and coming, and stay over on a Saturday night. The fares are not good over the Thanksgiving holidays.
 
An Unusual Summer
 ''For the consumer who can take advantage of this, it's just wonderful,'' said Raymond P. Kane, the president of Pisa Brothers Travel Service, a New York travel agency.
Why is there a price war? Paul Turk, the publications director of Avmark Inc., an aviation consulting company in Arlington, Va., explained: ''Customarily, airline fares go up in the heavy summer travel season, but this year capacity is about to outstrip demand, as new airplanes are delivered and old ones are not taken out of service. In order to put people in seats, you have to make the seats attractive.''
Relatively few seats on each domestic flight are being sold at the discount fares. That is because airlines are using yield-management techniques to try to make the highest profit by periodically increasing or decreasing the inexpensive seats on a given flight, based on demand.
 
A Few Here, a Few There
 But even though each flight has a small number of discounted seats, they add up over all. Robert B. Cozzi, senior vice president for marketing at Trans World Airlines, said that when his airline began promoting the new prices late in May, ''we had over a million seats a month for sale.''
Samuel C. Buttrick, the airlines analyst at the securities firm of Kidder Peabody & Company, said that ''the vast majority of deep-discount seats are aimed at vacation travelers'' because such travelers ''have the flexibility in their travel plans to meet the restrictions.''
Not every vacationer will find a discounted fare for the preferred destination at the preferred time. But there are major economies for travelers with elastic schedules. The new round-trip fares are $198 or less for flights up to 1,500 miles and $298 for longer flights. That is far less than the lowest regular-price basic fares; on flights of less than 1,500 miles, for example, the regular fare is $426 from Des Moines to San Diego, $364 from Dallas-Fort Worth to Los Angeles and $322 from Chicago to Phoenix.
If the price war forces fares still lower, many airlines say they will give further discounts to people who already have discounted tickets. ''It is really an effort to get some advance traffic on the books,'' said Marilyn Hoppe, the senior director for pricing and revenue management at America West Airlines.
The discounted fares are nonrefundable, so the purchaser must use them or lose them, unless it can be proved that an illness or a death in the family prevented the trip. Lee R. Howard, the chief executive of Airline Economics, a Washington consulting company, put it this way: ''If you have a change in plans, it's going to be very expensive.''
In addition to offering the discounted fares, United Airlines recently advertised coupons - with restrictions - for $35 off its domestic flights costing $175 or more. Many other airlines are accepting those coupons.
 
Some Flights Are Just $29
 What's more, the industry has followed the lead of Eastern Air Lines in offering a restricted one-way summer fare of $29 on flights between the Northeast and Florida for children age 2 through 17 traveling with an adult. While that bargain isn't as good as last summer's - when children could fly free - it is well below the current reduced adult fare of $89.
Are hotel and motel rates in the United States following the lead of the airlines? No. The average room rate is up about 4 1/2 percent this year over the 1989 average level of $56.31, according to the Travel Industry Association of America.
''The lower the air rates are, the more people are going to be traveling,'' said Ronald Evans, chief executive officer of Best Western International. ''They all have to stay somewhere, and that builds demand for our business.''
 
FLYING ABROAD COSTS MORE
Many domestic air fares are being discounted, but international fares will cost more this summer. Tickets for overseas flights are running 5 to 7 percent higher than a year ago, following the usual trend for the summer rush.
Here are some typical round-trip fare increases: New York to Stockholm, up by $46, to $804; New York to Berlin, up $42, to $720, and New York to Rio de Janiero, up $50, to $1,079.
''Demand is very good,'' said Ann Fegan, system director for pricing at Pan American World Airways. ''Fare sales are not likely on international trips.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''For the consumer who can take advantage of this, it's just wonderful,'' said Raymond P. Kane, shown with Eve Charlack at his travel agency (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); chart: comparison of round-trip fares, major arilines, sale fare and lowest basic fare (Source: America West Airlines)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONSUMER'S WORLD PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: TWAIE (AMEX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AVMARK INC (68%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FARES; PRICES; DISCOUNT SELLING AIRLINES (91%); TRAVEL TICKETS (91%); TICKET SALES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AIR FARES (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (79%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (79%); THANKSGIVING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); 



50 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 52, Column 3; Style Desk

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER'S WORLD;
Airlines Phasing In Safer Plane Seats

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER

 BODY:
All the major airlines in the United States are quietly installing new and safer passenger seats on airplanes. But the changeover is so random that the level of seat safety varies from plane to plane and even between sections of the same aircraft.
The change is taking place because the Federal Aviation Administration is expected to adopt a regulation this year that would require airlines to use the new seats throughout all commercial planes by late 1995. Currently, some planes have all seats of the new type, others have none and still others have the new seats only in first and business class or only in economy class, spokesmen for most major airlines said. Typically, the seats are being changed when sections of planes are refurbished. 
The new seats are known as ''16-G'' seats because they can withstand a force about 16 times the force of gravity. Safety experts agree that they are a major improvement over the ''9-G'' seats now in use, because, among other things, they are less likely to break loose in some accidents and hurtle passengers toward serious injury or death.
 
A Question of 'More Safe'
 Industry and Government safety experts say the 9-G seats are not dangerous. ''This is not a question of safe versus unsafe, but safe versus more safe,'' said Thomas McSweeny, the F.A.A.'s deputy director of aircraft certification services.
The airlines have not announced the change to the public, saying it would be impractical to tell travelers what kinds of seats are on a particular flight. But some consumer advocates said such information should be disclosed. ''If I was choosing a flight I would want to know,'' said Edward Perkins, editor of Consumer Reports Travel Letter, a publication of Consumers Union.
Passengers are not likely to notice the difference between the old and new seats, but they differ in several ways. The 16-G legs, for example, are often curved or otherwise designed to absorb force during a crash; the 9-G seat supports are usually straight, making them more vulnerable to snapping. In addition, the 16-G seat, unlike a 9-G unit, must meet Government specifications for protecting a passenger's head, spine and legs.
Some groups, like the flight attendants' union, say airlines should be required to switch to the new 16-G seats sooner than 1995. The F.A.A. proposal of 1995 was based on its estimate that most seats are replaced after about seven years. But the airlines want to delay replacing all their seats beyond 1995, because they say some seats can last longer than seven years and the cost of replacing them early is high.
The F.A.A has estimated that the change will cost about $33 million, though airline officials say it will cost more. ''I think the public would rather have us spending the money on wind-shear detection and other things to prevent accidents,'' said Richard Tobiason, safety director for the Air Transport Association of America, a trade group in Washington.
Mr. Tobiason said that his group supported using the new seats but also that carriers should be allowed to install them at their own pace. To date, about 15 percent of the estimated 600,000 seats on United States airliners have been converted to 16-G seats, according to the Air Transport Association.
The F.A.A. estimates that about 33 lives will be saved annually for every 1 million new seats installed. Several safety experts said a major benefit of the new seats would be the reduction of injuries that disable passengers and thus prevent them from escaping burning planes.
 
Change Long Sought
 Some safety experts and the National Transportation Safety Board have long called for improved seat safety. But it was not until May 1988 that the F.A.A. issued a rule requiring the immediate use of 16-G seats on all newly certified aircraft and a proposed rule requiring the replacement of 9-G seats on all aircraft by 1995. The proposed rule is of greater immediate import because no new passenger aircraft models have been certified since 1988.
A survey of seven major United States carriers this week showed that new airplanes are being delivered with 16-G seats throughout. The airlines also said that they plan to change to 16-G seats whenever they refurbish planes, but for now many planes have both seat types.
Seat strength and fire safety are just two of several factors that affect the ability of passengers to survive accidents. But several air-safety experts are pointing the January 1989 crash of a British Midland Airways Boeing 737-400 north of London as an incident where the new seats may have saved lives.
The aircraft, which was outfitted with 16-G seats throughout, crashed about a quarter-mile short of a runaway, breaking into three sections. Forty-three passengers were killed, but 83 others survived. Where the cabin remined intact, the new seats did not tear loose, Mr. McSweeny of the F.A.A. said.
A crash like the British Midland accident - one near an airport during takeoff or landing - is the type in which the new seats could make the biggest difference, safety experts agree. A 1981 National Transportation Safety Board study of such ''survivable'' crashes, which make up about one-third of all aircraft accidents, found that 9-G seats sometimes tore loose from floor moorings or sheared off upon impact. Passengers were thrown like missiles through a plane, the board reported.
In light of the F.A.A. proposal, most seat manufacturers have phased out 9-G seat production, said R. Rudy Pecoraro, the vice president of marketing and sales for Weber Aircraft Inc. in Fullerton, Calif., a seat maker that is a subsidiary of Hanson Trust P.L.C. But Mr. Pecoraro noted that airlines are with replacing 9-G seats at their own pace.
 
Wide Variation in Use
 The survey of airlines this week found that the use of 16-G seats by major carriers ranged from 3 percent to 40 percent of an airline's total seat capacity.
American Airlines, which had the highest percentage of 16-G seats of the airlines polled, said the situation represented, among other things, a recent influx of new plane deliveries. Delta Air Lines, which ranked lowest in the survey, said its number of 16-G seats should rise with deliveries of new airplanes in coming months.
One surveyed airline, Trans World Airlines, declined to disclose information about its seats.
In the past, some safety experts have suggested another seat-related safety measure, rear-facing seats. But passengers, airlines and Government officials have shown little or no interest in the idea.
Matt Finucane, the air-safety director for the Association of Flight Attendants, said the F.A.A. has repeatedly bowed to industry arguments that 16-G seats are too costly. ''If someone dies in an accident because of a 9-G seat two years from now,'' he said, ''it is going to be a situation where everybody knew better seats were available but for economic reasons did not put them in.''
F.A.A. officials said such charges are unfair because the agency was required to include financial consideration in its decisions about safety.
Foreign governments are expected to follow the F.A.A.'s lead on the seat issue, Mr. McSweeny said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Airlines are switching to a safer passenger seat. But they are doing it randomly, so some planes have both new seats, above, and old ones. (William S. Bastenbeck); chart: how six major airliens compare, showing the total number of seats and percentage of new seats to old style (Source: Airline estimates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONSUMER'S WORLD PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS AIRLINES (93%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); 

PERSON: MEIER, BARRY



51 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Summit in Washington;
2 Leaders Spend Day in Relaxed Talks at Camp David

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2

 BODY:
 President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev withdrew to the relative informality of Camp David, Md., today and applied their growing rapport to such problems as regional conflicts, Soviet emigration and anti-Semitism.
The Presidential spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said the two leaders doffed their coats and ties and had a ''relaxed give and take'' on a range of regional issues, including Afghanistan, Cambodia, the Middle East, Cuba and Nicaragua. He said they then discussed human rights and anti-Semitism in the Soviet Union before moving into a more ''philosophical'' conversation.
Mr. Fitzwater said the two men did not resume their discussion on the major unresolved issue of the summit talks, the future of Europe after German reunification.
 
Laying the Groundwork
In his most upbeat comments of the week on this issue, the Presidential spokesman said that in their earlier meetings Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev had laid the groundwork for an eventual convergence of views on the German issue. 
American and Soviet officials said the two sides remained far from a breakthrough on the central issue of whether a united Germany will be integrated into the military structure of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, but had come to a much closer understanding on ways to make Germany's future less threatening to the Soviets.
At Camp David, the presidential retreat 50 miles northeast of Washington, the two men spent the morning reviewing the world's hottest trouble spots, then took a short break and cruised the Camp David grounds in a golf cart, with Mr. Gorbachev at the wheel at one point. After lunch they resumed their conversation with no specific agenda. 'Made It a Personal Thing'
American officials today recounted how Mr. Bush tried to cement the kind of personal trust he prizes in his relations with world leaders by responding on Friday to Mr. Gorbachev's appeal for a trade pact, the first surprise of the summit meeting.
Mr. Bush had said before the summit meeting that the Kremlin's harsh resistance to Lithuania's drive for independence could impede a trade agreement, and members of Congress warned today that Congressional approval of the accord would hinge on an end to Moscow's economic crackdown on Lithuania. [Page 10.] In what Soviet and American officials said was an example of the commercial contacts that would prosper under the trade accord, the Chevron Corporation signed an agreement today that could open the way for a major expansion of its activities in the Soviet Union. [Page 13.] Discussing the two leaders' meetings this week, an American official said that Mr. Gorbachev brought up the issue of the trade accord in each of his encounters with Mr. Bush.
''He made it a personal thing between him and the President,'' the official said. ''Chemistry played a big role in it, because Bush is very high on personal diplomacy.''
At the same time, the official said, the Soviet side began dragging its heels on signing a new long-term grain agreement greatly desired by American farmers, implicitly signaling that the grain and trade deals were linked.
''They wanted to show they were bargaining hard too, that they were not groveling too much,'' the American official asserted.
The official said that after sounding out Mr. Gorbachev personally on his willingness to seek a peaceful resolution of the Lithuanian issue, and after having aides check for possible repercussions on Capitol Hill, Mr. Bush agreed to sign the treaty. It is to be sent to Congress as soon as the Soviet Parliament approves a new emigration law, a step which is expected soon.
 
Pressure From Conservatives
''Gorbachev had a track record with us, and we calculated that he was going to need something to take back with him from Washington,'' the American official said. ''That was in our interests too, because we need his acquiescence, at the very least, in Europe and his help on arms control and other issues.''
The Administration's version of this exchange may have been aimed at pre-empting criticism from American conservatives, who have already begun to complain that Mr. Bush failed to extract concessions from the Soviet leader on Lithuania.
Soviet journalists said Mr. Gorbachev could depict the trade agreement at home as a small vote of confidence by the Bush Administration in the Soviet leadership and its prospects for reviving the economy.
After two days of talks in the capital focused on arms accords and on trade and European security, the two Presidents flew by helicopter from the White House lawn to the Presidential retreat in the Maryland mountains this morning.
 
'Most Fruitful Summit'
Yevgeny M. Primakov, a close adviser to Mr. Gorbachev, told reporters in Washington that the rustic setting of Camp David was conducive to reflection on broader philosophical questions ''you cannot talk very well about in tuxedoes.''
''I believe that this is the most fruitful summit in the history of our relations,'' Mr. Primakov added, explaining that the emergence of a more cooperative approach on issues like the future of Europe had given the superpower relationship ''a vertical dimension.''
American officials reported no major progress in the discussion of regional conflicts, although Americans had initially hoped for joint statements on Afghanistan, Ethiopia and Kashmir.
The American side has taken pains to play down the prospect of resolving differences on Germany, especially after optimistic and apparently offhanded comments by the two leaders earlier this week ignited a brushfire of expectations.
A senior American official said that after reviewing the issue at length earlier in the week, the opposing positions seemed clear and not subject to change.
''They spoke about it for two and a half hours,'' the official said. ''They may return to it, but I think we took it as far as we can take it on this trip.''
Today Mr. Fitzwater put a more hopeful spin on the week's discussions.
''I think both leaders feel their discussions a day ago were quite productive on the question of Germany and reunification, that they did reach a better understanding of their positions, that they were closer than they were before they started, that progress has been made that will lead them to converge in the months ahead,'' he said.
''There is a feeling that those understandings can lead to bringing the two sides together as well as the other members of the alliances together on this issue.''
The Soviets contend that a united Germany fully integrated into the NATO military command would be perceived at home as tilting the balance decisively against Soviet security.
As Germany reunifies, Moscow wants the rival military blocs gradually supplanted by a more collective European security structure that would protect existing boundaries, limit the size of the German army, and prevent Germany from becoming a nuclear power.
 
U.S. Argues Inevitability
The United States contends that Germany's membership in NATO is virtually inevitable, and the only issue is how to make that fact politically, economically and militarily palatable for the Soviets.
Mr. Primakov said the issue of Germany's membership in NATO is ''far from being settled,'' but he said the United States ''understands much better than before'' the Soviet desire for international structures to diminish the danger of military confrontation.
When a reporter asked what leverage Moscow had to prevent Germany from reuniting and joining NATO, Mr. Primakov said: ''I don't think for that we would have to send tank divisions to the territory of Germany.
''As for other questions, the Soviet Union, if its security interests are not taken into account, then will have to consider on a unilateral basis a whole series of measures that will enable it to insure its own security,'' he said, without elaborating.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 4, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page Reporter's Notebook article yesterday about the Camp David talks between President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev mistated the year in which President Carter used Camp David as the site of Egyptian-Israeli peace talks. It was 1978, not 1979.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush giving President Mikhail S. Gorbachev a tour of Camp David before talks yesterday (Agence France-Presse) (pg. 1); Eduard A. Shevardnadze, right, the Soviet Foreign Minister, and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d joking with each other, with the help of an interpreter, center, during ceremonies at Camp David. (Pool Photo by Frank Johnston/The Washington Post) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (62%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (62%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LITHUANIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); GERMANY (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (62%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); CAMP DAVID (MD); LITHUANIA

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SECESSION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MOST-FAVORED NATION TREATMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); APPROVALS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



52 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Door to a Business of One's Own Can Be Good Exit From Welfare

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, June 2

 BODY:
Zoraida Feliciano said she saw no exit from a world bounded by welfare checks and food stamps. Then last year a door in her life opened and now she runs her own business, a party-supply shop here in South Philadelphia.
''I'm dreaming,'' said Ms. Feliciano, standing behind the counter of her shop, Ida's Party Place. She is one of the first graduates of a program to train welfare recipients for self-employment - an approach that is being hailed as one of the best hopes for transforming the nation's welfare system from a cash-dispensing machine into a system that provides education, career counseling and job placement.
Hundreds of other welfare recipients in Pennsylvania and in a handful of other states have started businesses, and a thousand more recipients are working toward that goal in similar demonstration programs started recently by the states. 
The new businesses, nearly all of them run by women, are as diverse as a restaurant with seven employees in Minnesota, a gun shop in West Virginia and a booking agency for male strippers and comedians in Iowa.
Though it will be years before it is clear whether the programs move people permanently off welfare, the short-term verdict is that the approach works. Program officials estimate that it may cost taxpayers $5,000 to $10,000 to start each business, but that the cost can be quickly recovered by savings in welfare expenses and business tax payments. State and Federal governments share the cost.
''I think the programs are a terrific way for some people to achieve independence,'' said David T. Ellwood, professor of public policy at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government. ''Self-employment gives recipients with poor educations a chance to make more than the minimum wage, and it allows them flexibility in the hours they work so they can deal with the daily crises of kids' getting sick, or whatever.''
 
Taking the Initiative
States with fledgling training programs include New Jersey, Maryland, North Carolina, Michigan and Mississippi. West Virginia's one-year program ended last fall and is being evaluated.
Self-employment training is also being offered, with early indications of success, to recipients of unemployment insurance in an experimental program in the State of Washington. But offering an entrepreneur program to welfare recipients is even more ambitious, since they make up that part of the population with the most disadvantages. And, to the surprise of welfare experts, most of those who volunteer for the programs are long-term welfare recipients who have not responded to other initiatives.
The response rate is less surprising, some observers say, in light of the fact that some welfare recipients already have business experience, from running small, one-person enterprises just to make ends meet.
Statistics on the programs' successes and failures are virtually nonexistent at this early stage. Some officials say they hope for a success rate of 60 percent, which would be comparable to the general survival rate of new businesses after the first year.
For some people, the program may break the cycle of poverty. ''I'm training my daughter to help me out because she's got to know that if she wants anything in life she's got to work for it,'' said Brinda Reed, two months after opening her barbecue stand in Canton, Miss.
The 31-year-old single mother said she was born into a welfare family and has been ''just sitting around depending on welfare'' for 13 years. ''I never knew how it felt to make $100 a day,'' she said. ''It feels good.''
 
Beginnings in Europe
The programs are based on successful ones started a decade ago in France and Britain that have since spread across Europe, said Rona F. Feit, a senior fellow at the Corporation for Enterprise Development, a nonprofit organization that is coordinating some of the projects.
''Self-employment has been a route out of poverty for centuries,'' she said, ''but this is the first time public policy-makers in this country have begun to look at ways to make this route more available to poor people through training and access to capital in small amounts.''
She estimated the programs would appeal to 1 percent to 10 percent of the four million adult recipients of welfare, the eight million officially unemployed and the nine million working poor. And she said self employment could become an increasingly important option for millions of people as more jobs require advanced education and specialized skills.
 
Someone to Push Her
Ms. Feliciano, for example, is 49 years old, has four children, a ninth-grade education and a recently earned high school equivalency certificate. For her, the choice was always between welfare or working in a factory for the minimum wage. For most of her adult life she chose welfare. Then last year she applied for the self-employment training program being offered in Philadelphia by the Women's Enterprise Resource Center on a contract with the state.
''To tell you the truth, I didn't think I would make it,'' Ms. Feliciano said. ''They were talking about all these big things in business, and I was afraid to go back to school.'' But she persevered. ''I always wanted to go into business, but I needed somebody to push me,'' she said.
The self-employment programs help people start businesses by providing individual support and training. Those who participate are also exempted from Federal rules, now under review, that are designed to prevent people from living too comfortably on welfare, but also make it difficult for recipients to legally start a business by restricting their savings and assets, such as equipment.
 
Changing Their Thinking
States usually contract with nonprofit business organizations to provide the programs. Courses cover business practices, accounting and taxes. Students develop detailed business plans. The study programs, which generally last three to six months, stress career counseling and assertiveness training. Homework for Mississippi participants, for example, includes the daily repetition of five affirmations, including, ''I like myself as I am.''
After completing training, graduates continue to receive public assistance benefits for a year while they get their businesses on a firm footing.
Obtaining financing for the businesses is one of the biggest obstacles. ''We wouldn't be on welfare if we didn't have financial problems,'' said Beverly A. Baldwin, a 35-year-old mother of two children in Charleston, W. Va. Ms. Baldwin, who had worked as a secretary for 15 years, said she went on welfare about two years ago after a divorce forced her into bankruptcy.
She completed a self-employment training program last year, but her credit history made it impossible to obtain a $4,000 loan, she said. Thanks to two women who lent her $2,000 after reading about her plight in a local paper, Ms. Baldwin opened her business May 1. She decorates baskets, fills them with gourmet goods and then sells them for $20 to $95 from a pushcart in a local mall. She expects to make $15,000 in the next six months and pay back the loan.
 
Loan Funds Set Up
Since obtaining credit is such a big problem, some states incorporate a revolving-loan fund into the programs; Pennsylvania, for example, put aside $100,000. ''We look at it more as an economic development program than a human-resources initiative, but it's both,'' said Raymond Christman, secretary of the State Department of Commerce, which coordinated the project.
The 15-month Pennsylvania program, which cost state and Federal governments a total of $950,000, involved training centers in Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Scranton. At last count, 189 people had enrolled, 135 had completed training and 61 had started businesses. Two people decided to attend college, and 32 others found permanent employment while working on their business proposals.
''Every business is risky,'' said Cheri Huber, business program coordinator at the Institute for Social and Economic Development, a nonprofit organization that runs a state-sponsored training program in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Sara Beth Long is one of Iowa's success stories. In the summer of 1988, she applied for welfare after her husband lost his job selling insurance and after they had lost their new home in Cedar Rapids. The 34-year-old mother of three children knew there was a market for placing nannies with East Coast families, and the training program helped her develop a business plan that priced services, planned advertising and projected sales. With a $5,000 bank loan she started Nannies of Iowa and grossed $60,000 her first year.
''It's really a big load to try to start a business when you're dead broke and have a lot of personal problems,'' Mrs. Long said. ''My faith is a lot stronger than it used to be.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zoraida Feliciano, a former welfare recipient, now operates Ida's Place, a party-supply shop she opened in South Philadelphia (Bill Cramer for The New York Times); Sara Beth Long, who once applied for welfare, started Nannies of Iowa in 1988 with a $5,000 bank loan. The company, which places nannies with East Coast families, grossed $60,000 in its first year. (Paul Jensen for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF; SMALL BUSINESS; ENTREPRENEURSHIP SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY JOHN F KENNEDY (53%); JOHN F KENNEDY (53%); 



53 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON;
U.S. Lawmakers Tie Soviet Trade Pact to Kremlin Progress on Lithuania

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2

 BODY:
Members of Congress warned today that Congressional approval of an agreement expanding American trade with the Soviet Union would hinge on President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's willingness to end Moscow's economic crackdown on Lithuania.
The trade agreement, which paves the way for granting the Soviet Union preferential trade terms, was one of the accords signed on Friday by President Bush and Mr. Gorbachev. The agreement is an important symbolic victory for the Soviet leader, who faces mounting political and economic problems at home.
''He desperately wants that trade legislation, and whether or not Congress responds is up to him,'' said Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader. 
Mr. Bush has already told Mr. Gorbachev that the trade legislation would not be submitted to Congress until the Soviet Government wrote into law new polices to ease emigration. American lawmakers who met with Mr. Gorbachev here on Friday said they expected that move to be compeleted quickly.
 
No Agreement on Capitol Hill
The real difficulty is Lithuania, and there is no agreement on Capitol Hill about precisely what steps Mr. Gorbachev would have to take to satisfy enough members of Congress to obtain approval of the trade pact.
''I think it has to be the beginning of some kind of negotiation on Lithuania, but there is really no way to define it,'' said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader. ''We're going to know it when we see it.''
Mr. Gorbachev has demanded that the Lithuanians follow a new Soviet law on secession that requires approval in a referendum by two-thirds of the people, a transition period and approval of the Congress of People's Deputies. Leaders of the three Baltic republics say that they were illegally annexed by the Soviet Union in 1940, and that they do not have to follow Soviet laws. The United States has never formally recognized the Baltic republics' incorporation into the Soviet Union, but it has also not formally recognized them as independent.
The most difficult obstacle may be the Senate, where members approved a resolution last month saying the Administration should not submit the trade legislation to Congress until Moscow lifts its partial economic embargo on Lithuania and resumes negotiations on Lithuanian independence.
 
Some Signal of Change Sought
Senator Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat whose Finance Committee has jursidiction over trade matters, said that while the Senate resolution on Lithuania was not binding, the 73 senators who voted for it would need some signal by Moscow that policy had changed to justify backing away from it. Mr. Bentsen said he made that clear to both the Administration and Mr. Gorbachev on Friday.
''I told Mr. Gorbachev that I would hold hearings on the most-favored-nation status as soon as the legislation is submitted,'' Mr. Bentsen said. ''But a lot of my colleagues have taken a position on the Lithuania resolution, and I also told him that something has to be done on his side to justify a change in that position.''
In comments to reporters on Friday, Mr. Dole suggested that senators would need ''ironclad assurances'' from Mr. Gorbachev that he would enter negotiations on independence with Lithuania.
But Senator Rudy Boschwitz, Republican of Minnesota, had other criteria. He said that in his view the preferential trade terms were not ''going to be granted as long as they give aid to Cuba and Ethiopia and Cambodia.''
''I think that's a very compelling part of the equation,'' he said.
Leading American business groups, including the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers have been lobbying for approval of the agreement, warning that without it, American companies would be at a disadvantage in trying to gain access to the Soviet market. Conversely, lawmakers noted, it would be months, and perhaps years before the Soviet Union is really able to take much advantage of the reduced trade duties conferred under the pact, given the state of its economy and the poor quality of the goods it produces.
Once Mr. Bush submits the trade legislation to Congress, it is to be considered under special, expedited procedures that limit the amount of time for debate and prohibit amendments.
The signing of the trade accord to some extent overshadowed the long-awaited agreement on cutting long-range nuclear arms as well as a treaty banning production of chemical weapons. Lawmakers expressed satisfaction at the overall results, calling the menu of accords the most substantial to have been approved in many years.
The strategic arms agreement has come under fire from liberals and conservatives, with liberals arguing that it does not sufficiently cut superpower arsenals and conservatives arguing that it gives advantages on the Soviet Union by permitting Moscow to modernize some of its most powerful and accurate long-range weapons.
Senator Joseph Biden, a Delaware Democrat and senior member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has said that despite these criticisms the treaty will well serve American interests and should be promptly completed.
Mr. Biden made clear last week that even though the agreement does not address defensive weapons systems like the United States ''Star Wars'' program, he intends to raise the issue when the treaty comes before the Senate. The senator is considering a treaty amendment to insure that American and Soviet defensive weapons programs are strictly limited during the term of the missile treaty.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev guiding Raisa Gorbachev to her place at a photography session yesterday at Camp David. At right was Barbara Bush. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); LITHUANIA (95%); BALTIC STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); LITHUANIA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MOST-FAVORED NATION TREATMENT; SECESSION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IMMIGRATION (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); REFERENDUMS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); 

PERSON: RASKY, SUSAN F; DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



54 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: Summit in Washington;
Meanwhile, Back in Moscow, the News Is Bad

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 2

 BODY:
Domestic issues ranging from economic reform to political opposition have shaped Soviet press coverage of the Bush-Gorbachev summit meeting in Washington.
Only with the signing of arms and trade agreements has Soviet press coverage shifted from the long shadows cast by the turmoil over planned price increases and the election of Mr. Gorbachev's rival, Boris N. Yeltsin, as President of the Russian republic. 
Leading newspapers devoted large portions of their front pages today to the meeting, with most featuring photographs of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, relaxed and smiling, with President Bush.
Central television broadcast long scenes of the ceremonies and tours surrounding the summit meeting. But the main television news on Friday evening also gave ample time to domestic stories and other foreign items, in contrast to past practice of showing nothing but the leader's summit trip.
But many front pages were still focused on domestic crises: the economy, the Russian Parliament and scenes from Armenia, where 24 people were killed this week in clashes between militants and Soviet troops.
The Communist Party daily Pravda, echoing the Lithuanian theme, quoted an American expert on Soviet-American relations as saying that the question of Lithuania, which is seeking independence from the Soviet Union, was an ''uninvited guest'' at the summit talks. It also focused heavily on arms controls agreements signed by the two leaders.
Unlike the central press, Soviet television has given prominent coverage to Raisa M. Gorbachev's activities, including a stop at the Library of Congress.
Earlier in the week, Soviet television dwelled at length on Mr. Gorbachev's remarks in Canada, where he criticized Mr. Yeltsin after his election.
Mr. Gorbachev suggested that Mr. Yeltsin, with whom he broke in 1987 over Mr. Yeltsin's criticisms of the pace of reform, was playing ''political games.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); LITHUANIA (92%); CANADA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (54%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TELEVISION; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LIBRARIES (71%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (70%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (64%); PRICE INCREASES (57%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



55 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 12, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON: The Gorbachev's Will Get a Close Look at the America Beyond Washington;
San Franciscans to Give a Big Party

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 2

 BODY:
The T-shirt sellers are out in force, the gossip columnists are wondering why this C.E.O. was invited to meet Mikhail S. Gorbachev and that one wasn't, and the merchants at Fisherman's Wharf are hyperventilating about the boost to a sagging tourist industry.
Everyone here knows - or so it seems - that the Soviet President requested lamb at Monday's Chamber of Commerce luncheon, that a K.G.B. agent had his car towed from the financial district the other day, and that Raisa Gorbachev's sightseeing tour will skirt the homeless encampment near City Hall.
In the affluent Pacific Heights neighborhood where the Gorbachevs will stay, folks like the Gettys and the Zellerbachs are peeking from behind brocade draperies at a forest of antennas going up on the roof of the Soviet Consul General's brick mansion. And 40 miles to the south, at Stanford University in Palo Alto, students who did not get tickets to the Gorbachev events in a random drawing are scanning lists of those who did to see who might sell. 
 
Enthusiasm Without Limits
Washington may have grown blase about the Gorbachevs, but the San Francisco Bay Area is breathless about the Soviet visit on Monday, with these and other spellbinding questions consuming the locals in recent days:
* Why did Mr. Gorbachev ask to visit the Hoover Institution of War, Peace and Revolution, only to jilt the conservative research institute?
* Will Marin County commuters survive rush hour while the Gorbachevs are admiring the view from the Golden Gate Bridge?
* And who on earth decided to give the Soviet leader and his wife an oil painting of kissing dolphins done by an artist who uses recyclable diapers instead of a brush?
While there is much of substance on Mr. Gorbachev's itinerary here - a breakfast talk with Ronald Reagan, a speech at Stanford, a question-and-answer session with 200 West Coast business executives, a meeting with President Roh Tae Woo of South Korea - it's the frothier parts of the visit that have gotten the most attention - the circus and not the bread.
''A matter of priorities,'' said Andrei Sidorin, the San Francisco bureau chief for Tass, the official Soviet press agency, who says he finds the American attitudes a bit unseemly, given the political and economic upheaval going on in his country.
 
A Special Sensibility
San Francisco's chief of protocol, Charlotte Mailliard Swig, said ''feeling badly'' about the hardships in the Soviet Union need not stop the city from throwing a great party. ''People in San Francisco sort of have champagne in their veins,'' she said.
For the planners of this visit, Mrs. Swig among them, these are hectic days, unmatched since Queen Elizabeth II came calling in 1983 and Pope John Paul II passed through in 1987.
Vain about their beautiful city and piqued that it has lately taken a back seat to Los Angeles, local officials see this as a chance to put their best foot forward. And concerned about tourist trade that has yet to rebound from the October earthquake, they are grateful that San Francisco will be back on national television, this time without raging fires or collapsed freeways.
And so Mrs. Swig has been fussing with every detail. Lamb was an easy choice for lunch, once she heard of Mr. Gorbachev's preference. Then she deferred to a Soviet request that the rack be carved into chops. The chef at the Fairmont Hotel strugged all week to get the colors right on marzipan Soviet flags. The project was abandoned when the hues were less than faithful. Meanwhile, the roses for the centerpieces were cut last Wednesday, lest they be bruised by rain.
At the chamber's office downtown, all the while receptionists were being wooed with flowers and poetry by those left off the guest list, which includes executives from the Bank of America, Hewlett-Packard, Chevron, Apple Computer and more than 150 other West Coast enterprises. The companies were selected to further trade with the Soviet Far East.
 
Only the Truly Useful
Harry Orbelian, a native of Armenia and the chamber official who organized the lunch, said he dismissed people who wanted a glimpse of Mr. Gorbachev but had nothing to offer for the restructuring of the Soviet economy. ''This is a serious business lunch,'' he said. ''The people who wanted to bring their wives couldn't do it.''
There was a similar frenzy for tickets at Stanford, where 7,100 students, faculty and staff members were selected to see Mr. Gorbachev at three locations: the main quad, where he will be greeted; the promenade at the Graduate School of Business, where he will meet a few students and teachers, and Memorial Auditorium, where he will give what the Soviet Embassy has billed as a major address.
''The real prize is a ticket to hear him speak,'' said Kurt Johanknecht, a graduate student in electrical engineering, who was not among the 27 columns of lucky winners of the random drawing printed in The Stanford Daily.
Also on the agenda at Stanford is the presentation of two paintings to the Soviet leader, both said to have been selected by consular officials. One, by Cynthia Schuman and called ''Creation of Peace,'' is an abstract enamel on wood. The other, ''The Peacemakers'' by George Sumner, depicts a pair of dolphins nuzzling in outer space.
 
The Ethereal View
''I think of this as a personal hug on behalf of anybody that feels like me,'' said Mr. Sumner, who has a gallery in Sausalito.
In art circles here, there is great lamentation that the Gorbachevs are not being sent home with something a little classier, a Richard Diebenkorn, perhaps, or a Wayne Thiebaud. And at the Stanford Art Gallery, the paintings were hustled into storage last week by staff members who averted their eyes.
''I'm cringing with embarrassment,'' said John M. Wagner, the editor of The Stanford Daily, who, by the way, has slept only a few hours this week but is having the time of his life.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN GATE UNIVERSITY (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); HOOVER INSTITUTION ON WAR REVOLUTION & PEACE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); SOUTH KOREA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); WRITERS (73%); MARINE MAMMALS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); PAINTING (63%); TOURISM (57%); HOMELESSNESS (55%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; ROH TAE WOO (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (89%); ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (50%); 



56 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 12, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON;
Three Decades Ago, Another Visitor

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2

 BODY:
Much has changed since Nikita S. Khrushchev barnstormed the country three decades ago, meeting American labor leaders in San Francisco, visiting an Iowa corn farm and touring a machine tool plant in Pittsburgh.
When President Mikhail S. Gorbachev sets off Sunday on a trip that will take him to Minneapolis and San Francisco, he is not likely to boast, as Khrushchev did, that Communism is better than capitalism. But some things will be the same.
Mr. Gorbachev, like Khrushchev, will probably be received with a mixture of friendliness and occasional animosity. ''We Butcher Hogs, Not People,'' said a sign greeting Khrushchev in Des Moines in 1959. At several stops, he was booed by refugees from the Hungarian revolution, which was suppressed by Soviet troops and tanks in 1956. 
Mr. Gorbachev, like his predecessor, will probably break away from security guards and reach out to crowds with spontaneous gestures. Like Khrushchev, who visited an I.B.M. factory in San Jose, Calif., Mr. Gorbachev seeks access to American computer technology and desperately wants to increase trade with the United States.
 
A Different Time
But the United States and the Soviet Union stand in different places today than they did when Khrushchev toured the United States in September 1959. Then, the economic and agricultural superiority of the United States was open to debate. Khrushchev and some of his listeners suggested that the United States and the Soviet Union might compete as equals.
Today the sense of rivalry and competition has faded with the collapse of Communism in Eastern Europe and the deterioration of the Soviet economy.
William Taubman, a professor of political science at Amherst College who is writing a biography of Khrushchev, said this week, ''The 1959 visit was for Khrushchev a turning point politically and personally.'' It was, he said, the first visit by a Soviet leader to the United States and the first bilateral summit meeting, after several conferences of the four World War II Allies.
''Being invited to the United States, being wined and dined by Eisenhower and by American businessmen represented acceptance for Khrushchev and his country,'' Mr. Taubman said. ''He took the invitation as recognition of the full political equality of the Soviet Union. He displayed a touchy pride and would fly off the handle at perceived insults. Khrushchev's trip had an edge that this one by Gorbachev doesn't have.''
 
Soviets Were Ahead in Space
A Soviet rocket hit the moon one day before Khrushchev arrived in the United States. It was the first space vehicle to reach the moon from Earth, and it provided tangible evidence, as American officials later said, that the Soviets were far ahead of the United States in space exploration.
''We each believe our system to be better,'' Khrushchev declared in California, and he challenged Iowa to compete in corn production with a fertile region of the Soviet Union.
''Live as you like under capitalism,'' Khrushchev told a collection of Hollywood stars and film studio executives, who organized a display of can-can dancers for his edification. ''But we will live under socialism.''
Indeed, he said, ''we have no doubt that the Soviet Union will be able to stand on its own in this economic competition and will, in time, overtake you.''
In San Francisco, Khrushchev met seven American labor leaders and debated philosophical questions for more than three hours. Walter P. Reuther, then president of the United Auto Workers, reported that their positions were irreconcilable. Khrushchev denounced the union leaders as ''capitalist lackeys.'' Mr. Reuther reported that Khrushchev ''defended their system and we defended ours.''
 
He Preferred Businessmen
Khrushchev said he got along better with American businessmen than with American trade union leaders. ''You have charmed me,'' he said in San Francisco. ''But you have charmed my heart, not my mind. I still think that our system is a good system.''
He was ready for disagreements over economic philosophy. What most annoyed him was that he could not visit Disneyland. Security officials said they could not guarantee his safety. His temper tantrum over that disappointment threw a cloud over the first days of his tour. At one point, after exchanging sharp words with the Mayor of Los Angeles, Khrushchev threatened to return home.
The tension became so conspicuous that the White House urged Americans to be more courteous to Khrushchev. He received a warm welcome in San Francisco and in Iowa, where he had his first hot dog and inspected the cornfields of Roswell Garst, a hybrid corn breeder who had done business with the Soviets. Khrushchev ate fried chicken and barbecued ribs while talking with Adlai E. Stevenson, the two-time Presidential candidate, about arms control and trade.
Khrushchev patted the stomach of a 240-pound Iowa farmer, whom he called ''a good advertisement for America.'' And he singled out two big, healthy-looking blond women, saying, ''I want to meet these slaves of capitalism.''
In Pittsburgh, he basked in the warmest reception of his American tour and, as a token of gratitude, gave his wristwatch to a factory worker.
 
Khrushchev Was Impressed
At the end of the trip, Khrushchev's escort, Henry Cabot Lodge, said the Soviet leader was deeply impressed with ''our roads, our automobiles, our factories'' and ''the vitality of our people.'' Khrushchev himself said: ''I have come here to see how the slaves of capitalism are living. I see that the way they live is not bad at all.''
By contrast, the trip to the United States in 1973 by Leonid I. Brezhnev was bland. The Soviet leader visited President Nixon at San Clemente for two and a half days. In Orange County, Calif., a stronghold of anti-Communism, Mr. Brezhnev supped with conservatives like Ronald Reagan, who was then Governor.
On that visit, which came just as the Watergate scandal broke wide open, Mr. Brezhnev stayed in Mr. Nixon's Spanish-style house overlooking the Pacific. They saw movie stars, business magnates and millionaire contributors to the Republican Party.
Mr. Brezhnev seemed so at ease among the American celebrities that Red Skelton, the comedian, asked him if he was a card-carrying Communist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN COMPUTER INNOVATORS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES CORN FARMING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); POLITICS (77%); SPACECRAFT (74%); WORLD WAR II (74%); REFUGEES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); SPACE INDUSTRY (63%); SPACE EXPLORATION (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; KHRUSHCHEV, NIKITA SERGEYEVICH (1894-1971); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S ANN LIVERMORE (73%); 



57 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Centralized Immigration Control Urged

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2

 BODY:
Over objections from the Bush Administration, a Federal advisory committee will recommend creation of an independent Government agency to formulate immigration policy and to enforce laws now administered separately by three Cabinet departments.
In a report to be submitted to President Bush and Congress in July, the panel will also recommend a new strategy to curtail illegal immigration: using foreign aid to promote economic growth in those areas of Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean that have sent the most migrants to the United States.
''Greater economic opportunity at home will reduce the pressure to emigrate,'' said the report, which calls for a free-trade agreement between the United States and Mexico, like the one signed in 1988 by the United States and Canada. ''Only sustained economic growth will reduce emigration over the long term.'' 
 
A Major Shift in Thinking
The report signals a major shift in thinking, to the view long advocated by Hispanic groups in the United States. The 12-member panel is headed by Diego C. Asencio, a former Ambassador to Brazil and Colombia, who served as Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs from 1980 to 1983.
The advisory panel, the Commission for the Study of International Migration and Cooperative Economic Development, was established by Congress under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. The members were appointed by Democratic and Republican leaders of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
Their recommendations are based on public hearings in the United States, consultations with the presidents of seven Latin American countries and research done for the commission by more than 70 scholars.
The panel said there was a stark choice for many Latin American countries: ''They either export goods and services to create jobs at home, or they export people,'' many of whom come to the United States illegally.
Under the 1986 immigration law, employers in this country can be punished for hiring illegal aliens. But the report says such employer sanctions must be supplemented with economic incentives to keep would-be emigres from leaving their home countries.
 
Enforcement 'Less Necessary'
''Enforcement measures should become less necessary over time as economic development succeeds'' in Latin America, the report said.
The bipartisan panel said immigration must be given much higher priority in decisions about foreign policy and trade policy. For this reason, the panel proposes creation of an independent Agency for Migration Affairs, to consolidate responsibilities now divided among the Departments of Justice, State and Labor. The new agency would not be under the control of a Cabinet department and would be able to set policy independently of the President.
The panel said, ''The development and administration of immigration policy is far too important to be relegated to a stepchild agency such as the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which falls uncomfortably within the Department of Justice and which historically has been beset with serious management and resource problems.''
 
Opposition From White House
Officials at the White House, the State Department and the Justice Department said they opposed creation of an independent agency. They said such an agency would undermine the President's ability to control immigration policy.
Under the panel's proposal, the Border Patrol would remain in the Justice Department. The new agency would take over most I.N.S. activities, including reviewing petitions for citizenship, asylum and other benefits under the immigration law. The new agency would also take over two tasks performed by the State Department: the admission of refugees and the issuance of visas to million of visitors and immigrants.
The panel said immigration policy had historically been neglected by the White House and the State Department. ''The Secretary of State does not spend his waking hours concerned about immigration policy,'' said Mr. Asencio.
Nine of the 12 panel members met this week with Ivan Selin, the Under Secretary of State for Management, who supervises the State Department's work on immigration and refugee issues.
 
State Department Objects
Mr. Asencio said State Department officials did not like the recommendation for an independent immigration agency and did not agree that immigration would get more attention if responsibilities were centralized. Moreover, he said, Mr. Selin asserted that the commission had ''exceeded its mandate.''
An aide to Mr. Selin said the Under Secretary did not want to discuss his concerns publicly.
In an interview, Mr. Asencio said, ''The real reason State Department officials dislike our proposal is that it would eliminate a substantial part of their budget and many entry-level jobs in the department.''
Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service, said officials there had no immediate comment.
In its report, the panel said some United States trade policies had the unintended effect of encouraging illegal immigration. For example, it said, United States quotas on imports of textiles, clothing, steel, sugar, coffee and other products retard economic growth in Latin America, and as a result many Latin Americans come here to get jobs they cannot find at home.
 
More Foreign Trade Urged
''Expanded trade between the sending countries and the United States is the single most effective remedy to the problem'' of illegal immigration, the panel concluded.
The panel also said the Federal Government and private banks should help emigres send money home and channel money into ''productive small business investments.'' Such investments could generate jobs, raise incomes and reduce the pressure for people to migrate to the United States, the panel said.
Besides Mr. Asencio, these are the panel members:
Donna M. Alvarado, former director of Action, the Federal volunteer agency.
Toney Anaya, a former Governor of New Mexico.
Eric H. Biddle Jr., a Virginia lawyer.
Representative John Bryant, Democrat of Texas.
Garner J. Cline, former staff director of the House Judiciary Committee.
Dale S. de Haan, former United Nations Deputy High Commissioner for Refugees.
The Rev. Theodore E. McCarrick, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Newark.
Edward C. Rivera, a California businessman Michael S. Teitelbaum, a demographer Art Torres, a California State Senator Esther Lee Yao, an educational psychologist at the University of Houston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); MEXICO (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT (91%); WHITE HOUSE (61%); DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION IMMIGRATION (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



58 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 4; National Desk

HEADLINE: To Farmers, Saving Rails Means Saving Livelihood

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TEKOA, Wash., May 31

 BODY:
The last operating railroad in this community of lentil farmers passes a sign that advertises a special on horse-wormers for $9.95, and drops under a crumbling overpass with the faded expression, ''Mad-dog loves Tracy.''
But it is more than romance and small commerce that ties this eastern Washington farm country here in Whitman County to its train tracks. Without the railroad, the farmers here, who grow 98 percent of the nation's lentils, say there is no profitable way to get their product to market - and ultimately, to Ethiopia and Somalia as part of the Government's Food for Peace program.
That relationship makes the railroad track dear to farmers in farm hamlets in the green hills south of Spokane, and they are fighting the Union Pacific Railroad's plan to abandon 71 miles of it. Since 1980, when the railroads were deregulated, more than 30,000 miles of track has been abandoned nationwide. Now Federal agriculture officials, alarmed at how the loss of trains is hurting farm communities, have joined the lentil growers in taking a stand. 
 
Where's the 'Public Service?'
''The railroads used to be viewed as a utility, but now that they can operate as any other free enterprise they are taking full advantage of deregulation,'' said Paul Kepler, a top official with the Agriculture Department. ''Somewhere along the line, they need to take more of a public service attitude.''
Last year, Union Pacific, the nation's second-biggest railroad after Burlington Northern, made a $547 million profit on revenue of $4.6 billion. But the company says its branch lines, the small feeder tracks to distant farm communities, continue to lose money.
''They say the loss of the railroad is another nail in the coffin of rural America, and there's no question those communities are changing,'' said John Bromley, a spokesman for Union Pacific, which is based in Omaha. ''But we don't have to subsidize those lines. Our business strategy is that if the line isn't making a profit, we abandon, sell or lease it out.''
At the urging of Representative Thomas S. Foley, the Speaker of the House, whose district includes this county, the Interstate Commerce Commission held a hearing last week on the abandonment plan. By law, the railroads can leave a community only if they can prove the operation is unprofitable. Other concerns, like whether there is alternative transportation for farmers, can also be considered.
 
Some Ignore Regulation
At the hearing, doubts were raised by farmers and shippers about whether the line to the lentil growers was in fact losing money; their analysis showed the line actually made a small profit. A decision by Paul J. Clerman, the administrative law judge in the case, is expected by the end of June.
While the railroad needs the Commerce Commission's approval to shut down the line legally, some train operators have merely abandoned lines without being penalized by the Government, Federal officials say.
For the farmers in this area who grow peas and lentils and haul the food to train terminals in towns like Fairfield, Tekoa and Farmington, the train cars that arrive about three times a week are their main link to distant markets.
Restrictions on pock-marked and outdated county roads keep trucks from hauling the food to bigger rail depots in Spokane at certain times of the year. Even when they can use the roads, farmers say, it costs them about $830 more to ship a rail-car load by truck.
If Union Pacific pulls out ''it will be devastating to us,'' said Dan Bruce, a shipper in Farmington whose family grows lentils. ''We're just a little town - 150 people - and we've only got one option. With the higher transportation costs, we would lose 94 percent of our business, which is shipping lentils overseas.''
 
Year-Round Shipping
Farmington, on the Washington-Idaho border, is where lentil-growing was pioneered in this country. Although Americans have yet to take to the high-fiber bean, it is a staple in many African countries and parts of South America as well.
Lentils are harvested in August, then dried, stored and shipped year-round. The farmers say that without the Union Pacific, 4.5 million pounds of lentils would not reach the ports in the Gulf of Mexico from which they are shipped abroad.
In surrounding counties, wheat is a thriving crop that is shipped to different ports, mainly by barge, than are the lentils. If the train line is abandoned, the smaller farmers, who have been growing lentils for three generations, could theoretically switch crops, but they say it would take years to recoup the investment in equipment and irrigation systems needed to make the shift.
Mr. Bruce said the railroad could make a profit on the run to the lentil-growing country if the railroad tried to develop more business in the area. But Union Pacific officials say they have looked at the numbers and cannot make the line profitable.
 
No Buyers, Line Says
If the Government allows the abandonment, the railroad plans to rip out the tracks and sell the ties and iron for scrap. They have offered to sell the line, but no buyers with sufficient capital have come forward.
Many people here say the railroads owe something to the communities here, which they helped build up. Tekoa, a town of 650 people, used to have a population of nearly 3,000, and three rail lines came through town. Its broad-shouldered stone buildings on Main Street are a testimony to another, more prosperous era.
''All the towns are struggling to stay afloat, to keep what business they have,'' said Gary Heaton of Tekoa, a food processor and shipper. ''You start losing just one or two families who have to move because the railroad left town, and you're in trouble.''
Federal officials say economic diversification in many of the dying small towns is dependent on keeping at least one rail line in the area. That may be true, Union Pacific says, but the railroad should not have to carry the load of those towns.
''Our obligation is to our stockholders,'' said Mr. Bromley. ''We don't enjoy going into a community and wearing a black hat. But we're used to it.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Farmers in Whitman County in eastern Washington, who produce 98 percent of the nation's lentils, say the Union Pacific Railroad's plan to abandon 71 miles of track would leave them with no economical way to get their product to market. Lentils were loaded onto a boxcar in Tekoa, Wash.; ''All the towns are struggling to stay afloat to keep what business they have,'' said Gary Heaton, a food processor and shipper from Tekoa, Wash. (Photographs by Jeff Green for The New York Times); map: Eastern Washington indicating Tekoa (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ETHIOPIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (71%); 

CITY: SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (58%); UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (STATE)

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; FREIGHT DRY PEA & BEAN FARMING (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (71%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (69%); JUDGES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (55%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY



59 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Drops Waste Case in North Carolina

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C., June 2

 BODY:
In a case watched closely by environmentalists and waste treatment companies, the Federal Environmental Protection Agency has abandoned an earlier effort to revoke North Carolina's authority to regulate hazardous waste.
This turn in the longstanding dispute came Friday in a ruling by Daniel W. McGovern, the agency's regional administrator in San Francisco. It was immediately hailed by environmentalists as having nationwide implications for a state's right to adopt environmental laws more stringent than Federal standards. It could also scuttle the project that was immediately at issue: the plans by the Laidlaw Environmental Services Company, formerly the GSX Chemical Services Company, to build a vast plant near the town of Laurinburg, 100 miles south of Raleigh, to treat hazardous waste from the entire region. 
The dispute centered on GSX's argument that a law enacted by North Carolina in 1987 effectively prevented hazardous-waste treatment plants from operating in the state. In essence, the law required such plants to dilute each gallon of treated wastewater with at least 1,000 gallons of pure water before discharge into rivers and streams. That requirement would be particularly difficult to meet at the Laurinburg site, partly because of the enormous amount of waste to be treated there and partly because the stream that would supply the diluting water frequently runs too low to do so. After the law had been passed, GSX contended that it was arbitrary and was primarily aimed at preventing the company from building its Laurinburg plant. Appeal to E.P.A. GSX and the Hazardous Waste Treatment Council, an industry group, then asked the Environmental Protection Agency to revoke the state's authority to manage hazardous wastes. Among their arguments was that if the law was upheld, other states would be encouraged to devise their own programs to keep such treatment plants, often politically unpopular, outside their borders.
State and local officials responded by saying that the law was intended only to protect drinking water. The GSX plant would discharge as much as 500,000 gallons of treated waste daily into the Lumber River, the main water supply for much of Robeson County, near Laurinburg.
E.P.A. officials initially sided with GSX, saying that the states should not be allowed to impose regulations effectively barring unpopular but environmentally necessary plants. But when William K. Reilly took office as the agency's Administrator last year, he decided on a full airing of the issue.
After a series of hearings last year, an administrative law judge backed North Carolina. The final such decision is usually made by the Administrator himself, but environmental groups complained that Mr. Reilly had engaged in improper contacts with officials of the waste treatment industry at a breakfast meeting. In the meantime, the agency's Southeastern regional administrator had also been criticized as partial to the industry, and so the decision was delegated to Mr. McGovern, the regional administrator in San Francisco.
In his decision Friday, he said that although a plant of the Laurinburg facility's planned scale might be unfeasible at that site because of the law, the measure would not keep such a plant from being built elsewhere. In addition, he said, GSX could have decided to build a smaller plant at Laurinburg.
''Therefore,'' the decision said, ''the law cannot be said to act as a prohibition on the treatment, storage or disposal of hazardous waste.''
The company, based in Columbia, S.C., said it had not decided whether to appeal to the courts. Roger E. Davis, a spokesman, said that the judgment did not rule out a plant at Laurinburg but that it would force the company to build a much smaller version that might not be economically feasible.
''If we can't get permits to build these facilities, there is insufficient and inadequate treatment of the waste,'' he said. ''Since we're not going to shut off the production of hazardous waste totally, the environment is going to suffer.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (91%); NAICS562112 HAZARDOUS WASTE COLLECTION (91%); NAICS423930 RECYCLABLE MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: RALEIGH, NC, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SAFETY-KLEEN INC (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (73%); WATER QUALITY (69%); RIVERS (66%); JUDGES (64%); 



60 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 36, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Florio's School Plan Angers Bergen

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ENGLEWOOD, N.J., June 1

 BODY:
Gov. Jim Florio's proposed law redistributing state school aid to local districts, and slashing $97 million from Bergen County's aid by the mid-1990's, has left Bergen's superintendents incredulous, indignant and gloomy.
While the Governor's proclaimed intent is to equalize education spending statewide by shifting tens of millions from prosperous suburbs to poorer urban and rural districts, suburban Bergen's losses would be the deepest in the state. Seventy-one of its 78 school districts would lose money.
The losing districts cut across all Bergen's social and economic lines, from its richest northern suburbs to the largely black and Hispanic middle-class districts here and in neighboring Hackensack and Teaneck, to the working-class towns in the shadow of the Meadowlands Sports Complex in southern Bergen. 
From all, the superintendents' outcry is the same - that an autocratic and devastating plan has emerged from the Governor's staff. And that his aides have not directly given local school officials - or the Bergen County Superintendent of Schools, who is the state's usual conduit of official information - any of the plan's figures or asked their opinions. They complain that the policy will leave districts facing severe program cuts or seeking sharply higher property taxes from homeowners already in revolt about school taxes.
 
'Dire Fiscal Constraints'
Here and elsewhere across Bergen, resentment and anxiety in school offices run deep. Englewood's schools, which have an enrollment that is 62 percent black and 23 percent Hispanic, stand to lose $3.6 million of their current state aid of $5.9 million, or roughly 15 percent of the current budget of $24 million, between fall 1992 and mid-1996.
''There's no educationally sound and sensible way for a community of this type to handle that size cut without decimating our public schools,'' said Englewood's Superintendent, Larry Leverett. ''We've never faced such dire fiscal constraints.''
He was echoed by Vincent Doyle, school business administrator in Teaneck, which would lose $5.7 million of its $9.4 million in state money. ''The Governor's proposing the most radical restructuring of education ever in New Jersey and he wants the Legislature to blow it through by June 15. It's absolutely ridiculous; it's absolutely nuts.''
Alan Sugarman, Superintendent in Fort Lee, a district of wealthy high-rise apartment buildings and modest homes next to the George Washington Bridge, said, ''We find the whole concept is absolutely impossible.'' Fort Lee stands to lose about $3.4 million of $4.5 million in aid, or about 15 percent of its current budget of $23 million.
''It's almost a kinetic effort by Trenton - like a dictum from on high -rather than a carefully analyzed, carefully discussed, prudent effort,'' Dr. Sugarman said. ''I just cannot, cannot, cannot believe this will fly.''
The seven Democrats in Bergen's 15-member legislative delegation have broken ranks with Mr. Florio over the depth of the county's cuts and are seeking amendments to restore funds. Democratic caucuses on changing the cuts started Friday in Trenton and are expected to continue until Monday.
''No Bergen County legislator can vote for this plan,'' said Senator Gabriel M. Ambrosio, a Democrat of Lyndhurst, whose blue-collar district near the Meadowlands faces an aid cut of $8.7 million. ''There will absolutely and positively be changes that will lessen the impact on Bergen County and restore all or most of the lost aid.'' Bergen's two other Democratic Senators, Matthew Feldman of Teaneck, the powerful head of the Senate Education Committee, and Paul J. Contillo of Paramus, are also involved in the struggle for changes in the Governor's bill. Their districts would lose $19 million and $22.1 million in school aid, respectively.
 
Poorer Districts to Benefit
Because the proposed cuts, which were announced May 24, are so new and so deep, Bergen school officials say they have not started planning how to absorb them. They talk about impact only in the broadest and most drastic terms.
''We're looking at having to come up with $6 million over four years,'' Dr. Doyle, Teaneck's business administrator, said. ''To make that kind of cut without putting it on the backs of taxpayers, we're looking at cutting a quarter of our staff of 550. We wouldn't be able to afford busing for integration or raises for teachers.''
The $97 million in aid that Bergen stands to lose over 4 years is about 35 percent of the total $277 million state-aid cutback facing 222 of the wealthiest school districts in New Jersey's 21 counties. Under the Governor's plan, state aid in 1991-92, the plan's first year, will be frozen at the level of the 1990-91 school year for all 222 districts. The plan also calls for the wealthiest 151 of the 222 districts to pay all pension and Social Security costs of their staff starting in 1991-92. This expense, now fully paid by the state, will drain money from local school programs or require higher property taxes.
In mid-1996, under the plan, all state aid for the 222 districts will end, except for money for transportation and special education programs.
The beneficiaries of Mr. Florio's plan will be 356 districts, mostly poor inner-city systems in North Jersey or sprawling rural ones in South Jersey. Starting in 1991-92, they will share $970 million in new state education aid, to come from the Governor's proposed income tax increase.
Nearly 42 percent of it, or about $402 million, will go to the state's 20 poorest cities. Camden's schools will get the most, $44.6 million, followed by Newark, $37.6 million; Paterson, where the state Education Department has taken a first step toward a state takeover of the district, $36.3 million; and Jersey City, whose schools were taken over by the state last October, $32.3 million.
 
Wealthy Face Double Impact
Which districts will get increases and which will face cutbacks is determined by two criteria - property values per pupil and per capita income per pupil. Districts below the state averages in those categories would benefit; those above the averages would lose.
Residents of the wealthiest districts facing aid cutbacks would bear the brunt of the proposed income tax increase. That means they face a double financial burden under the Governor's plan - potentially higher property taxes to offset losses in their state aid and higher income taxes to finance increases for poorer districts.
Critics of the plan's reliance on property values and per-capita income say it would leave northern counties like Bergen at a disadvantage because its property values and personal incomes have always exceeded South Jersey's. They say South Jersey districts, where teachers' salaries and other educational costs lag behind those in Bergen and other northern counties, will enjoy a windfall under the Governor's plan.
For instance, nearly $310 million of the $970 million in new state aid is earmarked for five adjacent southern counties: Camden, Burlington, Cumberland, Gloucester, and Salem.
About $6 million of the new aid will go to seven districts in Bergen County: Garfield, Bergenfield, Fairview, Bogota, Dumont, Waldwick and Midland Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BERGEN COUNTY (NJ); NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) EDUCATION FUNDING (91%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (54%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); HANLEY, ROBERT JIM FLORIO (55%); 



61 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 44, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: CAMPUS LIFE: Southern Methodist;
Admissions Rule For Top Athletes Stirs Old Fears

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
Southern Methodist University's admissions procedures for athletes were tightened after a scandal that led to the cancellation of the 1987 and 1988 football seasons. Now those procedures are loosening, and that has some faculty members worried.
The changes, announced recently by President A. Kenneth Pye, would allow athletes with substandard admissions test scores and high school grade point averages to have their cases argued by coaches directly with admissions personnel.
Last month, Mr. Pye also removed from the admissions process Cynthia Patterson, who had been hired away from Northwestern University in 1987 and named associate athletic director for compliance and academic affairs in the wake of the scandal. 
Many faculty members, students and alumni consider Ms. Patterson a staunch supporter of strict academic standards for athletes. She has been the athletic department's sole liaison with admissions officials at the university for the last three years. She will now focus on tracking athletes already attending the university to insure that they maintain their academic standing.
Mr. Pye and the newly appointed athletic director, Forrest Gregg, said in a recent news conference and in later interviews that the changes were made to speed recruiting of admissable high school athletes who might otherwise be lost to competing universities.
 
Fine Tuning, President Says
''There are no major changes coming,'' Mr. Pye said in an interview. ''We will just fine-tune the system. We are just going to be getting rid of some paperwork and have people look at the admissions office as a resource rather than a regulator.''
He added that coaches could bring to the admissions process a personal perspective on athletes who wished to attend S.M.U.
Some faculty members, however, voiced strong skepticism that the changes would result in admissions officers' getting a more balanced perspective from the coaches.
''I think that's a lot of hogwash,'' said J. Carter Murphy, a recently retired economics professor who is a former faculty senate president and a frequently vocal watchdog over the athletic department. ''When coaches have found a strong prospect, they want to insure that he gets in.''
Paying football players was only a part of the athletic department's problems in 1987, Mr. Murphy said, adding that the most important problem was that ''the university was viewed as the home of an excellent athletic team, not as an academic institution.''
 
Shakeup After 1987 Scandal
Mr. Pye tightened the admissions standards for all students in 1987, when the National Collegiate Athletic Association put the university on three years probation after disclosures that some S.M.U. football players continued receiving money from alumni, even though the athletic program was already on probation for similar violations.
The scandal led to the resignations of the university's president, athletic director and football coach. The remaining sanctions, which include greater scrutiny of athletes' finances, are to expire in September.
An applicant must now have a combined score of at least 700 on the Scholastic Aptitude Test and must have completed 11 academic units in high school with a grade point average of at least 2. Those are the same standards set by the N.C.A.A. for athletes applying to any colleges.
Now, if a high school athlete recruited by the athletic department has a combined Scholastic Aptitude Test score of less than 900, or less than 450 on the verbal portion of that exam, or if he has less than a 2.7 grade point average or is in the lower half of his graduating class, his file is flagged.
In the past, the coaches would send any flagged files to the recruiting coordinator, who would review them and pass them on to Ms. Patterson. She, in turn, would argue the case for or against admissions with a special four-member faculty admissions committee. The committee would make a recommendation to the university's admissions director.
 
Concern Over Alumni Pressure
Under the new procedures, coaches can send flagged files directly to the faculty committee and can argue an athlete's case face-to-face with the admissions director.
In an interview last week, Mr. Gregg said he did not understand why anyone found the changes worrisome.
''Number one, S.M.U.'s admission standards will not change,'' he said. ''Our number-one priority is for every athlete to graduate. A person who can't graduate won't get in.''
But Mr. Murphy said there was concern that with the new procedures ''if we are unable to field winning teams, then there will be pressure from alumni to get star athletes'' who are academically weak.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (74%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (94%); SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (94%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; ETHICS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (91%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCANDALS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); ETHICS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); GRADES & GRADING (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); BOARD CHANGES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); 

PERSON: A KENNETH PYE (88%); J CARTER MURPHY (61%); CYNTHIA PATTERSON (61%); 



62 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 63, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Visa Rules for Performers Are Disputed

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN

 BODY:
New Federal regulations intended to reduce the number of work visas granted on the basis of ''distinguished merit or ability'' are making it more difficult for new and less well-established performers from abroad to perform in the United States, music industry spokesmen contend.
Government authorities deny this is so and say the new regulations just clarify existing policy. But the French Culture Minister, Jack Lang, has spoken out on the issue on the side of the musicians, calling the new regulations an example of ''cultural protectionism.''
Speaking at a press conference in Paris recently, Mr. Lang said: ''It's a fact that today Moscow is more accessible than Washington. We want artists to be at home wherever they go.'' He said he had protested the new regulations to the cultural attache at the United States Embassy in Paris. 
Char Eberly, an agent at Third World Agency in New York, which specializes in managing musicians from Africa, South America and the Caribbean, said she had to cancel two tours because she feared that under the new regulations the musicians ''didn't have good enough financial records to get visas.''
 
Evidence Required
The new Immigration and Naturalization Service regulations, which became effective on Feb. 25, require that performers seeking H-1 visas, the most desirable category, must demonstrate their ''distinguished merit or ability'' with evidence like ''a record of major commercial or critically acclaimed success.'' This record may include box-office receipts or record sales, reviews, advertisements, publicity releases and prizes.
Examples of performers holding H-1 visas range from Kurt Masur, the East German conductor who was recently named to lead the New York Philharmonic, to lesser-known but distinctive bands and performers like Linton Kwesi Johnson, a Jamaican-style poet from England who recently completed a United States tour. Mr. Johnson qualifies because he can document his eminence in his field and because no American can duplicate what he does.
Under previous regulations, the criteria for establishing ''distinguished merit or ability'' were vague and were therefore regarded as easier to meet.
''The new regulations are a cause for alarm for new and less-established foreign musicians because they will make it more difficult for them to get in,'' said James R. Mayock, a San Francisco lawyer who specializes in immigration law. ''But it's with them that new music is happening.''
 
Time and Trouble
For those who do not qualify for the H-1 visa, the H-2-B visa is available for all nonagricultural workers. However, the H-2-B requires certification from the Department of Labor that no American worker will be displaced by the petitioner. Certification takes at least a month and is sometimes difficult to obtain.
Steve Sprague, executive assistant to the president of the American Federation of Musicians, who is frequently consulted by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said that he commonly submits ''negative advisory opinions'' in response to H-2-B applications in cases where ''a producer wants to import particular musicians to cities where those same kinds of musicians are unemployed.''
In such cases, Mr. Sprague said, the union also gives the Immigration and Naturalization Service a list of names of available union members who could handle the performance.
Richard L. Kenney, a public-affairs specialist for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which is a branch of the Department of Justice, said that it would be ''more difficult than in the past'' for petitioners to meet the present specific criteria and that the agency anticipated fewer petitioners for the H-1 visa as a result.
 
Against 'Spirit of the Law'
The reason for the change in the regulations, Mr. Kenney said, is that the service found it was receiving more applications for H-1 visas than for H-2-B visas. ''It's against the spirit of the law,'' he said. ''The H-1's are supposed to be more the exception than the rule because the H-1 is for distinguished merit and ability, whereas the H-2-B covers the mainstream of temporary workers.''
Mr. Kenney also said the French Culture Minister was ''overreacting.''
Mr. Mayock said the Government does not understand that music-industry petitioners for H-1 visas will always outnumber H-2-B applicants because producers naturally want to import artists of the highest merit and ability, since they are the ones who attract audiences.
Furthermore, he said, ''They don't understand the fast-paced manner of the music business. When a group gets hot, people start to grab for them to make them available to the public. It doesn't happen with six months of advance notice.''
 
Spontaneity Is Necessary
The music business also must react quickly to news developments, Mr. Mayock said. ''All of a sudden, Nelson Mandela was released from prison,'' he said, ''and promoters wanted to do a celebration with Miriam Makeba at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. Negotiations began in January, but things didn't really come together until late March, after the new regulations took effect. She got in, but one of her backup musicians had to be replaced.''
Ms. Eberly said: ''It's a Catch-22 situation. You get visas for your clients by telling Immigration what gigs you've signed, but then you must wait to see if they're going to allow you to honor your commitments.''
Mr. Maycock said: ''The big problem is not that people on the fringe are not going to become popular and world-famous. It's that people in the music business in Europe are going to snap them up long before our people can get to them because they can't get into the United States. The Immigration Service is hurting American business.''
The Immigration and Naturalization Service is not alone in creating more stringent requirements for visas. Under the Immigration and Nationality Act, the Immigration and Naturalization Service must consult with the Department of Labor before granting an H-2-B visa.
''Our responsibility is to protect American workers,'' said Thomas Bruening, chief of the Division of Foreign Labor Certifications.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Culture Minister Jack Lang of France, who protested new visa regulations for artists who want to perform in the United States. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (93%); ENGLAND (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; FRANCE

SUBJECT: MUSIC; VISAS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS AGENCY RULEMAKING (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (91%); MUSIC (91%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (70%); PETITIONS (68%); LAWYERS (67%); TICKET SALES (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); 

PERSON: HONAN, WILLIAM H; LANG, JACK (MIN) RICHARD L KENNEY (66%); JAMES R MAYOCK (66%); LINTON KWESI JOHNSON (55%); JOHN MAJOR (50%); 



63 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2706 words

HEADLINE: STAGE VIEW;
Broadway's Bounty: Dramas Brimming With Life

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
''What kind of day has it been?'' That was the question with which William Goldman closed ''The Season,'' his classic journalistic study of one season (1967-68) in the life of the Broadway theater just as it slid into its most precipitous period of decline. Two decades later no one can say whether that decline has yet halted, but the 1989-90 New York theater season, on and off Broadway, has been one unexpectedly, perhaps inexplicably, bright day. Theater art, show biz glamour and, best of all, American plays about lives that intersect with the audiences' own have been in high supply during the 12 months that will be celebrated tonight, as tradition has it, at the Tony Awards show.
For theater fans in the habit of laughing at the Tonys as a collapsing industry's campy effort to paint a happy veneer on disaster, tonight's TV broadcast may come as a culture shock. This will be the first Tony ceremony in years in which the legitimate nominees vastly overwhelm the wince-inducing turkeys needed to fill out the ballot. (And even the turkeys are slightly less scrawny, as a comparison of this year's ''Meet Me in St. Louis'' to last year's ''Starmites'' will attest.) Then again, all sorts of surprises have been happening in the theater since the last Tony night of a year ago. 
This was the season framed by the departures of the two longest-running shows in Broadway history, ''Oh! Calcutta!'' and ''A Chorus Line,'' yet the closings did not prompt a funereal sense of loss so much as confirm the passing of one chapter in that history and the arrival of the next. It was the season in which character actors with New York theater careers dating back to the 1950's returned to Broadway in triumph: Robert Morse (''Tru''), Charles Durning (''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof''), Lois Smith (''The Grapes of Wrath''). It was the season in which Tyne Daly didn't settle for cruising through in the rickety vehicle usually favored by the stars of canceled television series but instead pulled off the unlikely feat of exorcising Ethel Merman's ghost from ''Gypsy.'' It was a season in which Tennessee Williams had two hits on Broadway and Shakespeare had one, while the presumed sure things, ''Annie 2'' and Neil Simon's new play, ''Jake's Women,'' closed during their pre-Broadway tryouts. So large was the profusion of native talent this season that such English superstars as Tom Stoppard, Vanessa Redgrave and Rex Harrison could be overlooked in the Tony nominations and not really be missed.
The season's best new plays all point to an American theater whose artistic vital signs are good even as the malevolent forces of AIDS, censorship and economic calamity threaten at every turn. In contrast to most seasons of the 1980's, in which there would usually be only one serious contender for Best Play and that contender as likely as not would be a London import, there are three outstanding nominees this season, all American: ''The Grapes of Wrath'' as adapted from John Steinbeck by Frank Galati, ''Prelude to a Kiss'' by Craig Lucas and ''The Piano Lesson'' by August Wilson. The one English nominee - Peter Shaffer's boulevard comedy, ''Lettice and Lovage'' - seems merely dusty by comparison, though there is nothing mere about its riveting star, Maggie Smith.
 
The Old Boys' Network Comes Unraveled
 While the three American Best Play nominees have little in common in style, their similar origins dramatize the broad base of the American theater right now. None of the three was created by or for Broadway. The plays were booked into Broadway theaters only after they had appeared at nonprofit institutional theaters, at least three in each production's case, across the map, from South Coast Repertory, Berkeley Rep and Mark Taper Forum in California to the Steppenwolf Theater Company in Chicago to the Yale Repertory Theater and Circle Repertory Company back East. The old boys' network of New York producers that used to choose and mount new American plays has been almost completely supplanted by the national network of resident companies that carry out the old producers' role in a far more enlightened way, sometimes with the aid of at least nominal grants from the National Endowment for the Arts. The nonprofit theater Off Broadway, whether in New York or beyond, is what now keeps Broadway in business as a disseminator of new American plays.
Reflecting the fact that they were not conceived as potential Broadway cash cows, the three American Tony nominees are adventurous works more in touch with what audiences and artists care about than with what theater owners regard as merchandisable product. Like them or not, these plays do not insult an audience's intelligence. Nor are they humorless problem dramas in the earnest, hand-wringing, pseudo-documentary manner that has now been appropriated by television. They dra matize the world of the moment in the poetic, nonliteral terms of the stage.
 
'Grapes of Wrath' In Present Tense
 In ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' Mr. Galati, both as director and as writer, uses the simplest elements (his palette is literally air, water, fire, earth) to levitate Steinbeck's dust bowl from the remote historical specificity of the Depression and into an intimate present tense. The homeless cease to be a faceless abstraction that can be ignored or wished away by the audience and become instead a vivid, courageous constituency within the mainstream democratic family. As acted by a Steppenwolf ensemble full of nervy, idiosyncratic individuals and designed with a hallucinatory simplicity that is closer to Georgia O'Keeffe and Edward Hopper than the Walker Evans-like iconography of the 1939 John Ford film, ''The Grapes of Wrath'' is a transporting epic whose final destination is the society of economic extremes the audience revisits as soon as it steps back on to a mean New York street. That the evening leaves one feeling energized, not enervated, by the unfinished struggle against injustice and hunger is a tribute to the show's dramatic sweep and unsentimental populist zeal.
 
'Prelude' Teaches Lessons in Compassion
''Prelude to a Kiss,'' seemingly the most conventional of the American Best Play contenders, is a romantic adult fairy tale about an ordinary young urban man who finds that the soul of the woman he loves has become trapped in the body of a figurative frog - an elderly man racked by lung cancer. Even without knowing that Mr. Lucas is also the author of ''Longtime Companion,'' a feature film about the devastation of the gay community by AIDS, it isn't hard to see that ''Prelude'' is a response to the epidemic. The play demands of its hero a love that endures even when the body of his beloved is rotting and dying.
By enclosing that hero's journey to selflessness within a fantasy that is funny, magical and moving, rather than somber, clinical and earthbound, ''Prelude to a Kiss'' teaches a broad lesson in compassion applicable to anyone - which is to say everyone - who must face a loved one's death. Since Mr. Lucas never mentions AIDS and his characters are not in the disease's high-risk groups, ''Prelude'' doesn't even have to be read as an AIDS play. But the youth of its stricken heroine makes that extra dimension clear to those who wish to see it. Those who do so will also appreciate the beauty with which Mr. Lucas has dequarantined the tragedy of AIDS to place it squarely within the universal, and universally terminal, human condition.
 
'Piano Lesson' Sings In a Black Key
 In ''The Piano Lesson,'' Mr. Wilson continues his saga of black America in the 20th century, this time focusing on the 1930's. As acted by another extraordinary ensemble, headed by Charles S. Dutton and S. Epatha Merkerson and directed by Lloyd Richards, the play has the invigorating, and at times unruly, vitality of a voluminous folk tapestry. Song, tall genealogical tales, history, family drama, poetry, ritual and sexual passion are all part of the by turns garrulous and cathartic mix.
Mr. Wilson doesn't write according to the white man's rules, and ''The Piano Lesson'' is unlikely to be confused by anyone with ''Driving Miss Daisy.'' With its free use of the supernatural, the play intertwines African and American esthetics, just as the two continents are mixed in the blood of the characters, who must achieve freedom from both slavery's repressive social legacy and its deep psychological scars. ''The Piano Lesson,'' like most Wilson plays, demands that white audiences adjust to a voice that sings in a genuinely black key and that they meet black people as they are rather than as many whites imagine them to be.
It's an essential leap, for what is going on in the parlor and kitchen of the play's Pittsburgh, 1936, household is another, equally crucial chapter of the American saga of dispossession found in the contemporaneous ''Grapes of Wrath'' and continuing to the present day. Like Spike Lee in the movies, Mr. Wilson is introducing white audiences to black America without patronizing either whites or blacks. Whatever the flaws of ''The Piano Lesson,'' or, for that matter, of Mr. Lee's ''Do the Right Thing,'' they are essential dramas (and entertaining ones at that) for a city playing out its own drama of racial division in its neighborhoods.
 
Richness of Words And Music
 One of the more exhilarating treats of the theater season has been to see so much fine American writing in free-floating repertory. The themes of ''The Piano Lesson'' overlap those of Tennessee Williams's ''Orpheus Descending,'' which ends with a vigilante murder motivated by bigotry, much as Williams's ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof'' addresses issues of intimacy, tolerance, familial and sexual love and mortality that complement those of ''Prelude to a Kiss.'' When one takes in the season's Tony-ineligible productions, which is to say those that confined their runs to Off Broadway, the repertory becomes richer still: ''Spunk,'' George C. Wolfe's adaptation of Zora Neale Hurston tales, and ''Sex, Drugs, Rock-and-Roll,'' Eric Bogosian's latest and most extensive tour of excess in the upper echelons and lower depths of contemporary urban America, respectively anticipate and continue the anguished vernacular storytelling of ''The Piano Lesson'' and ''The Grapes of Wrath.''
There was even an informal repertory of musicals available to the New York theatergoer this year. The revival of Stephen Sondheim's 1979 ''Sweeney Todd'' stood in fascinating counterpoint to that of ''Gypsy,'' the Arthur Laurents-Jule Styne-Sondheim masterpiece of 20 seasons earlier. As directed by Susan H. Schulman (''Sweeney'') and Mr. Laurents (''Gypsy''), these two intense productions emphasized personal drama over show biz spectacle, revealing both works as searing tales of women pushed by emotional and socioeconomic circumstance into either figuratively or literally devouring their young.
 
Awakening of The American Musical
 The big news events in the musical theater, however, were the new works that pointed to an awakening of the American musical. ''City of Angels,'' the stylish Hollywood satire written by Larry Gelbart (book), Cy Coleman (music) and David Zippel (lyrics), is a welcome throwback to the bright, unpretentious musical-comedy cartoons of the immediate post-''Gypsy'' era on Broadway - indeed, to the early shows of its own authors. (Mr. Gelbart was co-author of the book of ''A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum,'' and Mr. Coleman composed the score for ''Little Me,'' both in 1962.) Just as the season ended, Off Broadway's Playwrights Horizons introduced a jubilant musical fantasy, ''Once on This Island,'' whose young authors, Lynn Ahrens and Stephen Flaherty, promise more good times for the American musical; they and their show, one suspects, will be competing for Tony Awards this time next year.
In the other notable new musical of the season, that nonstop whirl of dramatic movement known as ''Grand Hotel,'' Tommy Tune again proves that he is the most imaginative director and choreographer of musicals on Broadway. Why he insists on lavishing his gifts mainly on lackluster material is the mystery that haunts and inhibits his career. As ''Forbidden Broadway 1990'' has most hilariously pointed out in its ''Grim Hotel'' sketch, ''Grand Hotel'' is a warmed-over recycling of themes and techniques from Harold Prince's ''Cabaret,'' now almost a quarter of a century old.
 
English Musicals: End of an Affair?
 Though ''City of Angels'' and ''Grand Hotel'' are each brilliantly designed (by Robin Wagner and Tony Walton), neither depends on the kind of overwhelming hardware that has been the stock-in-trade of English musical spectaculars. As if on cue, Andrew Lloyd Webber and Trevor Nunn brought to town their latest and most inert example of the genre, ''Aspects of Love,'' whose elephantine emptiness seems particularly conspicuous next to its American competition of the season. Should the show fail with the public - as seems to be the case - the Broadway audience's love affair with English musicals may unravel. It could be a sign of the times that New York theatergoers are laughing at the mindless theatrical Anglophilia of American tourists visiting London in Richard Nelson's smart comedy, ''Some Americans Abroad.''
The colossal box-office failure of ''Jerome Robbins's Broadway,'' which has announced a September closing with what its producers say will be a $4 million deficit, is another watershed, but one that says more about the economic crises of Broadway than it does about the quality of the show or the state of the musical theater. When a Tony Award-winning musical can run nearly as many performances as such Robbins shows as ''Gypsy,'' ''High Button Shoes'' and ''West Side Story'' did in their original Broadway engagements, play to large audiences most of the time and still have red ink to rival that of ''Annie 2,'' it means that production costs are out of control. And high production costs mean high ticket prices with which the producers attempt to recoup them. ''Jerome Robbins's Broadway'' was the first musical to have a $60 top ticket, extending from the orchestra into the rear mezzanine, but the public wasn't necessarily buying. The $60 tickets were frequently marked down through discount coupons and at the half-price ticket booth in Duffy Square.
As always, there were other ominous signs for the theater this season - whether in the battles over government arts financing, or in the obituary pages. Less ominous was the closing of ''A Chorus Line.'' It was a pivotal event of the season, and one that aroused the most mixed emotions. Surely no production had come to represent Broadway more, or at least the Broadway myth we know from old movies and present daydreams. Yet ''A Chorus Line'' was also the foremost symbol of the nonprofit theater's successful annexation of Broadway, since this production had, after all, begun its life Off Broadway, at the New York Shakespeare Festival.
 
Darkness Falls On a Beloved Icon
 Perhaps no one wanted to see such a beloved icon - and musical - die, even after 15 years. But there also seemed to be a feeling of release, however melancholy, at the final performance. The theater community could at last end its period of mourning for Michael Bennett, the show's most influential collaborator and the man whose death at age 44 in 1987 has clouded Broadway ever since. Meanwhile, there was little doubt that the revolution Mr. Bennett had helped win both on stage and behind the scenes, at the very heart of the process by which theater is created in this country, would not be turned back.
Leaving the Shubert on that closing night in late April, one looked at the lighted neighboring marquees and realized that most of the best plays surrounding ''A Chorus Line'' had reached Broadway as it had, by a long trail that began in workshops at artistically-minded theaters where Broadway, or even New York, was not necessarily the goal. The theater did not go dark when ''A Chorus Line'' did. Tony show viewers will discover tonight that New York's stages are, for the moment at least, teeming with new plays, some important and some just fun, demanding to be seen.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles S. Dutton, who stars in ''The Piano Lesson'' (Jack Manning/The New York Times); Timothy Hutton and Mary-Louise Parker in ''Prelude to a Kiss''-a romantic tale in response to the AIDS epidemic (Jack Manning/The New York Times); Sally Murphy, left, with Lois Smith in ''The Grapes of Wrath''-The homeless cease to be faceless (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Cast members of ''Spunk'' include, from left, K. Todd Freeman, Kevin Jackson and Reggie Montgomery-fine American writing (New York Shakespeare Festival); Among performers in ''Once on This Island'' are, from left, Nikki Rene, Sheila Gibbs and La Chanze (Playwrights Horizons) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CHORUS LINE, A (PLAY); OH! CALCUTTA! (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; THEATER; THEATER THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK FRANK RICH (57%); 



64 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 25, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: TV VIEW;
'Yes - and No - Prime Minister!'

BYLINE: By Walter Goodman

 BODY:
For the past three months, Anglophiles have had reason to switch at 9 P.M. Sundays from ''Masterpiece Theater'' on PBS to C-Span, in order to catch ''Prime Minister's Question Time'' from the House of Commons.
Twice a week for 15 minutes each Tuesday and Thursday, Margaret Thatcher submits herself to the slings and arrows of the Opposition and to the caresses of Conservatives. (Because Parliament was in recess last week, the time slot will be given over tonight to a BBC call-in program with Mrs. Thatcher. Coverage will resume next Sunday through the middle of August, or as long as Parliament is in session.) The cameras began covering the proceedings of the House last November for British audiences, and C-Span has become the exclusive importer to America of a consistently diverting if occasionally perplexing half-hour. If America's House of Representatives comes across on television like a sophomore debating society, ''Prime Minister's Question Time'' is a vaudeville show. 
The drill is simple enough. Each session, the Speaker of the House of Commons, the splendidly bewigged Bernard Weatherill, calls on Members who have risen in hope of catching his eye - first from the party on one side of the aisle, then from the other. Mr. Weatherill, who has become something of a video star at home, has the manner of an indulgent headmaster given to shaking his head over his unruly charges. He is constantly forced to call, ''Order! Order!'' as the Laborites jeer the Prime Minister or the Tories hoot the Opposition. He has been heard to mutter, ''Very disorderly.'' Last Sunday his rebuke was ''We can't have this conversation across the chamber.'' A week earlier he was driven to an uncharacteristic touch of personal criticism by a Member who was slogging through a particularly unenthralling question. ''Please come on,'' the Speaker chided. ''A very long question.'' Now and then he reprimands Members with the reminder that their interruptions ''take a lot of time out of other honorable gentlemen who wish to be called.'' No one seems to pay much attention, but order invariably manages to restore itself in under a minute.
It is reported that since the question times have gone on screen, the sartorial quality of the Members has picked up. Most do seem to be smartly turned out these days, in well-cut dark suits with handkerchiefs flashing from breast pockets; even the backbench radicals without Oxbridge credentials or accents seem to have found their way to Savile Row or a facsimile. Still, there are mismatched outfits to enliven the proceedings, and one recent Sunday the tie of a Conservative from Eastbourne hung almost to his knees, where its swing distracted attention from his question.
Questions have bounced about among such matters as the poll tax that brought protesters into the streets of London, the high inflation rate, the reluctance of the Irish Republic to extradite people suspected of terrorist acts, and Lithuania's independence movement. A Labor Member rose at one session to take the Tories to task for not doing something to stop pedophiles from posing as social workers.
The players are predominantly white and male, the atmosphere clubbily partisan. Neil Kinnock, the Labor Party leader, can be counted on at almost every session to attack the Government for its solicitude for the rich at the expense of the poor. The exchanges are indirect; one addresses the Speaker, asking Mr. Weatherill, for example, whether it is not true that the Government economic policy is a disaster for the nation. Other Laborites use their time to bash what one called ''this wretched Administration'' and to suggest sacking the whole Cabinet. From their side of the aisle comes a chorus of ''No, Prime Minister!''
Mrs. Thatcher, who seems to have softened her appearance if not her personality for the cameras, responds with spirit. ''Nonsense, Mr. Speaker!'' she may exclaim, referring, of course, not to Mr. Weatherill but to some Laborite. She shrugged off the remonstrance about those disguised pedophiles with ''Cheap politics!'' Last week she dismissed a Labor backbencher as follows: ''The honorable Member brings out all sorts of tittle-tattle which is just not worthy of reply.'' The silver-haired man on her front bench who nods his agreement with everything she says is Geoffrey Howe, the Tory leader of the House.
The Prime Minister is generally prepared with statistics of some sort to counter criticism or to buttress the compliments heaped upon her Government by Members of her own party. When figures don't quite do the job, she is ready to remind the Speaker of how much worse things were under the Laborites. The Members cry ''Hear! Hear!'' or ''Humbug!'' according to their party allegiance.
Now and then Mrs. Thatcher is caught off guard by an eccentric on her own side of the aisle. A Member named Peter Lloyd recently got tangled up in the technology of the motor vehicle. When he paused in his obscure disquisition to say, ''And if she is with me this far . . .'' he brought down the House. Mrs. Thatcher did not pretend in her answer that she had the foggiest notion of what the honorable gentleman was going on about. On the other hand or side, a Laborite was subjected to a burst of genial derision when he began his question with the observation, ''Nineteen-ninety started in January.'' As the glee seemed to be subsiding, he proceeded to announce, ''This is May,'' and started things up again.
Americans, unfamiliar with the personalities on show, no doubt miss some of the fun. The very appearance in one session of a backbench Laborite named Frank Haynes brought anticipatory chuckles from his side of the House. ''Go on, give her a kiss,'' one Member was heard to urge. The gaunt Mr. Haynes, who looks a bit like the actor Alastair Sim, took the occasion to remind the Speaker that the Prime Minister had not had a very good time in her question sessions during the past few weeks. Then, leaning toward Mrs. Thatcher, he asked, ''Have you, duckie?'' When her turn came, she pointed out that since all comments in the House are directed at the Speaker, the gentleman's remark seemed unusually endearing.
One of the mysteries of the proceedings to the outsider is a piece of protocol that requires the Prime Minister to rise to respond to a question, sit down and rise again at once as though she were doing a knee exercise, to say, ''I refer the honorable gentleman to the reply which I gave some moments ago.'' What honorable gentleman? What reply? This viewer is content not to know, to have it remain one of the Old Country's mysteries, like cricket. On this side of the ocean, the pleasures of the show lie more in the ceremony than in the substance, more in manner than matter. Add ''Prime Minister's Question Time'' to cucumber sandwiches and bubble and squeak, under the category, There'll always be an England.
 
 
 
HEARD IN THE HOUSE: HIGHLIGHTS OF 'QUESTION TIME'
Sir Anthony Grant: Will the research into noise at work include the House of Commons? The noise here and the audibility of the system are such as to make work almost impossible sometimes.
 
Mr. Patrick Nicholls: The powers of Government may be great, but they are not sufficient to take care of the level or quality of the noise in the House. I am afraid that both may defeat us.
 
Mr. David Evans: I am sure that my right Honorable Friend will agree with me that on this side of the House we have history and tradition on our side. [Laughter]
 
Mr. Speaker: Order.
 
Mr. Evans: Does she not think that it would be a good idea if we had a flag day to commemorate a day that is important to the Conservative party, such as the day on which Winston Churchill became Prime Minister - 10 May 1940 - or perhaps the day on which the task force set off for the Falklands to show the world that sovereignty and freedom came before everything else, or perhaps even the day that my right Honorable Friend became Prime Minister? On the other hand, she might agree with me that the most significant day for the Conservative party was 1 Oct. 1983, when the Leader of the Opposition became leader of the Labor Party, went to Brighton beach and fell flat on his face. He has done just that every Tuesday and Thursday ever since.
 
The Prime Minister: I congratulate my Honorable Friend on his ingenuity and clarity of expression.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernard Weatherill, the Speaker of the House who oversees the twice-weekly sessions, has become something of a video star. (C-Span)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: PRIME MINISTER'S QUESTION TIME (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: C-SPAN (CABLE NETWORK)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PRIME MINISTERS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER; THATCHER, MARGARET H (PRIME MIN) MARGARET THATCHER (72%); 



65 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Currency;
Gaining Ground on the Mark

 BODY:
The dollar rose against the West German mark again last week, topping 1.70 marks to the dollar briefly on Friday before slipping back to 1.6985. The dollar is now up more than 4 percent against the mark since the beginning of May. Some foreign exchange traders say that part of the mark's weakness stems from the belief that the West German Bundesbank is having more disagreements than usual over economic policy with the West German Government. In addition, there may be more dissension within the Bundesbank itself. Both strains, if true, could hamper the Bundesbank's efforts to make the economic unification of the two Germanys as smooth as possible. Meanwhile, the dollar also rose against the Japanese yen, finishing the week above the key 150 level. 

$	 	 	 	Last	Previous	Year	 	Week	Week	Ago	 	 	 	 	 	Japanese Yen	151.95	149.40	140.75	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	W.German Mark	1.6985	1.6824	1.9435	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Canadian Dollar	1.1753	1.1829	1.2039	per U.S. Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	British Pound	1.6810	1.6905	1.6003	U.S. Dollar per British Pound	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Gold	$358.75	$367.50	$366.75	Republic National Bank 	 	 	 	
 
Currecny: Friday NY Close

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: STATISTICS

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (54%); HSB (PAR) (54%); HBC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (54%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: CURRENCY GERMAN MARK (92%); US DOLLAR (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BRITISH POUND (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); JAPANESE YEN (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 



66 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
Investing Goldman's New Money

BYLINE: By Anise C. Wallace

 BODY:
Until recently, an investor needed $5 million to open an account at Goldman Sachs & Company. But times are tough on Wall Street. This prestigious investment bank has established a mutual fund and now welcomes smaller accounts.
So far the fund, which opened in April, has attracted more than $400 million, of which about $140 million came from Goldman employees' savings. How Goldman intends to use this money provides an interesting view of current investment strategies. 
Fund executives said they are not eager to invest in stocks. Goldman's philosophy is to keep clients out of securities when they are overpriced, said Leon G. Cooperman, who last fall became chairman of Goldman's asset management group. He has invested $2 million of his own assets in the fund.
''I don't see the overwhelming compelling case for the stock market,'' Mr. Cooperman said. Consequently only about 35 percent of the GS Capital Growth Fund is invested in stocks.
But there are still some bargains available, Mr. Cooperman said, if investors consider stocks that analysts and other investors consider controversial. One of his picks for the fund is American Express, which has had management problems with its subsidiary Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.''You cannot make a lot of money in the stock market at today's level without taking on a certain amount of controversy,'' Mr. Coopermansaid.
So it should come as no surprise that 5 percent of the fund is in the battered ''junk bonds'' of companies like McCaw Cellular Communications and ACF Industries.
''What's happening now is that the equity players like myself are sifting through the rubble,'' he said. ''Some of our best investments have been junk.'' Junk bonds are securities issued by companies that are too young or have too much debt to earn an investment-grade from the rating agencies.
But because many junk bonds offer potential returns of 17 or 18 percent, bargain hunters have driven their prices up sharply in recent weeks. Now, Mr. Cooperman said, it is difficult to buy them at prices he likes.
The balance of the Goldman Sachs fund, almost $250 million, will remain in short-term investments like Treasury bills until the firm's analysts and portfolio managers find securities they like at lower levels. The fund has an extremely broad charter and can invest in a wide a variety of financial instruments, including stock-index futures and foreign currencies.
Goldman's new fund reflects a change in strategy. Last year, the firm decided to expand its $21 billion investment management division that invested money-market funds for bank trust departments. (The last time Goldman offered a mutual fund was, perhaps inauspiciously, in 1929.) Before taking charge of the expanded investment department, Mr. Cooperman was portfolio strategist and head of the firm's research department for 12 years. From 1977 to 1985, he was rated the No. 1 portfolio strategist in a survey by the magazine Institutional Investor.
For now, Mr. Cooperman is wary of the overall stock and bond markets because he sees little opportunity for gains. Goldman's economists expect only modest economic growth this year and a further decline in corporate profits. And they are not looking for a significant drop in long-term interest rates.
One exception in this overpriced market is Sotheby's, the art auction house, Mr. Cooperman said. There is evidence of a weakening in the art market, and sellers have pushed the stock down from its peak of 37 to 17 3/4 at Friday's close. Mr. Cooperman does not expect the company to enjoy the rapid growth of recent years. But cash flow should remain strong because ''it is a world-class franchise,'' he said, and it dominates the world auction market.
Mr. Cooperman does see room for growth in the cellular telephone business and has invested in Motorola and McCaw Cellular. From his briefcase he pulls a Motorola cellular phone, a gift from colleagues. ''I never would have paid $3,000 for a telephone, because I'm so cheap,'' he said. ''But it has had an important impact on productivity. I call London every morning before I go through the Holland Tunnel.'' Although McCaw has a heavy debt load, Mr. Cooperman said he is impressed that the McCaw family has a large stake in the cellular franchise company, that British Telecommunications invested $1.5 billion in cash in the company and that J. P. Morgan & Company acted as the lead bank on raising funds for the company's acquisition of Lin Broadcasting. Less than 2 percent of the population in the United States owns a cellular telephone, a figure he thinks will increase in coming years. ''This is like the razor business, and they own the blades,'' he said.
Goldman's fund is also betting on some of what Wall Street calls ''defensive'' companies, which do well in weak or poor economic environments. These includes American Home Products, American Cyanamid, Glaxo and SmithKline Beecham. ''We wanted to avoid companies that were dependent on strong economic growth,'' Mr. Cooperman said. ''We wanted decent balance sheet and above-average growth because I don't see the case for a strong economy.''
Nor does he see the case for a sharp decline or a bear market. There is no evidence of a recession, he said, and investors have not been wildly enthusiastic about the stock market, often a sign of a peak in prices.
''If I were an individual investor,'' Mr. Cooperman said, ''I would be taking money out of the market and maintaining cash reserves.''

GRAPHIC: Pie chart: the current portfolio mix of GS Capital Growth Fund (Source: Goldman Sachs)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS336510 RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC4741 RENTAL OF RAILROAD CARS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); ACF INDUSTRIES LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); NEW ISSUES (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); BONDS (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); CURRENCIES (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (64%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, ANISE C LEON G COOPERMAN (79%); 



67 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
MONDAY: First-quarter productivity figures are due out. Soviet and American high-technology leaders meet in Santa Clara, Calif., to improve trade relations, while officials meet in Washington to discuss sales by American food companies in the Soviet Union. 
 
TUESDAY: Companies report auto sales for May.
 
WEDNESDAY: Texas Air holds its annual meeting.
 
THURSDAY: Universal Studios amusement park opens in Orlando, Fla.
A former Ashland Oil chairman is scheduled to be sentenced for conspiracy and wire fraud in a plan to provide secret information to Iran.
First-quarter spending on plant and equipment.
Consumer credit for April.
 
FRIDAY: Settling a major lawsuit, Columbia Pictures moves to the old MGM lot after sharing facilities in Burbank, Calif., with Warner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SCHEDULE

TICKER: ASH (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (72%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); SIC5172 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS WHOLESALERS, EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (72%); SIC1611 HIGHWAY & STREET CONSTRUCTION, EXCEPT ELEVATED HIGHWAYS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA PICTURES (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); LITIGATION (86%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); SUITS & CLAIMS (83%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (66%); SENTENCING (53%); WIRE FRAUD (53%); 



68 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
A Lot's Amiss, But the Indexes Could Care Less

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
Just as all of Washington was celebrating the victory of capitalism over Communism, a symbol of capitalist excess surfaced last week at the most symbolic of places, where Monopoly is made.
Always polite, Mikhail S. Gorbachev evidently did not mention the problems of the Tonka Corporation to President Bush as they met last week. Soviet leaders no longer look for evidence that their economic system is superior; they just want to find painless ways to get the benefits of ours without sacrificing political control. 
But the problems at Tonka, whose shares plunged $2.875 last week, to $7.325, nonetheless stand as a reminder of the excesses of this system in the last decade. Tonka simply can't make enough money to pay the interest on the more than $400 million in debt it piled up when it bought the maker of the Monopoly board game in 1987. It says losses in this quarter may leave it in violation of bank loan agreements. Monopoly, it seems, just isn't profitable enough to pay off the banks. Tonka's problems served as a reminder, too, that many companies find themselves in financial distress because of varying combinations of the weak economy and borrowing excesses of the past. Only 110 companies raised their dividends in May, Standard & Poor's reported, the lowest such figure for any May since 1971, while the number eliminating payouts is running at the highest level since the last recession ended in 1982.
But those problems haven't bothered the stock market as a whole. The unemployment report on Friday, showing that the Census Bureau created 90 percent of the new jobs in May while manufacturers continue to shed workers, renewed the bond market rally. The yield on 30-year Treasury bonds, above 9 percent only a month ago, fell to 8.44 percent.
In the stock market, one might expect that the continued reports of weakness in the manufacturing sector would put a damper on share prices. Instead, industrial stocks have led the market up, while financial, utility and transportation stocks have lagged. The Dow Jones, Standard & Poor's and Nasdaq industrial averages are all at record levels, with the Dow last week advancing 80.05 points, to 2,900.97.
The Dow rose 8.3 percent in May, but it was a laggard next to the more broadly based industrial indexes. The S.&P. industrial index rose 9.5 percent and the Nasdaq version added 11.3 percent. While many have been claiming that this rally has been for large stocks only, it appears that many of the smaller ones have quietly begun their own celebration.
It has been so long since the last recession, and there have been so many incorrect forecasts of another one, that many stock buyers have decided to bet that the economy will forever muddle through. A Tonka or an L.A. Gear - the maker of trendy tennies and other shoes that lost 38 percent of its market value last week when it forecast lower profits - may be dumped, but the money is promptly put into other stocks.
For now, the lure of profits is greater than the fear of losses.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Dow Jones average, previous week; monthly change in manufacturering employment, Dec. 1989-May 1990; daily yield on 30-year Treasury bonds, previous week

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TONKA CORP (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DIVIDENDS TOYS & GAMES MFG (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); RECESSION (89%); BONDS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); BOARD GAMES (77%); TOYS & GAMES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); CENSUS (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD GEORGE WALKER BUSH (58%); 



69 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3032 words

HEADLINE: Stop the World, Mexico Is Getting On

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY

 BODY:
As usual, Carlos Salinas de Gortari is a man in a hurry - and with some tough decisions to make.
Next week, Mexico's 42-year-old President heads to the United States again, his third visit in less than a year. While it took the United States and Canada three years to shape a free-trade agreement, Mr. Salinas is convinced a similar accord between his country and the United States must be reached more quickly, and believes Washington is ready to start dealing. ''I think it would be advantageous for both economies if it were a shorter time,'' he said during an interview in late May at Los Pinos, the Mexican equivalent of the White House. 
For Mr. Salinas, time is a commodity not to be wasted. Since taking office in December 1988, the Harvard-educated economist has routinely taken dramatic steps to open and modernize the Mexican economy, long one of the most closed and protected in the world. He has put state enterprises like airlines, mines, steel mills and the telephone company on the block; permitted imports to surge to pressure Mexican producers to become more efficient; liberalized foreign investment regulations; overhauled the tax system, and cut the deficit to its lowest level in a quarter-century. In doing so, he has won the applause of the World Bank, George Bush and leaders of other industrialized nations, who now hold Mexico up as a textbook example of modernization for the rest of the world to follow.
But the more Mr. Salinas does, the more he needs to do. The problem is that the rest of world is now changing at an even more rapid pace, and Mr. Salinas finds himself scrambling not to fall behind. Mexico's Minister of Finance, Pedro Aspe, may be receiving invitations from the new leaders of Eastern Europe to deliver tutorials on how to dismantle a state-dominated economy and make it competitive, but Western investors seem more impressed by what is occurring in East Germany, Hungary and Czechoslovakia than by events in Mexico.
 
At the Crossroads
 As a result Mr. Salinas faces a difficult choice: either further accelerate the pace of reform, which is already intense by Mexican standards, or risk losing the gains he has promised the Mexican people. A lot is on the line, especially for Mr. Salinas's Institutional Revolutionary Party. After six decades of unbroken rule, the party's hold over Mexico weakened in recent years and Mr. Salinas barely squeaked into office amid widespread allegations of election fraud. If Mr. Salinas and his economic program stumble, the party would likely face further erosion.
''Salinas has followed the recipe and done everything the way you are supposed to do it,'' said Rogelio Ramirez de la O, a leading private-sector economist here who is sympathetic to the President's objectives. ''But his situation reminds me of that Bunuel movie in which every time they sit down to eat, something happens and they have to get up from the table. As a result, he and his people are finding that much of what they thought would not be necessary has become necessary.''
Just last month, Mr. Salinas delivered a most heretical message to the one million workers who marched by the balcony of the National Palace expecting the ritual stroking that comes each May 1, Mexico's Labor Day. They must, he told them, ''increase productivity, lower costs and help win markets inside and out of the country.'' A day later, he announced that he intended to privatize the country's banking system, nationalized in 1982. And by the end of May, he obtained approval from Mexico's Congress for the proposal that promises to be the most important of his administration: negotiation of a free-trade agreement.
As a candidate for President early in 1988, Mr. Salinas had ruled out such an accord, citing ''such a different economic level'' between Mexico and the United States. That statement was in keeping with the traditional values of his party, which during the four decades ending in 1980 delivered 6 percent average annual growth by keeping foreign competition out and subsidizing domestic producers, so as not to be swallowed by United States interests.
But Mr. Salinas ''is nothing if not pragmatic,'' one diplomat here said, and the President now contends that an agreement is essential not only to attract investment but also to guarantee access to American markets. The steps that led him to discard a policy in place since the Mexican Revolution of 1910 say much about the flexibility he will need to demonstrate during the rest of his six-year term.
''At least we have someone who reacts quickly to changed conditions, rather than governing on assumptions that no longer hold up,'' said Gabriel Szekely, a Mexican scholar who is associate director of the Center for United States-Mexican Studies at the University of California at San Diego.
 
Promises, Promises
 One major assumption has already been undermined: When Mexico concluded an historic debt-reduction agreement with its 500 commercial bank creditors last July, cutting its $100 billion foreign debt by more than 10 percent, Mr. Salinas and his economic team predicted that a burst of growth was imminent, fueled both by a surge of foreign investment and the return of Mexican capital that had gone abroad. The National Development Plan sent to the Mexican Congress shortly afterward predicted that the $26.5 billion that foreigners have invested in Mexico would double by 1994, the end of Mr. Salinas's term.
What Mr. Salinas could not anticipate, however, was that Communism would collapse in Eastern Europe and present Mexico with a whole new set of rivals. Overnight, state-owned companies were on the block around the world, offering the foreign investor attractive new possibilities.
''Suddenly, there were more players in the piece,'' said Claudio X. Gonzalez, chairman of Kimberly-Clark de Mexico and an adviser to Mr. Salinas on foreign investment matters. ''There is no question but that a diversion is going on.''
The implications for Mexico became clear in January, when Mr. Salinas addressed top European business executives at a conference in Davos, Switzerland, and met with the leaders of the European Community, Britain, Portugal, East Germany and Poland. Interest in investing money in Mexico or buying up Mexican state companies was minimal, and Mr. Salinas returned to Mexico sobered by his experience, according to Mexican officials and foreign diplomats here.
''Here you are at Davos, and your President is there, and he gives the keynote address and is extremely good and is well-received, and the next day, meetings on Hungary and Poland and East Germany started, and zoom, everybody was off listening to those meetings and what those other people had to say,'' an adviser to Mr. Salinas recalled. ''It was a real eye opener.''
As a result, while Mexico is still looking to foreign investment to play an important role in the country's growth, the Government's emphasis is now clearly on the domestic sector. The decision to privatize the banks, which are highly profitable, is expected to bring home as much as $7 billion in capital that had been sent abroad in the early 1980's. Similarly, the mere prospect of a free-trade agreement with the United States is expected to encourage Mexican investors to take advantage of new opportunities at home instead of buying real estate in California and Texas.
 
'An Ossified System'
 Still, even if a free-trade agreement is reached, it will not be a panacea. Mexico faces a gamut of structural problems that will test Mr. Salinas's political resolve and his reputation as an innovator and reformer.
''The problem is not Salinas or his 10 top people,'' said one foreign official. ''But in an ossified system like this one or the Soviet Union or any other place where there has been one-party rule for a long time, you run into tremendous problems the deeper you go into the society.''
Mr. Salinas's biggest challenge probably lies in Mexico's agricultural system, which has suffered a dramatic deterioration in recent years and is described by one Eastern European diplomat here as ''even more backward than that of the Soviet Union.'' More than half the country's arable land is held as ejidos, a pre-Columbian form of land tenure in which a peasant community collectively owns a piece of land and the natural resources and houses on it. As Mexico's population has grown, the parcels worked by individual peasants have shrunk in many cases to an acre or less, thus making economies of scale impossible.
Combined with a tradition of low prices for agricultural producers and large subsidies for consumers, the result is a disaster in the countryside that contributes heavily to Mexico's widening trade gap. In 1989, Mexico imported more than 10 million tons of grains, mostly from the United States. Mr. Salinas acknowledges that ''this year we are going to have to import another 10 million tons of food,'' a trend the United States thinks is likely to continue through the end of the century.
 
Mystical Attachment
 On purely economic grounds, a complete overhaul of the ejido system would therefore appear to be in order. But official recognition of ejido ownership was one of the principal issues over which more than a million people lost their lives during the Mexican Revolution, and to this day many Mexicans maintain a mystical attachment to the institution. In addition, Mexican law states that ejidos are ''inalienable, nontransferable and nonattachable,'' conditions that drive away investment that might otherwise flow into agriculture.
Thus, the steps Mr. Salinas can take to modernize the countryside are limited unless he wishes to risk a long, emotional and politically costly battle to change the Mexican Constitution. At the moment, with the free-trade issue already generating enormous controversy, he appears unwilling to do so.
A similar situation prevails at Pemex, the state oil company, which is also viewed as ''untouchable'' because of the profound nationalist sentiments associated with it. The corrupt labor leaders who manipulated those feelings to their own profit at the height of the oil boom a decade ago have been jailed or squeezed out since Mr. Salinas came to power, but Pemex continues to be notoriously overstaffed and unproductive: with proven oil reserves of more than 50 billion barrels, Mexico is importing gasoline.
The company was starved for investment through much of the 80's, a result of Mexico's economic crisis, but to pump large amounts of state money into it now would undermine Mr. Salinas's drive to reduce the public sector. Some limited activities have been opened to private participation through new decrees that are paragons of bureaucratic legerdemain, but foreigners are largely unimpressed: before rushing in, they want new laws passed to make investments more secure.
Complaints that Mexico has not done enough to provide foreign investors with the protection they require are common in other areas as well, especially among the Japanese business executives Mr. Salinas will be meeting during a 10-day Asian trip that starts June 17 in Tokyo.
 
What Investors Want
 Potential foreign investors are quick to note that Mr. Salinas changed only the administrative regulations governing their activities, shying away from rewriting a restrictive 1973 foreign investment law that remains on the books. They say that the country's labor regulations, traditionally staunchly pro-union, are increasingly being interpreted in favor of corporations, but argue that the entire labor code needs to be replaced. They point out that they can now buy preferred stock that allows them to share in the profits of companies formerly closed to foreign investment, but complain that they are still denied a voice in management.
''Mexico needs to do away with a lot of regulations that are highly politicized,'' said Dr. Szekely of the University of California. ''Mexico is full of rules with hidden understandings and 25 exceptions, and that's no way to run a country.''
When asked about the complaints, Mr. Salinas chose to focus on one of the problem areas. ''The changes we have made in our investment regulations to stimulate foreign investment are very recent,'' he said, adding that critics must ''give us time to make them work.''
Mexican investors also want ''greater stability, and that means single-digit inflation,'' said Jorge Ocejo Moreno, president of the Mexican Employers' Federation, a leading business group. But after bringing inflation down dramatically from a record high of 160 percent in 1987 to 19.7 percent last year, the Government effort has stalled, at least momentarily. The Government had set a target of 15 percent for 1990, but most economists in the private sector now foresee a rate of 25 percent.
That, however, has not stopped Mr. Salinas from implementing a $1.3 billion social works effort. Spending to install electricity, water, schools and health clinics in poor areas may not be inherently inflationary, since Mr. Salinas has repeatedly emphasized that he is using only the money gained from the privatization of state companies. But critics of the effort point out that this money could just as easily have been used to diminish the $50 billion domestic debt, thus driving down interest rates as well as inflation.
''In order for the economic program to advance, there has to be a social consensus, and you build that consensus by responding to the most urgent demands of the community,'' Mr. Salinas said in response.
''It's a question of political management and equilibrium, no?'' asked Jesus Silva Herzog, a former Minister of Finance who believes Mr. Salinas has pointed Mexico in the right direction but is moving too fast. ''There are political and social necessities that must be attended to.''
But whatever the political realities, the economic realities are making their own demands. The surge of inflation has placed renewed pressure on the exchange rate. That has slowed the growth of exports.
And fears are growing that the foreign debt could re-emerge as a crippling factor. The Government's strategy ''is highly dependent on the success of capital repatriation and foreign investment,'' said Mr. Silva Herzog. ''If they don't come, then we are going to have serious problems again with the service of the debt in 1991 or 1992.''
With such dire possibilities on the horizon, Mr. Salinas is not likely to be slowing down any time soon.
 
THE NORTHERN CONNECTION
If President Salinas and his economic team are carrying out the restructuring of Mexico ''by the book,'' as both critics and supporters acknowledge, it may be because they devoted their formative years to poring over Keynes, Schumpeter and Samuelson under the tutelage of professors in the United States.
Mr. Salinas spent much of the mid-1970's at Harvard University, where he was awarded master's degrees in both public administration and political economy before earning a Ph.D. in political economy and government.
Mr. Salinas's most trusted adviser is probably Jose Maria Cordoba Montoya, whose nondescript official title is chief of the office of coordination of the presidency.
''Cordoba is the closest thing Salinas has to an alter ego,'' one diplomat said. ''When they are together, you find Salinas saying things like, 'Isn't that what we think, Pepe?' ''
Born in France of parents who were Spanish Republican exiles, Mr. Cordoba, who celebrated his 40th birthday on Friday, studied at the Ecole Polytechnique and the Sorbonne in Paris before moving on to Stanford University, where friendships with Mexican students led him to develop an interest in the country. He became a Mexican citizen in 1985.
Rounding out Mr. Salinas's economic cabinet are three key ministers, all of them under 40 and with doctorates earned at universities in the United States.
The Minister of Finance, Pedro Aspe (39, Massachusetts Institute of Technology), has overall authority for management of the economy.
As Minister of Commerce and Industry, Jaime Serra Puche (39, Yale), is, along with Mr. Cordoba, most closely identified with the push for a free-trade agreement.
And the Minister of Budget and Planning, Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon (38, Yale), occupies the post that has produced Mexico's last two Presidents, but is viewed more as a number cruncher than a politician.
 
INCREASING THE FLOW OF FOREIGN CAPITAL
Though a flood of foreign investment has yet to materialize as a result of last summer's debt-reduction agreement, a steady flow of capital is on its way, Mexican officials say.
The largest single investment announced thus far is that of the Nissan Motor Company, which is expected to pump nearly $1 billion into a new automobile plant in the central state of Aguascalientes. Volkswagen A.G. and the Ford Motor Company have also said they would raise their profiles here, by about $500 million and $300 million respectively.
Beyond the automotive industry, the largest new commitment, some $300 million for general expansion, has come from Nestle S.A. Another major European multinational, Rhone-Poulenc S.A., heads a group that will invest more than $100 million in a hydrofluoric acid plant near the American border.
Of the large American corporations that traditionally have accounted for the bulk of foreign investment in Mexico, one of the most bullish appears to be the General Electric Company, which is spending about $200 million in a joint venture with a Mexican appliance maker, aimed at producing cooking stoves for consumers in both countries. ''It is a very big leap forward for us,'' said Jim Allen, a G.E. spokesman. ''This plant will be our only gas-range facility and is very critical to our whole North American strategy.''
In addition, ''at least $500 million of activity has taken place through the stock market,'' said Claudio X. Gonzalez, a foreign investment adviser to President Salinas.
According to Government figures, nearly half that flow has gone to a pair of companies: the Alfa group, an industrial conglomerate, and Telefonos de Mexico, the state-owned telecommunications company that is being privatized.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carlos Salinas de Gortari with a portrait of one of his 19th-century predecessors, Benito Juarez (Sergio Dorantes for The New York Times) (pg. 1); President Salinas the day after his election in 1988 (Associated Press); graphs: Mexico's consumer price index, 1980- April 1990 (Source: Banco de Mexico), trade balance, exports and imports, 1985-1989 (U.S. Embassy); Mexico's foreign debt, 1980-March 1990 (Source: Ministry of Finance; United Nations); gross domestic product, annual changes, in percent, 1981-1989 (Source: Banco de Mexico) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); HUNGARY (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (67%); IMPORT CONTROLS (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); TAX REFORM (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); TRENDS (64%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ELECTION FRAUD (50%); 

PERSON: SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES); ROHTER, LARRY GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



70 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIARY

BYLINE: By Allen R. Myerson

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
Greenwald Shifts His Bets From Chrysler to UAL
 
Gerald Greenwald would rather bet his career on an employee buyout of UAL Inc. than the prompt retirement of Lee Iacocca. Last Wednesday, he resigned as the Chrysler Corporation's vice chairman and Mr. Iacocca's likely successor to become chief-executive-in-waiting for UAL. Mr. Greenwald's wait will end if he can arrange financing for the unions' $4.36 billion offer by the board's Aug. 9 deadline. At Chrysler, he helped keep the company out of bankruptcy a decade ago and led a cost-cutting campaign more recently. Analysts say his participation improves the chances of a deal at UAL. ''It moves the entire transaction off dead center,'' said Helane Becker of Shearson Lehman Hutton. ''The employees should be congratulated for going out and getting someone so good.'' UAL stock jumped 4 5/8 to 155 1/2 on Thursday, still well below the unions' $201-a-share offer. 
 
*
 
Chrysler, meanwhile, rushed to reassure investors that the loss of three senior executives in about two weeks has been coincidental, and unrelated to sagging sales. Mr. Greenwald's duties, and his prospects for succeeding Mr. Iacocca, were immediately divided between the new vice chairman, Robert S. Miller Jr., and Robert A. Lutz, president of Chrysler's automotive operations. Scott F. Merlis, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, says that the company has deep ranks of sound managers. He added that, ''if my computer is correct in extrapolating his energy and commitment,'' Mr. Iacocca is unlikely to leave when his contract runs out in 1991.
 
Tubeside Revisionism
 
If the new fall lineup doesn't produce more viewers, the statistical adjustments will. On Thursday, ABC announced a plan to come up with ratings more to its taste. CBS and NBC are likely to follow. The networks have suffered from broad declines in television viewing reported by the A.C. Nielsen Company. Failing to deliver a guaranteed audience to advertisers can become costly, forcing the networks to dole out free commercials. So ABC, disputing Nielsen's reliability, plans to adjust its audience counts. ''Totally fair,'' an ABC executive said. ''Totally unacceptable,'' a leading advertising executive responded.
 
One Bum Quarter, You're Out
 
Barbarians in the bullpen: They say that baseball teams take on the character of their cities. So it's no wonder that the New York Mets changed managers the way Wall Street restructures a corporation. Davey Johnson had a peerless record for six years. But his bottom-line, won-lost performance for the most recent quarter disappointed sports analysts and the team's investors. Met attendance passed 2.9 million in a winning season last year; fewer fans would watch losers. The investors decided that they could improve their returns with a tough new manager, Derrel McKinley Harrelson. A former Met shortstop, he is called scrappy as often as he is called Bud. Employees fear that the company will become more like boot camp than the corner bar, with layoffs possible. Mr. Johnson, meanwhile, floats off under a golden parachute that gives him the rest of his $350,000 salary this year and $500,000 the next.
 
Harcourt Changes Covers
 
One more publishing house executive is gone after failing to mind the right set of books. William I. Jovanovich resigned as chairman of Harcourt Brace Jovanich after a career of publishing the likes of T. S. Eliot and E. M. Forster. His successor, John S. Herrington, a former Secretary of Energy, needs to slash the $1.6 billion in debts that Mr. Jovanovich piled up in fighting off a takeover attempt. In this he will work with Peter Jovanovich, the chief executive and William's son. Harcourt Brace stock, which reached 63 3/4 in 1987 during the battle for control, has recentlybeen trading at about 3. Bert L. Boksen, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates, said that teachers who are impressed with the company's textbooks ask him whether toinvest. Mr. Boksen is neutral, but says that the sale of some could pull the company through.
 
Manville's Bankrutpcy, Again
 
Two judges in New York reopened the Manville Corporation's bankruptcy proceedings on Friday. The extraordinary ruling came in response to the deteriorating financial condition of a trust handling thousands of asbestos claims.
 
Banking's Into Insurance
 
Banks are all ready to storm into the insurance business. Delaware passed laws on Wednesday allowing the banks, many of which have credit card operations in the state, to sell insurance across the nation. Analysts expect the banks to sell home and automobile insurance but avoid underwriting. ''They have their hands full with credit risk,'' said G. Alan Zimmerman, an analyst at Smith Barney. ''They don't need underwriting risk.'' Their greatest risk now is that insurance agents will convince the Federal Reserve Board to keep the banks out of the business.
 
In Brief
 
The trustee for Eastern Airlines said on Friday that he had offered to aid a Federal investigation of allegedly falsified maintenance records.
 
*
 
A Federal grand jury accused the Nynex Corporation of violating a restriction on selling computerized information that was imposed in the 1982 break-up of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company.
 
* Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. hopes to rise from the indebted and the dead. The brokerage firm sought bankruptcy protection last week in an attempt to reorganize. Frederick H. Joseph resigned as the firm's chief executive while continuing as president of the parent company, which filed for bankruptcy in February.
 
COMPANIES
 
Japan's New Women
 
Don't discount the efforts of Japanese women in the workplace, says the new editor-in-chief of the prestigious Asahi Journal magazine. When Mitsuko Shimomura joined the affiliated Asahi Shimbun newspaper 18 years ago, she was one of just 10 female journalists there. Today there are 200, out of 3,000 in all. And women now account for nearly 40 percent of the Japanese workforce, up from 32 percent in 1975. American feminists are more visible, Mrs. Shimomura says, while their Japanese counterparts are quiter, more subtle and less confrontational, in accordance with their culture. ''The American way, whenever you find anything wrong, you do surgery, no matter how much blood comes out,'' she said on a visit to the United States last week. ''The Japanese way, you take a pill every day, and six months or a year later you feel better.'' Mrs. Shimomura, apparently the highest-ranking woman in Japanese print journalism, says women are still scarce in management - as if the medicine, while working, has yet to have its full effect. One of her first actions as editor was urging her five deputies, all male, to take more time off to spend with their wives and children.
 
Spirited Touch to Russian Trade
 
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev arrived in the United States last week in search of expanded trade. He admitted that his economic reforms have yet to show results. ''Our ship has lost anchor and therefore we're all a little sick,'' he said. In talks with Congressional leaders, he backed away from his commitment to a referendum on higher food prices. Vodka makers, meanwhile, capitalized on the summit spirit. Smirnoff is running advertisements showing weaponry X-ed out and Smirnoff bottles, unmarked. Liquor stores in Minneapolis celebrated Mr. Gorbachev's planned visit today with rebates on Stolichnaya, a Soviet vodka.
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Jobs Scarce, Market's Up
 
Dreary employment figures caused delirium on Wall Street. Private payrolls rose by only 19,000 in May, after economists had expected at least 100,000 additional jobs. The unemployment rate reported on Friday fell a tenth of a point to 5.3 percent in May, but economists said the employment figures were far more significant. Excluding government, which has been temporarily hiring hordes of census workers, the economy has lost 105,000 jobs over the last three months. ''It's a sluggish economy. No doubt about it,'' said Stephen S. Roach, senior economist at Morgan Stanley. He expects the economy to grow less than 2 percent this quarter. Investors who said they foresee lower interest rates helped push the Dow to its first close above 2,900 on Friday, while bond prices soared. But Federal Reserve Board members are bound to be calmer than Wall Street's manic traders. Mr. Roach, a former Fed economist himself, says that with no apparent threat of a recession, the board is unlikely to ease up on rate pressures.
 
Economic Clouds Ahead . . .
 
The leading economic indicators are leading downward. For April, the index fell two-tenths of 1 percent, reflecting the third straight decline in building permits. Real estate appears to be in a recession; sales of new single-family homes fell 1.6 percent in April. The decline, the fifth in a row, brought sales to the lowest level since 1982.
 
. . . But the Texas K.B.I. Soars
 
The surest sign of a reviving Texas economy: The closely watched Kreuz Barbecue Index, released last week, showed a healthy annualized gain of 5 percent. Because this is a preliminary estimate, industry analysts are reacting with caution. ''I haven't sat down and figured it out exactly,'' said Don Schmidt, co-owner with his brother Rick of the Kreuz Market in Lockhart, Tex. For the year so far, he said, he is serving at least 5 percent more beef brisket, beef shoulder, pork loin and hot sausage links, with more Shiner beer. The K.B.I. had been as flat as the state's Panhandle for about three years. Not that it takes much prosperity to buy a thick slice of beef on brown butcher paper - $1.50 does it. But since Kreuz is in the hill country of Texas, many customers also have the expense of driving over from Houston, San Antonio, Austin or the oil fields to the south. ''People don't travel unless they have money,'' Don Schmidt said. ''Overall, Texas is picking up.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gerald Greenwald (Associated Press); Harrelson: New man for the Mets; William I. Jovanovich; Gorbachev and Bush talk capitalism; Frederick H. Joseph; graphs: monthly change in employment inthe private sector, Jan. 1989-May, 1990 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); monthly change in index of leading economic indicators, May 1989-April, 1990 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY RESIGNATIONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (86%); BASEBALL (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (74%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); STATISTICAL METHOD (69%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 



71 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: Civvies for the American Military Economy?

BYLINE: By JOEL KURTZMAN

 BODY:
As the cold war fades into history, policy makers are beginning work on trimming the military budget. But how easily can companies that serve the military convert their operations to civilian use? Seymour Melman, professor emeritus of industrial engineering at Columbia University and chairman of the National Commission for Economic Conversion and Disarmament, and Lawrence Klein, Benjamin Franklin Professor of Economics at the University of Pennsylvania and a Nobel laureate, discussed the economic consequences of smaller military budgets with Joel Kurtzman of The New York Times.
 
Q.: Will companies that produce for the military be able to convert their factories to civilian use as the military budget is trimmed?
 
Mr. Melman: Companies that supply the military are operating in a cost maximizing mode. Based on the available evidence, it is not prudent to assume that these same firms could satisfy the demand for civilian products. Military-industry managers have what Thorsten Veblen once called a ''trained incapacity.'' They can't function in a civilian market. They can't design products for the civilian consumer market like tape recorders, VCRs, etc. 
 
Q.: If these companies can't produce for the civilian market, then will cutbacks in the military mean more imports and higher unemployment? :cw0> Not necessarily. Too few military contractors that I know of have been able to shift to civilian production. But some did. I did some computer work, for instance, with Boeing Computer Services.
 
Mr. Melman:: Pardon me, but were you referring to Boeing Computer Services as a military contractor?
 
Mr. Klein:: No. It is a civilian company. But it is a civilian alternative for Boeing after cutbacks in military spending.
 
Mr. Melman:: Ah, but you see, this is a very important matter. We have to make some differentiations here. The larger companies typically have a variety of divisions, some serving the military and some serving the civilian sector. In the case of Boeing, the military contractors are notably different in their internal modus operandi from the civilian facilities. Even the plants and management systems are different.
 
Q.: Can't military managers learn from civilian managers?
 
Mr. Melman:: There was a very important attempt made by Boeing's Vertol division outside Philadelphia. Boeing attempted to go from making helicopters for the military to producing electric trolleys, trams, light rail vehicles and subway cars.
It failed. The reason it failed is because Boeing did nothing but operate by methods that were well accepted on the military side. In fact, of the 80 or so engineers that worked on this project, all but one had come out of military aerospace. The other engineers had no training in cost-minimizing design.
They also operated in the standard Pentagon fashion called ''concurrency,'' meaning they did the design, testing, evaluation and production all at the same time instead of dealing with each of these operations sequentially. As a result, the items they produced and delivered to customers were not properly tested. One unfortunate customer was the Massachussetts Bay Transportation Authority. The cars it received suffered from extreme unreliability and unacceptable breakdown rates. There was a parade of lawsuits and then Boeing abandoned the whole affair.
 
Q.: What is required for a company to make a smooth transition from the military to civilian sector?
 
Mr. Melman: Preparation.
 
Q.: What kind and over how long a period?
 
Mr. Melman: It takes two years to do serious blueprinting for changing a military factory to a civilian one. That's the planning time. That's well-established. We also must change the occupational skills of managers and engineers and some production workers. We have to train them into designing for cost minimizing. We have to train managers to deal with Sears, Roebuck rather than with Pentagon divisions. That requires, again, about a two-year period. Part-time participation in retraining work is a perfectly conceivable.
 
Q. So it would take about two years overall if these actions were undertaken at the same time?
 
Mr. Melman: Yes. About two years.
 
Mr. Klein: It is not just a question of retraining engineers. Retraining is important with military personnel also. Some of the suggestions that have been made include demobilizing 100,000 troops - and that is the low end of the estimate.
 
Mr. Melman: In April of 1962, President Kennedy announced a comprehensive plan for achieving general and complete disarmament in 10 years on a three-stage basis. It was formally submitted for negotiations. The proposals were never negotiated because of the Cuban missile crisis, and the ideas were put aside. But it was a serious formulation. The plan should be re-examined.
The military budget today is about $300 billion a year. If we implemented the Kennedy plan over a 10-year period and reduced the budget by 10 percent a year to just enough to support an international police force, we would save a total of about $1.5 trillion over that period.
 
Mr. Klein: Well, what's being talked about is not disarmament. There's talk of some disengagement, mutual arms reductions, stopping the cold war, stopping some of the arms race. But there is also talk about being ready for situations that may develop in other parts of the world. That's not disarmament.
 
Q. Under the Kennedy plan, would these resources become available if there were arms cutbacks?
 
Mr. Melman: Yes.
 
Mr. Klein: Another route to getting the resources would be to reduce capital costs in this country by getting interest rates down, which would come from a smaller budget deficit.
 
Mr. Melman: That's one perspective. The United States and the Soviet Union have both suffered badly domestically in the course of the cold war. The probable economic winners of the cold war are West Germany and Japan. The United States has been made into a second-class industrial economy with worse yet to come.
 
Mr. Klein: I don't agree with that at all. The United States has not become a second-class economy.
 
Mr. Melman: I take it as a reasonable conclusion from a set of independently checkable phenomena - the ability to produce comparable products at a competitive price. Then there's the decay in quality of life. You have only to walk out of into the streets of New York to see the evidence of it: broken streets, broken people. It's a disaster.
 
Mr. Klein: That's anecdotal. It is true that there's homelessness in America. It's true that we have a poor, degraded infrastructure. But, if you travel all over America, you get a very different picture depending on where you are. What's crucial is this: We have spent less relative to some other nations, but we have gained in the last three or four years and we will probably continue to gain. Our trade balance will improve - it has improved. It will continue to improve. We will eventually get down the budget deficit.
There is much to be done, but I think it is highly premature to say that we are a second-class nation.
 
Q. Are you arguing that the degraded infrastructure you refer to is a result of military spending?
 
Mr. Melman: Yes. From 1947 to 1989, the Department of Defense spent $8.2 trillion in 1982 dollar value on behalf of the military. That is an immense figure since in 1982 the combined value of American industry and infrastructure was $7.3 trillion.
So we have put into the military, cumulatively, a quantity of resources more than enough to rebuild what is man-made in the United States. There's no wonder that we show a deterioration in many civilian spheres.
And take the little matter of the quantity of machines that are held by the Pentagon. The money value of those machines - including such things as airplanes, cannons, factories and so on - is somewhat more than 40 percent of the money value of all the machinery held by all of American industry.
That means that the 6 to 7 percent of gross national product spent on the military each year has had a set of current and cumulative effects that weigh heavily on the competence of the industrial system as a whole.
 
Q. What have been the practical consequences of these expenditures?
 
Mr. Melman: A major part of American industry has disappeared from the United States. It was put abroad by the owners.
 
Q. But won't those firms come back once it's attractive again for them to relocate in the United States? Isn't that what capitalism is about?
 
Mr. Melman: One crucial point here. If this decay proceeds to the point where there is no longer a capacity to design and manufacture products, there's no coming back.
We spoke earlier of Boeing and its attempt to make electric trolleys. Electric trolleys and electric transportation are now in increasing demand in the United States. But the cities and states looking for these goods are looking abroad because there are no factories in the United States. One example: the locomotives on the Amtrak line are made in Sweden. Where are electric locomotives being made in the United States?
 
Mr. Klein: That's only temporary.
 
Mr. Melman: But soon there won't be any labor force to make those things.
 
Mr. Klein: The labor force changes in the sense that people can be trained. But things are becoming much more automated.
 
Mr. Melman: A number of states are now asking for bids for making high-speed rail transportation: Texas, Florida, California. But the bids are all coming from West Germany and Japan because they have a competent staff and the facilities to produce high-speed electric power.
 
Mr. Klein: Things change in the world. We don't live in a static world. And we're moving ahead, we're moving ahead in some lines. We're falling back in others. But on the whole, we're not losing ground. That is, on the whole, we're not a No. 2 nation, and on the whole, we can gain back whatever we have lost.
 
Mr. Melman: If your baseline is the competence of the basic capital goods producing industries of the United States, then the data of the last decade as now reported in the census of manufacturers show a definite, persistent and large decline in production capacity. Now, that can't be reproduced in a day.
 
Mr. Klein: Of course not in a day. But the way in which certain nations got into a position of pre-eminence in certain markets is through their relatively low military burden and the devotion of their own forces to civilian business. That will come if we cut back here. But it could take one or two decades.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lawrence Klein, left, and Seymour Melman discuss how to wage a peace economy. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: INTERVIEW

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (82%); BAB (BRU) (82%); BA (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (82%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); BUDGETS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (64%); HELICOPTERS (60%); DISARMAMENT (57%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, LAWRENCE D (PROF); MELMAN, SEYMOUR (PROF) SEYMOUR MELMAN (93%); LAWRENCE KLEIN (60%); 



72 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: The Great New Drive to Rescue Wang's Computers

BYLINE: By STUART MIEHER; Stuart Mieher, a financial journalist, will receive his M.B.A. from the Harvard Business School on Thursday.

DATELINE: LOWELL, Mass.

 BODY:
Richard W. Miller wasn't frightened by difficult business situations. After all, his first job after finishing business school in 1970 had been at the Penn Central Corporation, which was going through what was then the largest bankruptcy proceeding in the nation's history.
But Wang Laboratories Inc., the computer maker that Mr. Miller was tapped to lead last August, was another story. Management was feuding with the banks. Cash was bleeding out, and Wang had just reported a $424 million loss for the fiscal year. Customers were holding back on orders, concerned over whether Wang would survive.
Even these clouds had a silver lining, however. ''One of the good things about finding the company as I found it was that people were ready for change,'' said Mr. Miller. And change he has delivered. More than 5,000 of the company's 25,600 jobs have gone; so have $400 million in annual expense and nearly 85 percent of the Wang's debt. Procedures for serving customers and developing new applications have been revamped. 
Now Mr. Miller is refocusing the company around new products, particularly in an embryonic field known as image processing. His goal: to regain profitability, and quickly.
''Turnarounds usually take two or three years,'' he said. ''We're doing this in half the time. Frankly, it's because we have to.''
Wang is far from healed. For the quarter ended March 31, it reported a loss of $147 million and a 19 percent decline in revenue. But for the first time since the onset of Wang's financial crisis early last year, a number of analysts give the company a better-than-even chance of survival. ''I think they'll make the cut,'' said Robert Cameron of Dataquest Inc., a market research firm. ''I believe Rick Miller understands what it takes to make the transition.'' Mr. Miller, a lanky, 49-year-old Harvard M.B.A., now chief executive officer, is only the second to hold that job in the company's history. The first, of course, was An Wang, the Shanghai-born computer scientist who founded the company in 1951 and remained C.E.O. until his death in March. Known as The Doctor, Mr. Wang steered the company out of troublesome areas and into profitable products with exquisite timing. The company got out of the calculator business just before competition became heated. In the 70's, it won the hearts of secretaries around the world with easy-to-use word-processing systems.
But in the 1980's, Wang's word processors - built around expensive minicomputers - became dinosaurs as personal computers took over. When Wang began making PC's, they were priced too high and weren't compatible with the products from the International Business Machines Corporation that were dominating the industry. Furthermore, service was often poor and expensive.
By 1988, sales were slumping and profits were erratic. Mr. Wang apparently began to lose confidence in his son, Frederick, who had been president and chief operating officer since 1987, and, in 1989, dismissed him. After a hectic 10-day search, The Doctor hired Mr. Miller. Though the Wang family still controls the company through special Class C stock, it shows no signs of opposing the new management.
Mr. Miller came to the job with no experience in the business of making computers. After leaving Penn Central, he had managed the consumer electronics business for the General Electric Company - also a turnaround situation - but left when the operation was sold to Thomson, the French conglomerate, and worked in industrial investment after that.
At Wang, he began with some ostentatious belt-tightening. Out were the reserved parking places for executives and the executive dining room. In was new discipline. ''Under The Doctor, 9 A.M. meetings usually kicked off at about 10:15,'' said one former executive. ''Now they get started at 8:55.''
Mr. Miller attacked the bank debt by selling a range of assets outside Wang's core businesses, such as a financial-data service, thus raising around $600 million. He also brought in consultants who told him that customer service was dreadful, and energy was expended to correct that.
But insuring long-term survival is more complicated. First, Wang has to convince customers that it will stay around. Mr. Miller said he started by answering personally every letter of customer mail on his desk - some 30 per day. And when results for the quarter ended March 31 came in worse than expected, he said he made sure that major customers received his upbeat interpretation of the results by phone or electronic mail before they appeared in the newspapers.
Mr. Miller thinks such efforts have turned the tide: ''It used to be that every phone call I had from a customer, asked me if Wang would survive. In the last 60 days, nobody's asked that question.'' Still, some are doubtful. ''A lot of upper managements wouldn't approve a purchase of Wang at this juncture, and it wouldn't be prudent to propose one,'' said Chris Richard, manager of information services for Johnson & Johnson Hospital Services, a Wang customer.
Wang also has to come up with new products and new applications to reverse its slide in sales. In the past, the organization was great at developing new technologies, but competitors were beating the company by selling solutions to problems. Mr. Miller ordained seven applications groups to focus on customer industries, such as banking and manufacturing. Reorganization isn't complete, but the group already has rediscovered scores of potentially salable applications that had once been developed for individual customers but then set aside.
At one point, Mr. Miller told staffers to get close to the customer, listen to his needs. One engineer replied: ''Just how are you going to get me closer to the customer?'' ''Pack your bags!'' There was silence, then applause. Finally, Wang is focusing product development around its advanced image processing technology. Its Integrated Image System allows a user to enter an image of a document into computer memory. Users can then summon the image and compose a response. One variation, Freestyle, lets executives annotate the document with handwritten or voice messages.
Such technology promises a host of applications. Insurers could use it to process claims more quickly, since they wouldn't have to coordinate flows of paper. One registry of deeds installed a Wang system last year to cut down on the costs of storing the million pages of records to make deed searches easier. Wang isn't the only company in the imaging market; heavyweights including I.B.M. and the Digital Equipment Corporation are also entering the field. Mr. Miller said that eventually imaging ''will drive the demand for all our products.
Wang's critics wonder if change has come too late. ''There's not enough to turn around,'' said Dale Kutnick, president of the Meta Group, a market research firm. Wang, he said, ''is too big to be a niche player, and imaging is a niche market.'' Mr. Kutnick estimates Wang's imaging sales for calendar 1989 at around $150 million, for a market share of 20 percent to 25 percent. Others point to the incompatibility of Wang's traditional products, notably the VS minicomputer, to industry-standard equipment. But there, too, it has been changing. Imaging equipment will be compatible with Unix, one of the industry's major operating systems, and a new line of microcomputers is I.B.M. compatible.
The move toward compatibility does pose tricky problems for Wang, however. The incompatible VS and related equipment account for sales of nearly $1 billion a year, or half Wang's revenue from products. The company does not disclose details on overall revenue, but microcomputers, networking equipment, operations now discontinued and new technology have made up much of the other half.
''They have to satisfy their existing customers by supporting the VS, but from a growth standpoint they have to move to open systems,'' said Michael Howard, program director for office systems for the Gartner Group, market researchers. The dual role strains Wang's research and development budget of roughly $250 million annually. Mr. Miller recognizes the problem. ''When I came, we had 800 projects in R. & D., and only 72 had had feasibility studies,'' he said. The company has whittled the list of R. & D. projects to around 150, with a third of the dollars going to VS development.
''We're committed to doing what we have to do to make the company profitable,'' Mr. Miller said - including, if necessary, additional staff cuts.
 
REVIVING CUSTOMER SERVICE
Wang Laboratories Inc.'s new management brought in Ira C. Magaziner of Providence, R.I., a consultant, to help with its revitalization, and he and his analysts set about to quiz 100 major customers on Wang's strengths and weaknesses. Here, he said, is what customers were saying:
'' 'This company has excellent products, but boy, are they hard to do business with.' ''
Rather than fixing problems, the old management, under founder An Wang, would simply ''create another department to do what the first department was supposed to do, '' Mr. Magaziner said.
The new chief executive, Richard W. Miller, regards Mr. Magaziner's principal value to Wang as having been his complete frankness.
''I could tell you lots of stories'' Mr. Magaziner said recently of what he found at the company. ''Forty percent of orders were late. Of orders entered in the factory, 58 percent were wrong. . . . One of the things about coming into a company that's been very poorly run is you can improve so many things.''
Now that Wang has installed a computerized system connecting salespeople directly to the factories that fill their orders, the consultant said, mistakes on orders have dropped to 10 percent.
Service also appears to be better. ''The number of man-hours we spent reconciling service invoices used to be a problem, and that's been rectified,'' said Chris Richard, manager of information services for Johnson & Johnson Hospital Services, a Wang customer.
The variety of staff and operational changes that have been made appear to have worked. ''We're running better with fewer people,'' Mr. Miller said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard W. Miller, repositioning a family name at Wang Laboratories (Rick Freidman for The New York Times); graphs: Wang's reveunes and earnings, 1980-1990* (*first 9 months of Fiscal year ending June 30); quarterly results, earnings and reveunes, Sept. 1989-March 1990 (Source: Wang Laboratories)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WANG (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PREMIER UNDERWRITERS INC (91%); GETRONICS NV (84%); DATAQUEST INC (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: WANG LABORATORIES INC

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FINANCES; CREDIT COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (77%); HISTORY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH (63%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%); 

PERSON: MIEHER, STUART; MILLER, RICHARD W MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



73 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: All About/Platinum;
A Thriving Market Guaranteed By Both Vanity and Pollution

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
When the Ford Motor Company announced in December 1988 that it had developed a catalytic converter that would not require platinum, the metal's price plunged. Platinum producers feared that demand would evaporate. But Ford's new converter is still in testing, and platinum demand is near an all-time high.
Platinum prices have been sustained at about $500 an ounce this year by environmentally conscious governments in the United States and Europe, and by status-conscious Japanese. The metal's leading uses are in jewelry and catalytic converters.
Jewelry accounted for 38 percent of the 3.4 million ounces sold outside Communist (or formerly Communist) nations in 1989. A record 1.15 million ounces of platinum went for jewelry in Japan, almost 20 times the amount used by American jewelers. 
Another 37 percent of the non-Communist world's demand came from producers of catalytic converters. Slightly more than half of this amount went into converters in the United States, the first country whose air pollution standards made the devices necessary. Tougher American pollution laws will require a new generation of converters that will use even more platinum.
The likelihood of tighter environmental standards is making the converters more common in Europe as well, especially in West Germany, where stricter anti-pollution regulations are already in place.
Platinum is also an important chemical catalyst, used in making many products worth far less per ounce than the pure metal: gasoline, fiberglass, optical glass, certain types of rubber, some electrical equipment, even plastic seat covers and nylon carpeting. But the metal's chemical use has diminished as manufacturers seek ways of doing without this costly ingredient.
Investors, too, are becoming less likely to buy platinum as they become disenchanted with the financial returns.
And the music industry's platinum records? They are usually made of nickel, with shiny foil or paint, and not a single gram of platinum.
 
Of Metal and Politics
South Africa, Soviets Are Main Suppliers
For all the economic sanctions the United States has invoked against South African apartheid, trade in platinum continues undisturbed. The non-Communist world depended on South Africa last year for 77 percent of its platinum, and the United States was no exception, buying in about the same proportion.
The only other major source, the Soviet Union, produced about 16 percent of international supplies - up from about 10 percent in previous years, as the Soviet Union tried to earn more Western currencies.
The worldwide stock of platinum is close to meeting demand, but turmoil in either country could disrupt shipments.
Some analysts suggest that political reforms in the Soviet Union and South Africa could bring new militancy among mine workers looking for improved conditions. News of unrest in either country regularly sends platinum prices climbing; calm sends them back down. While jewelry makers could easily turn to gold and silver, automobile makers cannot.
Jeremy S. Croombes, an analyst at Johnson, Matthey P.L.C., the London-based corporation that is the world's largest trader in the metal, said he is especially worried about unrest among black miners in South Africa.
''The black population might want to sit back and let various leaders negotiate on their behalf,'' Mr. Croombs said. ''Or they may want to make their voices heard through strikes and industrial disruption.''
 
Investment Ups and Downs
Once-Healthy Market Collapsed Last Year
For a while, platinum appeared likely to join silver and gold as a mainstay in any precious-metal portfolio. Investment demand, virtually nil until the early 1980's, grew to 155,000 ounces in 1983, 490,000 ounces in 1985 and 630,000 in 1988. A range of bars and coins was proliferating.
But last year, as gold and silver prices stagnated, investors decided they needed only 160,000 more ounces of platinum. The Japanese, the world's most active platinum investors, turned away abruptly, cutting their demand from 415,000 ounces in 1988 to 65,000 in 1989.
''The demand for platinum as an investment tool has been dragged down by gold and silver prices, which have performed more poorly than platinum,'' said Bruce Kaplan, a precious metals consultant in Los Angeles. Last year, platinum prices fell from about $560 an ounce to about $500. Investors are less interested in using platinum as a hedge against inflation, Mr. Kaplan said.
Higher demand from jewelry and industry sources has kept platinum prices relatively stable this year - which might be making the metal less attractive to investors.
Common wisdom in the platinum business is that the metal seems brighter when its price is moving, no matter which way. The Japanese are said to buy when the price is falling, while Europeans and Americans jump in on the way up.
 
New Technology
It Isn't Likely To Curb Demand
For a while, it seemed that Michigan had more to say about platinum prices than producers or investors. In December 1988, Ford announced ambitious tests of a catalytic converter made without platinum. About 40,000 Cougars and Thunderbirds in California were to be equipped with the new devices. On the day of Ford's announcement, platinum prices plunged $71 per ounce. Ask the company how things are going with its platinum-free converters now, and the response is a copy of the 1988 press release.
Platinum assists in converting nitrogen oxide pollutants in automobile exhaust into carbon dioxide and water. Few still believe that pollution control equipment can dispense with platinum entirely.
Ford says that even if converters without platinum are practical now, tighter emissions standards might require platinum to be reintroduced.
Ford contends that its new converters will at least enable the company, and the nation, to lessen its reliance on South Africa and the Soviet Union.
Some auto makers are increasing their use of rhodium, another precious metal that is often found in platinum ores. ''Rhodium will undoubtedly be an essential component of auto catalysts used in Europe,'' Mr. Croombs said. Its use in catalytic converters increased 16 percent worldwide in 1989. At $1,600 an ounce, rhodium is far more costly and rare than platinum, but also more efficient for use in converters.
But even as some turn to other metals, the demand for platinum in converters increased 9 percent in 1989 and is likely to grow more quickly this year. The growth is likely to be greatest in Western Europe, where only three of every 10 cars already have the converters.
 
WHEN PRICE IS NO OBJECT
Where price is no object, platinum fuel cells are fine. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration has used the exotic batteries to power its space shuttles.
Now the developers of these cells need to make the giant leap back to earth and find less expensive, everyday applications.
The cells, which look somewhat like stacks of car batteries, use platinum to catalyze a chemical combination of hydrogen and oxygen, generating electricity. Lee Marino, a spokesman for Johnson Matthey P.L.C., said that the fuel cells waste 10 percent less of their power than do standard utility engines.
Major corporations are eager to pursue this new technology. International Fuel Cells, a division of the United Technologies Corporation, is already selling platinum fuel-cell generators that can heat and provide emergency power for small apartment buildings.
A Japanese joint venture between International Fuel Cells and the Toshiba Corporation developed the cells for the space shuttle.
In the longer range, scientists say that the power cells can propel buses and delivery trucks. ''There are a variety of potential applications for the future that we're only beginning to explore,'' Mr. Morino said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two miners in a platinum mine in Rustenburg, South Africa (Johnson Matthey); Jewelry made from plati-num is especially popular in Japan (Michael Bondanza); Platinum coin of the type that lures investors. (Advantage International); graph: demand for platinum for catalytic converters, jewelery and investment, 1980-1989 ; pic chart: various percentages of different uses for platinum (Source: Johnson Matthey, P.L.C.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (95%); F (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (77%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (95%); 

SUBJECT: PLATINUM; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PRICES US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); PLATINUM GROUP METALS MINING (89%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (89%); FIBERGLASS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); FINE JEWELRY MFG (78%); RECORD INDUSTRY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MINES & MINING (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); AIR QUALITY (67%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (67%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (67%); AIR POLLUTION (67%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (63%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (61%); MINE WORKERS (50%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P



74 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
U.S. Is the Leader in Decentralization

BYLINE: By STEVEN SCHLOSSSTEIN; Steven Schlossstein, a business consultant based in Princeton, N.J., is author of ''The End of the American Century.''

 BODY:
We are now entering an era in which our political allies - Germany and Japan - are our most formidable economic adversaries, and we do not know how to manage these changing circumstances yet, least of all in Washington.
The new era is marked by the end of the American half-century, with the United States no longer the dominant player. But while the conventional wisdom suggests we look first to the Federal Government for leadership, a contrarian view, more in tune with the changing reality, says Washington should be the last place we look. 
Why? Because the information revolution has rendered centralized, inflexible bureaucracies - public or private - obsolete and inoperative. Decentralization, individual autonomy and choice have become the watchwords of this new era, and America - not Japan, not Germany - has emerged as the clear leader.
A brief glance at innovative reforms in public education and at new private-sector strategies provides the evidence of this powerful shift away from centrally controlled models.
In Dade County, Fla., experiments in shared decision-making are creating a new managerial model called school-basing autonomy. It began two years ago when 32 public schools chose to be managed by teams of teachers and parents, not bureaucrats.
In Minnesota, a new law lets parents anywhere in the state choose their child's school, eliminating residence requirements and forcing schools to compete. A dozen states have emulated this model.
The point is, these pockets of experimentation, restructuring and reform are in place now, and others are sure to follow. They are all being created by pressures unique to their environments, not by fiat from Washington.
In the private sector, imaginative forms of what I call complementary strategic alliances are emerging to create new decentralized business strategies for this new era.
''Tiering'' is a cross-border concept that merges strength with weakness in a cooperative way. The Intel Corporation, a first-tier American microprocessor maker, has set up an alliance with NMB Semiconductors, a second-tier Japanese memory-chip maker. The purpose is to develop a new generation of D-RAM's for Intel's market.
Non-Japanese Asian alliances are an innovative way for American companies to compete with Japanese companies in the home market. The General Electric Company has joined Korea's Samsung to make medical equipment, and is exporting its systems back to America to blunt Hitachi Ltd.'s market-penetration moves.
For all the talk about the need for Washington to provide new leadership for the new era, we ought to be looking instead to the places where America's leadership is being forged.
With the collapse of the central command economies and the death of Communism, Japan's politically authoritarian brand of capitalism will probably move into this vacuum to compete against American-style capitalism. But the new American variant, based on the decentralized, autonomous leadership examples cited, will not be the centrally controlled welfare-state capitalist model dominated by bureaucracy and linked to the pessimism of decline. It will be a more vigorous and vibrant entrepreneurial capitalism, driven by a spirit of American optimism and renewal, much more appropriate to the demands of a new age.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Schlossstein (Steve Kagan/The New York Times); drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6501 (TSE) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (82%); GNE (PAR) (63%); GEC (LSE) (63%); GE (SWX) (63%); GE (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (84%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: HITACHI LTD (84%); INTEL CORP (82%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (63%); SAMSUNG GROUP (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WEST GERMANY; JAPAN

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (85%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DEREGULATION (74%); ELECTRONICS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); EDUCATION REFORM (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (73%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MICROPROCESSORS (67%); COMPUTER CHIPS (67%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (67%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (64%); MEMORY CHIPS (61%); SEMICONDUCTORS (61%); 

PERSON: SCHLOSSSTEIN, STEVEN CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 



75 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: The Bank of Tokyo Responds

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Japan's Stubborn Overseas Bank'' (April 29) fails to appreciate that the Bank of Tokyo is a unique institution and analyze it on that basis. Instead, it tries to force it into the mold of Japanese city banks. There are crucial distinctions:
* From its origins as the Yokohama Specie Bank in 1880, Bank of Tokyo has been specifically designed to provide financial leadership for the internationalization of Japan. It has pioneered overseas markets since it began business in New York in 1880 and in London in 1881. Today, it exercises its leading role in the private sector for Japan's newly assumed responsibilities as the major creditor nation and one of the largest providers of development aid. 
* In the past 110 years, the bank has built an unparalleled international financial system with more than 300 offices in 42 nations.
* The bank has such deep roots in the key markets of Asia, Europe and the Americas that it has long since diversified from entirely Japanese business to handling a large volume of indigenous business of the host countries and of multinational corporations.
The article missed the synergies between this powerful international system and our strengthening domestic operations. As more Japanese companies become internationalized, more have become Bank of Tokyo customers in Japan. The bank has benefited significantly from this trend by, as you stated, ''simply doing what it was designed to do: focus on overseas business.''
The bank's domestic business is also benefiting from the shift to transactional banking, where the bank has great expertise, especially in foreign exchange-related areas, in developing new products and in putting together complex deals.
Finally, the article asserts that ''adding more pressure for a merger is deregulation of Japanese bank deposits.'' As of March 1989, the ratio of regulated interest-rate deposits to total domestic yen-denominated deposits for the top five city banks was 30.5 percent, compared with 10.3 percent for the Bank of Tokyo. Logically, then, the adverse impact of deregulated deposits should be three times greater on other banks than on the Bank of Tokyo.
We in ''this proud institution'' believe we are going to do very well in the increasingly global world economy. It seems we were made for each other.
 
KENJI YOSHIZAWA
Resident Senior Managing Director
Bank of Tokyo Ltd.
New York, May 16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (92%); BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF TOKYO LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: YOSHIZAWA, KENJI



76 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
In Moscow, Yeltsin Has A Summit To Himself

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
IT truly was the far side of the summit here last week as Boris N. Yeltsin could be found leaning back in the Kremlin and waxing presidential, using some of the cold war bromide language about ''mutual understanding'' to talk of mercy toward his antagonist, who was in Washington. ''I am prepared to go a good part of the distance towards Gorbachev,'' Mr. Yeltsin said, delighting the nation's groundlings as he ascended to presidential office - President of Russia, the nation's heartland republic - and immediately began talking as Mikhail S. Gorbachev's equal.
''There would be no big, no small presidents,'' Mr. Yeltsin declared, expanding still another proposal to decentralize authority away from Moscow and Mr. Gorbachev's national presidency. ''They would be equal,'' he suggested, offering if not a seriously promising plan at least some Orwellian amusement in a battered land where the people hoard food as the main way of taking the future seriously. 
Mr. Yeltsin could be savored every day here last week making some such statement, calling - in his first 100 hours in office - for the central government's resignation, for a blitzkrieg declaration of Russian republic sovereignty, and then making a point of personally befriending the rebellious Baltic leaders who have been such a cross for Mr. Gorbachev. And all this while the Soviet leader paced far off through the summit meeting's planned panoply, partnered in a slow fox trot with President Bush in comparison with Mr. Yeltsin's ragtime solo back home.
Maybe people elsewhere were absorbed in the latest news from Washington about chemical demilitarization and most-favored-nation status, but for sheer demonstration of political throw weight, the Soviet public was relishing Boris Nikolayevich back in center ring. He was crinkly smiled, thunder voiced and unfawning as ever, offering scathing complaint about Mr. Gorbachev's dalliance over promises of economic rebirth and true political opposition. Even the media here, normally so enamored of meetings at the top, paid more attention to the local news than to the doings from afar.
''This pyramid must be turned upside down,'' the husky street politician advised. Mr. Yeltsin carefully withheld critical details of his own prescriptions for reviving the economy. He preferred to focus on the easier populist demands to have Russia profit more directly from its oil reserves and to have the people somehow protected from price rises if socialist controls ever yield to free markets.
In real political terms, Mr. Yeltsin's immediate prospects may be limited beyond a fresh shower of celebrity. The Russian parliament is deeply divided and will not likely be a passive vehicle for his career. There also is no mechanism for national opposition politics on the horizon. But at the very least, Mr. Yeltsin's national franchise as a dominant talker has been renewed and in a showcase setting for him to continue his complaints about Mr. Gorbachev that so refresh the tired Russian people.
 
Stepping on Gorbachev's Coattails
Mr. Gorbachev could not mask heartfelt disappointment as he offered a tight, thin smile and bitter words at the news of the resurrection of Mr. Yeltsin, the onetime protege he sought to banish politically from the Kremlin in 1987. Mr. Yeltsin survived by going, unlike Mr. Gorbachev, directly to the people in popular election, then winning a parliamentary free-for-all by bucking the party monolith that still underpins Mr. Gorbachev's power in the national legislature. The Soviet leader's dark reaction was beamed back here as part of the summit coverage and it was hardly perceived as a demonstration of self-confidence among a Soviet audience that, so dispirited in this shopworn country, managed a collective leer of appreciation for the spectacle of Yeltsin redux.
President Gorbachev was probably more bruised than he admitted, for he had personally led a stop-Yeltsin drive while he might have been expected to be doing his pre-summit cramming, only to see the Russian parliament reject his wishes once the public began heavily pressuring lawmakers for Mr. Yeltsin's election. Even though it took three votes by the parlia-ment to elect him, and even though his victory margin was small, Mr. Yeltsin has been the nation's most popular politician, in the measure of raw street enthusiasm, ever since he made a name by bluntly criticizing Communism's shoddiness, in everything from the bare Moscow shops to the inflated promises of Mr. Gorbachev's early renewal promises. That latter outburst cost him his future as a party careerist in 1987 and it may account for Mr. Yeltsin's ever-more-beaming smile since then, for Mr. Gorbachev's attempts to discredit him have only increased the public's support of Mr. Yeltsin's new career as an insurgent.
When he comes down from the summit, President Gorbachev will find other fresh symptoms of the continuing de facto decentralization of Soviet authority. Last week, militant Armenians and Soviet troops once again clashed, with 24 fatalities. The Moldavian republic was recognizing rebellious Lithuania. The Byelorussian parliament was joining the rebellion against the food price increases. And the Ukrainian parliament was debating its own path toward sovereignty.
Amid all this growing dissent in the republics' debating halls, Mr. Yeltsin clearly was hurrying to fashion himself as the Soviet version of Mr. Republican, calling for bilateral agreements and market freedoms between republics as one of an array of methods to bypass the Kremlin's traditional central dictate.
Mr. Yeltsin claims he is a creatively, if haphazardly, evolving politician rather than the model of bombast his critics claim to see. In breaking from the Communist system, he is almost poignantly fatalistic at times, as he imagines plots to do him in and even sees Mr. Gorbachev's hand in his own success. ''If Gorbachev didn't have a Yeltsin he would have had to invent one,'' Mr. Yeltsin has written, saying for Mr. Gorbachev to play ''the wise, omniscient hero'' he needs Yeltsin ''the bully-boy, the madcap radical.''
When he comes home President Gorbachev will likely find the omniscient hero's role to have been easier up on the summit than in the heart of Russia. Now President Gorbachev will find President Yeltsin presiding most nights on one of the TV channels, leading a debating hall full of legislators, with a little bell for keeping order and interrupting for his own grand asides, just like Mr. Gorbachev does in the national debating hall. As ancient Rome offered bread and circuses in its most threadbare days, Moscow more and more is making do with the sound bites and clashing egos of modern democratic campaigning, an ever more necessary entertainment relief, perhaps, as real executive programs prove so slow in arriving.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Boris N. Yeltsin savoring the moment after becoming President of the Russian republic last week. (A. Dak/Sygma); President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev at the summit in Washington; Last of the butter at a Moscow store. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); TRENDS (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; CLINES, FRANCIS X GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



77 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: The Work Week Grows;
Tales From The Digital Treadmill

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN

 BODY:
ON Wall Street in the 1960's, there was the theory of the paddling duck. An employee would slip into the office at daybreak, do a couple of hours' hard work and then go out for breakfast. He would amble back as his colleagues arrived and would glide through the day, impressing everyone with his effortless mastery of his chores. Today the worker would have nothing on anyone else. The executive suite and a lot of humbler domains beyond Wall Street have become seas of paddling ducks, among them Clark Evans Downs.
On a misty Friday evening in Chevy Chase, Md., Mr. Downs, his wife, Emilie, and their daughters, Morgan and Julia, have finished supper and are watching a videotape of ''Cold Sassy Tree.'' As he watches, Mr. Downs flips through briefs and contracts that he has brought home from the Washington office of a leading international law firm where he is a partner. ''My firm has a word-processing crew that is available 24 hours a day,'' he says. ''I can work at the office to midnight, hand something to them and say I want it at eight the next morning, and by God it's there.''
Mrs. Downs says: ''At 7 P.M. on a Saturday night, he left something at the office. We went to a concert and he went back at 10 P.M. He reviewed it. Then he faxed it somewhere.'' 
Among 88 million people with full-time jobs last year, nearly 24 percent - largely executives, professionals, self-employed people, journalists, bureaucrats, and the secretaries and clerks who toil alongside them - spent 49 or more hours a week on the job, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Ten years ago only 18 percent worked so much.
A management training concern, Priority Management Systems Inc. in Vancouver, British Columbia, recently surveyed 1,344 American and foreign business executives and found that 57 percent of them worked 6 to 20 hours beyond the 40-hour week - 20 percent longer on average than a decade ago. ''The leisure society in America is a myth,'' said Jerome M. Rossow, president of the Work in America Institute in Scarsdale, N.Y. Last year in the United States the sales of the Filofax company, whose elaborate notebooks help people navigate through the clutter of their lives, hit $4.2 million, more than double the amount in 1987.
The American work ethic seems to have become an obsession. Part of the problem is that salary increases continue to lag behind inflation, so workers have to run harder each year just to stay even. At the same time, fewer people are entering the work force now that the baby boomers are grown up and employed; with fewer new workers for hire, companies try to squeeze more out of the ones they already have.
Students of the psyches of hard-toiling workers say that many people thrive on 60- and 70-hour weeks and the fast-pace of the electronic workplace. But others find it a sweatshop. One result is a surge in early retirement among men, who have been in the work force longer than most women. In the end, some economists say, it is not even clear that the economy is benefiting from all the frenetic activity.
The Government says more workers than ever held both a regular job last year and at least one part-time job - 6.2 percent of all working people. The moonlighting among men hasn't changed very much over two decades, but among women, it has soared. For many factory workers, store clerks and others with more menial jobs, the 35- to 40-hour, five-day week remains entrenched and protected by law and the unions. But in factories people are working almost four hours of overtime a week, at time-and-a-half pay, the most in nearly 20 years.
Some managers say that even in a conventional eight-hour day they work much harder, thanks in part to their arsenals of technological gimmickry. They have fax machines, cellular telephones, paging devices, laptop computers that they use on planes and desktop computers that let them send electronic letters, orders and contracts in seconds, across oceans. An employee at the American Telephone and Telegraph Company can dispatch messages he composes on his computer to someone else's faraway fax machine. ''I type 'ATT MAIL!' then 'FAX!' then the phone number and hit the 'execute,' key,'' he said. ''I send stuff that way to Hong Kong, Singapore, Brussels.''
Peter A. Hoffman is the partner in charge of litigation consulting at the accounting firm of Deloitte & Touche in New York. He recently spent three or four days a week for 14 weeks in Denver advising a company that the Securities and Exchange Commission was investigating.
''During that time I was asked to work on a lawsuit relating to a hostile takeover attempt,'' Mr. Hoffman said. ''From Denver, I was able to put together a team in New York, and material they produced in the day was faxed to me so I could work on it at the hotel at night. Some nights it came to 200 pages.''
Sheila Griffin, the corporate advertising director for Motorola Inc., clicks on her cellular phone at 5:30 A.M. as she sets off from home in St. Charles, Ill., for the hour drive to work. First she checks her ''voice mail,'' the recorded messages people leave on her phone. ''Then I make calls to Europe,'' she said. ''I get to the office and check the faxes. I get Europe out of the way and then work on things in our own time zone.'' Ms. Griffin gets home to her husband, a civil engineer, and two young children 13 hours after she left and spends three hours with them. ''Then at about 9:30 the phone rings,'' she said, ''and it's Japan.''
People give many reasons for working harder or longer. Most say they must to make ends meet. Some say they also relish the bustle. Some think that if they don't work harder, the competition will. An executive at Chase Manhattan Bank said that when he stays on at the office and takes the 8:10 train home to Old Greenwich, or the 8:40 or 9:10, ''I see a lot more Japanese. They're working late. You can't help but notice.''
Some people are running scared, not from the Japanese but from their own bosses. In the 1980's, hundreds of American companies eliminated whole layers of middle management to cut costs. Those remaining fear they will be next. ''They feel they have to work harder,'' Marylin Puder-York, a clinical psychologist in New York, said. ''They want to prove to their bosses that what they are doing is very important.'' They work harder, too, Mr. Rosow said, ''because the companies no longer have back-up people to pass on the work during peak loads or crises.''
Some people are getting nudged in subtler ways. Gil Gordon, a communications consultant, said many employers arrange generous discounts for their workers to buy computers for their personal use. ''But part of me wonders if that just makes it easier for them to extend the work day,'' Mr. Gordon said. ''You can get creeping expectations on the part of managers that it should be the norm for people to put in two or three extra hours a day on home computers.''
Maureen Pearce, a 50-year-old secretary in the Third Avenue offices of the New York law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton, said that when she started there nine years ago she had an I.B.M. Selectric typewriter on her desk, a Dictaphone and a telephone. Today she has a Canon memory typewriter-printer, a Compaq computer, an Amdek monitor, a Hewlett-Packard laser printer, a Dictaphone and a multiple function telephone.
''I didn't like the change,'' she said. But Debevoise & Plimpton helped her along. ''They gave wonderful training, and then refresher courses, and they paid me overtime to attend them,'' she said. Thoroughly hooked on the hardware, she has become hooked as well on working overtime with her boss, Christopher Smeall. ''My hours are 9:30 to 5:30,'' she said, ''but we schedule most mornings to get in at 8. I get a kick out of doing even what he is not sure I can handle.''
But others find that the quickening pace of the volley is burning them out. ''They're in a time-compressed state,'' said Joseph Ruffin, a psychiatrist in Oklahoma City. ''They've got more bellyaches and more headaches. They've got more diarrhea. I ask my patients: 'What if you were an automobile? What shape would you be in?' They say, 'I wouldn't last three weeks.' ''
Boris Rifkin, a psychiatrist in New Haven, said anxiety disorders have mushroomed. ''I tell these people: 'Change your behavior pattern. Go to the supermarket and wait in the longest line. Do the relaxing things. Come into work late and don't be uptight about it.' ''
Many analysts suspect that the extra work does no more good for the economy than it does for the health. Indeed, they ask, if people are producing more with their labor, why is the economy so sluggish? And why is American productivity - the value of goods and services workers produce - growing so much more slowly than in Asia and Europe?
One explanation might be that many people are just spinning their wheels. Executives hustle from meeting to meeting and make calls to disembodied voices on answering machines because those people, too, are in meetings. Michael V. Fortino, a management consultant in Pittsburgh, says the average professional worker will spend three years of his life in meetings and two playing telephone tag.
''Working longer and harder is not the same as working smarter,'' Mr. Rosow said.
Ronald E. Kutscher, associate commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, said, ''We may be getting more throughput but no more output.'' Or perhaps, he said, people really are producing more but no one has figured out how to gauge their production. Mr. Kutscher said he can write seven drafts of an economic analysis with his computer now in the same time it took to write two or three a few years ago. ''Can I argue that the article is better?'' he said. ''I don't know. It isn't being measured.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing; Table showing percent of people who hold a prinipal job plus one or more other jobs; Graph showing percent of Americans at work who put in 49 o more hours a week; Table showing percent of people 16 and older in various occupational groups, employed full time, working 49 or more hours; Graph showing number of families with two or more wage earners (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); Graph showing median number of American leisure hours each week (Source: Phillip Morris Companies Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (53%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (53%); 

COMPANY: PRIORITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS INC (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WORKING HOURS WORK WEEK (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); ETHICS (68%); MANAGER TRAINING (67%); STATISTICS (64%); BABY BOOMERS (50%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T CLARK EVANS DOWNS (70%); 



78 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Voting Isn't Helping in Guatemala

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON

DATELINE: GUATEMALA

 BODY:
MORE often than not, President Vinicio Cerezo packs a pistol under his custom-made suits - a sign, he says, that he will defend his Government with his life. But for many Guatemalans, the gun is a bitter symbol of the carnage plaguing this country, and of the Government's failure to uproot the military's regimented control.
''Elections are merely a note in the song of democracy,'' Msgr. Ricardo Urioeste, a Salvadoran critic of rightist repression in the region, often says in criticizing the United States' reliance on voting as the barometer of democracy. ''Washington keeps playing the note and expecting us to hear the tune.'' 
When Mr. Cerezo was elected five years ago as the first civilian president in almost two decades, Guatemalans heard the song. His inauguration in 1986 was greeted with national jubilation. After a generation of often bloody military rule, many equated elections with democracy, and democracy with a better life.
But far less changed than these Guatemalans expected. Mutilated bodies are still dumped by the sides of roads. Once again people are avoiding political discussions and fleeing the country. Military commanders remain regional warlords, with absolute power over their subjects and impunity from civilian prosecution. And the armed forces retain a de facto veto over almost all important Government decisions. As Guatemalans prepare for presidential elections this year, this has brought deep disillusionment, not just with the President but also with democracy.
When he took office, Mr. Cerezo tried to make changes, starting by trying to integrate the Army into the democratic process. He sought to raise the minimum wage and rework the tax code. But the oligarchy eviscerated the tax code and ended up reducing the already low payments made by the rich. Inflation effectively cut the minimum wage.
The turning point for him came during a May 1988 coup attempt, the first of two. The high command suppressed the uprising, but in return Mr. Cerezo was forced to give the military a free hand in security policies, break off talks with Marxist guerrillas and give command of the National Police and the Treasury Police to the military. He seemed to give up on governing, preferring to spend his time yachting and partying.
 
The Army Controls
So today, civilian government exists largely in name. The armed forces build the roads, provide services in rural areas, and run the government television station. ''The Army is much more efficient,'' said Edmond Mulet, an opposition deputy in the National Assembly. ''We civilians don't know how to run the Government.''
Mr. Cerezo's defenders say he would quickly have been overthrown if he had challenged the Army's institutional prerogatives. His critics say he was never up to the job and failed to demand systematic changes. ''The big success is that there were two coup attempts and both failed,'' a European diplomat said. ''That's a real success, but perhaps the only success.''
Even the United States has all but given up on the present Government. Washington used to point to Mr. Cerezo as an example of success in its effort to foster democracy. After his election, it renewed military aid and increased economic support. For the last two years, however, the United States has been increasingly critical, and this year recalled its ambassador to protest a failure to prosecute human rights abuses. The criticism may in part be pique for Mr. Cerezo's insistence on trying to become a bridge to the Sandinistas when they were in power.
The United States has also been disappointed by Mr. Cerezo's inability - some diplomats and Guatemalans say refusal - to combat an increase in drug trafficking. Since his election, the United States says, Guatemala has become the world's sixth largest producer of opium poppies and a major transshipment point for cocaine.
 
Yearning for the Old Days
Since the election four years ago was so closely equated with hopes for fundamental change, there is a growing backlash today against the whole system in Guatemala. Increasingly, it is viewed as incapable of solving the country's deep-rooted problems, which have been aggravated by the collapse in the last several years of the international prices for coffee and cotton, the two principal exports. ''People say to themselves, if this is a democracy, let's go to a military government,'' Mr. Mulet lamented.
In response to the corruption and rising urban crime, many long for the stability of authoritarian government. Opinion polls indicate a surge in support for the presidential campaign of the former dictator Efrain Rios Montt, whose 16-month rule in the early 1980's was marked by repression in which thousands died.
The Constitution appears to forbid the general, as a former president who came to power through a coup, from taking office. But law has a narrow base here, and little tradition. A waiter at a fine restaurant said he planned to vote for the general despite the Constitution. ''We need a strongman!'' the waiter said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vinicio Cerezo (center) of Guatemala at military ceremony last month to mark a change in the high command. Gen. Juan Leonel Bolanos (left) became Defense Minister and Gen. Juan Jose Marroquin (right) became Army Chief of Staff. (Vince Heptig)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GUATEMALA

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); COUPS (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); TAX LAW (63%); POLICE FORCES (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: CEREZO, VINICIO (PRES); GRUSON, LINDSEY VINICIO CEREZO (94%); 



79 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: The Region;
It's Grand And Old But It's No Party

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
THERE were 2,620,288 enrolled Republicans in New York State at last count. Last week, the Republican State Committee couldn't find one to run against Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
Not that Republican leaders solicited every party member, of course. But they failed to impress at least 19 potential candidates into their seemingly hopeless cause before finally enlisting a Manhattan economist, Pierre A. Rinfret, a lapsed Republican whose enrollment card lists no party affiliation. 
What has the party of Roosevelt (Theodore), Dewey and Rockefeller (Nelson) come to? Why did the Reagan revolution, which helped revitalize the Republican Party in many other states, leave New York Republicans adrift beyond the national mainstream in their own political backwater? Republicans have won five of the last six Presidential elections, but they last elected a Governor of New York in 1970. New York's Republican United States Senator, Alfonse M. D'Amato, was elected in 1980 only after defeating the venerable incumbent, Jacob K. Javits, for the nomination.
In New York today, the G.O.P. is neither grand nor much of a party. Arguably, it is old, though. The youngest recruit to the statewide ticket designated last week is George F. T. Yancy Jr., a cheese company executive who is 42 years old and is the former Wayne County party chairman. The party's third new face on the ticket is Bernard C. Smith, a former Suffolk County District Attorney who, like Mr. Rinfret, is 66 years old.
National and New York Republicans have often been estranged since Barry Goldwater defeated Nelson A. Rockefeller for the Presidential nomination in 1964, although the alienation began years earlier. ''New York has been out of step with the national Republican Party since the party derived its strength from the Sunbelt,'' says John Buckley, a Washington-based Republican political consultant whose uncle James was elected a United States Senator from New York on the Conservative Party line in 1970. ''Nelson Rockefeller's dominance of the party right up to the rise of Reagan,'' Mr. Buckley said, was emblematic of the divergence between Goldwater and Reagan conservatism and a more moderate brand of Republicanism tailored to a largely urban state punctuated by Democratic power bases.
 
Antidote to Rockefeller
''The New York State Republican Party,'' says Roger Stone, another Republican consultant, ''was never part of the Reagan revolution.'' But the New York Conservative Party was. It was created as an antidote to what was described disdainfully as Rockefeller Republicanism. The same philosphical tensions that led to its formation resonated last week in the Conservatives' refusal to endorse Mr. Rinfret because he - and, for the first time, the Republican Party platform - endorsed abortion rights, another apparent concession to political realities in New York.
Mr. Rockefeller's resignation to fill a vacancy for Vice President in 1973, after 15 years as Governor, triggered the decline of a state party that had become dependent on his personal largesse. ''The New York Republican Party,'' Mr. Buckley said, ''is the paradigm of welfare dependency.''
Even so, said Richard Rosenbaum, the Republican state chairman at the time, ''there is nothing so important to a political party in any state than the governorship.'' In 1974, the Republicans lost that, too. Malcolm Wilson, Mr. Rockefeller's lieutenant governor, succeeded him briefly, but failed to win the governorship in his own right. Mr. Rockefeller had bred no other political heirs.
But that was 16 years ago. Since then the party has wandered in a political desert, befriended periodically by outsiders for its rubric, but unceremoniously dumped thereafter to fend for itself. The 1982 gubernatorial nominee, Lewis E. Lehrman, a political neophyte, came close to winning. Like Mr. Rockefeller, he financed his own campaign. Like Mr. D'Amato, he capitalized on early support from the Conservatives to wag the Republican dog. ''Lew Lehrman created a new party for the sake of a campaign,'' said John Buckley. ''When Lew lost interest in being the leading Republican in the state, the myth of party fell apart.''
Mr. Stone suggests the Republican slump is cyclical. ''Had Lehrman gotten 51 percent of the vote instead of 49 percent,'' Mr. Stone said, then this story might be about the deprivation of the Democratic Party. What Mr. Lehrman's near miss proved, he said, was that ''if you've got the money, the coalition can be put together in this state.''
Mr. Rinfret, who is a multimillionaire, may give Governor Cuomo a run for his money, but that would still leave Mr. Cuomo with plenty. He already has raised $7 million in his campaign for a third term.
 
Keeping the Senate
Perhaps all Mr. Rinfret can realistically hope for is to deny Mr. Cuomo the record vote he piled up in 1986. What concerns Republican leaders more is retaining control of the State Senate, without which they could be virtually excluded from reshaping congressional and legislative districts on the basis of the 1990 Census.
State Senator Roy M. Goodman, the Manhattan Republican leader who recruited Mr. Rinfret, argued that the selection process itself had galvanized the party out of complacency and had given it new vitality. (It was Mr. Goodman who recruited Mr. Rinfret after a mutual friend, Lawrence C. Leeds Jr., stumbled upon his name as he and Mr. Goodman were rummaging through their personal telephone directories in search of a candidate.) What emerged from last week's convention, Mr. Goodman maintained, was a ''Tiffany-quality ticket'' and a party that, to accommodate divergent views, had pitched its tent as broadly as it had cast its net for a candidate. Whether what happens under the Republican tent between now and November is more akin to a circus or to a revival meeting remains to be seen. What has happened so far is ''terribly embarrassing,'' said Guy V. Molinari, the Republican Staten Island Borough President. ''Anyone who suggests it's not isn't being honest.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHEESE CO LTD (68%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (96%); REPUBLICAN STATE COMMITTEE (92%); CONSERVATIVE PARTY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CHEESE (66%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM RONALD REAGAN (84%); 



80 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: The Region;
When Welfare Pays the Rent

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
CAN a family of three survive in New York City on $286 a month for rent? The city and state maintain that it can. That is how much they give to the typical welfare family, a single mother with two children, for basic shelter.
But most housing experts say the grants given to the 287,000 families living on welfare in New York City bear little relation to the marketplace. The grants, called shelter allowances, are far below rents for vacant apartments in even the meanest of New York's neighborhoods. Welfare mothers often end up using money earmarked for food and clothing to pay rent, or living doubled- and tripled-up in cramped quarters with friends and relatives. The low level of the grants has also contributed significantly to evictions and, thus, to homelessness, housing experts say. 
The adequacy of the housing grant - which is set by the state and paid by the city, state and Federal governments - is seldom questioned in Albany or City Hall because of fiscal constraints and because the poor wield little political power. The question is about to be debated, though, in the courts. Twenty welfare mothers have sued the State Department of Social Services, asserting that the grant is inadequate and asking the courts to order an increase.
Numbers tell much of the story. Welfare recipients typically are single mothers with two or three children. A mother with three children receives a $312 monthly shelter allowance. Recipients also get about $200 in food stamps and another check for food, clothing, utilities and other expenses. This second check is $291 a month for a mother with two children and $375 for a mother with three.
Periodic surveys of New York's housing market have shown a growing gap between the welfare housing check and rents, particularly in privately owned buildings, where most of the poor live. There were virtually no apartments available for less than $400 a month, according to the most recent survey, in 1987.
Vacant, habitable apartments with two bedrooms, the minimum space sought by most families, start at about $550 a month and go as high as $700 and $800 a month in the city's poor neighborhoods, say social workers who help homeless families find permanent housing. In such a tight market, the $286 or $312 allowance can be a ticket to a homeless shelter.
''Nobody can live on that in New York, they just can't,'' said George Sternlieb, the University Professor of Urban Affairs at Rutgers University. ''You're seeing doubling up. You're seeing a whole subterranean world of people coping to get by, because the numbers really do not make sense.''
State officials would not discuss the housing grants because of the pending lawsuit.
Many welfare families do manage to survive on the shelter allowance. Generally they have lived for a long time in the same apartment. If their home is in a privately owned building, rent increases have likely been limited by rent stabilization. If they live in public housing projects or older, city-owned apartment buildings, their housing grant is accepted as the rent.
 
Squeezed by the Cost
But welfare families who have entered the system recently, and many if not most who have been in it for a while, are squeezed extraordinarily by the cost of housing. Christopher Lamb, one of three lawyers for the Legal Aid Society who are representing the welfare mothers in their suit, said poor families often must spend 60 percent to 70 percent of their income on housing. They use food money to help pay the rent, and they fall behind on their electrical bill. Often, they also fall behind on the rent, and many wind up in housing court, facing eviction. ''We see people all the time who are about to lose apartments that rent for $400 a month or $450 a month,'' Mr. Lamb said. ''And they have no reasonable chance of finding another $400 or $450 apartment.''
Many families who are evicted find themselves in city shelters and in welfare hotels - often at the cost of $1,500 and $2,000 a month for cramped, decrepit rooms. Mr. Lamb and Bonnie Brower, executive director of the Association of Neighborhood and Housing Development, a citywide coalition of community groups, contend that it would be less expensive, and more humane, for government to pay higher rent subsidies to keep welfare families in their homes.
Some conservative housing economists, like Peter D. Salins, chairman of the Department of Urban Affairs and Planning at Hunter College, agree that the shelter allowance is too low and has contributed to homelessness. Mr. Salins said the state should eliminate the housing grant altogether, consolidating all welfare payments into a single check ''to let welfare families decide how to allocate their resources.''
He added, though, that the courts should not be deciding welfare policy, including the level of the shelter allowance. ''I don't think that this involves a sufficient constitutional issue to warrant court involvement,'' Mr. Salins said.
But many housing experts want the courts to confront the question head-on. The state's highest court, the Court of Appeals, ruled in April that the shelter allowance must bear a reasonable relation to the cost of housing. The court returned the welfare mothers' case to State Supreme Court in Manhattan, where a trial is expected by the fall on the grant's adequacy.
''New York is finally catching up to reality,'' Mr. Sternlieb said. ''One would hope that, if there is an increase, New York will also reconsider code enhancement and enforcement, to make sure this doesn't turn out to be a giveaway to building owners.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing; Table showing typical mid-range rents for the five boroughs of New York (Source: Department of Housing and Urban Development); Table showing housing allowance for welfare recipients in New York City (Source: Legal Aid Society)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (59%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; WELFARE (US); RENTING AND LEASING; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EVICTION (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (77%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); LITIGATION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 



81 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 40, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4181 words

HEADLINE: Alabama Bound

BYLINE: By Howell Raines; Howell Raines, the Washington editor of The New York Times, was born in Alabama in 1943 and lived there until 1971.

 BODY:
During a recent visit to the Alabama Archives in Montgomery, I felt a heavy hand on my shoulder and turned to find the bearish figure of Clarke Stallworth, who was my first city editor 25 years ago at The Birmingham Post-Herald. Stallworth, now 64 years old, had been one of my early journalistic heroes for his crusade against the inequities of a tax system that soaked wage-earners so that United States Steel and other out-of-state corporations could pay token taxes on their vast acreage in Alabama. It seemed coincidence of a rare sort to run into this old fire-eater while I was visiting my native state to report on the post-Wallace era in Alabama politics. Serendipity piled atop coincidence when Stallworth revealed that he was on his way to join a panel discussion on the same subject. 
As Stallworth and his fellow panelists spoke in the auditorium of the archives building, I felt as if I - or rather, my native state - had been caught in a time warp. For years, Stallworth observed, the Legislature's fame rested on the fact that it included ''more crooks per capita'' than any other location in the state. Prof. William D. Barnard of the University of Alabama, the leading authority on the history of the state's Democratic Party, added that Alabama's resistance to political change and its dependence on outside capital had kept it in ''the shady part of the Sun Belt.'' Anne Permaloff of Auburn University at Montgomery, a biographer of the failed populist giant ''Big Jim'' Folsom, added that the problems of education, public corruption and tax equity that are being discussed in the 1990 gubernatorial campaign are precisely those that were debated in Folsom's 1946 campaign. ''They haven't changed,'' she said.
Of course, panel discussions on politics often produce hyperbolic statements. But what I found in a series of visits to Alabama was an astonishing unanimity of shame and rage that while the New South awakening has energized every other state in the region, Alabama remains in what one statewide magazine called ''a sleeper hold.'' And in a historic shift of public opinion, many conservatives and a few business leaders are joining scholars, journalists and political liberals in denouncing outside corporations for their historical failure to pay their civic rent.
As Ray Scott, a millionaire fishing entrepreneur and George Bush's campaign chairman in the state, put it: ''We do everything but kiss them all over their body from the bottom of their you-know-what to the top of the whatchamacallit trying to get these people to come in here and bring another industry in, and in one way we allow them to rape us.
They rape our streams. They rape our resources, and they bring a small payday in,'' while paying property taxes that are ''an absolute joke.'' As a result, says Scott, who is known nationally as founder of the Bass Anglers Sportsman Society and as President Bush's fishing partner, ''we're sucking the hind tit of poverty in this state in almost every count.''
Such comments represent a great leap forward in Alabama's political consciousness. Rage against corporate exploitation has always been a submerged theme in Alabama's political psychology. But to protest the state's status as an economic colony of the Northeast was to risk being branded a ''radical.'' In the 1990 campaign, that has changed.
''Alabama is to the rest of the nation almost as this country was to England 200 or 250 years ago,'' says Paul Hubbert, a leading candidate in the Democratic gubernatorial primary on Tuesday. ''We are a supplier of raw products. The gas coming out of Mobile Bay will be piped to Chesapeake Bay to turn the wheels of other people's industry. We'll buy back the finished product from them, and then to add insult to injury, they'll pay us 22 bucks a ton and they'll ship poison in here and bury it in our soil. And I think that makes us the equivalent of a third world nation.''
Scott's and Hubbert's comments are reminders that colorful characters speaking a language rich in images of sex, violence and aggrievement are part of Alabama's political tradition. In the early 1800's, the land rush known as Alabama Fever peopled the state's mineral-rich hills and fertile coastal plain with a rough mix of planters, horse-traders, horny-handed woodsmen and enslaved blacks. The state's love of confrontation and shady dealing - and the outsider mentality that was marketed as a national political attitude by George C. Wallace - are rooted in that period. Its feelings of aggrievement intensified after the turn of the century, when J. P. Morgan and other capitalists used Alabama iron and coal to fatten bank accounts in Pittsburgh and New York.
These corporations probably deserve as much credit as the Ku Klux Klan for institutionalizing violence as a way of settling social disputes. They used their political influence to convert the Alabama National Guard into a union-busting army. Having watched bullets, dynamite and horsewhips used against whites eager to claim their economic rights during the 1920's, the state had a model for deadly behavior when its black citizens tried to claim their Constitutional rights in the 50's and 60's.
It is impossible to understand what Professor Barnard calls the ''retardation of Alabama politics'' without mastering this capsule history. Against this backdrop, two other forces come in to play - bad luck and an astonishing tolerance for corruption. Montgomery is a town where, in serious conversation, one can hear a person's profession described as that of ''hereditary bagman.''
Shakedowns were a favorite ploy of the Wallace crowd, although Alabamians insist that the Governor was too busy with national politics to pay attention to what was being done in his name. Whatever the case, the setup was that some ally of his would get a friendly legislator to draft a bill that would hurt a given economic interest - say dog tracks, or coal miners, or electric utilities - and then offer to have the bill killed in exchange for a fee. From time to time, a Federal prosecutor will go after a politician on bribery or tax-evasion charges like those used to nail George Wallace's acquisitive brother Gerald, a Montgomery lawyer whose name became synonymous with chicanery. But no Alabama prosecutor has ever initiated any comprehensive sting operation in Birmingham or Montgomery, the major transfer points of political money.
State Senator Charles D. Bishop, one of five principal candidates for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination, says no systematic cleanup can occur until there is a governor willing to staunch the unregulated flow of corporate money into the Legislature.
''I don't know whether you want to call it corrupt money or not, because we have a very gray line in this state,'' Bishop said. ''What is corrupt? It's legal in Alabama, for instance, if there is a bill on the floor to address an envelope [to me], and I'm walking out of the Senate floor, and one of these people can walk up to me and hand me a check for $10,000 and say to me: 'Senator, now this is for your next campaign. This is not for anything to do with trying to sway your vote on the bill.' And I can simply say, 'Well, look, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to take your money and I appreciate it, but this has nothing to do with the way I vote because I was going to vote for the bill before you gave me this check.' That's legal in Alabama. It's rotten.''
This brings us to Alabama's phenomenal streak of bad luck. Every time the Alabama electorate has risen up and voted for change, something has happened to thwart the process of reform that began more than 20 years ago in the bellwether states of the New South transformation - North Carolina, Georgia and Florida - and then spread throughout the region, skipping Alabama as if its wells had been poisoned.
Alabama's ship of state ''is dead in the water, sort of rocking back and forth, while the flagships of our sister states are steaming just steadily past us,'' says Attorney General Don Siegelman, another Democratic gubernatorial candidate. ''Every other state in the South has elected at least one New South governor.''
Alabamians appeared ready to vote for a New South progressive in 1966 when Ryan deGraffenried, a racial moderate from Tuscaloosa, was leading the race for governor. His death in a plane crash cleared the way for Wallace, who was barred by law from seeking a second consecutive term, to run his wife, Lurleen, for governor.
In 1970, another progressive, Albert P. Brewer, was leading George Wallace in the polls. Then the Wallace claque unleashed the dirtiest campaign in Alabama history, using the Klan to paper the state with leaflets falsely depicting the clean-living Brewer and his family as sexual deviants, alcoholics and miscegenists.
But the biggest disappointment for Alabama voters came in 1978, when Fob James, an Auburn University football hero, was elected on a promise to improve the schools and rewrite the 1901 Constitution that shields the corporations against reasonable property taxes. Not since 1946 had Alabamians voted so clearly for clean government, fair taxes and good schools. But James, a religious fundamentalist, devoted his term to a feckless crusade for school prayer.
For years, Alabamians comforted themselves by making fun of their backward neighbors. But Louisiana and Arkansas elected polished young Ivy Leaguers as governors while Alabama wallowed along with Gov. Guy Hunt, a former Amway salesman, who is running for another term. Now, even the habit of scoffing at Mississippi, the regional scapegoat, is threatened. Ray Mabus, that state's Harvard-educated governor, has begun an education program that seems likely to lift his state, currently 49th in spending on schools, past Alabama, which is 47th.
The big question in the 1990 election is whether corrupt money, dirty campaign tactics or weak candidates will once again conspire to keep Alabama, in Ray Scott's phrase, ''down below the salt in the pickel barrel.''
So far, the gubernatorial campaign has featured a brutal accounting of the state's problems, but that is not entirely the candidates' doing. It began on Jan. 10 when Governor Hunt, a Primitive Baptist preacher, showed up at a Montgomery hotel for the annual Alabama Legislative Prayer Luncheon. Preceding him was Wayne Flynt, a Baptist deacon and author of ''Poor but Proud,'' a history of poverty in Alabama.
Dismissing Hunt's boosterism, Flynt told the legislators that ''God will judge us, as will history'' on the conditions that exist in Alabama today. Almost a fifth of the citizens have no basic health insurance and 4 percent have no running water. Birmingham, home of the state's only medical school and its best hospital, has an infant mortality rate ''rivaling that of many third world countries,'' Flynt said. Alabama ranks 43d among the states in per capita income, and 21 percent of its citizens exist below the Federal poverty level of $12,700 for a family of four.
The Governor was angry, and his rejoinder did nothing to allay his reputation for foot-in-mouth disease: ''We need to remember in many countries that would be called a rich life,'' he was reported as saying in newspaper accounts.
The Speaker of the House passed out copies of Flynt's speech. This sparked open discussion of the state's tax system, the most regressive in the country. While the Federal income tax kicks in at $12,700, in Alabama a family can start paying at $4,500. This, plus an unusually large sales tax, means that Alabama taxes the poor more heavily than any other state.
In this way, it squeezes out the revenue to maintain the nation's lowest property taxes for the companies and wealthy individuals who use Alabama as a vast tree farm. Thirteen out-of-state corporations - including International Paper, Kimberly-Clark, Scott Paper, Union Camp, Tenneco and USX, the successor to United States Steel - hold more than 11 percent of the state's land.
In 1982, the Alabama Legislature memorialized its thralldom to big timber, the state's major industry, by making it illegal to tax this land on its market value. As a result, in one large holding that straddles the state line, Kimberly-Clark pays 93 cents an acre on the Alabama side and $4.36 an acre in Georgia.
Clearly, economic progress in Alabama amounts to this: From 1901 until the decline of the iron furnaces in the mid-1970's, Alabama property taxes were tailored for United States Steel. Now they are tailored for companies that own pine trees. It comes to the same thing. Property taxes are so low that it is more economical for the big firms to sit on their land than to develop it or sell it to someone who will.
Here's a footnote for students of irony. The 1901 Constitution was written to deprive blacks of the vote and, by mandating equal tax rates for all individuals and corporations, to assure that wealthy farmers and industrialists could not be taxed for programs to help blacks. The idea was, as the saying goes, ''to keep the niggers down.'' But, as, Flynt, who teaches history at Auburn, documented, the result was to keep everybody down.
Governor hunt, it is fair to say, is no student of such matters. A self-described ''dumb farm boy,'' he was a part-time preacher and a county probate judge when he became chairman of the 1976 Reagan campaign in Alabama. Ten years later, the Republicans turned to him as a sacrificial candidate in the 1986 governor's race, but a feud among the Democrats soured the voters and suddenly Alabama found itself with its first Republican governor since 1874. Behind his back, Alabama's educators and lawyers laugh at his table manners and grammar.
But Hunt has the advantage of having at his side the single most influential man in Alabama politics these days, a polished Louisiana-born lawyer named John E. Grenier. ''Put it like this,'' says James H. Horn, a Democrat and a former state insurance director. ''Grenier eats the watermelon, Hunt spits out the seeds.'' Grenier, who took a law degree at New York University, drives a Range Rover and rides to hounds. He is said by friends to have no illusions about Hunt's bumpkin ways or his abilities. But Grenier, who was elected G.O.P. state chairman in 1962 when the Republicans were trying to out-seg George Wallace, sees Hunt as the instrument by which he can install a true two-party system in Alabama.
Grenier speaks openly of an institutionalized political segregation - ''the racial separation of the parties'' - in which Republicans would become the party of the white majority. Racial antagonisms, in his view, will enable Hunt to withstand the Democrats' charge that he is the puppet of the banks and insurance, oil, steel and forest-products companies represented by Grenier's Birmingham law firm.
''The problem with the property tax, of course, like everything, goes back to race in Alabama,'' Grenier said in an interview at the Governor's mansion. ''I think probably whites feel like they own the property, and the property tax goes up, and the proceeds will go to blacks.''
This is the 1990 version of the oldest theme in Alabama politics: the corporations and the plantation owners appeal for the votes of working-class whites by convincing them that blacks hunger for their jobs and a disproportionate share of government benefits. In order to meet the demand for more taxes from outside businesses, Hunt has proposed legislation to raise the tax on out-of-state waste dumped in an unpopular site in Emelle from $22 a ton to $112. To divert heat from the timber companies, Hunt has resorted to a political version of blame-the-victim, singling out the state's teachers, rather than a century-old tradition of underfunding, as the root of Alabama's education problem. Hunt argues that his political allies in the timber companies, long notorious for starving the school systems in poor rural counties where they own up to 60 percent of the land, have agreed to ante up, if only they can be convinced that incompetent teachers are not wasting their money. ''So all that it's waiting on now,'' Hunt says, ''is for education leaders to come in and be a part of the solution instead of being a part of the problem.''
Hunt clings doggedly to his vision of Alabama as a low-tax, low-wage haven for big corporations. ''I think that's the thing that has helped us,'' Hunt says in arguing that he has led the state into a new era of prosperity. ''These corporate heads understand a pro-business attitude.''
''Well, Governor Hunt is just dead wrong,'' says Representative Ronnie G. Flippo. ''Pure and simple, there is no substantiation for his position.
''Our job growth in Alabama has been approximately two-thirds of the job growth of our sister states in the Southeast for a number of years,'' adds Flippo, who is leaving Congress to run for governor. ''The gap between income earned in Alabama and the national average is getting broader. In 1982, the gap was $2,600. In '88, it was $3,600.'' Moreover, Flippo says, three out of four of the new jobs created during Hunt's tenure ''have paid less than the state average.''
Most public-policy experts and all of Flippo's opponents for the Democratic nomination agree. But their problem is that Alabama's sad statistics are George Wallace's legacy. Their task is to condemn the problem without attacking its author, who at age 70 lies deaf and bedridden in his suburban Montgomery home. Even so, the Democratic campaign has an inescapable theme that Wallace's most enduring damage to the state was not the harm he did to its reputation for race relations, but the poor schools, bad health care and low wages of its people.
The most candid in promulgating this view is Paul Hubbert, a former teacher and school administrator, who is in a tight race with Flippo, Siegelman, Bishop and Fob James for a spot in the inevitable June 26 runoff for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination. Without explicitly blaming the former governor, Hubbert speaks candidly of the searing experience of trying to bring black children into white classrooms while ''Wallace was railing against the desegregation of schools.''
Hubbert has introduced a new tactic into Alabama politics by driving a wedge into the business community. The extractive industries - timber, mining, petroleum - are solidly with Governor Hunt as the protector of their favored tax status. But the bankers, retailers and service corporations headquartered in Birmingham are tired of having prospective employees and investors shun them because of the state's poor schools, hospitals and cultural facilities and its troglodyte reputation. For the first time there is a chance that a few members of Birmingham's white-collar establishment could play the progressive political role played by their counterparts in Atlanta, Charlotte and Miami for the past two decades.
In this effort, Hubbert has a powerful ally in Tom Coker, former head of the Alabama Business Council and one of the most influential lobbyists in Montgomery, who says he has become convinced that ''business in Alabama has been more the problem than part of the solution.''
As his campaign media strategist, Hubbert has hired Frank Greer, a Tuscaloosa native who specializes in packaging progressive Democrats for conservative Southern electorates. Last year Greer managed the media campaign of L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia as the South's first elected black governor. This year, he is advising Andrew Young in his campaign to become the first black governor of Georgia. But Alabama represents a chance for an equally dramatic, if less obvious, break with the past. A victory for Hubbert would represent an internal revolution against power alignments that have prevailed since 1890, when the plantation masters stole the governorship from Reuben F. Kolb, a dirt-road populist elected by the white yeomanry and poor blacks.
It is clear that Siegelman and Flippo, as well as Hubbert, could provide worthy leadership on the New South model. These three men may represent Alabama's only chance to escape a long siege of dynastic politics. Lurking in the wings are Lieut. Gov. James E. Folsom Jr, now 41, and State Treasurer George C. Wallace Jr., now 38. Both are affable parochialists and law-school dropouts who got their undergraduate degrees at second-tier schools. Unless the Democratic nominee wins the governorship this time and has four years to entrench himself, either Folsom or Wallace seems certain to enter the 1996 gubernatorial race as the Democratic front-runner. Of the two, only Wallace has a fire in his gut. At the moment ''Little George'' is cagily promoting the idea that ''Little Jim'' ought to run for Congress and leave the State House to him.
''George Jr. is just eaten up with following in his father's footsteps,'' Tom Coker observes. Specifically, young Wallace wants to break the iron link forged by his father between racism and the Wallace name. ''Knowing him as his only son,'' young Wallace says, he is convinced that his father never believed in the racial policies he espoused. ''It was a political position he took.'' Then he added: ''But he was never a member of the Klan as Hugo Black was or he didn't run in the white primaries as Lyndon Johnson did.''
At this point, young Wallace's high-pitched voice rises with passion as he warms to the comparison between his father and the late Justice Black, who joined the Klan in 1923 to secure election to the Senate. ''I don't know why Dad has difficulty being rehabilitated when he finally said, 'I was wrong and I'm sorry.' What more can a man do? But Hugo Black is considered this great progressive liberal, yet he was a member of the Klan and made some of the most outlandish statements about black people that have ever been made.''
At such moments, one sees the father shining through. In part it is the physical aspect, the bulging eyes and bushy brows; in part, it is that vintage Alabama rhetorical trick, the excuse-by-comparison.
But this new Wallace is very different. He is twice divorced, dogged by rumors of rowdy living in the company of another Alabama princeling, the country and western singer Hank Williams Jr., yet essentially a loner. The elder Wallace was a compulsive socializer and, until the death of his first wife, too caught up with politics to have much libido left over for scandal. ''I'm not as outgoing,'' young George says almost apologetically. ''I don't have'' - he pauses and realigns the sentence - ''although I am very competitive, I don't think I appear as combative as he did one time.''
He is different in another way. While holding down a patronage job at Troy State University, young George was in charge of financial aid for working students. Many of his clients were black, young parents who brought their children to his office. The experience moved him. I found no one in Alabama who believed George Wallace Jr. to be a racist, in his private heart or his public positions. In that regard, he is a vast improvement over the original model.
He may be in another way, too. Everyone agrees that the elder Wallace went into office after his election in 1962 with the intention - inherited from Folsom, his political mentor - of breaking the power of the corporations and the Black Belt planters. But when Potomac fever struck him, he found he needed two things - large amounts of money and an obedient Legislature. So he lined up with the old grandees in the Legislature.
Young Wallace has been tutored by the same University of Alabama public-policy experts who are guiding Paul Hubbert. ''The data I've seen in terms of tax equity and reinvesting in Alabama is that many of our large landowners, who may not even be developing their property, paid 30 cents an acre per year. If they would pay, for example, what Georgia pays, that would generate another half-billion dollars a year for education and other state services.''
To hear George Wallace Jr. speak of the problems his father failed to address inevitably calls to mind Flynt's warning to Alabama's leaders that God would hold them accountable for the conditions they left behind them.
I thought of this when George Jr. told of riding away from the State Capitol on the day in 1986 when his father announced his retirement from office: ''With tears in his eyes, he turned to me and said, 'Son, I hope they will not let the rich and powerful take over.' ''
Was this real regret for a career blighted by demagogy or just more Wallace bloviation? It is impossible to know. But if ''Little George'' had been in an argumentative mood, he might have pointed out to his father that he had 23 years to tackle the retrograde forces that have kept Alabama in the ditch.
When George Wallace pledged to preserve ''segregation forever,'' he was a little off the mark. It was poverty and tax breaks for pine trees that he preserved. So now on Tuesday, Alabama, the hard-luck state in the heart of Dixie, must try yet again to start down the path taken by its sister states many years ago.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Public-school children in Sumter County. Alabama ranks 47th among the states in spending on schools. Right: A site in Emelle where chemical waste from out of state is dumped. Alabamians have called for more taxes from out-of-state businesses; The George Wallaces, Jr. and Sr. In racial matters, the author finds the son a vast improvement over the father. Left: Gov. Guy Hunt on an Easter-egg hunt. Right: Paul Hubbert, running for governor, calls Alabama ''the equivalent of a third world nation.'' Max Aguilera-Hellweg/Onyx; Photographs By Burnett/Contact For The New York Times); A convenience store in York, Ala., in rural Sumter County. Alabama ranks 43d among the states in per capita income; 21 percent of Alabamians are below the Federal poverty level; A sawmill in York, Ala. Ti

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: X (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (99%); 

CITY: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BIRMINGHAM POST-HERALD CO (58%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (57%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ALABAMA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; GOVERNORS (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); WRITERS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); TRENDS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (69%); ETHICS (68%); CORRUPTION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: RAINES, HOWELL; WALLACE, GEORGE C GEORGE W BUSH (60%); 



82 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 39, Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3859 words

HEADLINE: Laureate in the Land of the Pharoahs

BYLINE: By Brad Kessler; Brad Kessler is a former associate editor of Interview magazine.

 BODY:
The Aly Baba Cafe in downtown Cairo is a cheerless place with yellowing walls and soiled soapbox-sized tables. By day, couples rendezvous in its dark corners, and at night it is mostly empty. But the cafe on Tahrir Square has two things to recommend it.
The second-floor window looks out over the monuments that have come to symbolize modern Egypt: the Nasser-era Mugamma building, the bureaucratic hub of the country; the Arab League headquarters, unused since Egypt signed the Camp David accords; the Nile Hilton, and the Egyptian Museum. And in the early morning, another monument of modern Egypt is on view at the Aly Baba: Naguib Mahfouz, the 78-year-old author who is the first Arab to win the Nobel Prize in Literature.
At 7 o'clock each morning, Mahfouz arrives for his coffee, taking his window seat upstairs. For weeks after he won the prize in October 1988, journalists, tourists and assorted Mahfouz seekers hung around the Aly Baba waiting for the writer to open his newspapers and then receive visitors like a nobleman holding court. Mahfouz's face appeared on television, magazine covers and signs all over the city. A tourist restaurant was named the Naguib Mahfouz Cafe, and the author's publishers at the American University in Cairo Press were overwhelmed by requests for permission to translate his works into languages from Serbo-Croatian to Faeroese. 
By January, the burst of excitement had died down, and only one person in the Aly Baba seemed to care that Mahfouz was a bit late. It was a cold morning; newspaper vendors on the square wore scarves and keffiyahs around their heads as a damp breeze blew off the Nile. ''He'll come,'' the waiter said. Then, almost on cue, Mahfouz appeared, picking his way across the square, cars swerving around him, a small figure wearing his trademark wraparound sunglasses and a gray overcoat several sizes too big. He seemed relieved that he could have his privacy again.
The nobel committee's selection of Mahfouz was met with little enthusiasm in literary circles. Publishers and critics who had gathered in Stockholm for the occasion dispersed quickly and quietly. Reporters had a hard time finding any of his books, a not unusual ritual when the literature winners are disclosed. Even the Nobel judges admitted that little was known about Mahfouz because he was a private man and gave few interviews. After the announcement, Mahfouz's face appeared on the front pages of newspapers around the world, but it wasn't long before he disappeared again into the obscurity of a third world writer.
In Egypt, however, Mahfouz was a national landmark well before he won the Nobel. A prolific master of both popular and literary fiction, he has averaged a book a year for some 40 years, not to mention dozens of screenplays, several plays and a weekly political column in the Egyptian daily newspaper Al-Ahram. His novels, most of which deal with the life of Cairo's lower and middle classes, are more widely read and translated than those of any other author in the Arab world. Both the highly educated and barely literate read his works, and even the illiterate know his stories from the dozens of movies made from his novels and screenplays.
''You cannot picture Egypt without the Pyramids,'' says Sonallah Ibrahim, another Egyptian writer, ''and neither can you conceive of Arabic literature without Naguib Mahfouz.''
Although there had been attempts at writing novels in Arabic before Mahfouz, he was the first of his generation to write successful Arabic novels; but he didn't stop there. For more than 50 years, he duplicated in Arabic the history of the European novel - writing at first in the romantic style of Victor Hugo, then working his way through the social realism of Dickens, the internal monologue of Joyce and Woolf, and finally landing Arabic literature in the lap of the modern age.
For all this, Mahfouz is a modest man. His office at Al-Ahram, the semiofficial Government paper where he has worked for the last 20 years, is spartan, with a couple of green leather couches and one potted plant pushed into a corner. A few paintings of Mahfouz by admirers hang on the wall, along with a framed arabesque of Koranic verse.
Late on a January morning, he sat on one of his couches, a king-sized Kent in his mouth, an undisturbed cup of Turkish coffee on a small table in front of him. He was frail, slightly stooped, and wore a hearing aid; he always wears sunglasses because his eyes are sensitive to light. ''You see,'' he said, in slow, precise English, only half-joking, ''I am a very old man, an introvert. So winning the Nobel was really terrible for me. I won the prize, yes, but I lost everything else.''
He went on to explain that he was unable to write for a year after he had won the Nobel. The prize had thrown his orderly life into disarray, forcing him to face television crews and cameras and a lot of unbidden questions. For such a private man, he bore it well. But it seemed as if Mahfouz did not consider the Nobel a prize so much as some prolonged sentence of public service he had to perform.
In a sense, he was performing a public service. Ever since an Israeli writer, S. Y. Agnon, won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1966, Arab writers had waited for the prize to fall to their camp. They believed that the Nobel committee, often an equal-opportunity donor, had ignored their literature, confirming the view of Arab intellectuals that the West was inherently hostile to their culture. The choice of an Arab, then, was considered long overdue, and it was clear that Mahfouz was selected somehow to represent Arabic literature. And in Mahfouz, the Nobel panelists found a safe bet: a humanist who called for peace with Israel and would be palatable to the Western press.
In his office, with the midmorning sun slicing through the Venetian blinds, he was being a perfect public servant, saying that the real winner of the prize was in fact Arabic literature. He had once said that his work, along with the rest of Arabic letters, was fourth- or fifth-rate, a statement he now regrets. ''The new forms of literature like the novel are only 50 years old in our culture, so we are still developing,'' Mahfouz said. ''Conditions of life in Egypt are very hard at the moment. Our cultural environment would be a lot better if it wasn't for our economic crisis and if our democracy was complete.''
But Mahfouz did not want to talk about Egypt's dismal economy or incomplete democracy. He is far too cautious for that. Instead, he smiled and discussed the virtues of the country's younger writers. He sounded like a Government official, but, then, he has had plenty of experience as a civil servant. He has supported himself and his family by working for various Government ministries, as an aide to the head of the centrist Wafd Party and as a state adviser on the arts. He has also served as a Government film censor, a role for which he has been criticized. Indeed, many Cairo intellectuals regard him as an obedient functionary of the state who has tread lightly and caused as little friction as possible. While many fellow authors were being thrown into jail by Gamal Abdel Nasser in the 1960's, and later by Anwar el-Sadat, Mahfouz managed to befriend the right people, they say, and stay out of prison.
Even today there is a prudence and economy about him. He leads a middle-class existence, spending his summers in Alexandria and the rest of the time in a two-bedroom flat overlooking the Nile in a comfortable neighborhood, Agouza. He is married, with two daughters, and keeps his personal life strictly private. He hates to travel and has left Egypt only twice, on ''cultural missions'' to Yemen and Yugoslavia, and declined to go to Stockholm to pick up his prize. He is a shy man who measures his daily life down to the minute: awake at 5 A.M., a cup of Nescafe, a light breakfast, out of the apartment by 6 for a walk along the Nile - always the same route - along Um Kalthoum Street, past the Gezira Club, over the Tahrir Bridge, and to the Aly Baba by 7. He writes in the afternoon for a few hours, and is in bed by 10:30.
The world he creates in his novels, by contrast, is unsettled and difficult. His characters are lower- and middle-class Cairenes, civil servants and bureaucrats, brutish grocers, shopkeepers, pensioners, petty thieves, prostitutes and peasant women who try, but often fail, to better themselves in the big city. In his books, women are brutalized, abandoned or kept secreted away in their silent households. Men must choose between a stifling traditional past and an uncertain ''modern'' future. Either way, they are usually doomed.
''Palace Walk,'' the first book in his more than 1,200-page ''Cairo Trilogy,'' is one of Mahfouz's most popular. It was written in the early 1950's and published a few years later. Though its style is not as accessible as that of his later works, the novel, in French translation, was ultimately what swayed the Nobel committee, its panelists said. It has all the elements of a typical Mahfouz novel: an urban family ravaged by economic attrition and war, the sexual tensions of a society where men and women are kept strictly apart; mistreated women, and the struggle against the stubborn hold of tradition.
The author once described his literary career as a journey from Sir Walter Scott to Nathalie Sarraute. Though his voice may have changed along the way, the road he has traveled has always been a distinctly Egyptian one. Modern Egypt is Mahfouz's stage and Egyptian history - whether it's the Hyksos invasion some 1,500 years before Christ or Sadat's assassination in 1981 - is the backdrop for his fiction. In ''The Cairo Trilogy,'' Mahfouz traces one family through three generations, from 1917 to 1944, using as crucial events the 1919 revolution that overthrew the monarchy, World War II and the uprisings that drove out the British and eventually brought Nasser to power.
History informs his stories, and a sense of loss runs through them, coming to the surface occasionally in the form of old men who sit around hotels or tea houses longing for the hopeful and happier days of the revolution, before Nasser's socialism soured or Sadat came to power. All his novels can be read as commentaries on the national condition. In ''Only an Hour Is Left,'' the matriarch of an old Cairene family, torn apart by the Arab-Israeli wars of 1948, '56, '67 and '73, looks at her children, the children of Egypt, on the eve of the Camp David accords in 1979 and laments: ''They are all skinny, they have all aged prematurely. What has happened to them?'' And of her garden, a metaphor for Egypt itself, she observes wearily: ''When is it going to be tilled? And when will the seedlings arrive? When will the rain stop, and the workmen resume their work?''
Western readers may not immediately recognize this Egypt. There are no camel caravans, desert sandscapes or Alexandrian excess. The Western writers on Egypt - T. E. Lawrence, Lawrence Durrell, Flaubert, E. M. Forster - presented an exotic country, pulsating with sexual possibilities and Oriental naughtiness. They had the luxury of romanticizing Egypt and turning it into an oasis for their own fantasies. Nothing is ''exotic'' about Mahfouz's Egypt. It is simply a place where the yearly per capita income is about $700, where half the population is illiterate, where due process, democracy and job opportunities do not exist.
The problem for English readers comes with the language. Arabic is hard to render into English or the Romance languages. Some scholars even talk about a ''linguistic Iron Curtain'' separating Arabic literature from that of the West.
Mahfouz writes in the florid classical Arabic, which is roughly the equivalent of Shakespearean English, and his earlier novels like ''Palace Walk'' tend to be overwrought. To read him in English translation requires a little imagination and a lot of charity. In the Doubleday translation of ''Palace Walk,'' for example, Mahfouz writes: ''The young man's vital forces were so powerful that they dominated him if he was otherwise at liberty. At no time did they grant him any relief from their proddings.'' In ''The Beginning and the End,'' the protagonist, Hussein, tells his older brother, on learning of their father's death, ''Your sangfroid is amazing . . . whoever yields to fate encourages it to impose further tyranny.'' Despite passages like these, the characterizations and craftsmanship of Mahfouz's storytelling come through.
The Cairo where Mahfouz grew up was a much smaller place than today's metastatic city of 14 million people. Born in 1911 to a low-ranking civil servant, Mahfouz spent his youth in Gamaliya, a neighborhood in the heart of Islamic Cairo. His childhood was unremarkable, if a little lonely. His mother was his closest companion, taking him on trips to the Giza Pyramids and to the mummy rooms of the Egyptian Museum.
Gamaliya was and still is one of Cairo's more traditional neighborhoods, full of small alleyways, large mosques, towering minarets and noisy tea houses. There, Mahfouz learned Egyptian folk tales and culled the characters for his later works of fiction; there, he witnessed the uprisings against the British. Later, after his family moved to Abbasiya, a Cairo suburb, he studied philosophy at the University of Cairo. He read Darwin, Freud, Marx and Nietzsche, and had what he later described as a ''crisis of faith'' - the unraveling of the old Islamic pieties he had picked up in Gamaliya.
Books always figured prominently in his life. Though he was never a devout Muslim, he learned lengthy sections of the Koran by heart in school (as all children must). As a teen-ager, he translated cheap English romances into Arabic. At 25, he abandoned philosophy for writing.
With an old copy of ''Outlines of Literature'' by John Drinkwater as his guide, he diligently set about reading the correct books for a literary vocation. He studied Shakespeare, Balzac, Tolstoy and Scott, then moved his way through Melville (whom he didn't much care for), Dostoyevsky (whom he could never finish), Proust, Joyce and Mann. His first novels, written in the early 1940's, were historical romances set in Pharaonic Egypt. They were thinly veiled allegories for Egypt's struggle against British occupation based, paradoxically, on the novels of Sir Walter Scott. These early novels were mildly successful, and, with the publication of ''Midaq Alley'' in 1947, Mahfouz gained wide renown in Egypt. But it wasn't until the publicaton of his magnum opus, ''The Cairo Trilogy,'' in 1956-57, that Mahfouz became the leading writer in the Arab world.
Mahfouz today is painfully aware of his position as de facto spokesman for Arabic literature. The Nobel has generated jealousy among several Egyptian writers, and some of his peers do not think he represents them or Arab concerns. His chief critic is Youssef Idris, a respected Egyptian writer who many thought would win the Nobel himself. Shortly after Mahfouz was awarded the prize, Idris created a small tempest by claiming Mahfouz had won because of his conciliatory politics toward Israel and because he was the only type of Arab the Nobel committee would ever choose.
Idris also has an office at Al-Ahram, only a few doors down from Mahfouz's. But the two men are far apart, both politically and personally. Idris, in his early 60's, is a blustery man who has traveled widely, fought alongside the Algerian resistance against the French and spent time in prison during Nasser's reign.
In his office in January, more than a year after the Nobel went to Mahfouz, Idris was clearly still annoyed with the decision. ''We have in Egypt what I call an Amon-Ra tendency,'' he said, referring to the Pharaonic sun god. ''It's the tendency to worship one god, to pray behind one imam and obey one emir. Now there's Mahfouz, and everyone's praying to him.'' Between puffs of his Cleopatra cigarette, Idris said that Mahfouz's winning the prize was not a victory at all for Egypt or Arabic literature, but a victory for one man.
Didn't he think Mahfouz was a worthy writer nonetheless? ''Yes,'' Idris said, ''Mahfouz is a great novelist, but he's not an inventor. He borrowed the novel from Europe; he imitated it. It's not an Egyptian art form. Europeans - and Swedes - like it very much because it is their own form.''
Idris, apparently, is not the only Egyptian author who has reservations about the role of the novel in Arab culture. Writers in general, and novelists in particular, have not had an easy time of it anywhere in the Arab world. Buffeted by politics and religion, they are often at the mercy of unfriendly regimes.
Even a moderate man like Mahfouz has found himself at the center of controversy. In 1959, his allegorical novel ''The Children of Gebelawi'' caused an uproar in some Islamic circles because it portrayed the prophet Mohammed as a living man and had exactly as many chapters as there are suras, or sections, in the Koran.
The conflict was similar to the attacks on Salman Rushdie early in 1989. Mahfouz too was the target of protests and death threats. After appearing in serialized form in Al-Ahram, ''Children of Gebelawi'' was banned in Egypt.
When Mahfouz wrote in one of his political columns in 1975 that Arabs must learn to live peacefully with Israel, his books and movies were banned again, this time not in Egypt but in several other Arab countries. Even as late as a year ago, Mahfouz was denounced and given a death sentence by a fundamentalist sheik in Egypt emboldened by the Rushdie affair. Mahfouz was luckier than Rushdie: the sheik was locked up by Egyptian authorities, and Mahfouz was left alone. Yet Mahfouz is impatient when he is compared with Rushdie. While the Nobel winner accused the Ayatollah Khomeini of ''intellectual terrorism,'' he dislikes what he describes as Rushdie's ''enmity toward Islam.''
If Arab writers have had a hard time staying out of trouble in their own countries, they have had a difficult time even getting noticed abroad. Arabic literature has never been greeted in the West with the kind of enthusiasm that has welcomed works from, say, Latin America or Eastern Europe.
It was hoped in Egypt that the Nobel Prize would confer a new status on Arab writers. Novelists hoped their works would break through the linguistic iron curtain into the catalogues of Western publishing houses. But a year and half later, no visible flowering in Arabic literature has taken place, and writers in the Arab world seem as embattled as ever. In Cairo, authors complain of a literary malaise, a disinterested public, a hostile state and a lingering censorship that prohibits frank discussion of sex, religion and politics. A few years ago, copies of ''A Thousand and One Nights'' were seized in Cairo because the classic's bawdiness hadn't been eliminated in a new edition.
Earlier this year, an Egyptian writer, Alaa Hamed, was jailed for writing a novel about an imaginary journey to paradise, where he meets some prophets. Hamed's novel was deemed blasphemous by the religious authorities, and he has been in a Cairo prison ever since. The newest threat, of course, comes from the religious right and the fundamentalists, many of whom regard fiction itself as a profane, Western practice and who now have, in the form of Salman Rushdie and Hamed, living examples of the writer-heretic.
Just getting published is difficult enough in the Arab world. In Cairo, the cultural capital of the ArabJU world, the publishing industry has shrunk to one-fourth the size of what it was during the 1950's. Most writers, no matter how talented, must bankroll the publication of their own books.
''The real talent can't even get published here,'' says Denys Johnson-Davies, a well-known British translator who lives in Cairo and who has translated a collection of Mahfouz's stories. ''The Government, which owns the public presses, is not really interested in literature at all. It was happy when this man won the Nobel, but it would have been much happier had Egypt won the World Cup.''
Every Friday afternoon, Mahfouz meets with a group of friends over coffee at the Kasr el Nil Casino, a restaurant on the west bank of the Nile. They read from the Egyptian dailies - Al-Ahram, Al-Akhbar, Al-Wafd. They talk about politics or literature, or just share in one another's company. Mahfouz has had these meetings for years with his old boys' network. But ever since he won the Nobel, his small circle of friends has grown to include younger writers, journalists, engineers and poets who make weekly pilgrimages from all over Cairo and further afield to be in his presence.
On a chilly January afternoon, in a dimly lighted room by the Nile, 30 men and a few women sat in the empty casino waiting for Mahfouz. The men wore tweed; the women, long elegant dresses. When Mahfouz arrived, conversation stopped and everyone stood up as if a high priest had come to preside over the assembly and bestow upon them his blessings. Mahfouz, wearing his gray overcoat, bowing slightly and beaming from ear to ear, walked around the long table shaking hands, and not until he had found a seat at a far corner of the table did the gathering sit down again.
A Cairo critic had once said: ''Naguib Mahfouz is like the sphinx: silent but expressive.'' That afternoon, Mahfouz was being sphinxlike. All eyes were on him. He occasionally uttered a ''yes'' or a ''no,'' or nodded, letting the others do the talking and sometimes seeming to lose the trend of the conversation altogether. When he did speak, the room became hushed with people straining to hear what morsel of Mahfouzian wisdom was being imparted.
Critics say that Mahfouz has not produced any important books in decades and that he has passed on the literary baton to the next generation of Arab writers. Arguably, there are better Arab writers around today - Youssef Idris, the Sudanese author Tayeb Salih or the Lebanese poet Adonis. Mahfouz himself has said he can no longer find themes that interest him. Yet, to watch him at the Kasr el Nil Casino was to realize in what high regard he was still held as the custodian of Arabic letters.
As the afternoon wore on, the conversation wandered. A Kuwaiti novelist complained about fundamentalists in her country who were trying to ban her books, even though they had been published years ago. An Egyptian journalist described the elections in Jordan, and a literature professor talked about the 50th anniversary of ''Lady Chatterley's Lover.''
A few hours later, after the wind had picked up on the Nile, and the lights on the Tahrir Bridge had been turned on for the night, Mahfouz called over the waiter to pay his bill and the room suddenly fell silent. Mahfouz looked tired.
Earlier that afternoon, he had been at the funeral of a writer, Abdel Qaddous, who had died that morning, and now it was getting late. Mahfouz got up to go, with several apologies and handshakes and bows. After he shuffled out of the cold casino, everyone was left standing, in complete silence, with no more reason to stay.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Writer Naguib Mahfouz is a familiar figure at the Aly Baba cafe in Cairo. (JOANNA PINNEO) ;Mafouz, right, sits with a shopkeeper in a Cairo shoe-repair store. The writer's novels often deal with the lower and middle classes, and their struggles between a stifling traditional past and an uncertain future. (JOANNA PINNEO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EGYPT (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWEDEN (56%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN UNIVERSITY IN CAIRO SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ECONOMICS (55%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (57%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EGYPT

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ARABS; NOBEL PRIZES AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); JOURNALISM (72%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (72%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); BOOK REVIEWS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); LITERARY CRITICISM (69%); NEWSSTANDS (67%); 

PERSON: KESSLER, BRAD; MAFOUZ, NAGUIB; MAFOUZ, NAGUIB (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) NAGUIB MAHFOUZ (93%); 



83 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 34, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4160 words

HEADLINE: NOTHING BUT CURVE BALLS

BYLINE: By Roger Cohn; Roger Cohn is a former reporter for The Philadelphia Inquirer.

 BODY:
Nothing has come easy for Fay Vincent. Not even his ceremonial appearance at the belated opening day at Yankee Stadium.
He had arrived on the field before game time, holding court behind home plate for the sportswriters who huddled around him. It was a glorious spring afternoon, and the new commissioner of baseball, finally ready to begin his first full season, was in high spirits. He recalled his first visit to the stadium, in 1952 (the Yanks vs. the Philadelphia A's), and his trip with President Bush to Toronto two days earlier for the Blue Jays' opener. The writers listened respectfully. Then they got down to business.
Did he think the fans still resented the owners' 32-day lockout that had wiped out this season's first week? Was he conducting an investigation of the Yankee owner George Steinbrenner's relationship with a man accused of extortion? And how would he rule if Pete Rose, banished from baseball for gambling, applied to be reinstated? 
''Did you notice no one asked me about the game on the field?'' Vincent said the next day, en route to Seattle for yet another opening day. There, he would be asked the same questions, after enduring such indignities as shaking hands with a team mascot dressed as a moose.
It has been that kind of initiation for the 52-year-old chief executive of the national pastime. ''Fay Vincent's really had a baptism by fire,'' says Fred Wilpon, president of the New York Mets. ''He's had to deal with more serious problems in his first months than other commissioners have dealt with in a full term in office.''
Francis T. (Fay) Vincent Jr. came to Major League Baseball at the start of last season - following a career as a securities lawyer, president of Columbia Pictures Industries Inc.and a Coca-Cola Company executive - to serve as deputy to his close friend, Commissioner A. Bartlett Giamatti. Five months later, Giamatti was dead, and Vincent was chosen as his successor. The following month, he presided over a World Series that was upstaged, delayed and rendered largely inconsequential by the earthquake that shook San Francisco's Candlestick Park and the Bay Area. And before he had even settled into the commissioner's office on Park Avenue in New York, he was embroiled in the labor conflict that jeopardized the 1990 season.
''It has been a bit tumultuous,'' Vincent says, allowing just the trace of a smile. ''The big issue for me is, what is the steady state in this job? Is it just one major crisis after another, the way it's been since I got here? I'm coming to the conclusion that's just the way it's going to be.''
That may prove true, given the difficult issues looming ahead for Vincent, as he oversees the $1.1 billion-a-year business of Major League Baseball. He must improve the abysmal state of labor relations between players and owners, which has led to four strikes and two lockouts in less than two decades. He must deal with the growing complaints from owners in cities like Milwaukee and Cleveland who contend they cannot compete for players and profits with fat-cat teams in major media markets like Los Angeles and New York. He must guide baseball through its first expansion since 1977, as the National League prepares to add two new cities as early as 1993.
And in what may be his most thorny problem, the George Steinbrenner investigation, Vincent will have to decide whether to discipline a powerful owner who had been one of his most outspoken supporters during the spring-training lockout.
For ultimately, the commissioner of baseball - an oddly public-sounding title for a private-sector job - must play the at-times conflicting roles of chief executive officer of Major League Baseball and trusted caretaker of the game. Elected by the 26 club owners, the commissioner is empowered to act in the ''best interests'' of baseball, with broad authority over both the owners and the players. But balancing the owners' profits and baseball's best interests can prove tricky, as Vincent discovered during the recent lockout.
''It's obvious I'm part of the owners' side,'' he said at the time. ''But I'm also the fans' representative, and I have to try to do what I can to make sure the games are played and the season is not impaired. So I'm sort of groping along, trying to figure out what approach is best for me, and ultimately what's best for the institution.''
Certainly, Vincent's unassuming, soft-spoken style differs from that of his recent predecessors. He lacks the eloquence of Giamatti, the cocky, take-charge attitude of Peter V. Ueberroth and the imperiousness of Bowie Kuhn. Indeed, Vincent would appear to be a rather drab successor to the charismatic Giamatti. He is a husky, rather ungainly man who walks with difficulty and uses a cane because of a severe back injury he suffered in his college days. In television interviews, he comes across as a mild-mannered Main Street merchant.
But in person, Vincent is far more engaging - a thoughtful, gentle, often charming man, with a wry sense of humor, who likes to quote both Dizzy Dean and the English romantic poets and managed to finish reading biographies of Wordsworth and Henry Adams during the lockout. He has a boyish enthusiasm and can get truly annoyed with himself for slipping and calling his old friend George Bush by his first name or, worse yet, Poppy. ''I've got to be more careful about that,'' he says reprovingly. And he has an intense, old-fashioned sense of loyalty, whether to his home state of Connecticut; his alma mater, Williams College, or to his friends, each of whom is inevitably described as a ''great guy'' or a ''terrific fella.'' Indeed, Vincent appears to be utterly without guile or pretense. During the labor talks, he kept saying he was trying to follow the old adage: ''When in doubt, do the right thing.'' And when he told this to a group of jaded sportswriters gathered for an evening briefing, no one snickered. Clearly, after two decades of arcane law and corporate politics, Vincent is relishing being a part of baseball. Unlike Ueberroth, who seemed more comfortable marketing the game than watching it, Vincent has pledged to try to get to all 26 major-league ball parks this season. During the marathon labor talks, he had Scott Sanderson, the Oakland Athletics pitcher and one of the players' representatives, show him the grip for a split-fingered fastball. And before a settlement was reached, he asked all the players present to sign a ball that now is displayed in his office next to the one autographed by Babe Ruth. ''This job is not like running a manufacturing business or a car dealership or a movie company,'' Vincent says, swiveling about in his leather office chair and plucking a cigar from a box behind him. ''Part of the marvel of baseball is its very special relationship with the American soul. And I'm very conscious of that.
''You know, I've had friends who were chief executives of big companies say to me, 'I'd love your job. I'd drop everything to have it.' '' He chuckles, then clicks a lighter to his cigar. ''If you love baseball, this is the ultimate fantasy.''
The office of commissioner of baseball surely was not on Fay Vincent's career track. Two years ago, he quit Coca-Cola, having amassed a major block of company stock, now valued at more than $20 million. He was thinking about practicing law again, maybe teaching a college course, and spending more time with his wife, Valerie, and their three children at their home in Greenwich, Conn. But then his friend Bart Giamatti, the former Yale University president, asked him to come work for baseball. The two had met 10 years earlier at a dinner party and had developed a close friendship. Giamatti was about to be named baseball commissioner, and he wanted Vincent, with his business and legal experience, to join him as his deputy. ''I could think of nothing nicer than to get up in the morning and work for baseball and be with Bart,'' Vincent says. ''To me that was very close to nirvana. I remember telling him the only thing I knew a lot about from my years practicing law and running Columbia Pictures was trouble. And no sooner did we get here, when we realized we had the Pete Rose problem. Boy, that sure was trouble.'' Even before taking office, he and Giamatti were confronted with mounting accusations that the former hitting star, Rose, by then the manager of the Cincinnati Reds, had bet on baseball games. Vincent coordinated legal matters for Giamatti on the Rose case, ultimately drafting the formal agreement banning Rose, which he modeled on consent decrees he had once routinely prepared as a securities lawyer. Because he will decide on Rose's possible request for reinstatement, which could be made under baseball rules as early as this August, Vincent refuses to discuss the case. (With Rose's recent guilty plea stemming from income-tax charges, such an early request now seems unlikely.) But Vincent describes his first meeting with Rose, in February 1989:
''We asked him point-blank, had he bet on baseball? And he said, no, he was too smart for that. And I told him that was a very significant answer, that it was ground zero for our investigation, because it was an on-the-record denial before the commissioner. And if that was a lie, that was going to be a very important fact.'' On Sept. 1, eight days after banishing Rose, Giamatti died of a heart attack. The owners quickly named Vincent to complete Giamatti's five-year term, at an annual salary of $650,000, despite the reservations of a few who felt the game might have found a more dynamic chief executive. The following month, he was in the commissioner's box at Candlestick Park when the earth moved just before the third game of the World Series.
''That whole first month, right up to the World Series was absolutely a blur,'' Vincent says softly. ''I had never intended to be in baseball without Bart. We came here joined at the waist. I don't think I got my arms around the fact that Bart was dead and I was commissioner for quite a while. I suppose I'm still adjusting to it.''
He pauses to collect himself. ''The World Series itself was almost surrealistic. I found myself going to a press conference, with only candles and no lights. There was an ethereal quality to it all, as if I was floating through it.''
But he remembers distinctly the return to the ball park 10 days later. ''I sat out on the field before the game,'' he says, ''and talked to people about how good it was to finally be back seeing baseball. It was a lovely evening, the players were ready, and all the drama and turmoil, I thought, finally was behind us. I tell you, some of those moments are as fine as I've ever experienced in my life.''
The exhilaration was short-lived, as Vincent was soon beset by the winterlong contract hassles that led to the lockout. And on March 19, the morning after the owners and players finally reached an agreement, the commissioner was back at his desk. Sorting through a stack of paper work and listening to an aria from ''La Traviata,'' he looked haggard. His mood was uncharacteristically grim. ''I think baseball deserves better than what we've just been through,'' he said, frowning. ''I think the game should be better run.
It should be able to manage itself without this sort of major confrontation every four years.'' When he became commissioner, Vincent had said he hoped to end the acrimonious contract battles that have become almost as much a part of the rites of spring as the game itself. He worked behind the scenes last fall to replace management's chief negotiator, Barry Rona -an antagonistic presence because of arbitrators' findings that the owners had colluded to keep down player salaries - with the courtly Charles P. O'Connor. And when negotiations stalled and a lockout appeared imminent, Vincent himself joined the talks - an unprecedented move that a few hard-line owners thought unseemly for the commissioner, but that did not go unnoticed by the other side. As Marvin Miller, the legendary former union chief, observes: ''This was not a man who was putting on a lot of airs of being management on high. That's a refreshing change from past commissioners.''
''I got involved because nothing was happening,'' Vincent says. ''I knew I couldn't just sit there and watch baseball head over a cliff. Whoever holds this office can't just stand by while the season is placed in jeopardy. There's a public trust involved here.''
Traditionally, there have have been two ways of viewing the office of commissioner of baseball - either as the omnipotent protector of the national pastime or as a flunky who ultimately must do the bidding of the club owners who hired him. Those views have varied, depending upon the occupant of the office. But every commissioner - Vincent is the eighth - has been measured against the first, Kenesaw Mountain Landis.
Seeking to forestall Federal regulation and restore public confidence in the face of the 1919 Chicago Black Sox betting scandal, baseball's owners created the post for Landis in 1920. He was a crusty, autocratic Federal judge who insisted upon sweeping unilateral powers to govern the sport and frequently overruled the owners during his 23-year tenure.
While Landis's successors retained those powers, none exercised them so freely. In 1976, when the owners imposed a spring-training lockout, Bowie Kuhn ordered the camps opened, earning the enmity of several owners, a festering rift that helped lead to his ouster eight years later. Kuhn's successor, Peter Ueberroth, fresh from his success in selling the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics, was able to insist on increased independence. By leading baseball into a new era of commercialism, collusion and profits - capped by the astounding $1.5 billion four-year national television package that began this season - Ueberroth reclaimed the commissioner's authority.
During his brief tenure, Giamatti dealt with no major issue that pitted the commissioner's office against the owners. And the jury is still out on how Fay Vincent will use his powers. ''This office carries with it a very strong authority,'' he says. ''It's like having a 16-inch cannon. You ought to polish it regularly, trot it out on ceremonial occasions and let everyone know you have it. But you should never fire it.''
Indeed, during the lockout, Vincent fired no booming salvos, resisting media pressure to order the owners to open the camps. He abandoned the pretenses of previous commissioners who had contended they acted independently of the owners; in fact, Vincent became a key management player, persuading hard-line owners to drop their insistence on a revenue-participation scheme for determining salaries. ''Short of breaking the union and shutting down baseball for a year, you weren't going to win on that point,'' he says.
It was this kind of common-sense conciliation and his up-front approach that gained Vincent the respect of the players' negotiators and won the praise of Donald M. Fehr, the union's executive director. But Vincent's new relationship with the union was nearly undermined by his proposal, announced at a press conference midway through the negotiations, that the owners open the camps in exchange for a union pledge not to strike during the season. Fehr denounced the plan as a publicity stunt, insisting Vincent knew the union would not relinquish its right to strike and was simply trying to put the onus for a delayed season on the players.
It was a grueling period for Vincent. The talks were held in his office, rather than the traditional neutral site, in deference to his difficulty in walking. When he managed to get home, he spent most of his time fielding calls from owners, union officials and reporters. ''What do you mean, what are we going to do, Howard?'' he told Howard Cosell. ''We'll keep at it, until we get this thing settled.''
When a settlement finally was reached, Vincent said he felt vindicated in not having broken with the owners and ordering an end to the lockout. ''If I'd done that, there would not have been a contract agreement,'' he said. ''We'd have started the season, but we'd be waiting for June and July with a strike threat hanging over our heads. At least now, the fans know we're going to have a full season of baseball.''
On Saturdays, Fay Vincent sometimes drives from Greenwich to tour the Connecticut towns he remembers from his youth - usually New Haven, where he was raised and was graduated from Yale Law School; occasionally Waterbury, the old mill city where he was born and where his Irish-American family was rooted.
Vincent was born in 1938, and five years later, the family moved to New Haven, where his father worked for the telephone company and his mother taught kindergarten. He remembers his boyhood as a wholesome slice of 1940's Americana, with the emphasis on sports. The senior Vincent, also known by the Irish-American nickname of Fay, had been captain of the Yale football team and was a college and professional football referee and amateur baseball umpire. And so his son grew up immersed in both sports, tagging along when his father refereed games and rooting for the Yankee baseball teams of DiMaggio and Mantle.
At the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., young Fay played guard on the football team, excelled at Latin and French and was remembered by classmates for his witty parodies of the poetry of Keats and Coleridge. ''He was a moose of a guy, with short legs and big shoulders,'' recalls his Hotchkiss football linemate, William H. T. (Bucky) Bush. ''Half the plays we'd run would be over Vincent.'' After graduation, the two linemates spent a summer working in the Texas oilfields of Bucky Bush's older brother, George, and they stayed briefly with George and Barbara Bush. ''The President tells me we used to leave a layer of grease in his pool every time we went swimming,'' Vincent says. While a freshman at Williams College, Vincent suffered the back injury that still plagues him. As a prank, his roommate locked him in their dormitory room, and Vincent climbed on the roof to try to escape. He slipped on an icy ledge and fell four stories, smashing two vertebrae and crushing his spine. His legs were paralyzed, and Vincent spent three months strapped to a frame contraption that his sister Barbara recalls ''looked like something out of the Middle Ages.'' Despite doctors' pessimistic warnings to his family, he learned to walk again.
''No one ever told me I wasn't going to be able to walk, and it never occurred to me I wouldn't,'' Vincent says. His physical rehabilitation proceeded so well - ''largely by his own sheer will power,'' Barbara says - that by the time he graduated from Williams, he no longer needed a cane. He only began using it again about five years ago, when he developed arthritis, and now, when he goes to a ball park, he uses a golf cart to get around the field. ''Walking for me is like doing push-ups,'' he says.
After Yale Law School, Vincent practiced law in New York and Washington, then worked briefly for the Securities and Exchange Commission. In 1978, Herbert A. Allen, whose family's investment banking firm controlled Columbia Pictures, asked Vincent to head the scandal-plagued company, which had been shaken by disclosures that its studio chief, David Begelman, had forged checks and misappropriated company funds. Vincent, whom Allen had known from Williams, was an odd choice; he had never run a business and knew nothing about the film industry. But Allen believed Vincent, with his impeccable S.E.C. and legal credentials, could help restore Columbia's credibility. ''I thought Fay could come in and make it a major-league company,'' Allen says. ''And that's exactly what he did.''
''Going from the S.E.C. on a Friday, as a $47,000-a-year bureaucrat, to running one of the world's seven major movie companies on Monday was absolutely astonishing,'' Vincent recalls, adding the story of one studio executive who ''told me my biggest problem was I wasn't paranoid enough. I said to him, 'You know, where I come from that's a compliment.' ''
As Columbia's president and chief executive officer, Vincent initiated new management and accounting procedures (''There was a lot of chiseling going on,'' he says), fought off a hostile takeover by the corporate raider Kirk Kerkorian and was credited with expanding the company's profitable television and videocassette operations. The movie studio's record during Vincent's tenure was more mixed, as early successes such as ''Kramer vs. Kramer'' and ''Ghostbusters'' were followed by the infamous ''Ishtar'' and other box-office bombs. When the Coca-Cola Company purchased Columbia Pictures in 1982, Vincent was placed in charge of Coke's entertainment sector. Five years later, as the division's once impressive earnings began to decline, he was offered a senior post running Coke's international soft-drink joint ventures. Coca-Cola officials deny they sought to nudge him out of the company. But, Vincent says: ''If they were, I got the hint. It was time to go.''
The Seattle Kingdome, a domed concrete barn of a stadium, is not Fay Vincent's kind of park. ''Indoor baseball is not the preferred version of the game,'' he says. But he had flown across the country to show the flag of his office before what was to be the first sellout crowd in the 13-year history of the Seattle Mariners.
It was opening night, and Vincent's appearance in Seattle was intended as a public-relations boost to what has been one of baseball's least successful franchises. Before the game, he dutifully toured the field, rolling along the Kingdome carpet in a golf cart and stopping along the stands to sign autographs. When his big moment arrived, the throwing of the first ball, he was given the cue too soon and had to stage a repeat toss for the cameras after the Mariners' catcher had returned to the dugout.
''This is all part of marketing,'' Vincent quipped, after being greeted by the Mariner moose. ''I know my role in this game.'' There was baseball played in the Kingdome that night. But there were also fireworks, machine-churned smoke streaming from the outfield wall, blaring rock videos on the DiamondVision screen and a laser-light show beaming onto the Kingdome ceiling.
''That's show biz,'' he said. ''I don't really mind it. Now, if it gets too carried away, that's another thing. I don't like parachute shows or guys getting shot out of cannons. But for opening day, well, it's an entertainment device.''
Clearly, Vincent, with his decade in the entertainment business, understands the value of marketing. But he is also a lifelong fan who concedes he is ''basically a traditionalist.'' He is not a fan of domes or artificial turf and plans to ask club owners to restore natural grass fields wherever possible. He opposes the American League's designated-hitter rule and intends to ''lobby tastefully'' for its abolition. Yet when he lists his priorities, Vincent sounds less like a baseball purist and more like baseball's C.E.O. He has launched programs to expand the sales of licensed products and to promote the game and its television rights internationally. He stresses the need to improve labor relations, to establish a more aggressive affirmative-action program for hiring from minorities as managers and executives. And later this season, Vincent will approve a joint labor-management commission to study the game's economic status and consider the financial inequities among franchises, a contentious issue among owners that has been recently exacerbated by the widely varying revenues from local television rights. In the coming weeks, Vincent is expected to rule on the touchiest issue facing him - the investigation of the accused extortionist Howard Spira's claims that the Yankee owner George Steinbrenner paid him for information to discredit the outfielder Dave Winfield. For now, Vincent will not comment. But ultimately he must decide whether Steinbrenner should be fined, or even suspended, actions that would not necessarily displease other owners who have long resented the bellicose, free-spending Yankee boss. As for his own plans, Vincent says he does not look beyond his term as commissioner, which expires at the start of the 1994 season. ''One of the advantages I have is I don't have to work anymore if I don't want to,'' he says, back in his office, where he seems delighted to find the first All-Star baseballs bearing his signature have just arrived. ''Financially, I think I have greater resources than some of the owners. That gives me a certain independence other commissioners didn't have. I'm not here looking for the next job.
''When I was at Columbia and Coca-Cola, I wasn't passionately devoted to movies and television. That was not my life. Here, my passion and my job overlap almost completely.'' He leans back in his chair and smiles. ''You simply can not wear me out with baseball.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Part of the Marvel of Baseball is its very special relationship with the American Soul,'' says Vincent, above, talking with Frank Robinson, the Orioles' manager, prior to a game in Baltimore. (Jerry Wachter/Baltimore Orioles); Fay Vincent, seated, and Bart Giamatti announced the banishment of Pete Rose from baseball. (LISA QUINONES/BLACK STAR)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (64%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (64%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (67%); OHIO, USA (59%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (67%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (59%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (64%); COLUMBIA PICTURES INDUSTRIES INC (64%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (84%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (84%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (57%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CINCINNATI REDS; NEW YORK YANKEES

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MAJOR LEAGUES; EARTHQUAKES; STRIKES; GAMBLING BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); SPORTS TAMPERING (72%); EARTHQUAKES (70%); LOCKOUTS (69%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (69%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (62%); EXTORTION (53%); 

PERSON: COHN, ROGER; VINCENT, FRANCIS T JR; VINCENT, FRANCIS T JR (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); GIAMATTI, A BARTLETT; ROSE, PETE; STEINBRENNER, GEORGE M 3D; WINFIELD, DAVE GEORGE W BUSH (74%); 



84 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 36, Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: June 3, 1990

 BODY:

 

$	 	 	 	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction	 	 	 	 	 1	 2	 4	 THE STAND, by Stephen King. (Doubleday,				 $24.95.) Doomsday brings horrors to America; the				 uncut version of a novel first published in 1978.	 	 	 	 	 2	 1	 7	 SEPTEMBER, by Rosamunde Pilcher. (Dunne/St.				 Martin's, $22.95.) Guests from many parts of the				 world encounter their often unexpected destinies				 during a get-together in a small Scottish town.	 	 	 	 	 3	 4	 4	 DRAGON, by Clive Cussler. (Simon & Schuster,				 $21.95.) In 1993, Dirk Pitt moves fast to save				 America from a Japanese extremist.	 	 	 	 	 4	 3	 15	 OH, THE PLACES YOU'LL GO! by Dr. Seuss.				 (Random House, $12.95.) The problems of finding				 your way through life; in verse and pictures.	 	 	 	 	 5	 9	 3	 THE GOLDEN ORANGE, by Joseph Wambaugh.				 (Perigord/Morrow, $19.95.) Murder and chicanery				 amid the yachts and mansions of California's				 Orange County.	 	 	 	 	 6	 5	 12	 THE BOURNE ULTIMATUM, by Robert Ludlum.				 (Random House, $21.95.) Jason Bourne plans to				 infiltrate the ruthless Medusa Brigade.	 	 	 	 	 7	 7	 4	 AN INCONVENIENT WOMAN, by Dominick				 Dunne. (Crown, $19.95.) Manners, morals and				 murder in Los Angeles's high society.	 	 	 	 	 8	 6	 7	 SKINNY LEGS AND ALL, by Tom Robbins.				 (Bantam, $19.95.) The horror and humor of the				 upcoming apocalypse are played out at a				 restaurant near the United Nations.	 	 	 	 	 9	 8	 4	 FAMILY PICTURES, by Sue Miller. (Harper &				 Row, $19.95.) The good and bad times of a large				 Chicago clan during the past 40 years.	 	 	 	 	10	 13	 40	 CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER, by Tom				 Clancy. (Putnam, $21.95.) The C.I.A.'s Jack Ryan				 fights Colombian drug lords.	 	 	 	 	11		 1	 THE OUTLAWS OF MESQUITE, by Louis				 L'Amour. (Bantam, $16.95.) Eight short stories				 about the American frontier.	 	 	 	 	12 *	 11	 9	 MASQUERADE, by Janet Dailey. (Little, Brown,				 $19.95.) A New Orleans heiress encounters a				 masked man during a carnival in Nice.	 	 	 	 	13	 10	 4	 ''G'' IS FOR GUMSHOE, by Sue Grafton. (Holt,				 $16.95.) On her 33d birthday, the private eye Kinsey				 Mlhlhe e ndnds herself onhehe hit lt t of a kmmler she				 once tracked down.	 	 	 	 	14 *	 15	 8	 THE EVENING NEWS, by Arthur Hailey.				 (Doubleday, $21.95.) Life as lived by two				 competitive television correspondents.	 	 	 	 	15	 12	 6	 THE GOLD COAST, by Nelson DeMille. (Warner,				 $19.95.) How life changes for an old WASP family				 when the head of a crime family becomes its				 neighbor on Long Island's North Shore.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction	 	 	 	 	 1	 1	 8	 MEN AT WORK, by George F. Will. (Macmillan,				 $19.95.) The political pundit and baseball buff				 describes the craft of the game as practiced by				 three players and a manager.	 	 	 	 	 2	 4	 19	 MEGATRENDS 2000, by John Naisbitt and				 Patricia Aburdene. (Morrow, $21.95.)				 Prognostications about political, economic and				 social developments in the next decade.	 	 	 	 	 3	 2	 19	 BARBARIANS AT THE GATE, by Bryan				 Burrough and John Helyar. (Harper & Row,				 $22.95.) The 1988 battle for control of RJR Nabisco.	 	 	 	 	 4	 5	 6	 IN THE ARENA, by Richard Nixon. (Simon &				 Schuster, $21.95.) The 37th President reflects on his				 public career and private life.	 	 	 	 	 5	 6	 82	 ALL I REALLY NEED TO KNOW I LEARNED IN				 KINDERGARTEN, by Robert Fulghum. (Villard,				 $17.95.) Inspirational essays about everyday				 matters.	 	 	 	 	 6	 3	 37	 IT WAS ON FIRE WHEN I LAY DOWN ON IT, by				 Robert Fulghum. (Villard, $17.95.) A new collection				 of inspirational essays.	 	 	 	 	 7		 1	 DAVE BARRY TURNS 40, by Dave Barry. (Crown,				 $16.95.) Reflections on the crises of middle age by				 the syndicated humorist.	 	 	 	 	 8	 10	 30	 LIAR'S POKER, by Michael Lewis. (Norton,				 $19.95.) Wall Street's tumultuous 1980's, as				 witnessed and participated in by a young bond				 trader.	 	 	 	 	 9		 1	 MY LIFE IN THREE ACTS, by Helen Hayes with				 Katherine Hatch. (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich,				 $19.95.) The actress's memoirs.	 	 	 	 	10	 11	 5	 FLASHBACKS, by Morley Safer. (Random House,				 $18.95.) The observations of a journalist on				 revisiting Vietnam 25 years later.	 	 	 	 	11	 7	 17	 HEAD FIRST, by Norman Cousins. (Dutton,				 $19.95.) How the brain affects the body's endocrine				 and immune systems.	 	 	 	 	12	 13	 15	 WHAT I SAW AT THE REVOLUTION, by Peggy				 Noonan. (Random House, $19.95.) The memoirs of				 a former Presidential speechwriter.	 	 	 	 	13	 8	 11	 MEANS OF ASCENT, by Robert A. Caro. (Knopf,				 $24.95.) Lyndon Johnson's seven-year pursuit of a				 seat in the Senate, won in 1948 by 87 votes.	 	 	 	 	14 *	 9	 5	 LEGACIES, by Bette Bao Lord. (Knopf, $19.95.)				 Reflections on the Chinese experience during the				 past quarter-century by a writer who was born in				 China, raised in America.	 	 	 	 	15	 12	 111	 A BRIEF HISTORY OF TIME, by Stephen W.				 Hawking. (Bantam, $18.95.) A scientist reviews				 efforts to create a unified theory of the universe.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 	 1	 2	 25	 THE GREAT WALDO SEARCH, by Martin				 Handford. (Little, Brown, $10.95.) A book of				 illustrations in which the game is to find a				 ubiquitous chap named Waldo.	 	 	 	 	 2	 1	 68	 WEALTH WITHOUT RISK, by Charles J. Givens.				 (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) A Florida				 entrepreneur's advice about how to make a				 personal fortune.	 	 	 	 	 3	 5	 178	 WEBSTER'S NINTH NEW COLLEGIATE				 DICTIONARY. (Merriam-Webster, $16.95.) A				 standard reference work, revised and updated.	 	 	 	 	 4		 22	 WEBSTER'S NEW WORLD DICTIONARY.				 (Simon & Schuster, $17.95.) The Third College				 Edition of a standard work, revised in 1988.	 	 	 	 	 5 *	 3	 15	 BEWARE THE NAKED MAN WHO OFFERS				 YOU HIS SHIRT, by Harvey Mackay. (Morrow,				 $19.95.) Advice on how to get ahead in business. 	
 
These listings are based on computer-processed sales figures from 3,000 bookstores and from representative wholesalers with more than 28,000 other retail outlets, including variety stores and supermarkets. The figures are statistically adjusted to represent sales in all such outlets across the United States.
 
*An asterisk before a book's title indicates that its sales, weighted to reflect the book-selling industry nationally, are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
 
 
 
AND BEAR IN MIND
(Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
FIVE O'CLOCK ANGEL: Letters of Tennessee Williams to Maria St. Just, 1948-1982. (Knopf, $24.95.) Williams's letters to the Russian-born Englishwoman Maria St. Just reveal a cheerful, tender, civilized man far different from what has become the drugged, drunken, despondent received version of the playwright.
 
LETTERS OF KATHERINE ANNE PORTER, edited by Isabel Bayley. (Atlantic Monthly, $29.95.) Letters of astonishing clarity, keenness and vigor showing the author of ''Pale Horse, Pale Rider'' as a solid critic of life and a good help to her friends.
 
FRANCOIS TRUFFAUT: CORRESPONDENCE 1945-1984, edited by Gilles Jacob and Claude de Givray. (Noonday/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, Cloth, $50; Paper, $19.95.) A hefty, well-annotated collection of the great French director's almost compulsive correspondence - often joking, always self-revealing.
 
WRITERS IN HOLLYWOOD: 1915-1951, by Ian Hamilton. (Edward Burlingame/Harper & Row, $25.) An ably researched and entertaining account of the literati who condescended to, and profited by, the movie industry during its infant and golden years.
 
A HIGHER KIND OF LOYALTY: A Memoir by China's Foremost Journalist, by Liu Binyan. (Pantheon, $22.95.) Repeatedly Mr. Liu wrote the truth; repeatedly he was punished for it, but never gave up faith in the party until Tiananmen Square. Strange and sad.
 
THEN SHE FOUND ME, by Elinor Lipman. (Pocket Books, $18.95.) A deft, amusing first novel, full of entertaining mysteries, about an adopted daughter awkwardly reunited with her birth mother.
 
THE KING, by Donald Barthelme. (Edward Burlingame/Harper & Row, $16.95.) The author, who died last year, left us one more wild, parodic metafiction; in this one, King Arthur meets World War II.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LIST

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); COLOMBIA (76%); SCOTLAND (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (75%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (57%); 



85 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 14, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: THE DEFICIT: A LOOK AT THE BRIGHT SIDE

BYLINE: By NORMAN J. ORNSTEIN; Norman J. Ornstein, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, is co-writing a book on American fiscal policy to be called ''Debt and Taxes.''

 BODY:

THE DEFICIT AND THE PUBLIC INTEREST
The Search for Responsible Budgeting in the 1980s.
By Joseph White and Aaron Wildavsky.
671 pp. Berkeley, Calif.:
University of California Press/
Russell Sage Foundation. $45.
If it's spring, it must be budget season - although, come to think of it, in the past decade summer, fall and winter have been budget season, too. Our political and economic systems have become at one and the same time consumed with and overwhelmed by budget politics and deficits. We are not only obsessed with our budget process, endlessly analyzing and arguing over it; we are also engaged in systematic self-flagellation over our failure to master it. 
Books about the deficit - by scholars, Reagan Administration insiders, businessmen and economic journalists - are everywhere, explaining, interpreting, blaming, defending, castigating. And even as legions of lawmakers and private citizens from Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union make respectful pilgrimages to Washington to learn how our political process works, our politicians and journalists continue to disparage it, pointing to the deficit as Exhibit A in the case against Congress and the President.
It would be easy to conclude that nothing more can be said about the subject: after all, everybody knows about our obvious failures and, besides, the basic elements of the political struggle are stultifyingly similar year after year, including this one. But it would be wrong. ''The Deficit and the Public Interest'' should be required reading for anyone who has followed the deficit debate, in particular all those, including politicians and pundits, who have made a career out of bashing and belittling our institutions because of our deficits.
Frankly, on the surface, this task won't look too easy. Joseph White and Aaron Wildavsky's book is a hefty 671 pages, including notes, and contains page after page of meticulous detail from an impressive array of sources about how budget decisions were made and not made from 1979 to 1989. To read it fully takes some discipline, and some basic knowledge of legislative procedures and jargon. Fortunately, the writing style is felicitous, lively and clear. That, along with both the careful, honest, straightforward marshaling of argument and data and the power of the thesis, makes the effort worthwhile.
The thesis is neither liberal nor conservative, neither Keynesian nor supply-side. In a nutshell it is this: The decisions our policy makers have made have been neither irrational nor irresponsible. ''The deficit is high because reducing it will have serious adverse consequences for virtually everybody, and therefore for the country as a whole. Until that fact is faced; until politicians, the media, and the public admit that the difficulty is not a lack of courage or insidious 'special' interests dominating the 'public' interest, debate will remain distorted and unproductive.''
As that quotation suggests, Mr. White, a research associate at the Brookings Institution, and Mr. Wildavsky, a professor of political science at the University of California, Berkeley, begin with a startling and - sadly - unconventional assumption: that politicians are neither driven by evil or weak motives, nor are they all, beneath the surface, conniving and dishonest. From there, without defending the indefensible, they make their case for the rationality of the budget process by carefully recounting and explaining the events, from Jimmy Carter's struggles with an increasingly uncontrollable economy, through the budget and tax cuts of Reagan's first year, to the efforts in Washington to cope with the aftermath of huge deficits.
The case Mr. White and Mr. Wildavsky make will annoy or even infuriate lots of people - not the least because their evidence is strong and persuasive. Democrats will be irked because the authors portray Ronald Reagan (in the best argument yet made) as a strong, rational and purposeful leader, not as a doddering and confused ideologue. Republicans will be uneasy because Mr. White and Mr. Wildavsky show Congress as an institution making reasonable and understandable decisions, as its members struggle in good faith to balance legitimate competing views. Liberals will be furious over the argument that big deficits were not caused by Mr. Reagan - that, in considerable part, they were inevitable, given policy choices made in the early 1970's and an economy that did not perform up to expectations or projections.
The most upset of all will be those purveyors of conventional wisdom who are convinced that the persistence of deficits shows our system is in shameful tatters and in dire need of sweeping constitutional reform. To Mr. White and Mr. Wildavsky, the evidence shows other things. First, an awful lot has been done to reduce deficits, something very easy to forget until it is recounted to us in detail. They note that Congress ''stopped the defense buildup, passed two substantial tax hikes (mostly on businesses), created a growing Social Security surplus, cut Medicare providers, squeezed and then Gramm-Rudmaned the domestic discretionary budget.'' EVEN so, big deficits persisted. Why? Basically because bigger questions overshadowed them. ''You might say that the participants in budgeting agree on everything except how much revenue should be raised and who should pay, how much should be spent and which programs should benefit. Whether balance is achieved at low or high levels of spending would determine the future shape of our government, and our politicians quite reasonably act as if that is as important as the deficit itself.''
Mr. White and Mr. Wildavsky would like to see deficits reduced, although they are not hysterical about their size (relative to our gross national product). Mostly they are worried about the continuing legitimacy and strength of our governing institutions. They believe - correctly, I think - that our obsession with deficits has more to do with our perception of them as a metaphor for governing than with evidence of their effect on the economy.
''Politicians of the center,'' they say, ''have come to see the deficit as a symbol of their own inadequacy. Having made elimination of the deficit the test of their ability to govern, they have come to see the deficit as a crisis because they cannot solve it, not because of any harm it causes.'' Be cool, the authors advise. Set a modest and achievable deficit-reduction goal, achieve it, declare victory and move on to more productive things. As President Bush, White House budget director Richard G. Darman, Speaker of the House Thomas S. Foley, Senate Majority Leader George J. Mitchell and their colleagues proceed to do battle again this year, and as the usual kibitzers prepare to second-guess them, they would all be well served to take time out to read this book and heed its advice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DEFICIT AND THE PUBLIC INTEREST, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); WRITERS (74%); LIBERALISM (71%); 

PERSON: ORNSTEIN, NORMAN; WHITE, JOSEPH; WILDAVSKY, AARON AARON WILDAVSKY (91%); JOSEPH WHITE (91%); 



86 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: WHAT THEY KNEW AND WHEN THEY KNEW IT

BYLINE: By J. ANTHONY LUKAS; J. Anthony Lukas is the author of ''Nightmare: The Underside of the Nixon Years.''

 BODY:

THE WARS OF WATERGATE
The Last Crisis of Richard Nixon.
By Stanley I. Kutler.
Illustrated. 733 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $24.95.
Shortly after Richard Nixon resigned the Presidency in August 1974, his son-in-law David Eisenhower predicted that in 15 years Watergate would ''look pretty small.'' Some while later, the former President himself told reporters, ''History will treat me fairly.'' 
Today, a decade and a half after that apocalyptic time, one must say: wrong, Mr. Eisenhower; right, Mr. President.
''The Wars of Watergate'' is the first major work by a professional historian to focus on the scandal and the investigations that felled the Nixon Presidency. Stanley I. Kutler, who teaches at the University of Wisconsin, clearly does not regard Watergate as a small thing. He treats it at 733-page length, and by and large he gives Mr. Nixon just what he deserves.
An able historian, Mr. Kutler has made his long march through the original sources, including materials in the Nixon papers, the records of the Watergate special prosecution force and those of the Senate Select Committee. Moreover, he has interviewed 63 people who had some connection with the Watergate events, among them former Vice President Spiro T. Agnew, former Attorney General John Mitchell, the former White House counsel John Dean and Richard M. Helms, the former Director of Central Intelligence.
Given the depth of Mr. Kutler's research and his impressive access to major participants, his volume is something of a disappointment. If it contains no thunderous revelations, that should be no surprise: Watergate has been pretty thoroughly raked over by news-hungry journalists and other investigators. But that the book is also short on fresh insights and thoughtful analysis is more puzzling.
Recognizing that the territory has been well trod, Mr. Kutler eschews a step-by-step recital. But for those who may not know the full story, his elisions can be troublesome. The germ of the Watergate break-ins - G. Gordon Liddy's Gemstone plan - is treated so casually that many readers may not be able to make sense of it. Nor does Mr. Kutler spend much time on the two Watergate burglaries themselves. And he gives short shrift to such ancillary subjects as Mr. Nixon's tax troubles, the illegalities of his campaign fund raising and the use of public monies on his California and Florida houses.
Indeed, ''The Wars of Watergate'' focuses much less on the Administration's high crimes and misdemeanors than on the subsequent investigations, particularly the work of the United States Attorney's office, the Justice Department, the special prosecution force, the Senate Select Committee and the House Judiciary Committee. This produces some portraiture etched in acid: a scathing description of the way Senator Howard H. Baker Jr., the leading Republican on the Senate committee, played both sides of the fence; the picture of a weak, procrastinating Peter W. Rodino Jr., chairman of the House committee; some back-of-the-hand swipes at the House Judiciary Committee's bumbling special counsel, John M. Doar, and at the ''honest but incompetent'' White House special counsel, J. Fred Buzhardt.
The major themes Mr. Kutler advances - that Watergate was rooted in Mr. Nixon's lifelong political personality, that he was at all times in full charge of his Administration - are scarcely fresh. But there is another, more surprising theme lurking here just beneath the ambling surface: in brief, that the system worked. Mr. Kutler contends that once the Watergate burglars were arrested, the men entrusted with uncovering the wrongdoing - notably the assistant United States attorney Earl J. Silbert and his staff - did their jobs well and deserve most of the credit for breaking the case.
This runs counter to the main thrust of the reporting at the time, which tended to be critical of Mr. Silbert and his superiors at the Justice Department for ignoring some important leads, for bypassing several major aspects of the case, for failing to offer immunity to one of the burglars in order to get information on the others and for showing undue deference to the White House.
Mr. Kutler does not grapple seriously with the argument that Mr. Silbert's office and the Justice Department cooperated with the White House to limit the investigation, at least initially. He merely asserts the contrary: that ''the U.S. Attorney's office had in fact discovered the cover-up conspiracy and had broken the case by the time [the special prosecutor Archibald] Cox took control, and before Senator [Sam] Ervin's committee provided a public venting of what the prosecutors had learned.''
But there is a still larger implication in Mr. Kutler's implicit theory, namely, that all the Watergate hoopla, the big splashy Congressional investigations and especially the press's ballyhooed investigative reporting did not play a central role in what happened. This stance is particularly evident in Mr. Kutler's treatment of Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, The Washington Post's celebrated reporters, for whom he seems to harbor an ill-disguised disdain.
He says The Post built its Watergate stories ''primarily on raw [F.B.I.] reports.'' Again, he offers no evidence for this; he merely asserts it. The raw bureau reports are presumably the 302's, summaries of unevaluated, unsubstantiated material, replete with fourth-hand information and suspicions. Mr. Bernstein has said that ''using a 302 as the sole basis for a story was unthinkable.'' Mr. Woodward has flatly denied that the pair used 302's.
In discussing Mr. Woodward and Mr. Bernstein's first Watergate book, ''All the President's Men,'' Mr. Kutler writes that some critics questioned their ''failure to address any of the ethical deficiencies of their investigative reporting, including offering of bribes, illegally gaining access to telephone numbers, and talking to members of the grand jury.'' In fact, Mr. Woodward and Mr. Bernstein do own up to, and express some misgivings about, the last two charges. As for their ''offering of bribes,'' neither I nor anyone I consulted has ever heard of it.
Mr. Kutler provides no direct evidence for the accusation, but he footnotes two reviews, one by Richard H. Rovere in The New Yorker, the other by Doris Kearns in The New York Times Book Review. The only mention made of bribes in either is Ms. Kearns's statement that ''Woodward refused a bribe for an interview.'' In the incident in question, as related in ''All the President's Men,'' Mr. Woodward and his editor, Ben Bradlee, indignantly declined to pay thousands of dollars for an interview with a former F.B.I. man. (The only other episode in the book mentioning ''bribery'' is one in which Mr. Woodward rejects an implied deal by the attorney for the Presidential assistant Charles W. Colson to supply some memos if The Post agrees not to pursue a more explosive matter.) How does Mr. Woodward's refusal of a bribe become ''offering of bribes''? Mr. Kutler has done Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein a disservice.
The role of the press in Watergate is much-disputed ground. Surely there is ample room to doubt the simple-minded notion that Mr. Woodward and Mr. Bernstein ''brought down'' a President. But while this subject may deserve tough-minded analysis - such as that offered by Edward Jay Epstein in his cogent 1975 essay, ''Did the Press Uncover Watergate?'' - Mr. Kutler presents scarcely half a dozen paragraphs, with his harshest criticism inaccurately attributed to book reviewers.
For a scholar so dismissive of reporters' work, Mr. Kutler has some difficulty establishing his own factual base. His book is heavily speckled with evasive adverbs: ''reportedly,'' ''supposedly,'' ''doubtless,'' ''undoubtedly.'' Consider the following sentence: ''Nixon doubtless considered McGovern dangerous to national security and the economy.'' Certainly Mr. Nixon found it convenient to portray George McGovern as dangerous, but what he believed on this score remains unproven. Mr. Kutler's ''doubtless'' could have been omitted if he had any evidence. Here, as elsewhere, the word signals exactly the opposite of what it says.
Wrong, Mr. Eisenhower. Right, Mr. President. Fair to middling, Mr. Kutler.
 
 
 
HE WILL GET HIS DUE
 Nixon certainly will be remembered for his role in world affairs. He will receive heavy measures of both praise and criticism, and historians of both the Right and the Left probably will cross sides in unpredictable ways. It might never have occurred to Richard Nixon that so-called leftist historians helped rehabilitate Herbert Hoover. Whatever historians do, however, no ''fair'' history of the Nixon era can overlook the centrality of Watergate. Textbooks a century from now will inevitably speak of Richard Nixon as the first president to resign because of scandals. His achievements will get their due, as different generations weigh them, favorably or unfavorably, but they probably will not rival Watergate for historical attention. . . .
Not every president has stood in danger of impeachment. Neither Nixon nor we can escape Watergate. . . . It was neither trivial nor insignificant. It raised important, painful questions about American political behavior and the American political system, questions that speak to the traditions and structure of American life. Whether the actors in the drama of Watergate confronted those questions successfully or unsuccessfully, directly or passively, honestly or conveniently, will be the subject for history. That is the significant, inescapable importance of Watergate.
 
From ''The Wars of Watergate.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WARS OF WATERGATE, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HISTORY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAWYERS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); WRITERS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); FUNDRAISING (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); BURGLARY (71%); MISDEMEANORS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); 

PERSON: LUKAS, J ANTHONY; KUTLER, STANLEY I RICHARD NIXON (92%); 



87 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Waterfront Renewal Turns to Greenpoint

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

 BODY:
A developer who built his reputation in Manhattan high-rise construction is embarking on the first major effort to redevelop the long-neglected East River waterfront in the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn.
The developer, Ian Bruce Eichner, envisions a 13-building, 3,324-unit co-op and rental apartment complex rising from the site of the rundown Greenpoint Terminal Warehouse and other factory buildings that have sat vacant for 20 years. Total construction cost for the project, called Greenpoint Common on the River, is estimated at $350 million to $400 million, with an average unit price of $200,000.
Although construction is at least two years away, Mr. Eichner's plans have already set off a sharp debate in the mostly blue-collar community about how best to revitalize the area's valuable waterfront. 
To Marsilia Boyle, a third-generation resident and member of Community Board 1, the project is ''too tall, too dense and too expensive.''
Like Ms. Boyle, many feel that towers as high as 38 stories represent not only an unacceptable change in character for the low-rise neighborhood, but also a missed opportunity for a more varied use of the property.
''His project has no relation whatsoever to the communty in which he intends to put it,'' said Ms. Boyle. ''It's like sticking something from another planet on Earth.''
But Mr. Eichner considers his proposal an ideal project at an ideal time. After a decade of developing such major Manhattan projects as Cityspire, a 72-story residential and office complex on West 56th Street east of Seventh Avenue, and the 44-story, One Broadway Place office and retail complex at Broadway and 45th Street, astronomical land prices turned his attention to the other boroughs, where he began his career.
The reason, he said, is the city is encouraging development - possibly with tax abatements - outside of Manhattan and on the waterfront, especially in dilapidated areas with few jobs and many vacant buildings.
''New York has the most underdeveloped waterfront of any city in the United States,'' Mr. Eichner said, noting that he had spent six months studying the Queens and Brooklyn waterfronts. ''What we are dealing with I think is just a wonderful opportunity for a private initiative that is consistent with public policy.''
After considering a number of sites - including one in Hunters Point in Queens - last summer Mr. Eichner found the 14-acre riverfront plot in Greenpoint between Greenpoint Avenue to the north, Franklin Street to the east and Oak Street to the south. All but one of the site's 10 buildings - which served mostly as distribution centers for textiles, grains, rope and other goods - were vacant.
With a two-year option to lease the land - most of it owned by the estate of Sol Goldman and the rest by Irving Goldman, the late Mr. Goldman's brother - he hopes to have the site rezoned from manufacturing to residential. His environmental consultants, Alee King Rosen & Fleming of Manhattan, will soon begin the required environmental impact statement, one of the first in many steps that, if all goes as planned, will take the rezoning issue before the City Council by the end of next year.
Then he intends to demolish the old warehouses, and, over the next five to seven years, build a 3.7-million-square-foot complex, his largest residential project to date. The new structures, mostly arranged around a grassy park, would start at two stories near the existing homes and step up toward the river to 38 floors - a height that frightens even strong advocates of the project. One-third of the site would be open space and there would be an esplanade, 100 feet at its widest, along the river.
The architect, Alexander Cooper of Cooper Robertson & Partners, said the priority for the project was to ''open and ventilate the site in a way that it gives not only visual access but physical access through the site.''
Mr. Cooper, who designed guidelines for Battery Park City, said he is striving to create buildings of differing sizes and shapes that will mix with both the industrial waterfront and the inland residential area.
But no matter how the project may look on paper, many in the community feel it could not be more foreign - in size, design and use.
David Sweeny, director of economic development for the North Brooklyn Development Corporation, said Mr. Eichner's project reflects a ''cookie cutter'' mentality of development that seeks to place in Brooklyn a project more suited to Manhattan. ''When you have a site like this you want to go for bulk,'' he said. ''You want to cram as much as you can in there.''
While stressing that his nonprofit community development organization has not taken a formal position on the project, he said: ''From my point of view personally, it's bad planning. It's a mass-produced, pie-in-the-sky plan.''
Beyond the esthetics, the size and its relationship with the community, some also argue with the idea of a fully private, market-rate residential use of waterfront land in Greenpoint-Williamsburg.
Ms. Boyle of Community Board 1 said that as a result of meetings with community groups last summer, the board drafted a list of six priorities for development on the waterfront. In addition to height restrictions and low density, the list calls for leisure and recreational facilities, affordable housing and mixed uses that could include some commercial or even light industrial space. Under provisions of the new City Charter, the board is working on its own waterfront master plan.
Mr. Eichner contended that his project addresses many of those issues. He repeatedly called the project ''affordable,'' in that the target buyers are families with two wage earners who together earn between $70,000 and $100,000 but cannot afford to live in Manhattan.
Moreover, the developer asserted, the project will open to the public a rundown waterfront that has been closed off for at least five years.
His supporters add that the development offers the best hope to renew an area with increasing blight and crime. And some feel that by negotiating with Mr. Eichner now, when the project is just starting, they can gain such concessions as housing for the elderly within the project and parking for the surrounding neighborhood.
The cost of such improvements may be a willingness to live with a project that, to turn a profit, is more dense than even they would prefer.
''I personally would like to see a smaller-scale development, some small buildings, some retail shops, a theater on the waterfront,'' said Thomas Diffley, 35 years old, of Milton Street, who considers himself a ''cautious'' supporter of the project. ''But I don't think its going to work. The numbers aren't there.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Model of the waterfront development proposed for the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn. (Eichner Properties); Map of Brooklyn showing location of Greenpoint.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); EARTH (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FRANKLIN STREET BAKERY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREENPOINT (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); TAX LAW (64%); RETAILERS (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN; EICHNER, IRA A IAN BRUCE EICHNER (90%); JOHN MAJOR (73%); 



88 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2098 words

HEADLINE: Reaching for the Sky to Add a Room

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
 STANDING atop the Plaza Hotel, with the leafy carpet of Central Park laid out 19 stories below, Lee Harris Pomeroy finds irony in the project he is about to begin - a $20 million reconstruction of the 83-year-old hotel's roof and top two floors into 14 penthouse suites.
''The irony,'' said Mr. Pomeroy, a Manhattan architect who has already restored its interior, ''is that the most valuable space in a city where buildings meet the sky has been relegated to water tanks, paint sheds, equipment storage and maids' rooms.''
Although not many New Yorkers can afford to think as expansively as Mr. Pomeroy - or spend as much money as the Plaza's owner, Donald Trump - people across the city have reached similar conclusions. Hundreds of roofs on older buildings, some of them offering views of the city, its parks and rivers, have gone underutilized for decades.
Now, even with the city's economy slumping and new construction slowing to a trickle, some people are striving to add space and value to their residences by building penthouses, greenhouses, decks and other additions on their roofs. 
''Generally speaking, older residential buildings in the city were not built to the maximum density allowed, and we have an ability to add at least a small area on top,'' said Douglas Korves, a Manhattan architect who has designed several roof additions. He added that zoning laws and the strength of the steel beams used to support roofs before World War II are creating incentives for rooftop construction.
At the Plaza, where Mr. Pomeroy said the penthouses might each fetch as much as $1 million a year in rent, the roof and upper floors are now a neglected eyesore, hidden from view at street level by a phalanx of cornice work. Ornate pavilions at the corners of the roof are used to conceal a paint shed and water tank.
The hotel's elevator shafts erupt skyward in rusting metal cages. Beneath the cornices and rooftop eaves, an entire floor is littered with telephone equipment, industrial pallets and musty storerooms.
''Historically in New York, people lived close to the ground and regarded the tops of buildings as decorative,'' Mr. Pomeroy said. ''That means we have an underutilized asset.'' But those who have completed roof additions, even on a tiny scale compared to what is planned for the Plaza, warn that disputes with neighbors and regulatory snarls can delay or derail the projects. And those planning to build on top of their buildings should be prepared for months, if not years, of difficulties.
''To people who can build on to their roofs, I would definitely say do it, but be prepared for a long arduous process,'' said Fausto Hilario, a New York City psychologist who, with 10 other apartment owners on the top floor of a loft building on East 21st Street in Manhattan, last year completed work on small rooms on the roofs above each apartment. The minipenthouses open on to decks and terraces. ''The work seemed to go on forever,'' he added. Indeed, according to architects and builders, what might appear to homeowners as a simple addition to the roof - a hole to install a stairway, one or two small rooms and a pretty little terrace with flowers - is much easier to imagine than to build.
Logistical problems abound. How do you get building materials up an elevator without creating havoc among fellow tenants? Could they be hoisted up the side of the building? Legal questions can be murky. If you have the right to build on a roof, exactly what part of it can you claim?
''If people have roof rights, they tend to think that they can build the Taj Mahal,'' said Marc Luxemburg, the president of the Council of New York Cooperatives and a lawyer who has represented several parties on both sides of disputes over roof additions.
Mr. Luxemburg and other experts said one of the uncertainties facing people with apartments on the top floors of co-op or condominium buildings is the meaning of the term ''roof rights'' - a widely used but poorly defined concept. Many prospectuses or sales agreements assign such rights to apartment owners.
But rarely do the legal papers spell out what, if any, construction is allowed.
''Nobody should buy an apartment expecting to add space without getting something in writing from the board that says, given city approval, you will be permitted to do it,'' said Mr. Korves. Prospective buyers who hope to build on a roof, he added, should also hire an engineer or architect to make sure the building's roof is capable of carrying the additional weight.
Even those who have received consent from their boards must negotiate other agreements in detail, the experts said. People responsible for building on a roof are almost always liable for leaks or other structural damage that affects other apartments. Any changes in wiring, plumbing or drainage pipes must be approved, and the details of how building materials are to be taken up to the roof must be negotiated in advance.
In most cases, since people adding to their apartments are adding to the size and value of a co-op or condominium building, they are also assessed additional monthly payments for maintenance.
In co-ops, that usually means assigning additional shares to the expanded apartment, and the number of shares or amount of monthly payments must also be negotiated in advance.
Mr. Luxemburg said many suits have been won by co-op boards or neighbors of those who have begun roof construction without the necessary approvals.
In some cases, people have been forced to remove partially completed rooftop additions. In others, they have faced the wrath of their neighbors later, when they tried to sell their apartments, and the boards of their buildings refused to approve the sale without changes in the additions or increased maintenance charges.
In recent years, city approvals have sometimes proven easier than negotiations with co-op and condominium boards. Architects say small greenhouses and other small roof structures have been built across New York City over the last 10 years simply on the basis of a ''building notice.''
In a building notice, architects or engineers file a statement with the Buildings Department attesting that zoning and building code restrictions are not being violated. City inspectors need not come to the site for detailed review of the project.
The type of construction approved under building notices has been the simplest kind - decks, terraces or small structures that the city considers in a broad category as temporary greenhouses. Some of the greenhouses contain other furnishings besides plants and have been erected as long-term, if not permanent, additions.
In most large old residential buildings, the city has approved building notices for roof additions that add up to 1 percent of the total square footage of the building.
But the city's rules changed this year, and approvals could become more difficult to get. In an administrative revision, the Buildings Department now considers greenhouses permanent additions to roofs. A visit is required by a city inspector, and those adding up to 1 percent or more of the building's square footage can no longer assume that their applications will be approved.
Nonetheless, Vahe Tiryakian, the spokesman for the Buildings Department, said that the change was ''only a matter of nomenclature'' and that standards for approving roof construction have not been altered.
To be sure, not all residential buildings are suitable for roof construction. Most built since World War II - and almost all that went up since the early 60's - were built to the maximum height and density allowable under zoning laws.
Although developers are sometimes able to find ways around the zoning laws by buying the air rights from neighboring structures, such complex and expensive legal maneuvers rarely make sense for the owners of apartments or small residential structures.
But in older buildings, experts say, there is an advantage. Few of the apartment buildings erected more than 45 years ago were designed to their maximum size.
An added incentive in some large prewar buildings is that their roofs were supported by networks of steel beams capable of supporting more stress than is dictated by current safety standards, and therefore provide ample strength for a roof addition, according to architects who specialize in the field.
Still, those considering a project on the roof should take into account the frustrations they may encounter. One case that illustrates the difficulties, as well as rewards, is Mr. Hilario's building on East 21st Street.
The 1920 building, a former factory, was converted to co-ops in 1980. At the time, those who bought the 12 apartments on the top floor were assigned roof rights, and the prospectus on the building even delineated in a rough way what part of the roof each was entitled to claim.
Almost immediately after the conversion, one of the top-floor owners built a greenhouse above his apartment. But when the others planned their additions, things quickly became complicated.
''The building code is always subject to interpretation, and we agonized over approvals for this building,'' said Jack Suben, a Manhattan architect who was hired by the apartment owners in 1985. By that time, he said, other architects and engineers had been consulted and either advised against building on the roof or told the apartment owners that the most the city would approve was tiny additions of about 8 feet by 8 feet over each apartment.
Meanwhile, even though their sales agreements had given them roof rights, Mr. Hilario, who bought his apartment in 1985, said internal negotiations were not going smoothly. The building's board wavered, he said, at first saying it would not challenge plans to build on the roof, then saying it would fight the project. In the end, he added, the board approved the plan, but assessed each of the top-floor owners additional monthly maintenance charges.
The owners on the top floor also squabbled. ''It is hard enough to get two neighbors to agree on something like this, and we had 11,'' Mr. Hilario said.
The first step after Mr. Suben was hired in 1985 was to get city approvals, which proved more difficult than in many other applications for rooftop additions. It took a full year and required arbitration by a Buildings Department expediter. The architect said he was determined to win approval for greenhouses that would measure 150 square feet to 250 square feet, and in the end prevailed by citing the city's policy of allowing roof additions of 1 percent of a building's total floor area.
Once the plan was approved, the apartment owners sought a bid from a contractor, who came back with an estimate far higher than they expected or were willing to pay - $200,000 for each of the additions.
Mr. Suben said that disappointment aggravated tensions already building within the group, which could not agree on working together with a single architect and builder. ''I couldn't get these people to sit down together in the same room for 20 minutes,'' he added. Each owner decided to go it alone. One problem confronted by many other roof builders was resolved at the East 21st Street building when contractors agreed to use materials that could fit into an elevator and be carried by hand up a fire escape to the roof.
But another common problem - leaking water - became a disaster when a subcontractor cut a hole in the roof to install a stairway and left the opening uncovered overnight. Heavy rain poured into the apartment below and seriously damaged two others on a lower floor.
''Fortunately, the general contractor stuck by the job,'' said Mr. Suben, adding that all costs of repairing the damage were paid by the contractor.
He said that experience provided a lesson for others - check the references of all contractors and make sure their work is bonded and insured.
Despite the problems, Mr. Suben said the costs of additions were far lower than early estimates had suggested. Each apartment owner paid between $30,000 and $45,000, he said, not including the ongoing expense of their increased monthly maintenance payments to the co-op.
Mr. Hilario, whose apartment before the addition was a 450-square-foot studio, now has a spiral staircase leading to his room on the roof. The little penthouse measures 10 feet by 15 feet and has four windows and a sliding glass door leading to his own terrace and garden.
''It gives the apartment an expansive feeling,'' he said, adding that the project, despite its frustrations, was ''well worth the effort.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: At a cost of $20 million, the rooftop of the Plaza Hotel is to be rebuilt along with the top two floors into 14 penthouse suites (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Minipenthouses in a loft building on East 21st Street in Manhattan open on to decks and terraces. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PLAZA HOTEL (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: PLAZA HOTEL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MANHATTAN (NYC)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ROOFS; HOTELS AND MOTELS REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); ZONING (73%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (70%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; POMEROY, LEE HARRIS DONALD TRUMP (53%); 



89 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 19, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: In the Region: Connecticut and Westchester;
Rental Apartments Thriving in Stamford

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
RENTAL apartments are popular in Stamford, where housing now lingers unsold for an average of 163 days. In the boom days several years ago it took only 30 days to sell a home, and prices have dropped 20 to 24 percent since then.
''Rentals thrive in an economy like this, when people won't buy for fear of further depreciation,'' said Alan Schap, who heads the rental division of William Raveis Realty in Stamford. ''We are having the strongest season ever, running 20 to 30 percent ahead of last year.'' 
New downtown buildings have done well. ''We haven't had anything like them in a long time,'' said Jon Smith, the city planner. ''This is a reaction to the all-condo market. For anybody on the housing ladder, rentals are a necessary interim place.''
The Trammell Crow Group, the giant developer from Dallas, has stepped onto this fertile ground with Town Glen, a four-story, 197-unit complex being built on 3.6 acres of Glenbrook Road off Main Street, a residential neighborhood a quarter of a mile from the center of town. Scheduled to open early in 1991, it provides a startling contrast to Stamford's urbane, multistoried downtown buildings like Canterbury Green on Main Street, the Biltmore on Greyrock Place and the Classic on Forest Avenue.
Resembling a country inn, the white clapboard structure designed by Niles Bolton, an Atlanta architect, forms a square around a landscaped courtyard with a heated swimming pool. The complex will provide a smorgasbord of free amenities for tenants, including an indoor racquetball court, Nautilus and aerobics rooms, a clubhouse and a 373-space underground garage. A concierge will have myriad duties, including arranging for dry cleaning and car repairs.
Entrances will be controlled by punch cards and there will be four tenant and two service elevators. Prices range from $900 for a 705-square-foot, one-bedroom apartment to $1,400 for a 1,236-square-foot, two-bedroom-and-den layout.
Forty percent of the units will have gas fireplaces, lofts, washer-dryers and one or two decks. Washer-dryer hookups and a laundry room will also be available. Kitchen appliances and wallpaper, carpeting and mini-blinds are in all units. The ground floor will have 7,800 square feet of professional offices along an old-fashioned porch.
Trammell Crow's foray into Stamford was preceded by two successful rental projects in Middletown and Manchester, where some 1,350 apartments were promptly leased on completion and 500 more are being built.
THE company keeps prices down through its enormous buying power. Its popularity is generated by attention to details focusing on creature comforts. Before construction plans are approved they are sent for suggestions to local interior designers, families of Trammell Crow employees and residents of the area.
The research in Stamford, for example, produced ''more storage than anything we've ever built,'' said Charles Berman, head of the Connecticut operations, headquartered in New Canaan. ''We made sure that two supermarkets were nearby. Some bedrooms are side by side for parents with babies, or at opposite ends for roommates who want privacy. A homelike setting was preferred to a skyscraper, and gas was preferred for cooking and heating.''
The substantially lower cost of such low-rise frame construction has not been lost on other developers. Warwick Malkin, which built Metro Center, an office building south of the railroad station, is including a four-story complex of 400 units which will rent for about $1,000 in its plans for Metro II, a mixed-use project with high-rise offices and some retail.
If their application is accepted by the zoning board this month, the complex could open a year later on part of Metro Center's seven-acre tract between Atantic and Henry Streets. A delay might result from a recommended denial of a zoning change by the planning board last month because of the height and density of the two 275-foot-high office towers.
Milton Mann, another local developer, has city approval for 263 low-rise units on four acres at Hoyt and Morgan Streets, north of Main Street. Studios and one- to three-bedroom units ''would be moderately priced for singles, empty-nesters and families moving into the community,'' said Mr. Mann. ''We are working on the financing.''
ACCORDING to Tom Purcell, director of the Stamford Board of Realtors, ''out of 375 listed rentals, 50 percent are investor-owned condos, the rest are houses, old apartment buildings and summer rentals. We don't get the new buildings, they rent their own.''
Canterbury Green's 106 units are fully leased at $875 for a 530-square-foot studio to $1,300 for an 1,100-square-foot two-bedroom unit, plus $62 a month for parking. There are no recreational facilities.
The Biltmore has rented all but 30 of its 161 units since it opened last September. Rents range from $800 for 547 square feet with one bedroom to $1,700 for 1,003 square feet with two. Parking costs $55 a month. There is a coin-laundry on the fourth floor; an exercise room, roof deck and clubhouse under construction will be free to tenants.
The Classic, which started out as 143 condominium units priced from $152,000 to $545,000, was converted by the developer, Caspi Development Company of Armonk, N.Y., to rentals in March, when only 12 units were under contract in the incomplete building. Contracts were canceled and 30 of 48 finished units are rented, at $1,100 to $1,850 a month. Caspi and the Marine Midland Bank are jointly seeking a buyer.
''The bank will not release the remaining construction funds until it has a buyer,'' said Barbara Zuckerman, manager of the building. Consequently an indoor pool, exercise room and clubroom remain unbuilt, along with the remaining apartments, which will range up to $2,400 for 2,300 square feet. Tenants get one free garage space. All three buildings have ground-floor retail space. The construction loan for Town Glen, a joint venture with the Prudential Insurance Company, was provided by Fuji Bank of Tokyo. Final approvals are being sought in Hamden for another Trammell Crow joint venture, with Blue Cross-Blue Shield of Connecticut. The project will have 1,400 units of mixed rental apartments, condominiums, single-family homes and housing for the elderly.
''We have options on several other sites in the state,'' said Mr. Berman, but he declined to say where.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Drawing of Town Glen, an apartment complex under construction on Glenbrook Road in Stamford, Conn. (Trammell Crow)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (56%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (56%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (54%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: TRAMMELL CROW CO (56%); TRAMMELL CROW GROUP (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRAMMELL CROW CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;STAMFORD (CONN); TOWN GLEN (STAMFORD, CONN)

SUBJECT: HOUSING RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (74%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR; BOLTON, NILES



90 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Talking: Rate Shock;
Remedies For High Payments

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
Many people who stretched their incomes wafer-thin to buy the best possible home at the height of the real estate boom two or three years ago are likely to be caught in an excruciating bind this summer.
The payments on their adjustable-rate mortgage, taken at a special one-year low introductory rate of 7 or 8 percent, have probably risen relentlessly.
''We figure payments can go up as much as 40 percent in the first two years,'' said David J. Totaro, first senior vice president at the Dime Savings Bank of New York.
In addition, real estate taxes, maintenance costs or even common charges have probably risen too. However, values and income may not have gone up as anticipated - as happened, for example, to Keith and Carla Leland, who bought a two-bedroom Cape Cod home in Danbury, Conn., for $173,000 in 1988. 
They started with an 80 percent loan carrying monthly payments of $1,100, now pay $1,500 and may soon pay even more. They recently had a son and Mrs. Leland's income of $23,000 a year has been temporarily lost. The septic system needs immediate repair, at a cost of $20,000, and they cannot qualify for an equity loan because the value of their home has not gone up.
''It's tough,'' said Mr. Leland, general sales manager for a local radio station.
There are ways out, but not without pain. They include refinancing for more favorable terms, moving to a less expensive property, selling and renting for a while, cutting expenses (if feasible) or moonlighting to augment income.
Before taking any steps it is advisable to visit the lender of the original mortgage. ''Bankers are telling me they will do anything to avoid getting stuck with a delinquent loan in this sort of market,'' said Paul Havemann, vice president of HSH Associates, a mortgage monitoring service in Butler, N.J.
''Whenever we see a real potential for a default, or even a chance that someone will start falling way behind, we will do everything we can to work with that person,'' said Walter Henderson, senior vice president at Mechanics and Farmers Savings Banks of Bridgeport, Conn. And right now, he insisted, that could mean eliminating all or some of the normal conversion fees.
In other instances charges can usually be folded into the new loan amount and an even better deal worked out. Len Druger, vice chairman of sales for Citicorp Mortgage, headquartered in St. Louis, gives as an example a couple struggling after two years with payments of $1,254 on a $120,000, 30-year adjustable loan.
These could be immediately be lowered to $1,161, he said, by changing to ''Homeowner's Key,'' a Citicorp hybrid program for people with rising incomes. It combines artifically low early payments with a brief 15-year fixed-rate amortization schedule - especially useful in a stagnant or falling market. Payments rise with time but it will take two years before they reach $1,254 again. Further, the amount of each year's rise can be clearly spelled out in advance since, unlike an adjustable-rate mortgage, the changes do not depend on fluctuating market rates. The refinancing costs, about $1,200, can normally also be included in the new loan.
Other alternatives include changing to an interest-only payment schedule for a while, negotiating a ''forebearance,'' as bankers call it when they let a borrower make smaller payments for a brief period of financial stress, or stretching the mortgage term, which should also bring down payments. Several of these options can often be combined.
A further alternative is to refinance to a new adjustable-rate mortgage, starting once again at the low introductory rate. This should provide at least two years of relief before payments again reach today's level, by which time income may have risen.
Anyone going to such an expense might also want to consider combining that option with what brokers dub ''buying down'' - selling an expensive home and buying a cheaper one.
''I've been in real estate for 15 years but this is a totally new kind of buyer,'' said Ruth Brewster, president of Brewster Realtors of Elizabeth, N.J. ''All they seem to want is to get out whole, without losing their down payment.''
The idea of living as fully indebted as one is allowed, she said, seems to be losing its allure, especially when values are falling and living costs rising.
Mrs. Brewster gives as an example a couple who might sell their two-bedroom town house for net proceeds of $150,000, getting back the $30,000 they may have invested as a down payment. They then buy a small apartment for $100,000, possibly in an nearby area where values have fallen further or property is cheaper. Doing so instantly releases $10,000 in cash, since they will need only $20,000 (20 percent of $100,000) as a down payment. If they start again with a new variable-rate mortgage their monthly payments should immediately drop from $1,189 ($120,000 at 11.5 percent) to $587 ($80,000 at 8 percent). The danger of having to paying a capital gains tax - which is normally incurred when trading down - is unlikely since there was probably little or no gain.
''A lot of them don't even go out and buy something else in a hurry,'' added Mrs. Brewster. ''They decide it's better to rent for a while.'' Those who seem best served by this idea, she said, are more flexible, such as younger singles or childless couples.
If moving is not a realistic option then most mortgage distress situations require multiple changes in living patterns to make things work, according to David Sledge, president of the Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Baton Rouge, La., who has seen many such families. ''You must look carefully at income too,'' he said. ''Can you lower your withholding? Can you eliminate some employee benefits to increase take-home pay? What about an added job?''
Other expenses also need to be examined. ''Can you substitute expensive child care for a family member, even temporarily?'' continued Mr. Sledge. ''Can other debts be renegotiated?''
The CCCS in Baton Rouge is one of a network of more than 500 affiliated nonprofit credit counseling agencies supported by the business community. There is normally no charge and the counselors can also act as an intermediary between lender and borrower. For a referral to the nearest branch call the CCCS national hot-line at (800) 388-2227.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (71%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: DIME SAVINGS BANK OF NEW YORK FSB (71%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; INTEREST (MONEY); MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (92%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HOME PRICES (74%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (69%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE CARLA LELAND (66%); 



91 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 20, Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND OPINION;
Today's 3 R's: Reduce, Reuse and Recycle

BYLINE: By Arthur P. Copley and Ralph B. Maust; The authors of the following article, Arthur P. Capley, Ralph B. Maust and Nanette Essel, are active in environmental organizations.

 BODY:
THE time-honored adage of waste not, want not was heeded by many of our grandparents. Not being wasteful to them was economical and virtuous.
If citizens and government officials today would practice what was preached in times past, our waste-management dilemma could be solved in a less costly and environmentally safer way. In our grandparents' time the three R's meant reading, 'riting and 'rithmetic. In the garbage crisis today it means reduce, reuse and recycle. 
New York State has adopted a waste not, want not solid-waste philosophy by giving the new three R's the highest priorities in the Solid Waste Management Act of 1983 and in the regulations of the Department of Environmental Conservation. They mandate significant reductions in creating trash, increasing reuse materials and making recycling a household byword and practice.
If the state is going to obey the law, it needs a plan that maximizes them. To do that it has to approve a local solid-waste management plan that does not call for incineration, because incinerator contracts use the very few tax dollars that are needed to reduce, reuse or recycle waste.
Thus far all approved solid waste-plans in the Nassau-Suffolk region have included incineration. The state has to find the courage to approve a non-incinerator plan. Brookhaven Town is an excellent place to start. Why not experiment? What is there to lose? If after three to five years, the techniques have not reduced waste sufficiently, then consider an incinerator. In the meantime, the state will have experimented with an approach mandated by law and that, economic analysis says, saves tax dollars.
This kind of proposal has been adopted in such places as Seattle, Wash. Surely prudent citizens would want all the cheaper techniques developed before using their tax dollars for the most expensive remedy.
Although some communities delay decisions on incinerators and promoting the three R's, New York is busy considering additional incinerators despite clear signals that the region is amply supplied. If, according to its plan, the state expects to recycle 50 percent of its trash by 1997, a more modest level than some think is achievable, then it has to limit incinerator capacity to no more than 50 percent of the solid-waste stream.
The Nassau-Suffolk region already exceeds that limit. Seven incinerators - Babylon, Glen Cove, Hempstead, Huntington-Smithtown, Islip, Long Beach and Oyster Bay - have a total capacity of 5,650 tons a day. Calculations for 1997 show that figure is 53 percent of the projected waste stream.
If the additional capacity of 2,340 tons a day for North Hempstead, Brookhaven and an expansion at Huntington-Smithtown are approved, the region will be burning 75 percent of its solid waste by 1997, effectively precluding a 50 percent recycling rate. Does the state's three-R hand know what the incinerator hand is doing?
The incinerator hand is larger, richer and had more influence on governmental decision makers. The environmental department is pro-incineration. Certain advisers to the Governor and State Senate advocate incineration.
The state has excessively financed incinerators over the three R's. Many in the incinerator business seek understandable self-interest remuneration. That does not make them evil. But the three-R businesses are just beginning to develop and need nurturing and a chance to gain an equal opportunity against years of prejudicial funding by government in favor of incineration.
The three R's are economically and environmentally sound. Reducing the amount of trash we create prevents a problem before it starts. Who has not bought a small item in a hardware store wrapped in plastic and cardboard? Who has not bought packages triply wrapped only to be given a paper bag to take it home in? Each of us can think of many too many examples of excessive packaging. In our grandparents' day reuse was common. Rubber bands were stored on the door knob, used string in the drawer next to the sink and the Sears and Roebuck catalogue went to the outhouse. And recycling was an every day occurrence. Kitchen wastes went to the compost, grass clippings stayed on the lawn as fertilizer and old rags were made into rugs. Society is just beginning to revisit the 3 R's and the savings will be significant if incinerator contracts do not remove the incentives for their adoption.
It is time that the state and the Town of Brookhaven break through these inequities and give the three R's an unfettered chance to succeed. The taxpayer will benefit by cheaper alternatives, the environment will benefit by smaller amounts of hazardous materials being created as ash and emissions from incinerators and the state will have for the first time obeyed both the spirit and the letter of its own recent solid waste laws.
Our grandparents understood and practiced the new three R's but it is yet unclear whether the state has learned the same lesson. Brookhaven Town leaders have the opportunity to relearn the wisdom of our grandparents by developing a solid waste management plan without relying upon incineration. However, they need additional time, encouragement and approval from the State and diligent pressure from their citizen-taxpayers before they can make the new three R's the focal point of a non-incineration plan. It is up to the grandchildren to convince government of the wisdom of their grandparents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); WASTE REDUCTION (90%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); SOLID WASTE REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); 

PERSON: MAUST, RALPH B; ESSEL, NANETTE



92 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 60, Column 5; Society Desk

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Jill C. Luftig Marries Michael Mendelsohn

 BODY:
Jill C. Luftig, a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Mark D. Luftig of New York, and Dr. Michael G. Mendelsohn, a son of Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Mendelsohn of Dix Hills, L.I., were married last evening. The bride's cousin, Rabbi Dennis Math, assisted by his wife, Cantor Ellen Math, officiated at the Equitable Tower in New York. 
Mrs. Mendelsohn, 24 years old, a graduate of Boston University, expects to receive a Master of Arts degree in counseling psychology at New York University next year. Her father is a vice president of National Economic Research Associates, a consulting firm in White Plains.
Dr. Mendelsohn, also 24, a resident in ear, nose and throat surgery at the Long Island Jewish Medical Center, completed a six-year combined college and medical school program at B.U. His father, who is retired, was an English teacher at Thompson Junior High School in Syosset, L.I.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NERAY (NASDAQ) (71%); NERAY (NASDAQ) (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ECONOMIC RESEARCH ASSOCIATES INC (57%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (83%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (57%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); JEWS & JUDAISM (87%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (51%); 

PERSON: LUFTIG, JILL C; MENDELSOHN, MICHAEL G (DR) SEYMOUR MENDELSOHN (91%); MICHAEL G MENDELSOHN (81%); MARK D LUFTIG (81%); JILL C LUFTIG (57%); 



93 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1832 words

HEADLINE: Ranks of 'Reverse Commuters' Expected to Grow

BYLINE: By BARBARA STURKEN

 BODY:
To live in New York City and spend one's days working in a suburban office complex in New Jersey is still regarded as an unusual way of life. But if predictions by transportation analysts come to pass, by the end of the decade reverse commuters may have plenty of company as they cross the Hudson River against the traffic flow.
One reason that reverse commuting is expected to rise is the exodus of businesses from New York to New Jersey, which picked up in the mid-80's. Three hundred fifty companies made the move or added offices or plants in New Jersey from 1984 through 1989, according to the New Jersey Commerce Department, and although the pace has slowed, the trend is likely to continue.
Although some of the companies that moved lost employees as a result, other workers have been persuaded to try reverse commuting. 
 
Changes in Region's Economy
In the future, experts say, commuting trends will be shaped by changes in the New York metropolitan region's economy and by the estimated growth in new jobs in northern New Jersey, which is expected to greatly outpace the growth in the state's population.
''We definitely expect to see an increase in reverse commuters,'' said Christine Johnson, an assistant commissioner for policy and planning at the New Jersey Department of Transportation ''A good half of new jobs in the metropolitan area will be located in northern New Jersey, and that is more than the expected population increase. Those employers will need to draw labor from beyond the borders of New Jersey. We are seeing a structural change in the region's economy as we pass the crest of the baby boom.''
Banking, finance and other traditional New York businesses hit a peak in the 80's but are now slowing, while New Jersey has drawn businesses in other industries, she said.
If reverse commuters are to avoid the traffic jams and other headaches that are the lot of traditional suburb-to-city commuters, more alternatives to the automobile must be developed, planners say. Already, as more New Yorkers have found across state lines, a variety of transportation alternatives have cropped up: new bus routes have opened, van pools have formed under the encouragement of private New Jersey companies, and ferry services have caught on.
 
Study of Rush Hour Conducted
The ranks of reverse commuters are still dwarfed by the throngs taking the more familiar direction. In a study conducted during rush hour one day last fall, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey found that about 18,000 people used public transportation to travel from New York to New Jersey in a three-hour period, using buses from the George Washington Bridge and midtown Port Authority bus terminals, PATH and train service out of New York's Pennsylvania Station.
In another study, N. J. Transit determined that an additional several thousand riders were taking private bus services that did not use either terminal. Those who commute by car are harder to measure, because westbound commuters in the morning are not stopped by toll booths, but the Port Authority has estimated that they represent two-thirds of all reverse commuters, or about 40,000, daily.
By contrast, roughly 200,000 take the more traditional commuting route across the river to jobs in Manhattan, according to the Port Authority study of major Hudson River crossings.
 
Taking Staten Island Route
The statistics do not give a complete picture, however, since there are other ways to commute to New Jersey, like via Staten Island. The number is probably closer to 100,000, said the New Jersey Division of Taxation, which counts the number of employees who live in New York State but have taxes withheld by a New Jersey employer.
Reverse commuting has drawn the attention of city and state planners on both sides of the river in recent years as companies started fleeing New York City for lower-cost office space elsewhere. Various agencies and companies like N. J. Transit are now evaluating ways to make the reverse commuting by public transportation more attractive, as automobile traffic threatens to create backups in both directions during rush hours.
One proposal under consideration at N. J. Transit, for example, would set up a ferry operation between Staten Island and Jersey City, where the Exchange Place development now draws 7 percent of its workers from the New York City borough.
N. J. Transit has done a study of workers at the waterfront complexes that have sprung up along the New Jersey side of the Hudson, where major employers include the Paine Webber brokerage concern, which moved a number of divisions from Manhattan to New Jersey several years ago. The transportation company estimates that the number of workers employed there will grow from the current 11,000 to 60,000 by the year 2000.
In a survey of companies that moved to Jersey City's office developments during the mid-80's, N. . Transit found that right after the move two-thirds of the employees affected were living in New York City and commuting to New Jersey. But three years later the percentages were reversed: just one-third were making the reverse commuting trip.
The analysts conducting the survey believe that while some of the employees might have moved to New Jersey, a larger number may have decided to find other employment in New York.
''Many stayed initially because they were given inducements like free transportation, typically for the first year,'' said Anthony Grazioso, director of public affairs for the N. J. Transit Waterfront Transportation Office in Jersey City. ''But after a while many found other employment in the same field in New York City.''
Reverse commuting is for some people a less stressful alternative to the New York City transit system, and theoretically it should involve less time sitting in traffic jams as well. But for some it can be time-consuming and exasperating. And companies that try to ease the burden for reverse commuters sometimes encounter unexpected problems.
 
Having to Learn to Drive
At Inter-Continental Hotels, which moved from midtown Manhattan to Montvale a few years ago, one hitch was that some of its employees did not know how to drive, said Deborah Bernstein, a director of public relations for the hotel chain.
''That is really the first thing that happened: a lot of people had to get their licenses,'' Ms. Bernstein said, because the company's new offices were not convenient to public transportation. She said car pools were formed and the company gave workers allowances to compensate for higher commuting costs.
Some employees, daunted by the expense of buying a car, insuring it and finding parking space in the city, decided it was simply easier to change jobs, she said.
From New York City, commuting is often unpredictable because of traffic. ''I used to get up at 5:30 A.M. so I could be in my office at 8:30,'' said Bob Garnet, a resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan, who until recently worked at the American Telephone and Telegraph Company's Basking Ridge headquarters.
He joined a van pool with several other city dwellers. The van made several stops before crossing the George Washington Bridge. In the morning, traffic was often light, but in the evening the van would sometimes take detours to avoid backed-up toll plazas.
''We'd always tune into the radio to find out if a truck had turned over,'' Mr. Garnet said. ''Once we heard there was an hour and a half wait at the bridge, but we got through it in 15 minutes by taking a shortcut.''
 
Left With Less Time and Energy
Nevertheless, he said, he tired of the commuting life because it robbed him of free time in the evening and also left him with less energy. ''Getting up at 5:30 A.M. means you're tired at 10 at night,'' he said. He now works at A.T. & T. in Manhattan.
A.T. & T., New Jersey's largest employer with a work force of 51,000, says that 800 to 900 of its workers live in New York City and work in New Jersey. The company has tried to ease the trip for New Yorkers by helping to set up van pools because many of the telecommunication giant's offices are miles from the nearest bus stop, making commuting by public transportation nearly impossible.
Although N. J. Transit and private bus operators have added bus service where new offices created demand, commuters often complain about inconvenient schedules and long waits. William Cooper, a video film maker who lives in Manhattan, said he gave up his job at a production company in Fairfield, in part because he was tired of the 28-mile bus ride.
''My least favorite four words in the English language are Port Authority Bus Terminal,'' he said, explaining his frustration with having to push through the crowds exiting the terminal on the West Side during morning rush hour.
Mr. Cooper also said that in New Jersey he felt isolated from others in his field and missed the cultural life of the city. That is a sentiment echoed by other New Yorkers who do reverse commuting.
''If you want to take a client to lunch out here, you don't have a choice of 400 restaurants to go to,'' Ms. Bernstein said. ''It is a bit of a cultural abyss.''
But not all reverse commuters feel that a suburban office is a drawback. Deborah Wright, who lives in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, drives across the George Washington Bridge every day to her job at Trans World Airlines' Secaucus sales office. She used to work in Manhattan but spent almost twice as much time commuting, and prefers to work in New Jersey.
 
Crossing the Hudson Twice
One of Ms. Wright's co-workers does what might be described as double reverse commuting, and her predicament illustrates some of the difficulties on the public transportation side.
Linda Malizia lives in Union City, a five- or 10-minute drive from her Secaucus office. But because she does not own a car, and the bus links within New Jersey are ''terrible,'' she said, she must board a bus at her corner in the morning and make the trip into New York, wait at the bus terminal for 20 minutes and then take the same bus back across the Hudson. The total travel time each way is almost an hour.
A few reverse commuters have had the unlikely experience of having their companies move back to New York City. Susan Buchanan of Knight-Ridder Commodities Research was just getting used to commuting to Jersey City, a trip that required a subway ride from the Upper West Side to the World Trade Center and then a change to PATH. Then the company decided to move back to New York's financial district.
But Ms. Buchanan's experience is the exception. Paul Rosengren, a spokesman for the New Jersey Department of Commerce, said that more New York-based companies were considering a move to New Jersey to save on rent and other expenses. That trend, coupled with the creation of more jobs on the New Jersey side of the river, will induce more workers to job hunt across the river and will eventually lead to better transportation, Mr. Rosengren said.

GRAPHIC: Graph showing passenger using public transportation on a typical fall weekday (Source: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey); Graph showing companys that are relocating or expanding in New Jersey (Source: New Jersey Department of Commerce)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (61%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (61%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMMUTING EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SUBURBS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PORT AUTHORITIES (86%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (84%); CITY LIFE (78%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (64%); FERRIES (60%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: STURKEN, BARBARA



94 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 14, Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Who's That Behind the SUNY Curtains?

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

DATELINE: PURCHASE

 BODY:
WHEN the Flying Karamazov Brothers appeared at the Performing Arts Center at the State University of New York at Purchase, among the things they found in their dressing rooms were boxes of tea, both Earl Grey and English Breakfast; bottles of fruit juices, assorted sandwich and salad makings, flowers and good wishes. All supplied by the theater's volunteer group, the Prompters.
Although such treatment has won plaudits for the Performing Arts Center from artists who play there, the Prompters do more than fill special requests for food and drink, pointed out Dr. Lee Katz, vice president for external affairs and development at the campus.
''Frankly, it would be hard for us to operate without them, especially in today's economic climate,'' Dr. Katz said. ''We couldn't afford to pay for all their services.'' 
Offering a rough estimate, Dr. Katz said that if all the tasks performed by the Prompters were paid for, the yearly dollar value would be about $200,000.
The group, started 10 years ago by five theater buffs, has grown to 170 members. They work on a dozen or more committees, from marketing to organizing music and dance and drama programs for schoolchildren.
 
'A Businesslike Footing'
''We're very conscious that the deep cuts in funds for the arts from the state can be devastating, so we work with a small paid staff to try to fill the gap,'' said Gail C. Conway, who is completing her second year as the Prompters' president. ''My goal was to try to put the Prompters on a businesslike footing by making the best use of our members' considerable abilities.''
Mrs. Conway, a former physical therapist, gives three days a week to the Prompters business.
J. Norton Dunn, 67 years old, a former director of manpower and development at Dunn & Bradstreet, joined the Prompters nine years ago. He is now a consultant, teaching sales and management techniques to business groups nationwide, but managed to devote about 157 volunteer hours to the Prompters this year.
Most recently, for example, using techniques learned at Dunn & Bradstreet, Mr. Dunn organized and ran a successful four-night subscription telethon. It netted the center's theaters more than $6,000 in ticket orders. He also produces and edits the Prompter newsletter, which comes out four times a year.
 
Prompted by His Wife
''My wife got me involved as a volunteer,'' he said. ''She is a docent at the Neuberger Museum next door, and she thought I'd like the Prompters. She was right. I enjoy being in the center of things, and that's the feeling you get here. I was an actor in my youth, and I still love all the excite ment that surrounds the theater.''
Mr. Dunn also goes on the road, selling the attractions of the Performing Arts Theater to Rotary, Kiwanis and other groups in Westchester and Fairfield Counties.
''I also worked as a bartender during the subscription-drive parties we held this spring,'' he said. ''My wife was an usher that same evening.''
A lot of volunteers are husband-and-wife couples, said Bernice Jutkowitz, the group's director of publicity.
She added that Prompter ushers have been working harder than ever this spring, trying to keep up with the demand for their services during the May 1 through June 24 run of ''The Kiss of the Spider Woman,'' the first performance in the New Musicals premiere season.
 
But There Are Perks, Too
''There are perks,'' Mrs. Jutkowitz said. ''The ushers get to see all the shows gratis.'' Members are required to give the Prompters a minimum of 25 hours of service each year but most give many more hours, she said.
''We're becoming the Lincoln Center of Westchester, a hub for the arts,'' said Shirley Axelrod, the group's new president-elect. She said that Christopher Beach, the new director of the Performing Arts Center, wanted to go out into the community to find out what people wanted to see, so Prompter volunteers held a series of coffee hours in their homes, where Mr. Beach was able to meet and speak to people.
Taking their cue from budget cutbacks, Mrs. Axelrod said, the Prompter marketing committee has embarked on an all-out drive with the goal of filling all the seats in all the theaters.
''We've been holding gala evenings at the theater, and we've been meeting with corporations and organizations to get them interested in the Performing Arts Center,'' she said. ''And we've been making special mailings in order to create the kind of interest in the theater that it deserves.''
Carol Saltzman, the staff-liaison member of the Performing Arts Center and the Prompters, estimated that $100,000 in subscriptions hadbeen generated by the Prompters' ''Festival Renewal Evenings,'' gala theater evenings for which the Prompters were the hosts for both past and future subscribers.
 
Attractive Gift Shop
''The Prompters, through their own marketing efforts, finance their own activities,'' Mrs. Saltzman pointed out. ''They use the income they derive from the very attractive gift shop they run in the lobby, and income from selling a very successful cookbook, to fund their activities.''
Commenting on the diverse talents of Prompter members, Mrs. Saltzman said: ''The arts and education program, for instance, which includes a performing-arts workshop for more than 300 high school students, is outstanding. They also lead tours of the theater and their speakers bureau sets up programs on and off campus.''
The Prompters recently received national recognition, winning a silver medal award for volunteers programs from the Council for Advancement and Support of Education, in Washington. The council honors the ''best programs and communications contributing significantly to the advancement of education in the nation.''
 
A View From the Director
Mr. Beach, who served as the interim director of the center since last October, was responsible for the programming for the 1990-1991 season and was instrumental in bringing New Musicals, the company devoted to the development and production of new American musicals, to Purchase.
He pointed out that when the theater complex was originally designed, provisions were made for offices for a working staff of 45 to 48 people.
''But the reality is that we're working with a paid staff of only 24, yet we're planning 250 more performances this year,'' Mr. Beach said. ''That shows how much we need volunteers. ''It's hard to put a pricetag on what the Prompters are worth to us, but beyond dollar value they provide good will, and everyone in business knows that when a company is sold, it's good will that commands the highest price.''
For information about joining the Prompters, call the group's office at the Performing Arts Center at 251-6272.

GRAPHIC: Photo; Esther McGuire, and Carolyn Sieven setting flowers and foods in a visiting artist's dressing room at the Performing Arts Center at the State University of New York at Purchase, members of the Prompters during a tour of the costume wardrobe led by Andrea Anderson and at the gift shop (NYT/Joyce Dopkeen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PERFORMING ARTS CENTER (83%); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY AT PURCHASE (SUNY); PROMPTERS (ORGN)

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); THEATER (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); VOLUNTEERS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); DANCE (73%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (72%); CHILDREN (71%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (54%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY; KATZ, LEE (DR) BEN NELSON (73%); 



95 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 2, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: THE VIEW FROM: MONTVILLE;
As Layoffs Loom, Defense Workers Mount a Battle for Jobs

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
HAROLD E. MOSS worked for a paper mill in Maine until 15 months ago, when he returned to southeastern Connecticut to take a job at the UNC Naval Products plant in Montville. ''I wanted to get back to my friends and family,'' Mr. Moss said. ''And I figured at UNC I had a job for many years to come. Until December I was working 60 or 70 hours a week.''
But now Mr. Moss is on a list of almost 100 UNC workers to be laid off on Friday. The company, which makes nuclear reactors for Navy submarines, is trying to cope with a cost-cutting decision by the Department of Energy to give all future marine reactor work to a single contractor, UNC's competitor, Babcock & Wilcox of Lynchburg, Va.
The UNC employees will meet with members of the Connecticut Congressional delegation on Thursday at Montville's high school, to seek support for continued Federal contracts for the plant. The workers have also formed the S.O.S. Committee - for Save Our State - that is urging Federal officials to help find Government contracts to replace the defense work at UNC and other Connecticut companies. 
 
'Far From Given Up'
''The mood is kind of upbeat right now,'' said James B. Rusiecki, an electronics supervisor at UNC and a member of S.O.S. ''We've far from given up.''
But so far, the employees' petitions, protests and phone calls seem to have done little good. While a few small Federal contracts are being negotiated that might allow for the rehiring of a handful of workers - including one for training Coast Guard personnel and another for machining work on the Government's Superconducting Supercollider project - nothing has developed to stave off the impending layoffs, company officials have said.
Another 80 to 100 workers will be laid off over the next three months, employees have been told. And over the next two years, the rest of work force, which numbered almost 1,100 at the beginning of this year, will be laid off, the company has said.
Many of the employees said they will not apply to work for any other defense contractors. ''I don't want to live through something like this again,'' said Cheryl A. Martel, an electronics technologist at UNC who was told on April 12 that she would be laid off this week.
Mrs. Martel, who has worked at UNC for seven years, said she has been so bewildered by the suddenness of the decision to close the plant that she has been unable to try to look for another job. ''Once I get out, maybe I'll have a clear head, and I'll be able to decide which direction I want to take now,'' she said.
Defense work has become important to southeastern Connecticut. In addition to large companies like UNC and Electric Boat, the shipbuilder in Groton, the area has dozens of small subcontractors like Analysis and Technology in New London, Sonalysts in Waterford, Mystech in Mystic and Tracor in Groton. Now people in the region worry that the loss of UNC's Navy contract will be the first of many setbacks.
Montville's First Selectman, Wayne D. Scott, said the decision to close the plant over the next two years will have a substantial impact on the town. Not only is UNC the largest employer in the town of 17,000 people, but with almost $50 million of property in town, UNC is Montville's biggest taxpayer, accounting for 10 percent of the taxes collected there. Among the town's top 10 taxpayers, four others are UNC suppliers.
''As far as helping UNC stay open, I don't think the town can have much of an impact,'' Mr. Scott said. ''The movement is going to have to come at the Federal level.''
The S.O.S. committee said the impact of the plant closing will go well beyond Montville's borders. The company spends $2 million a year on electricity and $320,000 a year on natural gas; it pays $80,000 a year to the water and sewer company in neighboring Norwich and $60,000 a year to local oil companies.
The plant's $42 million-a-year payroll has an impact throughout eastern Connecticut. A recent S.O.S. meeting about the shutdown attracted the chief elected officials of Norwich, Ledyard, Waterford, Stonington, Groton, Lisbon, Voluntown, Windham, Preston, Old Saybrook and Sprague.
Company officials did not return repeated calls asking for comment, but in interviews in March, they said that unless significant work is found soon, there will be no company to save. As the laid-off workers scatter to other companies, the officials said, they cannot be brought back easily.
S.O.S. members contend the decision to give the reactor-building work to Babcock & Wilcox had more to do with politics than price. They pointed out that the House Armed Services Committee subcommittee on sea power has three members from Virgina. Connecticut has one, Representative John G. Rowland.
''This is the other side of the peace dividend,'' said Mr. Rowland, a Republican of Waterbury, who is working with UNC workers to find contracts to replace the Navy reactor business.
Some employees said they had had other job opportunities but turned them down, because, even as recently as a few months ago, defense worked seemed secure.
David D. Carey, a senior manufacturing engineer who was laid off last month after 17 years, said that when he got his master's degree in manufacturing engineering three years ago, he was offered a job with another company but turned it down. ''In the back of my mind was this loyalty thing,'' he said. ''I figured if I stayed with UNC, they'd take care of me.''
 
'I Don't Want to Drive'
Mr. Carey said he is talking with Westinghouse about a job in either Hanford, Wash., or Savannah, Ga. But other employees said the southeastern Connecticut economy cannot absorb the UNC workers who are not ready to relocate. Several companies, including those that have no defense contracts, have announced closings, they noted.
''If I wanted to work in Hartford, I could probably be back to work by now, but I don't want to drive that much,'' said Gwen R. McTigue, who said the commute would take two hours more each day that she would prefer to spend with her family.
Ms. McTigue started at UNC as a secretary and advanced to information-management systems project leader. She said that her experience in computer programming would easily translate into another industry but that it has been 14 years since she looked for a job. ''I know I'm a very good employee, but how do you get that across in a resume?'' she said.
The company is trying to help with her resume. UNC Naval Products has opened an outplacement center in a warehouse owned by UNC Aerospace, a related division that was shut down earlier this year. A couple of secretaries take messages at the center, which also has telephones to make calls, newspapers and magazines that list job openings and classes on job-hunting skills.
Mr. Rusiecki said the S.O.S. committee members are continuing to seek contracts, particularly for non-defense work, that could help keep UNC open. Committee members are scheduled to meet with Gov. William A. O'Neill in two weeks, when he returns from a trip to Europe, where he is seeking foreign trade for companies in the state, including UNC.
Mr. Rusiecki said that Senator Joseph I. Lieberman has agreed to talk with the Department of Energy about contracts for UNC and that other committee members are talking with the Department of Defense and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration about possible work. ''Our goal is to become a model for how people can handle defense cutbacks,'' he said. ''But we need help. We need the Federal Government to invest the peace dividend in diversification efforts.''

GRAPHIC: Photos The UNC Naval Products plant in Montville and David D. Carey, a senior manufacturing engineer who was laid off last month after working 17 years there (NYT/Steve Miller)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (73%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: BABCOCK & WILCOX CO (90%); S O S.COMMITTEE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNC NAVAL PRODUCTS; NAVY DEPARTMENT; BABCOCK & WILCOX CO

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); SUBMARINES; DEFENSE CONTRACTS LAYOFFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); NAVIES (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (88%); PAPER MILLS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); BOILER MFG (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MILITARY TRAINING (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); PETITIONS (64%); SUPERCONDUCTORS (62%); PLANT CLOSINGS (58%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A HAROLD E MOSS (58%); 



96 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 1, Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Mall Builders See Growth Continuing

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
DESPITE falling retail sales, rising vacancy rates and problems at a number of major department store chains, a mall building boom is still under way in Connecticut.
A major mall recently opened in Manchester. At least two more are planned, one on the Cheshire-Southington line and another in the Watertown area. And expansions are being built or planned at malls in Stamford, Danbury, Meriden, Hamden and Naugatuck. But James Rogers, president of the Connecticut Retail Merchants Association, said he is not sure how much longer the boom can last. 
''There are just so many consumer dollars out there,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''And if you look at a map of the malls in the state, you see there's one that's convenient to most people. With the recent opening of Buckland Hills in Manchester, I would have thought that was all the mall building you were going to see in Connecticut for a while.''
Mall owners, developers and managers, however, say Connecticut is far from overserved by the centers. Michael S. Fenley, general manager of Stamford Town Center, said average sales in its shops exceed $400 a square foot per year, compared with a national average of well under $200 a square foot.
In some Town Center stores, the yearly average is more than $1,200 per square foot, he said. ''Clearly, that makes an expansion of Stamford Town Center a wise business decision,'' Mr. Fenley said. The mall is seeking permits for a 440,000- square-foot addition to its existing 900,000 square feet. The addition would be connected to the mall by a pedestrian walkway over Grey Rock Place.
Despite the economic slowdown in the Northeast, per-capita income in Connecticut remain the highest in the country; and with so many two-income families, many shoppers seek the one-stop shopping convenience of a mall, merchants said.
''Retailers are very optimistic about New England, and about Connecticut in particular,'' said Allan Hutensky of Bronson and Hutensky, a development company based in Hartford. ''What we're seeing is the one-store, local operations are putting a new outlet on hold for now, but the national and regional tenants still want very badly to expand.
''Discount chains are looking for locations here. The national specialty stores are looking for locations. The big supermarkets are looking for locations.''
''I'm not an economist, and I'm not a retailer, but I think there is a perception that things are bad, and the perception is worse than things really are,'' said Mr. Hutensky, whose company is a partner in the 900,000-square-foot Buckland Hills Mall, which opened last month in Manchester. The company also owns or manages about 9 million square feet of retail space in malls and strip shopping centers in New England and the Middle West.
''If people read and hear enough times that the economy is bad, they'll believe it, no matter how much they've got in their checkbook,'' Mr. Hutensky said. But sooner or later, he said, people will want to spend the money in their checkbooks, and mall developers want to have stores ready when those consumers come calling.
Sales seem to be off to a slow start for retailers generally this year in Connecticut. Mr. Rogers said that after posting a 0.8 percent gain in January compared with the same month a year earlier, retail sales in the state dropped 1 percent in February and 2.8 percent in March compared with the same months in 1989.
''If the sales figures are down, the profits are down,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''And if the profits go down any more, these retailers are in trouble.
''I think the problems you're seeing in the major stores are a reflection of these figures. There's an economic slowdown. Housing starts are down, so people are not buying furniture, appliances and all the other things you need for a new house.''
 
Tightening of Credit
Another problem, he said, is that banks in the Northeast have tightened credit in response to failed real-estate loans, so less money is available for major purchases.
''But what has really kicked us in the butt is how all of this has affected consumer confidence,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''It's the lowest in the Northeast that it has been since the mid-1970's, and that tells you people are going to hold onto their bucks.''
Retail vacancies in the state have also doubled in the last year. A recent study by the real-estate concern Coldwell Banker found that retail vacancies in Connecticut increased to 6 percent from 3 percent in 1989.
The Danbury Fair Mall, which opened in October 1986, was fully occupied within 18 months, said the general manager, Patricia A. Frisaro. But that the occupancy rate has slipped to 94 percent, she said.
''We may not immediately go back to 100 percent as we have enjoyed,'' Ms. Frisaro said. ''But we do expect to be there by the holidays.'' The tenants that have stayed on are doing well, she said, and one anchor store, G. Fox & Company, recently added 40,000 square feet of selling space, for a total of 180,000 square feet.
Ms. Frisaro said the mall is so confident of the economy and consumer demand it has begun construction of a 130,000-square-foot addition to its 1.3 million square feet. The addition will house its fifth anchor tenant - Lord & Taylor - and almost 25 new smaller stores, bringing the total number to 250.
Also under construction on the north side of the mall is a 1,500-car garage, she said.
''In this particular area, there was a real thirst for a major retail complex before we opened,'' Ms. Frisaro said. ''It was a 45-minute drive in any direction for an enclosed mall.''
Increasingly, consumers want to drive the shortest possible distance to spend their money. That was why Buckland Hills opened off Interstate 84, only 15 minutes from the successful Westfarms Mall in West Hartford.
''One mall for a population base of more than 1 million people just wasn't enough,'' Mr. Hutensky said. ''Even now, what do we have? About two square feet per person.''
 
Unconcerned by Problems
Mall developers do not seem daunted by the well-publicized problems of a few stores, like Bloomingdale's and Macy's. Mr. Fenley said that while occupancy at Stamford Town Center has ranged from 93 to 98 percent recently, the mall has attracted a number of upscale boutiques that are bringing in many customers. Among those boutiques are Fendi, the Italian leather deigner; Mondi, a German-Italian boutique, and Westminster Lace, a specialty retailer based in the Pacific Northwest.
''We want to maintain some vacant space, so we can take advantage of new opportunities,'' Mr. Fenley said. ''We're really at as high an occupancy as we would want to see.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT RETAIL MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT RETAIL MERCHANTS ASSN CONNECTICUT RETAIL MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; STAMFORD (CONN); DANBURY (CONN); MERIDEN (CONN); HAMDEN (CONN); NAUGATUCK (CONN)

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RETAILERS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); TRENDS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (63%); FAMILY (63%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A; ROGERS, JAMES JAMES E ROGERS (79%); 



97 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 10, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Parents Learn to Accent the Positive

BYLINE: By Cheryl P. Weinstock

 BODY:
A hush came over the crowded room of parents when the psychologist asked them to remember their best and worst bosses.
''What made your best boss so great and your worst one so intolerable?'' David Pelcovitz asked the parents. He is chief psychologist in the division of child and adolescent psychiatry at North Shore University Hospital in Manahsset.
A few people in the audience raised their hands and offered that their best boss praised them a lot and was rarely critical of their work. 
''Precisely,'' smiled Dr. Pelcovitz. ''I asked you this to illustrate a point: The power of praise is all too forgotten when dealing with kids. Praise is a far more effective technique of dealing with your children than criticizing them.''
''Positive Parenting'' is what the North Shore hospital calls its program for developing realistic and effective strategies and techniques for parents and providing information about rearing children from infancy through the teen-age years. It is one of many such programs offered by local hospitals on Long Island.
Many of these programs are working toward the same goals, using the guidelines of the Pre- and Postnatal Parent Education Hospital Program of the New York State Task Force on Child Abuse and Neglect.
Matilda R. Cuomo, a co-chairwoman of the Task Force, said in an interview, ''The more parents know about how to take care of their babies, the less child abuse and neglect you'll see. It's like nurturing a little kitty. No one wants to hurt the kitty but they do because they don't know how to take care of it.''
Magda Stayton, program director of North Shore's Positive Parenting Program, said, ''We want to help parents understand what to expect from their children so that taking care of them will be more rewarding.''
Beyond preventing child abuse and neglect, the parenting programs offer other opportunities.
Lawrence Balter, who is a professor of educational psychology at New York University and the author of several books on child rearing, said:
''These programs take the place of talking over the back fence, which is what our parents and grandparents did. Parenting is a lonely job. Parenting programs give you a chance to be among your peers, who can be wonderfully creative and helpful.''
When a couple at a group meeting at North Shore asked the moderator how to help their child stay in bed all night, one woman said that after months of her son's walking around his room all night, she took him downstairs and asked him to draw what was bothering him.
She learned that he was frightened of monsters coming into his bed. She decided to take him on a tour of the house, opening all the closets and checking for monsters. Reassured that there were none, he slept soundly that night and every one thereafter.
''The biggest need for parents is to share their concerns without being judged,'' said Lois Fink, a registered nurse who is coordinator of parent-child education at Long island Jewish Medical Center. The center sponsors parent support groups for all first-time parents and for those needing a refresher course.
Beth Epstein of Port Washington, 31 years old, recently shared some of her thoughts with other new mothers at a parent support group at the center. 'I wouldn't be comfortable talking over my problems with my mother-in-law or my mother. I'd be afraid they'd hold it against me or my husband.''
Ladonna Sanchez, 27, of Bayside, Queens, who was also at the support group, said she was overwhelmed when her son, Robby, now 8 months old, was born. ''I was devastated from the lack of sleep I was getting. I began thinking things that my friends and family would have been suprised about. For instance, I kept thinking to myself; When are this baby's parents going to come and take him home?''
''It was great to find out that other mothers thought the same thing at times,' she said. ''I learned from them how to handle Robby. Now, I'm just winging it.''
These groups also give parents a chance to decide if their child has a developing psychiatric or emotional problem.
Cory and Albert Yim of Searingtown have a 4 1/2-year-old boy and a 9-month-old girl. They came to the parenting program at North Shore with a purpose. ''We wanted to make sure we weren't missing anything,'' said Mr. Yim. He and his wife thought their son ''was too crazy, perhaps even hyperactive.''
''Now we doubt it,'' he said. ''The more we learn about hyperactivity, the more we think our child is normal.''
Mrs. Yim said, ''I think we expected too much from such a young child. Now, when he gets frustrated, we give our son time off to play.''
Julie Economou, program coordinator in social work at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan, said, ''There are so many complexities to being a parent. Most of us don't prepare for it in a systematic way. We usually do like our parents did or others do.''
Mr. Yim said, ''We're living in a different time than our parents. We can't compare what we should do with what they did. I'm glad we came to the parenting program.''
 
Normal Problems
The programs also offer ways to deal with the normal problems of growing up.
Mark and Hillary Spector of Briarwood, Queens, have a 2-year-old daughter and a 1-year-old boy. Mrs. Spector said, ''We were really looking to learn how better to deal with them. That's why I came to a parenting program. Because the kids are so close in age it can be frustrating. A lot of times I can't give my daughter the attention she needs because I'm taking care of our son.''
After one evening in a parenting class, Mrs. Spector said, they ''began to understand how our kids see the world and where the problems originate from.''
''I realized it wasn't appropriate to tell my daughter to be a big girl if she whined for me,'' said Mrs. Spector. ''She has needs too, so I plan to set aside private time just for her.''
Laurie Brancaleone, a social worker at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, said; ''A lot of us grew up in an environment where if we did something wrong we got spanked. In our responsive parenting program we try to show parents that there are more positive methods of discipline that won't be detrimental to their child. A child who gets hit all the time will grow up without self-esteem.''
Dr. Pelcovitz at North Shore said some of the more effective techniques of controlling aggression in small children were praise, ignoring the behavior or punishment.
Praise, he said, works best if it is not placed as a caboose. For example, he told the support group, ''Don't tell your child, 'I'm so proud of you - Why can't you do that all the time?'''
Cathy DeMarco, the mother of girls ages 2 1/2 and 4 1/2, said later that she had liked Dr. Pelcovitz's suggestion to ignore undesirable behavior, so when she went home that evening, she tried it out.
''It's awfully hard to keep calm and cool. But it works,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo; Mothers and their babies attending ''Positive Parenting'' at North Shore Universtiy Hospital in Manhasset (NYT/Steve Berman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH SHORE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH SHORE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (MANHASSET, NY)

SUBJECT: FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH PARENTING (91%); CHILDREN (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); PARENTING SUPPORT (89%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); FAMILY (89%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GRANDPARENTS (73%); HOSPITALS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PSYCHIATRY (71%); WOMEN (70%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: WEINSTOCK, CHERYL ALBERT YIM (62%); DAVID PELCOVITZ (56%); 



98 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 27, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Cold War Mentality: Alive and Well

BYLINE: By Gene Guerrero and Jeanne M. Woods; Gene Guerrero is field coordinator for the American Civil Liberties Union's national office. Jeanne M. Woods is a legislative counsel there.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The cold war is dead and has been buried by George Bush and Mikhail Gorbachev. But the cold war mentality, and undemocratic policies and practices designed to limit Americans' thoughts and associations that it engendered, live on. They, too, should be given a funeral. 
Ask Dan Snow, a Texas fisherman. On April 6, he was fined $5,000 and sentenced to 90 days in prison for organizing groups of fishermen to travel to Cuba ''for the purpose of pleasure fishing.''
Absurdly, the Government will not let ABC televise the 1991 Pan American Games in Cuba, even though U.S. athletes will participate.
Americans take pride in their freedom of movement, considering it a right of citizenship. Our Government seeks to have other nations equal our standard of free movement. Yet, paradoxically, the Government curtails this right, declaring certain countries off limits on foreign policy grounds. At present, there are restrictions on travel to Cuba, Cambodia, Libya, North Korea and Vietnam.
Under the Trading With the Enemy Act and International Emergency Economic Powers Act, the Treasury Department can bar Americans from spending money for personal travel-related expenses. This bans travel to lands the Government views unfavorably. For example, with a few exceptions, Americans cannot travel to Cuba at their own expense.
The U.S. permits individuals to travel to Vietnam and Cambodia, but has made it illegal to ''organize, arrange or facilitate'' group travel.
Groups of Vietnam vets have been warned to stop arranging nonprofit trips to battlefields for psychological healing, universities have been denied permission to take students on academic studies, and travel agencies have been prosecuted and fined.
President Bush recently signed a law that prohibits the refusal of visas to visitors to the U.S. because of ''past, current or expected beliefs, statements or associations.'' Good. But the Administration still insists that people belonging to ''proscribed organizations'' are excludable. It asks visa applicants if they have ever belonged to a Communist organization; if the answer is yes, the visitor must apply for a waiver of excludability to be admitted.
The Government still claims broad power to exclude individuals on foreign policy grounds. The State Department last month denied a visa to the Cambodian Minister of Culture, Cheng Pon, saying admittance would convey recognition of his Government. Last year it denied a visa to Khieu Kanharith, a prominent Cambodian journalist invited to the U.S. by individuals and groups concerned about his country's political transition.
The Administration is imposing new and expanded security-clearance procedures, approved by the Reagan Administration, on thousands of Federal workers who do not hold jobs with real national security responsibilities.
Even though the Civil Service Commission ruled in 1977 that inquiries about personal and political associations ''might infringe on rights guaranteed by the Constitution,'' the Government is requiring Federal employees in ''sensitive'' positions to divulge information about their associations, including Communist Party membership.
Almost all Federal employees are obliged to provide detailed medical, psychiatric and criminal histories and must permit unlimited access to records held by third parties such as health insurance companies.
Such inquiries are justified, the Government says, for ''background investigations'' required by a 1953 executive order. Such invasions of privacy have no place in today's world.
Representative Howard Berman has introduced legislation to give Americans back the right to travel freely throughout the world. Representative Don Edwards, a former F.B.I. agent, and John Conyers have sponsored legislation to forbid political surveillance by the F.B.I.
The Administration should support these measures and, on its own initiative, institute new security and classification systems that safeguard legitimate national security interests without undue infringement of the rights of Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (94%); CAMBODIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SENTENCING (76%); PRISONS (76%); CRIMINAL FINES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (64%); APPROVALS (64%); CITIZENSHIP (56%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: GUERRERO, GENE; WOODS, JEANNE M GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 



99 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK;
Gorbachev Passes Up Stunts But Dazzles the Heartland

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, Minn., June 3

 BODY:
Mikhail S. Gorbachev took a pass on Cher, who offered to fly into Minnesota today after her Chicago concert appearance to meet with the Soviet President.
He also shrugged off the Minnesota farmer who wanted to bring an 850-pound pig to any spot along the motorcade where Mr. Gorbachev, a farm worker in his youth and a former Agriculture Secretary, might be able to admire such a prize American porker.
He declined to stop by the wedding reception of a Minneapolis bride who wanted to save him a dance. Nor did Mr. Gorbachev get together with the northern Minnesota horse breeder who was thinking of emigrating to Leningrad.
 
Skips Farm Visit
Running behind schedule, he canceled his trip to the dairy farm of Richard and Cecilia Brand, who had been painting their house and planting flowers and brushing their herd of 250 Holsteins, among them 80 milking cows with an annual production of 20,000 pounds per cow. 
But none of that mattered. Mr. Gorbachev did not need Cher or super-pigs or any other gimmicks to help him dazzle the heartland. Braving 49-degree gray, drizzling weather that people here called ''a Siberian cold front,'' Mikhail and Raisa Gorbachev created a sensation on their whirlwind trip to the Twin Cities.
 
Proving Himself to Soviets
''We were supposed to maintain our composure and not become complete babbling idiots,'' apologized one excited television commentator. ''But this really is something to see.''
Surrounded everywhere by screaming, adoring crowds with cameras and video cameras who chanted ''Gorby, Gorby,'' including a man on stilts dressed as Uncle Sam and waving a Soviet flag, he accomplished exactly what he needed to.
He promoted his country to a high-powered group of chief executives and waded into the crowd several times, producing shots for the evening news that will show Soviet audiences that he is able to thrill the Midwest as easily as he did the East.
''All the best to you,'' the Soviet President said through a translator. Mr. Gorbachev wore a fedora and overcoat as he stopped to wave to thousands of people gathered near the Governor's Mansion, where the Gorbachevs had lunch.
Continuing to show a softer side -remarkable when one recalled that only a few years ago Americans knew nothing about Soviet leaders' families - Mr. Gorbachev stopped to talk for two minutes with an 11-year-old boy named Brandon Peterson.
''You're almost as old as my granddaughter,'' he told the little boy through his interpreter.
At an evening meeting at the headquarters of Control Data Corporation, Mr. Gorbachev teased employees that he was, not so long ago, ''your archenemy.''
''See how fast things are changing?'' he said, smiling.
Mr. Gorbachev was so energetic during his seven-hour visit that the Soviet film crew ran out of film and batteries. The movement was so frantic, the crew even lost a camera.
Nick Hayes, a professor of Soviet affairs at Hamline University in St. Paul, noted that Mr. Gorbachev, who has acted on stage, knew how to make his act play in Peoria and throughout the heartland.
''He's here not with the big-timers in Washington and New York, but with the sort of common people Russians identify with,'' Mr. Hayes said. ''Hence, he's played it to the extreme.''
 
In Search of the Average
What tempts a Soviet First Lady on a shopping spree in South Minneapolis?
Orange nail polish, French perfume, suntan lotion, Snickers candy bars and plastic Nintendo figures containing gum.
While her husband met with business leaders, Raisa Gorbachev checked out an average Midwestern drugstore and an average Midwestern Mexican delicatessen.
Taking a page from her husband's book, Mrs. Gorbachev ordered her limousine driver to halt suddenly at the deli, Pepito's, where she chatted with two customers. Then she walked around the corner to Snyder Drug Store, where she questioned Carey Kilbo, the stunned merchandise manager, about what kinds of goods he sold and how much was imported.
There were cookies from Denmark and sardines from Norway, Ms. Kilbo told the Soviet visitor, but nothing from the Soviet Union.
Then Mrs. Gorbachev browsed, trailed by Lola Perpich, the Minnesota Governor's wife. Mrs. Gorbachev picked up some ''Tantra'' orange nail polish, asked the price ($3) and wondered if that was considered expensive or inexpensive. She asked whether the drug store carried French perfumes. She passed by some earrings, stopped at a lipstick display, picked up a bottle of suntan lotion and then put it back.
In the end, she bought only two three-inch plastic Nintendo figures that contained gum.
 
In Pursuit of the Average
Mrs. Gorbachev moved on to put some questions to the Watson family in South Minneapolis, the ''typical'' American family that was chosen because the 13-year old daughter, Lisa, toured Moscow with the Minneapolis-based Children's Theater Company.
When Mrs. Gorbachev arrived at about 6:30, she sat at the dining room table talking with Steve Watson, 39, an art teacher at an elementary school in Eden Prairie, a suburb of Minneapolis; Karen Watson, 38, a part-time obstetrics nurse, Lisa, Stephanie, 11, Thomas, 7, William, 6, and Bonnie, the family's golden retriever-Irish setter.
She asked the Watsons how they were paying for their house and how many years it would take to pay off their mortgage.
Staying more than an hour, twice as long as scheduled, she leafed through Lisa's scrapbooks from her Moscow trip and examined the dolls she had brought back.
Mrs. Gorbachev gave the family a pop-up Russian fairy-tale book, and received a teapot. Just a Game? To help him recall the moment when President Bush finally managed to loosen him up, Mr. Gorbachev will have a framed lucky horseshoe to hang on his wall.
When he took a break from talking to Mr. Bush at Camp David on Saturday and tossed a few, Mr. Gorbachev threw a ringer on his first try - a feat that mightily impressed the supremely competitive President Bush.
''I pride myself as a horseshoe player,'' Mr. Bush told reporters on Saturday evening, a new note of respect in his voice. ''And then President Gorbachev picked up a horseshoe, never having played the game to my knowledge, and literally, literally - all you horseshoe players out there - threw a ringer the first time.''
After the joint news conference in the East Room this morning, Mr. Gorbachev was asked by Helen Thomas of United Press International, the dean of White House correspondents, if he was going to take his horseshoe home and throw it at his pesky rival, Boris N. Yeltsin, who was just elected President of the Russian republic.
Mr. Gorbachev smiled mischievously, enjoying the image. ''No, I'm going to leave it at home,'' he said. (Soviets also hang horseshoes for luck.) ''But just remember this,'' he warned. ''I got a ringer on my first try, so I'm a pretty good shot.''
 
Legend in a Can
Like Malta, Minneapolis was drenched and blown when it was trying to show its prettiest face for the summit visit. The Gorbachevs, who are used to cold, misty Junes, seemed unfazed as they emerged from their plane without overcoats.
But Minnesota tried to make the most of its moment in the shade.
State promoters showered visiting reporters with story suggestions, including an intriguing item on ''The Universal Popularity of Spam.''
This pork and shoulder ham luncheon meat, produced by the Hormel Company of Minnesota, has achieved ''legendary status,'' according to the press release.
''Its popularity is such that even former Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev had something to say about it,'' the Hormel release said. ''In his memoirs, 'Khrushchev Remembers,' he wrote: 'There were many jokes going around the Army, some of them off-color, about American Spam. It tastes good nonetheless.' ''
 
A Long Goodbye
As the time arrived for him to leave Minneapolis, Mr. Gorbachev seemed reluctant to go.
He said goodbye to a row of Minneapolis state troopers - an unusual move for a head of state - and, holding hands with Raisa, slowly climbed the stairs of his plane as the Greater Twin Cities' Youth Symphonies serenaded the couple with ''Moscow Nights.''
The crowd waved their ''Gorby-chiefs'' - commemorative handerchiefs - and cheered as the plane's engines warmed up.
When Mr. Gorbachev's face appeared in the small porthole, there was a roar in the crowd. The final sight for the Minnesotans was four hands pressed against the two windows.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and his wife, Raisa, part of whome is visible at lower right, being greeted yesterday in St. Paul (Associated Press) (pg. A1); Because President Mikhail S. Gorbachev was running behind schedule, he canceled his trip to the farm of Richard and Cecilia Brand in Farmington, Minn. The disappointed Brands talked to reporters later. (Associated Press) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (60%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (60%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (60%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (93%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: ARBITRON INC (60%); CERIDIAN CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MINNESOTA; ST PAUL (MINN); MINNEAPOLIS (MINN)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR DAIRY FARMING (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FARM LABOR (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (70%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%); GOVERNORS (60%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S CHER (74%); 



100 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1911 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT TALKS END WITH WARMTH BUT FAIL TO RESOLVE KEY ISSUES;
WORDS OF RESPECT

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev concluded their second summit conference today with warm talk of amity, but with little progress toward resolving their most divisive disputes over Germany and Lithuania.
A possible new difficulty emerged at a final joint news conference in the White House when Mr. Gorbachev nettled the Bush Administration with a warning that he might consider holding up Jewish emigration unless Israel guaranteed that Soviet Jews would not be resettled in the occupied territories. [Key sections from the news conference, pages A14 and A15.] American officials said such action would further complicate what already promised to be a tough fight over approval of the trade treaty signed just two days ago, which is predicated on legal codification of changes in Soviet emigration policy. 
 
Reaction From Israelis
The seriousness of Mr. Gorbachev's threat remains to be seen. Israeli officials said today that they were not encouraging Soviet Jews to settle in occupied areas, and that only a very small number of the 10,000 Soviet Jews arriving monthly had sought to live there. But Israel has shown no sign so far that it would be willing to prevent immigrants from going there. [Page A11.] Despite their words of mutual respect, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev said they remained at odds over the Kremlin's test of wills with leaders of the Baltic republics, who have declared independence from the Soviet Union. But before Mr. Gorbachev left Washington for stops in Minnesota and San Francisco, Mr. Bush did offer a gesture to the Kremlin by saying he was not formally linking the issue of Lithuanian independence with the decision on when to submit the newly signed trade agreement for Senate consideration.
The only linkage, he said, was to Soviet passage of a law permitting unfettered emigration. But other American officials have said there is little chance for approval of the trade pact while Moscow maintains its oil and natural gas blockade of Lithuania.
After three days of intensive talks the two Presidents said they had made no movement toward an understanding on the future alignment of the two Germanys, which are headed for unification. The United States and other Western countries say a united Germany should be part of NATO, while the Soviet side wants Germany's future to be overseen by an all-Europe council.
Today, as throughout the summit meeting, there were frequent reminders of Mr. Gorbachev's domestic political and economic problems, which have shown a tendency to intrude into Soviet-American relations.
But the two Presidents' final hours together before Mr. Gorbachev's departure were marked by repeated expressions of confidence in their ability to resolve problems. They issued two additional joint statements, one about joint efforts to end the civil war in Ethiopia and the other about cooperation on environmental questions.
 
Plans to Meet More Often
They announced plans to meet more frequently, perhaps in annual working meetings that lack the ceremony and political expectations of a formal summit conference, which is usually arranged for signing major agreements.
''We're now at the stage in the U.S.-Soviet relationship and, indeed, in world history where we should miss no opportunity to complete the extraordinary tasks before us,'' Mr. Bush said.
Mr. Gorbachev, who seemed to revel in Mr. Bush's respect and in the applause of the American public, spoke of a ''qualitatively new relationship.'' He offered extraordinary praise to Mr. Bush ''as a political leader who is able, in a very human way, and in a politically responsible way, to engage in dialogue and cooperation.''
The summit conference ended this morning much as it began on Thursday, with ceremonies that dramatized the different tone of the meeting itself and of Soviet-American relations.
At the North Portico of the White House, the Presidents' wives, Raisa Gorbachev and Barbara Bush, embraced as their husbands went through the formalities of a departure ceremony before the Gorbachevs left on a trip to Minneapolis and San Francisco. Mr. Gorbachev paused for a moment before a cheering crowd, his hands clasped like a victorious boxer, before sweeping off in his Zil limousine.
An hour earlier, the two leaders had walked together down a red-carpeted hallway to the East Room. They sat before reporters, certainly not as allies, but as friendly rivals talking about banishing suspicion and emphasizing the importance of the documents signed here on Friday, including commitments to reduce their long-range nuclear arms and to make deep cuts in stockpiles of poison gas.
 
Taking Risks to Help Gorbachev
Mr. Bush's position on Lithuania seemed to symbolize the change. Having moved from a policy of support for Soviet reform to one of backing Mr. Gorbachev personally, Mr. Bush has now demonstrated himself willing not only to have a new kind of dialogue with Mr. Gorbachev, but also to take political risks to help him.
After days of saying it would be difficult to improve commercial ties when the Kremlin was squeezing Lithuania with economic sanctions, Mr. Bush said today that the Lithuanian situation would not keep him from offering the new trade treaty to the Senate.
Although this position seemed certain to inflame members of Congress who have already expressed doubts about the treaty, Mr. Bush said he would send the document to the Senate and recommend removing tariff and credit restrictions as soon as the Soviet Union enacted a promised new emigration law.
Mr. Bush said he did not ''want to mislead the American people and say that I have lessened my concern over the Baltic states,'' Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. He said the Soviet Union's actions in Lithuania were ''thorns in the side of an overall relationship.''
But he said the only ''linkage'' between other issues and the granting of trade concessions to Moscow was the United States' insistence that the more liberal Soviet emigration policies be codified into law. Once the Soviet Union fulfills its promise to enact a new emigration bill, Mr. Bush said, ''we go forward'' on the trade agreement.
Although American officials remain confident that the Soviet Union will enact the new law, Mr. Gorbachev added a new wrinkle to the issue when he was asked how the Soviet Union and United States could guarantee that Soviet Jews who emigrated to Israel would not settle on occupied land in the West Bank.
Arab leaders say they fear that if Soviet Jews move to the West Bank in massive numbers, they will inevitably displace Palestinian Arabs, making impossible their goal of an independent Palestinian entity.
Mr. Gorbachev said he had been ''bombarded by criticism'' from Arab governments on this issue. He said that if Israel did not offer assurances that Soviet Jews would not settle on occupied territory, ''we must give further thought to it in terms of what we can do with issuing permits for exit.''
 
Seeks Israeli Assurances
Using a formula that he employs when he wants to suggest that his options are limited, Mr. Gorbachev said, ''Some people are raising the matter in these terms in the Soviet Union, namely, as long as there are no assurances from the Israelis that this is not going to be done by them, postpone issuing permits for exit.''
American Jewish groups immediately protested Mr. Gorbachev's comments. The president of the American Jewish Committee, Sholom D. Comay, said, ''Only a tiny fraction of the tens of thousands of Soviet Jews who have arrived in Israel recently have settled in the occupied areas.''
Mr. Bush said, ''The United States policy on settlement in the occupied territories is unchanged and it is clear, and that is, we oppose new settlements.'' But he did not comment directly on Mr. Gorbachev's remarks.
Brent Scowcroft, the President's national security adviser, said in an interview: ''The Soviets are under enormous pressure from the Arab world. I'm presuming that this is a reaction to it on his part in hopes of getting the Israelis to restrict where immigrants will settle.''
He said any Soviet action delaying emigration visas for Jews would complicate the fate of the trade treaty.
The seriousness of Mr. Gorbachev's warning clearly depends on Israel's response. Today, Israeli officials, already under pressure from the United States, said they would assure Mr. Gorbachev that they did not encourage Jewish settlement in the occupied territories. The Government does not include East Jerusalem, where many Soviet Jews have settled, in its definition of occupied land.
Mr. Bush said he and Mr. Gorbachev had had ''intensive discussions on the transforming events in Europe.'' He said he had told Mr. Gorbachev that he and other members of the Western alliance believed that a united Germany should be a full member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
 
'For the Germans to Decide'
''President Gorbachev, frankly, does not hold that view,'' Mr. Bush said. ''But we are in full agreement that the matter of alliance membership is, in accordance with the Helsinki Final Act, a matter for the Germans to decide.''
The Helsinki document, which was signed by the Soviet Union, the United States and 33 other governments in 1975, recognizes the right to national self-determination. Administration officials said they did not read much significance into the comment, saying it seemed to reflect a general Soviet affirmation of the Helsinki agreement rather than a specific sign that Moscow is ready to accept German membership in NATO.
Mr. Bush said he and Mr. Gorbachev had a clearer understanding of their differences on this issue. ''But I'm not sure we narrowed them,'' he said.
Mr. Bush demurred when asked if he thought the two countries were closer to being allies than adversaries. ''We've moved a long, long way from the depths of the cold war,'' he said. ''I don't quite know how to quantify it for you, but we could never have had the discussions at Camp David yesterday, or as we sat in the Oval Office a couple of days before with President Gorbachev, 20 years ago.''
 
Germany, NATO and Rapport
But Mr. Bush spoke passionately of his effort to persuade Mr. Gorbachev to acquiesce in the membership of a united Germany in NATO. ''The threat is unpredictability and instability,'' he said. ''We feel that a continued U.S. presence in Europe should not be seen as hostile to Soviet interests.''
Mr. Gorbachev, who has said he does not oppose an American military presence in Europe but does not want NATO to be the pre-eminent security force in Europe, did not press the issue. Instead, he focused on the personal rapport between him and Mr. Bush.
''I don't know whether anyone will ever be able to say that we know each other totally well or completely,'' he said. ''I think that would take many, many years. But now we have a good human relationship and, I think, a good human atmosphere between us.''
He spoke with obvious enthusiasm about the reception he had received in Washington. He said, ''I would like to say both to the Americans and to the Soviet people that here we, the Soviet delegation, have felt very good feelings of the American people, feelings of solidarity and a lot of interest from the Americans toward what we are doing in the Soviet Union for perestroika.''
''I would like to thank all Americans for that,'' he said, ''and they certainly can expect reciprocity from the Soviet Union.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Soviet military officers saluting as President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's helicopter lifted off yesterday from the Reflecting Pool on the Mall in Washington. Members of the United States Army honor guard held onto the red carpet and their hats. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (96%); LITHUANIA (94%); GERMANY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); LITHUANIA; MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY; EUROPE

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SECESSION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; JEWS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS (OCCUPIED TERRITORIES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (88%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROVALS (75%); NATURAL GAS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); IMMIGRATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



101 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT TALKS END WITH WARMTH BUT FAIL TO RESOLVE KEY ISSUES;
The Doubts That Linger

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
For months, senior American officials have expressed confidence that President Mikhail S. Gorbachev would give way, if offered enough inducements, and agree to NATO membership for a united Germany, thus settling the most intractable issue facing Moscow and Washington.
But that confidence is fading fast. After three days of talks between President Bush and the Soviet leader, which produced no real progress on the German question and the shape of post-cold war Europe, top United States policy-makers say they are beginning to believe that Mr. Gorbachev's domestic political situation may be too delicate for him to make such a concession at any time soon, and that a protracted period of ambiguity may result.
''It may well be that the only way he can resolve his dilemma is to string the process out, let Germany go ahead with political and economic reunification and stall on the military side,'' said an American official who played a significant role in the Bush-Gorbachev summit conference here. ''West Germany would stay in NATO and the Soviet troops would stay in East Germany. 
''Unfortunately, with so many security questions undecided, the situation might prove dangerous.''
 
Fewer Cheers at Home
In domestic political terms, Mr. Bush emerged from last week's events with Germany in doubt, Lithuania unresolved and perhaps a few political problems on the trade agreement. But he will find that easy enough to live with, given his broad popularity. For Mr. Gorbachev, on the other hand, the acclaim he won in the streets of Washington is unlikely to be repeated at home. His public-relations triumph here is not likely to ease his struggle for survival.
At their news conference this morning, the two Presidents made much of the relationship they have built, and a few White House officials say they believe that personal chemistry will eventually dissolve the policy stalemate. Mr. Gorbachev promised not to ''put spokes in the wheels'' and said negotiations on Germany would continue. The two pledged to meet on a regular basis.
No doubt things have come ''a long, long way from the depths of the cold war,'' as President Bush commented. But there are limits on personal diplomacy, even in an era of good feelings. Between May 1972 and November 1974 four summit meetings took place, and after the fourth one, in Siberia, Gerald R. Ford spoke hopefully of ''the spirit of Vladivostok.''
But that proved inadequate to overcome fundamental disagreements -the next summit conference did not come until 1979 - and the ''constructive spirit'' of which Mr. Gorbachev spoke may not suffice in the weeks and months ahead.
 
Debate Could Be Protracted
A protracted debate about the rival visions of the new Europe now seems highly likely, with a substantial possibility that progress in the negotiations in Vienna on conventional forces will prove impossible to achieve and that the summit meeting of the 35-nation Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, now scheduled to take place late this year in Paris, will be delayed.
The United States is ready to see that rather inchoate organization gain a more formal structure and a larger role. But the Soviet Union, which belongs to no other important pan-European organization, wants to make it the centerpiece of the new Europe, which is an entirely different matter.
''We are talking about building an all-European security system and casting the issue of German unification, its external aspects, within the context of that larger European security framework,'' Vitaly Churkin, a senior adviser to the Soviet Foreign Ministry, said in an interview over the weekend.
Many Western European officials, as well as many here, see that idea as ''a trap that would give the Soviets a veto like the one they have in the United Nations, in fact if not in law,'' as a ranking Italian official argued recently. A British diplomat said that an organization with 35 members ''would quickly become a talking shop, incapable of making decisions.''
But there is some support, among politicians as well as policy experts, for the Soviet idea, or some modified version of it. Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the West German Foreign Minister, has called for a pan-European ''conflict-resolution center,'' and President Francois Mitterrand of France supports a loose European confederation.
 
U.S. Role in Europe
Leaders of the newly democratic East European countries see the Conference on Security and Cooperation as their only chance for a link to Western Europe, so they too support the idea that something new, beyond NATO and the moribund Warsaw Pact, must be created to handle European security.
In the current issue of World Policy Journal, Malcolm Chalmers of Stanford University argues for the creation of a European Security Organization, based on the Conference on Security and Cooperation, with only a residual, transitional role for NATO and the Warsaw Pact. Only such an organization, he says, would reassure the Soviet Union, buttress German sovereignty and guarantee a United States role in Europe.
Nearly everything about the debate remains murky. One of the things the United States has promised the Soviet Union, to combat Moscow's fear that a unified Germany would be joining an alliance hostile to Soviet interests, is that NATO will be transformed into a more political organization.
Revivifying NATO - giving it some reason for being other than defense against a threat from the East that is rapidly vanishing - is a crucial matter for the United States, Mr. Bush believes, because NATO gives Washington its sole institutional voice in Europe.
But every time in the past that NATO has tried to agree on something other than the common defense against the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact, things have gone wrong - whether the question was the Suez invasion in the 1950's or the overflight of United States planes on the way to Libya in the 1980's.
 
The Perils of a Deadlock
The danger lurking down the road, in the American view, is not the application of a new Soviet noose to Berlin, or even a rancorous Soviet decision to break off negotiations on the German question. The positive tenor of the conversations here seems to make those two eventualities unlikely, at least for as long as Mr. Gorbachev or another reformer remains in power.
But a prolonged deadlock would carry its own sorts of perils.
''If Moscow should refuse to leave Germany,'' says Michael Mandelbaum of the Council on Foreign Relations, ''and its refusal became a major point of conflict with the West, this would, in effect, re-create the political conflict on which the great East-West rivalry of the postwar period was based.''
For Moscow, the stakes are immense. In the century since 1890, Russia and Germany, the two largest and strongest European countries, have been almost constantly at odds. Now the Soviet Union, already economically weakened, faces the prospect of losing its military power in central Europe, with no compensating increase in political power, at the very moment when Germany, already economically powerful, stands on the verge of reunification and greatly augmented political influence.
''It's going to require tremendous finesse on our part to manage this kind of unsettled situation,'' said Robert D. Hormats, a former official of the State Department and the National Security Council. ''The analogy to Germany, post-World War I, is very close. We can't afford to isolate them, leave them to brood about losing the cold war, let their economy collapse. If we do, as a last resort, they'll play on neutralist emotions in Germany, which are already too widespread for comfort.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY; EUROPE

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



102 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Panel Urges More Help for Poor Nations

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 3

 BODY:
For the first time, the Japanese Government has begun to spell out its strategy for directing more of Japan's huge private investments overseas to the developing world and Eastern Europe.
Since the mid-1980's, Japan has been the world's largest exporter of capital, but it has been criticized by the United States and others for having the wealth of a world leader but not the vision.
The Japanese are now taking steps to answer those critics with programs that hew to broader Japanese policy goals. Some aspects of their plans were contained in a report released last week by a Finance Ministry advisory group.
 
Source of Tension
The most notable provision was a recommendation that Japan reverse its stated policy of eliminating its huge trade surpluses. Those surpluses have been shrinking in the last three years, but they are still large and a source of tension with the United States. 
The group proposed that Japan's official assistance to developing countries be used increasingly as a magnet to help attract private Japanese capital. Japan is the world's largest donor of aid to developing countries.
The Government could spur private investment, the report said, by encouraging countries receiving aid to foster political stability, change economic policies to make them more oriented toward growth and trade, put more industries in private rather than governmental hands, deregulate financial systems to make them more open to foreign investment and improve their financial markets.
 
Dependent on Capital
Such a shift in Japanese investment could have a significant effect on the United States, which has grown critically dependent on Japanese capital during the last five years.
The nascent and more independent Japanese strategy could also exert influence over economic policies in the developing world. The traditionally strong influence of the United States might be weakened, and Japan's approach to development, emphasizing the creation of business-governmental partnerships to spur selected industries, may supplant American models, which rely more on the private sector and free markets.
The advisory panel's report has already stirred controversy, particularly for its recommendation that Japan reverse its stated policy of eliminating its huge trade surpluses. The group recommended - and immediately afterward a number of Japan's top economic officials agreed - that the surpluses should be maintained at a moderate level to finance Japan's international goals. The existence of the surpluses would enable Japan to make overseas investments without impinging on the capital it uses at home.
Even within Japan there is bound to be resistance to such changes. Takao Akabane, an adviser to the Economic Planning Agency and formerly its top bureaucrat, said in an interview: ''What seems to be making people uneasy is the speed of the reduction of Japan's current account surpluses over the past few years. But it's just not right that Japan must have surpluses to maintain foreign assistance. I don't ascribe to those arguments.'' The public release of the report, which was prepared largely by the staff of the Finance Ministry, suggests that the process of building a consensus is well advanced.
 
Shift in Financial Power
In the 1980's, the huge budget and trade deficits of the United States transformed it into the largest debtor country, while Japan's bountiful trade surpluses vaulted it ahead of other countries to become the largest creditor nation. It was a dramatic shift in financial power.
Most of Japan's savings rests in private and corporate hands, and the the money has been used to acquire everything from huge amounts of United States Treasury securities and real estate to Columbia Pictures, the big movie studio; Rockefeller Center and rare Van Goghs and Picassos.
The amount the Japanese are spending abroad continues to grow. The Government announced over the weekend that direct investment by Japanese companies in foreign factories, real estate and corporate acquisitions soared by 44 percent in the fiscal year that ended in March, to a record $67.5 billion.
 
Widest Gauge of Surpluses
The broadest measure of a country's annual surpluses of capital is known as the current account, which reflects a country's trade balance in manufactured goods, as well as services, earnings from investments and other international flows of capital.
Japan's current account jumped to a peak surplus of $87 billion in 1987, from a $10.7 billion deficit in 1980. The current account surplus was $57 billion last year, reflecting concerted American and Japanese Government attempts to reduce it, and it is expected to be about $55 billion this year.
The report by the Finance Ministry advisory committee had two parts, one of which examined the current pattern of Japan's foreign investment, and another that discussed the future.
Thus far, media attention has focused on the portion that declared that Japan should not eliminate its current account surpluses, which now total slightly less than 2 percent of the size of Japan's gross national product, down from 4.5 percent in 1987.
 
Support of Stability Seen
The advisory panel, made up of leading business executives, academicians and journalists, was headed by Tomomistu Oba, a former vice minister of finance. It said ''the nation's current account surplus is serving to support stable world economic growth rather than causing confusion in the global economy.''
It also sought to discourage Japanese companies from acquiring highly visible landmark assets abroad, because of the resentment against Japan they engender - a reference to such transactions as Mitsubishi Estate's purchase last year of a major interest in Rockefeller Center.
The Finance Ministry is also resisting a concession the Japanese made to the United States in recent trade talks and may use this report as a means of watering down the commitment to increase domestic spending on such projects as roads, bridges and sewage treatment plants.
 
Viewed as Threat to Trade
The investment was intended to reduce Japan's capital surpluses, which the United States has described as an imbalance threatening free trade.
On Friday, for instance, Finance Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto said at a news conference that ''the time has come for Japan to seriously consider what level is appropriate for its current account surplus.'' The premise of his comment was that surpluses of some size would continue.
''I don't see any need to bring it down further,'' Hideyuki Aizawa, director general of the Economic Planning Agency, said of the surplus while in Paris on Friday.
Japanese officials have argued that since Japan is now being called upon to make greater contributions to help finance the reconstruction of Eastern Europe, as well as to finance the American budget deficits through purchases of United States Treasury securities, the country must continue to sell more to the world than it buys.
But Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady said in Paris on Thursday that new capital demands in Europe ''should not be confused with the need for surplus countries to continue to bring down their external surpluses by increasing investment relative to savings'' at home.
 
Position Called Paradoxical
Richard Koo, senior economist at the Nomura Research Institute in Tokyo, said many Japanese found it paradoxical that the Government seemed more concerned about using Japan's surpluses to strengthen the competitiveness of Japanese companies abroad, and contributing to the development of the third world, than improving the life style of the Japanese.
One reason Japan agreed in the recent trade talks to increase domestic investment was to bring the nation's standard of living to a level commensurate with the wealth it has accumulated.
''The attitude sometimes seems to be that the Japanese can live in their rabbit hutches and that this capital will be used in Eastern Europe,'' Mr. Koo said. ''The main problem with this new theme is that it maintains the status quo. That's what this is all about. And remember, the status quo is the source of so many trade problems today.''
 
Redirection of Capital Flows
In another indication of the sweep of the new proposals, a senior Finance Ministry official said, ''We must consider all factors surrounding all of Japan's international relations.'' That was a reference to the question of redirecting the flow of Japanese capital away from the United States.
In its recommendations, the panel also proposed the creation of more ''country funds,'' or mutual fund-type investments that take private capital and invest in a diversified basket of securities in those foreign countries. Japanese securities houses have developed numerous country funds for investing in Southeast Asia, for instance.
As the Finance Ministry official indicated, there is still a lengthy review process before the proposals are adapted. But his pointed comments and those of other Japanese financial leaders make clear that Japan is preparing to take on the greater international responsibilities that the United States and others have urged on it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: FINANCE MINISTRY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TRENDS (75%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); POLITICS (66%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES



103 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo to Run; Won't Promise A 4-Year Term

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 3

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo formally announced today that he would seek a third term, but he refused to commit himself to serving a full four-year term and seemed almost to be encouraging speculation about a possible Presidential bid.
Mr. Cuomo said before the last gubernatorial campaign that if he ran for a second term, it would be a signal that he would not seek the Presidency in 1988. But when asked today whether there was any signal about 1992 to be discerned from his current re-election bid, he said, ''None that I can see.''
In a letter announcing his intention to run for re-election, the 57-year-old Governor said today that despite the ''significant progress'' made in his seven and half years in office, ''clearly a great deal of work still lies ahead.'' 
 
Day Before State Convention
''I intend to ask the people of New York to again give me the privilege of serving as Governor,'' he said.
Mr. Cuomo's widely anticipated announcement came one day before the state's Democratic convention is to begin in Albany. His announcement signals the beginning of a test on how much this year's fiscal problems have damaged his sheen as Governor and any national political aspirations he may have. [Page B2.] Mr. Cuomo has said he waited to announce his plans until after the state budget was resolved, a process that lasted until the middle of last month. But his advisers said another reason that the announcement came so late was to avoid triggering the Federal law that requires broadcast stations to give political candidates the opportunity for equal air time in a campaign.
Addressing convention volunteers this afternoon, Mr. Cuomo appeared relaxed and confident. He was dressed in uncharacteristically casual attire, sporting a dark jacket and light blue pants.
''I hope nobody was surprised that we announced that we were going to run again,'' he said jokingly. ''I never took the question very seriously when people said, 'What are you going to do?' I'm not sure I'm qualified for anything else, frankly.''
Speaking to reporters later, Mr. Cuomo insisted that he did not want to engage in the cagey circumlocutions about the Presidency that were a theme of his second term. But he nevertheless declined to answer reporters' questions about his intentions, saying they would not believe his responses anyway.
 
'Semantic Carousel'
''The last thing in the world I would want to do, if we're nominated and if we succeed, is to get involved in the kind of semantic carousel that we were on last time,'' he said. ''I'll try to figure out how to avoid that. I don't know how to do it, but I'll try.''
Asked why he did not simply say he intended to serve out his full four-year term in Albany, Mr. Cuomo said, ''That wouldn't work at all because what would make you believe it?''
Historically, Mr. Cuomo has always benefited from the speculation that he might run for President. When the speculation was at its most feverish in 1987, the Governor's approval rating jumped to more than 70 percent. Since then, it has hovered around 60 percent.
In 1986, when the Presidential fever was already high, Mr. Cuomo won re-election to the governorship by the largest margin in state history, defeating his Republican opponent, Andrew P. O'Rourke, the Westchester County Executive, by more than two to one.
But this year, aides to the Governor have been trying to lower expectations about the campaign, saying that even though Mr. Cuomo's Republican challenger, Pierre A. Rinfret, is a political neophyte, they do not expect Mr. Cuomo to win again by such a large margin.
Mr. Cuomo himself has taken to talking about his opponent in a clearly exaggerated, often even comical tone of fear. Asked about Mr. Rinfret today, Mr. Cuomo said he thought he would be ''formidable.''
 
Starting With Advantages
The Governor has overwhelming advantages as he enters the race against Mr. Rinfret, an economist who won the Republican nomination after 19 other people declined it. Not only does he have eight years of incumbency but he also has a campaign fund of more than $6 million. Mr. Rinfret has no campaign fund to speak of yet, though he has said he plans to spend $500,000 of his own money on the campaign.
Although Mr. Cuomo has frequently been at odds with the Liberal Party, he also comes to the campaign enjoying the Liberal Party endorsement. Mr. Rinfret, in contrast, will face an opponent, Herbert London, a dean at New York University, on the Conselrvative Party line.
But Mr. Cuomo also comes to the campaign bruised by the state's continuing fiscal problems, which resulted last month in the largest tax increase in New York history. He acknowledged the damage from the budget indirectly, saying: ''We never went through a time quite like the last budget, but that's O.K. We'll deal with that too.''
 
'Tired of Negativism'
Mr. Cuomo, whose campaign four years ago became bogged down in an exchange of unsubstantiated assertions by both sides about ethical improprieties, said today he was ''tired of negativism'' and pledged to conduct a positive race.
''You can't build a society on a foundation of mud,'' he said.
Mr. Cuomo , who was criticized in the 1986 race for conducting an aloof and unengaged campaign, vowed today to crisscross the state with his running mate, Lieut. Gov. Stan Lundine.
''I will be with Stan all over this state,'' he said. ''We're going to work harder than we ever have before.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); BUDGETS (65%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, ELIZABETH; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 



104 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
No Soviet Referendum
 
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev has decided against holding a national referendum on his Government's unpopular economic reform plan to raise prices. Page A16.
 
Still Time to Eat
 
As book publishers grow bigger and deal with larger sums, the hallowed institution of the publishing lunch is resisting change. Page D7.
 
Capital's Mayor on Trial
 
More than a man's fate will be at issue when Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr. of Washington goes on trial today on 14 charges involving drug possession, drug use and perjury. Page A20.
 
Pistons Reach N.B.A. Final
 
Led by Isiah Thomas, Detroit beat the Chicago Bulls and will play Portland for the pro basketball championship. SportsMonday, page C1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (71%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); CHICAGO BULLS (56%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REFERENDUMS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (87%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ISIAH THOMAS (56%); 



105 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: Japanese-U.S. Relations Undergoing a Redesign

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, May 30

 BODY:
Thirty years ago, leftist protesters mobbed the streets of Tokyo to denounce a new security treaty with the United States. The turmoil toppled the Government and forced President Dwight D. Eisenhower to cancel a trip to Japan.
Today, the collapse of the cold war and Japan's coming of age as an economic and technological superpower -a rival as well as a friend - have brought a quiet redefinition of some basic assumptions of the 30-year-old partnership, including the rationale for the presence of 51,000 troops on Japanese soil.
''Japan and the United States need a new map to define our interests,'' said Terumasa Nakanishi, professor of international relations at Shizuoka University. ''The question is whether we have the intellectual vitality to face a new era of history.'' 
In a report in April on the American presence in East Asia, the Defense Department acknowledged that ''traditional threat perceptions are changing'' and that ''our presence in the region is now seen as less relevant'' because of the Soviet decline.
Defense officials cite such developments as the Soviet Union's troop withdrawals from its border with China and Mongolia, its reduction in naval forces at Cam Ranh Bay, Vietnam, and the general preoccupation of Moscow with domestic economic problems.
 
U.S. Pullback Upsets Japanese
Such factors helped persuade the Bush Administration to withdraw 14,000 to 15,000 of the 135,000 troops currently stationed in Japan, South Korea and the Philippines over the next three years, a decision that has unsettled Tokyo.
Soviet intentions in Asia are still widely viewed as uncertain and its armed power remains potent. Military experts say that Russian naval and air forces are undergoing rapid modernization even as they are being nominally reduced. Japan is especially skeptical of Moscow because of a lingering bitter territorial dispute over several islands north of the country that were seized by the Soviet Union in the final days of World War II.
Beyond these military concerns, officials note that trans-Pacific trade is now about $300 billion a year, or about 50 percent more than trans-Atlantic trade, and that instability in Asia, such as China or North Korea, could disrupt vital American interests.
''Even if the Russians withdrew completely, you'd still have a host of security problems,'' said Lieut. Gen. James B. Davis, commander of United States forces in Japan. ''You've got unstable situations in North Korea, China, Cambodia and a lot of other places. We are here because it is in our interest, not just Japan's.''
Like many others, General Davis said he saw Japanese economic power - as the No. 1 investor, trade partner and aid donor in Asia - as a force for stability perhaps equal to the presence of American troops.
 
U.S. Urges Japanese On
In light of this has come American encouragement for Japan to involve itself in Asian problems, which Tokyo has been wary of since the war. For the first time, Japan has begun to respond.
For example, beginning on Monday, Japan will play host to talks on Cambodia between Prince Sihanouk and Prime Minister Hun Sen. Japan's moves came after it warned members of the United Nations Security Council that if they expect Japanese aid to be a part of a Cambodian settlement, this country would have to be involved in the political discussions along the way.
In general, economic cooperation between Japan and the United States is now no longer advertised as crucial to stem Communism in Asia, but to cope with a new generation of problems -from aid to Eastern Europe to third world debt, refugees, terrorism, drugs and the environment.
Perhaps the most sensitive rationale for the Japanese-American partnership is one that has been less widely discussed until recently, but now considered central since the Soviet Union has receded as a threat.
This is the perception that American troops are needed to reassure Asian neighbors about Tokyo's intentions. Like Germany in Europe, an economically powerful Japan continues to generate wariness 45 years after its defeat in World War II.
Accordingly, Japanese officials increasingly argue that Tokyo's spreading trade, investments and economic aid in Asia are actually made possible by an American military presence in Japan that effectively blocks any chance of Japan's rearming.
In addition, Japan has taken a supportive role on the negotiations to renew the lease on American bases in the Philippines. Indeed, at American urging, Japan has committed about $1 billion in aid to the Philippines in the last year.
Opinion surveys show that in spite of well-publicized economic friction, the Japanese-American partnership has broad popular support in both countries. Like Americans, Japanese are yearning for a ''peace dividend'' growing out of the declining Soviet threat, some polls say.
American policy makers say it ought to be obvious that two countries accounting for 40 percent of the world's economic output and 40 percent of aid to poor nations must work together.
Japanese and American economic interdependence is also at an all-time high. Not only does military technology now flow both ways, but Japan has $66 billion in direct investment in United States companies and property and Japanese investors have been essential in financing the United States budget deficit.
The United States estimates, for instance, that Japanese institutions own perhaps $100 billion worth of government securities and that they buy perhaps 30 to 40 percent of the debt offerings of the Treasury Department.
 
When Closeness Hurts
But specialists in Japanese-American relations are also nervous that just this interdependent relationship is causing concern and eroding support for the relationship.
On the American side, a recent Japanese-sponsored survey showed sharp increases in the number of people who view Japan as less than reliable. Most Americans now seem to feel more threatened by Japanese economic power than by Soviet military power.
In Japan, officials note that many leading advocates of Japanese-American friendship were defeated for re-election this year, and Japanese politicians are increasingly inclined to criticize the United States.
Aides to Mr. Kaifu said that Ichiro Ozawa, secretary general of the governing Liberal Democratic Party and the Prime Minister's chief political official, spoke for many when he accused Washington of ''self-righteousness and arrogance'' in recent trade negotiations.
By far the greatest concern among those seeking to preserve Japanese-American cooperation stems from the economic friction surrounding the persistent $50 billion American trade deficit with Japan.
Thus the United States Ambassador, Michael H. Armacost, has repeatedly warned Japan of ''an erosion of public support in the United States for our relationship'' because of a perception of unfair Japanese trade and investment practices. Accords Without Much Effect? A flurry of trade accords were negotiated in April, the centerpiece of which was an agreement that Japan curb some of its deep-rooted ''structural impediments'' to American imports, including monopolistic business practices and regulations that bar competition in crucial areas.
But Japanese and American specialists agree that these agreements are unlikely to have a significant effect on the trade imbalance. For one thing, the accords are expected to change Japanese practices marginally, if at all, with many people uncertain that a rise in American exports would result.
Another cause of tension, specialists in both countries say, is the rapid growth of Japanese investment in the United States and the perception that certain crucial industries, like automobiles, computers and semiconductors, are endangered by Japanese competition.
Worst of all, in the view of American and Japanese policy makers, is a growth in the feeling in Japan that the United States is blaming Tokyo for its own shortcomings and unwilling to address deep-seated problems at home.
There is also tension surrounding the United States desire for Japanese military technology, coupled with fear that this technology could spur Japan into new commercial areas like commercial aircraft, undercutting American business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (97%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MONGOLIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); VIET NAM (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC TRADE DOO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES LIBERALISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); COUPS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); NAVIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); AIR FORCES (72%); MILITARY BASES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R



106 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-17
 
The summit conference ended between Presidents Bush and Gorbachev with warm talk of amity, but with little progress toward resolving their most divisive disputes over Germany and Lithuania. Page A1

 
News analysis: Germany's future in relation to NATO was a topic that the Presidents did not agree on. Analysts say President Gorbachev may not be able to make any concessions in that area any time soon. A1

 
German leaders say talks advance union A11

Reunification spurs uncertainty in East German industry D6

 
News analysis: The summit meeting allows President Gorbachev to take home an American vote of confidence. But a lift from the U.S. may not help him arrest the unraveling of domestic order in the Soviet Union. A10 
 
Reporter's notebook: The heartland really took to the Gorbachevs. They were greeted by adoring throngs everywhere they went in the Minneapolis area. A1

 
Gorbachev dangles visions of fortunes in Soviet trade A13

Critic's notebook: On TV, he's still larger than life A12

Israel answers Soviets, denies plans for settlers A11

U.S. and Soviets will jointly seek to prevent famine in Ethiopia A13

'Food summit' will address Soviet shortages A10

Excerpts from news conference with Bush and Gorbachev A14

 
A voter referendum on a Soviet plan to reform the economy may not occur. President Gorbachev apparently had second thoughts about such a vote after much public opposition was expressed over a recent move to raise food prices. A16

 
Ethnic issues disupt Soviet rights talk A16

 
Wider aid by the Japanese to poorer nations has been urged by a Finance Ministry advisory group that called for a reversal of Tokyo's stated goal of eliminating trade surpluses. A1

 
The Japanese-American relationship has been going through a quiet redefi-nition in recent years, spurred by the Soviet Union's changing military pos-ture and Japan's growing economic and political influence in East Asia. A2

 
Cambodian factions to meet today in Tokyo A3

Gandhi, shaken by defeat, seeks a comeback A5

 
A year after the democracy protest in Tiananmen Square hundreds of families are remembering their loved ones who were killed. For one father, the year has been an odyssey through faith, bitterness and disillusionment with the Communist Party. A1

 
Hundreds march in a protest at Beijing University A7

Hong Kong honors Beijing's victims A6

Pessimism on Chinese trade D1

 
Liberian rebels seized a city, the nations's third largest, further consolidating their control of the central third of the country, African and Western diplomats said. A3

 
Houtstok, or Woodstock in Afrikaans, a festival of Afrikaans-speaking rock music, offered the Afrikaners present a joyful repudiation of their inherited image as a conservative people intolerant of racial differences and resistant to progress. A4

 
The vinchuca, a blood-sucking insect, carries a disease that often brings early death to the rural poor of Latin America. A8

 
O.A.S. cautions Mexicans on election fraud A17

High cost of fighting drugs strains U.S.-Colombia ties D1

Independence fervor in Quebec said to grow A16

Canadians meeting on crisis A16

 
NATIONAL A18-21, B6-8
 
Mayor Marion Barry goes to trial, facing 14 charges of drug use and perjury today, plus the possible ruination of a political career that was once among the most promising of any black official's in the country. A20

 
Governor Dukakis told graduates at the Williams College commencement ceremony that they should enter public service, reaffirming his belief that there is no more important job or more fulfilling responsibility than governance. B6

 
Silber narrowly wins spot on Massachusetts primary ballot B6

 
The race for California governor may be largely decided by the element of sex. Dianne Feinstein, the candidate leading in the polls, has emerged in the minds of female Democrats as a strong symbol of their aspirations for political equality and power. B7

 
A state of emergency in Indiana was declared after tornadoes killed 12people, injured at least 150 more and littered the Midwest with debris Saturday night. A18

 
The disappearing American father, who leaves his children, emotionally and financially, is alarmingly widespread in disrupted families, according to a study. A18

 
At Yellowstone, 1988 fires echo in debate on rangers' role B8

Keeping a watch on time capsules A21

Kansas City journal: spreading the word on beating cancer A18

Nevada murderer is put to death A21

 
REGIONAL B1-5
 
Governor Cuomo will run again, he announced, but he refused to commit himself to serving a full four-year term and seemed almost to be encouraging speculation about a possible Presidential bid. A1

 
Fiscal woes have hurt Cuomo, but how much? B2

 
The case of Rafael Rivera Garcia, who will soon go to trial for attempted murder, is depicted as a tale of racial injustice by his supporters, while critics say it is nothing more than a story of the conflict between two hard-headed enemies. B1

 
Racial harmony won the day at churches throughout the city, including at a Mass in Bensonhurst that was attended by the Rev. Al Sharpton and his followers. The occasion was Pentecost Sunday. B3

 
Bus service has been revised on virtually all the major bus routes in New York City in the last four years in response to shrinking ridership. And more cuts are all but certain because of the city's tight budget. B1

 
A teacher has multiple sclerosis, but that hasn't stopped her from being a source of inspiration and education to her students at a Bronx high school where she gets around in a battery-driven three-wheeled scooter. B1

 
Metro Matters: Arms control in New York? B1

Grandmasters mix chess history and swift play at museum B1

Politicking in Florio's old stumping grounds B4

Tutu tells Wesleyan how its help made a difference B4

Police say officer is killed at a party by another officer B5

 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1

 
SPORTSMONDAY
 
Baseball: Mets' wheel of misfortune C1

Early major league draft causes concern C2

Clemens wins 9th C3

Basketball: Pistons gain final C1

Colleges: N.C.A.A. to study off-field behavior C2

Golf: Trevino wins Senior event C11

Horse Racing: Mr. Nickerson wins C11

Soccer: The World Cup C1

 
ARTS/ENTERTAINMENT
 
Tonys are won by ''Grapes of Wrath'' and ''City of Angels'' C13

Depardieu on life and films C13

Theater: Experimental festival C22

Music: A Spoleto premiere C13

Terence Blanchard, trumpeter C14

Dele Abiodun, with juju C17

Dance: Ballet Theater ''Romeo'' C22

Word and Image: ''A Deed of Death'' C17

 
OBITUARIES B10

 
Robert N. Noyce, one of the inventors of the microchip that revolutionized the electronics industry, died in Austin, Tex., after suffering a heart attack at his home. He was 62 years old. A1

 
eDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
 
Editorials A22

 
Side by side at the summit
Need-blind admissions
California's proposition
Topics: Warmth in Haiti
 
Letters A22

 
Tom Wicker: Vive la difference? A23

 
William Safire: Power of weakness A23

Jeanne Mager Stellman, Joan E. Bertin: Science's bias A23

Tony Marlow: Thatcher is losing even her friends A23

Seymour P. Lachman, Barry A. Kosmin: American Jewry A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); LITHUANIA (92%); CHINA (90%); JAPAN (86%); ETHIOPIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (86%); BEIJING, CHINA (85%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO A3 (63%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); POLITICS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); FAMINE (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); REFERENDUMS (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); FOOD PRICES (66%); CONSERVATISM (61%); POP & ROCK (60%); 



107 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: HONG KONG HONORS BEIJING'S VICTIMS

BYLINE: By BARBARA BASLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 3

 BODY:
More than 100,000 people, most of them dressed in the mourning colors of white and black, took part today in a march to honor pro-democracy demonstrators who were killed in the army crackdown in Beijing last June 4.
The march, under gray, rainy skies, drew the largest turnout here since the huge demonstrations in support of democracy in China last summer. The police estimated the crowd at 100,000, while organizers claimed 250,000.
The size of the crowd, which stretched for more than two miles past the skyscrapers of Hong Kong's central business district, surprised even its organizers, whose original estimate of a turnout of 30,000 people was widely thought to be optimistic. Hong Kong, a British colony, reverts to Chinese control in 1997. 
''The vast numbers show that in spite of fears here - and many people do fear that the Chinese photograph these demonstrations and will later seek to punish those who took part - despite those fears, almost a quarter of a million people came out,'' said Martin Lee, a liberal lawyer and a leader of today's march.
 
Intimidation Said to Fail
Mr. Lee said the huge crowd ''proves that the Chinese policy of trying to intimidate Hong Kong over the past year has failed.'' He added, ''They need to recognize that fact and try to win us over, not frighten us.''
The crowds today, generally sad and solemn, followed a hearse, and where the Chinese traditionally place a picture of the dead, it carried pictures of the violence in Tiananmen Square last June.
A Chinese father marching behind the hearse and carrying his young son on his shoulders said: ''I want him to remember this. I want him to understand we must never forget.''
Thousands of small white penants proclaimed, ''People Will Not Forget.'' The marchers, who sang ''China Shall Be Free'' to the American protest tune ''We Shall Overcome,'' also chanted for the downfall of Prime Minister Li Peng, and demanded the release of democracy advocates still in prison in China.
The river of demonstrators was led by Mr. Lee and Szeto Wah, and a number of Hong Kong's most popular entertainers. The march was organized by the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of the Patriotic Democratic Movement in China, a group Beijing has labeled subversive.
The march ended at the New China News Agency, China's de facto embassy here, and then dispersed quietly. The press agency's headquarters has traditionally been the focus of protests against China, and all day, passers-by had stopped to pay tribute to those who died in Beijing last June.
 
Makeshift Altar Set Up
Some bowed reverently before a makeshift altar that had been set up by student protesters outside the big marble and tile New China News Agency headquarters. Others lighted joss sticks, and still others brought small offerings of apples, oranges and biscuits they placed before the alter. The headquarters was heavily guarded by the police, its front door locked and barred.
The crowds today were no match for the hundreds of thousands - some said up to a million - who took to the streets here last summer in support of the democracy movement in China. But today's turnout was nevertheless impressive for a colony that has grown increasingly reticent and fearful of China.
One sign of the change of heart from summer to summer is the large Goddess of Democracy statue, put up by Beijing demonstrators, and copied here by local artists. The replica was displayed last summer in parks here, but was absent from today's tribute.
The Goddess, stored for months by its creators, was finally buried in a garbage landfill after the Hong Kong Government refused to give it a permanent public home. Today, there was a smaller copy strapped to a bus, and there were a number of cardboard cutouts of the Goddess.
Since last June, the Hong Kong government and political leaders here have taken pains to avoid angering or even displeasing the Chinese authorities, whose attitude toward the colony has been seen by many as intrusive and threatening.
The military crackdown last year shook Hong Kong's very foundations, destroying in days the colony's essential confidence in itself, in its future under China. A local newspaper recently quoted expert psychologists as saying the level of stress in Hong Kong ranks behind only Beirut and Belfast. #1,000 Leave Each Week While China has promised to leave Hong Kong's social and economic systems largely intact and to maintain a policy of ''one country, two systems'' after 1997, few have faith in those pledges anymore.
More than 1,000 people - educated, talented entrepreneurs and professionals - are leaving Hong Kong each week, creating serious shortages in key occupations.
Economic performance has been lackluster, and more local companies here have moved their bases to Bermuda, and are looking for investments outside the colony.
A Hong Kong Chinese banker said recently that political reforms here were no longer the answer. ''The only hope for us,'' he said, ''is a change of power in Beijing.''
 
Rallies in the U.S.
 
By The Associated Press
Demonstrations commemorating the first anniversary of the suppression of the democracy movement in China were held yesterday in New York, Washington, Chicago, Boston and Buffalo, among other cities.
The rally in New York City drew about 1,500 people across the street from the Chinese Consulate in Manhattan. People inside the consulate's building at 45th Street and 12th Avenue were seen videotaping the rally from windows, and an older Chinese man yelled up several times in Chinese, ''Come Down! Come Down!''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A father and child taking part in a rally yesterday in Hong Kong to honor pro-democracy demonstrators who were killed last June in the army crackdown in Beijing. The banner read, ''We Won't Forget.'' (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA); HONG KONG

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); LIBERALISM (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); RIOTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); 

PERSON: BASLER, BARBARA MARTIN LEE (57%); 



108 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON;
Gorbachev May Be a Prophet Without Honor at Home

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
The most telling moment of Mikhail S. Gorbachev's appearance at the post-summit press conference today came when the man from Izvestia, the Soviet Government daily, was recognized for a question.
While the Americans were peppering the Soviet leader with questions on Germany, the Izvestia writer, Stanislav N. Kondrashev, drily noted ''a cooling of interest'' back home in international affairs.
''Everybody's concerned with internal matters at home,'' he told the Soviet leader, who was startled that this splash of cold water should come from the once-predictable hometown press. ''Taking advantage of this opportunity, I'd like to ask you, what do you think of your relationship with Yeltsin?''
 
Problems Back Home
For Mr. Gorbachev, the street-corner adulation and shirtsleeve summitry of this American visit have been a pleasant reprieve from his domestic troubles, and have shored up for a time his position on the world stage. But when the presidential bonding was over, Mr. Gorbachev had found no escape, and little relief, from the problems awaiting him at home. 
What Mr. Gorbachev takes back, by way of the Middle West and California, is an American vote of confidence.
Time and again during his meetings here, the Soviet leader sought to refute the impression that he is a man enfeebled by economic and political crises, and his American counterpart graciously played along.
President Bush, putting the relationship above the agenda, bolstered Mr. Gorbachev with public affirmations of respect and trust. Most notably, Mr. Bush announced that he would not make the liberation of Lithuania a precondition for the normal trade relations Moscow wants so desperately.
''Bush had all the trump cards, and he didn't play them,'' said Aleksandr Bovin, the well-connected Soviet newspaper and television commentator, pleased that in America, at least, there is still faith in perestroika.
But in practical terms, it is hard to see how the summit in any way arrests the Soviet Union's steady retreat from world influence or the inexorable unraveling of the domestic order.
 
Competition From Yeltsin
For Mr. Gorbachev's anxious citizenry, this summit meeting has not even performed the service that statesmen in trouble expect from such events: a distraction from what ails them.
In the formerly obedient Soviet press, the White House signing ceremony and Camp David golf-cart driving competed for front-page attention with stripped grocery shelves, death in Armenia and the leader of a budding Russian mutiny, Boris N. Yeltsin.
Mr. Yeltsin, now the President of the Russian republic, conducted his own summitry with the Baltic secessionists of Lithuania and Estonia. The Lithuanian President, Vytautas Landsbergis, declared that an inter-republic trade deal was in the works that might circumvent Moscow's economic sanctions against his Baltic state.
Thus, while Mr. Gorbachev was trying to explain in Washington his plan for a rebuilt Soviet federation that would allow various degrees of freedom to the 15 constituent republics, the unruly republics seemed to be negotiating their own new federation in the Soviet President's absence.
The most tangible trophy Mr. Gorbachev takes home for his consumers is a trade agreement, which is a symbol of momentum in his quest for Western economic help. Transforming that symbol into sausage, however, will not be easy.
First, to get the agreement through Congress, Mr. Gorbachev must see an emigration law through his own Parliament.
 
The Costs of Emigration
The emigration measure is considered a sure thing, but the costs have just recently begun sinking in. The free emigration envisioned by the law is expected to accelerate a drain of Soviet talent and of foreign currency. That is one reason the Government was unable to deliver the bill before the summit meeting and is not expected to do so until the fall.
Second, though Mr. Bush no longer links trade relations to the fate of Lithuania, Congress may.
And third, enactment of the law will not remove the biggest barrier to increased Soviet-American trade: the fact that the Soviets produce little that Americans want to buy, and cannot afford what America sells.
After five years of unkept economic promises, it will take more than signatures on a trade pact to improve the moods of skeptical Soviet consumers.
On the most contentious outstanding issues of Soviet foreign policy - arms control, regional issues and the critical question of Germany's future - the two leaders seem to have found the personal rapport that Mr. Bush prizes so highly in his dealings with foreign leaders, but they did not close any of the great gaps that remain on points of substance.
In effect, Mr. Gorbachev was reconfirmed in his role as a man the West likes to do business with - in other words, the man best qualified to preside over the ebb of Soviet power.
 
Stalemates Remain Unbroken
The stalemates on the treaties to cut long-range nuclear weapons and conventional forces in Europe remained unbroken.
On arms control, Mr. Gorbachev found himself up against a resurgence of the American conservatives, who have pressed Mr. Bush to insist on further concessions regarding Soviet heavy missiles and bombers. Mr. Bush insisted.
The one foreign-policy area where the summit may ultimately pay off big for Mr. Gorbachev is in the design of the post-Cold War order of Europe, especially the question of whether a united Germany will be integrated militarily into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
The Bush Administration seems to understand how badly Mr. Gorbachev needs assurances that the new Europe does not leave the Soviet Union feeling isolated and threatened. Mr. Gorbachev seemed, at the end of his visit to Washington, to feel that the Americans appreciate his predicament. That kind of mutual trust could ultimately prove vital in working out a solution that accommodates Soviet psychology and saves Mr. Gorbachev face.
Asked on the eve of the summit what Mr. Gorbachev most wanted from America, one presidential confidant, Yevgeny M. Primakov, replied without hesitation, ''Understanding.''
In Washington, Mr. Gorbachev got what he wanted. The question is whether he can take it home.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and his wife, Barbara, waving to the Gorbachevs as they left the White House yesterday (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); LITHUANIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ESTONIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); ARMENIA (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); WRITERS (72%); POLITICS (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (63%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



109 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON;
Meetings on Food Will Examine Soviet Shortages

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
The United States and the Soviet Union will undertake their most ambitious efforts ever this week to deal with one of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's greatest problems - finding more and better food for Soviet consumers.
Representatives of the two country's food sectors are gathering in Washington at what is being described as a ''food summit'' to promote food trade and joint ventures after Mr. Gorbachev's meeting with President Bush, in which promise was held out for greater economic cooperation,.
The Soviet Agriculture Minister, V. V. Nikitin, and two American Cabinet members, Agriculture Secretary Clayton K. Yeutter and Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher, will use the occasion to sign an accord on the exchange of food data between the two countries. 
The meeting, to be held from Monday thru Wednesday, is being sponsored by the Food Industries International Trade Council, an association of major food processors and food machinery producers organized to promote trade with the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
 
Trade Agreement Signed
The decision by Mr. Bush Friday to sign a Soviet trade agreement - starting a process that could end four decades of trade discrimination against Moscow - has increased chances of positive results from the food meeting, American officials said.
While the trade agreement would cut American tariffs on Soviet goods, it would also improve conditions for Americans doing business in the Soviet Union, providing, among other things, better intellectual property protection.
But other obstacles, chiefly related to problems in repatriating profits, will remain even if Congress approves the new trade agreement. The outlook for freer repatriation depends on moves to restructure the Soviet economy along market-oriented lines, establish more realistic pricing, and make the ruble convertible into hard currencies.
''Unless we see more full-scale reforms occurring, you won't see much real increase in business activity,'' said Dr. George Melnykovich, President of the Food Processing Machinery & Supplies Association, a trade association of 530 companies.
 
Signing Set for Wednesday
The information exchange pact, to be signed Wednesday, sets up a clearing house in Moscow that would give American companies information on specific manufacturing and other needs and possible joint venture partners.
The information would be disseminated by Commerce Department offices throughout the United States.
For their part, Soviet enterprises would have direct access to constantly updated lists of American food companies, their specialties, production areas and capabilities.
There have been casual, ad hoc data exchange programs in the past. The new accord gives the effort a higher visibility and broader base.
 
'Deepest Cooperation' Seen
According to one of its negotiators, Michael P. Skarzynski, Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Trade Development, it sets up ''the deepest cooperation ever undertaken by the United States with the Soviet Union in any industrial sector.''
Such companies as FMC Corporation, Archer Daniels Midland, Land O'Lakes, H. J. Heinz, Pepsico, Philip Morris/Kraft General Foods, Stokely and RJR Nabisco are among leading backers of the meeting.
Soviet participants include representatives of the State Commission of the Council of Ministers on Food and Procurement, Ministries of Finance, Trade and Foreign Economic Relations, and other government agencies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (83%); FMC (NYSE) (60%); HNZ (NYSE) (58%); PEP (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (83%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (83%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (83%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (83%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (83%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (83%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (83%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (60%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (58%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (58%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (58%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (83%); FMC CORP (60%); H J HEINZ CO (58%); PEPSICO INC (50%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COUNCIL (56%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: FOOD; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SHORTAGES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); JOINT VENTURES (76%); FOOD PRODUCT EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); APPROVALS (65%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (61%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 



110 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON;
Israel Answers Soviets, Denies Plans for Settlers

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, June 3

 BODY:
Israel reiterated tonight that it has no plans to settle Soviet Jewish immigrants in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.
The Israeli statement was issued tonight by Avi Pazner, a senior adviser to Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, in response to an apparent threat by the Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, to stop the flow of Soviet Jews to Israel unless the Soviet Union was assured that they will not be settled in the occupied territories.
Discussing Israeli immigration at a news conference with President Bush in Washington today, Mr. Gorbachev said:
''We are facing the following situation: Either after these meetings and exchanges with the President of the United States of America on this particular issue, our concern will be heeded in Israel and they will make certain conclusions, or else we must give further thought to it in terms of what we can do with issuing permits for exit.''
Mr. Pazner said, ''We will make clear to Gorbachev our policy that we are not sending, not encouraging, and not giving incentives to Soviet Jews to settle in the areas of Judea, Samaria and Gaza.'' Judea and Samaria are the biblical names for the West Bank. 
 
Incentives Are Offered
All Jews immigrating to Israel are given help in resettling there, and those who choose to settle in the occupied territories are given extra incentives by the Government.
''The Jews arriving here have complete freedom of choice and can choose where to live, and it is a fact that very few, until now, have chosen to live in these areas,'' Mr. Pazner said in a telephone interview.
He added that only 135 Jewish emigrants from the Soviet Union had chosen to live in settlements established by Israel in the occupied territories. ''This year less than one half of one percent have expressed their choice to do so,'' Mr. Pazner said.
About 70,000 Jewish settlers live in the occupied territories amid 1.7 million Palestinians.
Another Israeli official, who asked not to be identified, dismissed the Soviet threat as a bluff, saying the Soviet Union would face severe economic penalties from the United States and Western European nations if it tried to carry out such a threat or acted to slow the flow of Soviet Jewish emigration to Israel.
''I think the comments were meant for Arab consumption,'' the official said. He added that the Soviets, who are seeking urgent financial and economic cooperation in the West, are ''too vulnerable on this issue to act on it.''
At their summit meeting in Baghdad last week, Arab nations asserted that the flow of tens of thousands of Soviet Jews to Israel threatened the peace process in the region by diminishing the chances of negotiating the establishment of an independent Palestinian state in the occupied territories.
 
Soviets Ban Direct Flights
It was partly in response to previous expressions of Arab alarm that the Soviet Union banned direct flights to Israel, but several countries, including Poland, Cyprus, Austria and Italy, are allowing Soviet Jews transit rights to Israel.
The issue has become so sensitive, particularly in view of threats by some Palestinian extremist groups to attack countries that allow Soviet migrants to travel to Israel, that Israeli officials have been forbidden to discuss any matters dealing with Soviet immigration here.
Israeli officials have repeatedly asserted that the number of Soviet Jews who have moved into settlements in the occupied territories is too small to be considered a problem. But Western diplomats here say that if new settlements that have been built in East Jerusalem are taken into consideration, the number could be as high as 10 percent.
Israel has also been upset about assertions by the United States that it objects to any new settlements in the occupied territories and to a recent declaration that the United States may increase its own quota of Soviet Jews allowed to settle there.
Today, Uri Gordon, head of the absorption department of the Jewish Agency, said the United States' declared intention to increase its quota of Soviet immigrants reflected what he described as an erosion of the United States position toward Israel, according to a report broadcast on Israel's radio today.
Israeli officials say the United States, which allows about 50,000 Soviet Jews to come in every year as immigrants, is considering increasing the quota to 70,000.
The last monthly figure on immigration from the Soviet Union to Israel was 10,500 for April. Israeli officials would not say how many immigrants arrived in May.
But a senior Israeli Government official said: ''We still expect higher numbers to come, regardless of what the Soviets are saying. They have done nothing to slow the movement, and there are many things they could do if they really meant it.'' ----Gorbachev Is Criticized American Jewish groups condemned Mr. Gorbachev's comments on Jewish emigration yesterday.
Sholom D. Comay of New York, president of the American Jewish Committee, said his group was ''distressed'' at the remark that the flow of Soviet Jews to Israel might be curtailed. In a statement, Mr. Comay said he hoped ''that President Bush's silence on hearing the Soviet leader's threat does not mean any weakening of the Administration's resolve, and that it will now once more make clear its determination that Soviet Jewish immigration must continue.''
Another New York-based group, The Student Struggle for Soviet Jewry, said Mr. Gorbachev had made ''intemperate threats'' and given ''tragic confirmation'' of his ''underlying hostility to Israel.''
Malcolm Hoenlein, executive director of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, said in a statement in New York that ''even to suggest a restriction of Jewish emigration to Israel is unacceptable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (71%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP

SUBJECT: ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS (OCCUPIED TERRITORIES) JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); IMMIGRATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); RELIGION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); PEACE PROCESS (62%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



111 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON;
Gorbachev, in U.S. Heartland, Dangles Visions of Fortunes in Soviet Trade

BYLINE: By ERIC N. BERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, June 3

 BODY:
Mikhail S. Gorbachev told America's business and agricultural leaders today that they need not fear investing in the Soviet Union while that country undergoes economic reform.
In a speech to executives and heads of farm groups from across the country, Mr. Gorbachev acknowledged that perestroika, his program of economic liberalization, had produced difficulties.
But the Soviet leader seemed to suggest that these problems were only a short-term result of the liberalization process and that American companies would be wise not to wait to invest in the Soviet Union.
He provided a checklist of business sectors in which he said the Soviet Union hoped to receive United States investment - in everything from auto making to computer design to railroad modernization. 
''Those who are with us now have a good chance - have good prospects -of participating in our great country,'' Mr. Gorbachev said. Those companies that remain on the sidelines, he said, ''will remain observers for years to come - we will see to it.''
 
'We Are Just Beginning'
Mr. Gorbachev urged his audience to be patient while the Soviets developed financial and legal systems, and added that the Soviet Union hoped to develop stock exchanges and a modern banking system. ''When you pass judgment on us, please understand that certain things you have had for decades - centuries perhaps - are new for us,'' Mr. Gorbachev said. ''We are just beginning.''
Mr. Gorbachev's remarks on economic matters were the highlight of a day that blended pageantry, sightseeing and public relations. After ending his summit talks in Washington with President Bush, Mr. Gorbachev flew to Minneapolis-St. Paul, where he settled into a one-hour meeting with the business and agricultural leaders after a brief sightseeing tour.
Protesters were out in force along the route. They carried signs criticizing Mr. Gorbachev's handling of the Baltic republics' independence movements and the Soviets' involvement in Afghanistan.
On his arrival, as soon as the University of Minnesota's Symphonic Wind Ensemble struck up Dmitri Shostakovich's ''Festive Overture,'' Mr. Gorbachev plunged into the crowd, pumping hands.
He did not even permit his motorcade to arrive at its first destination, the Governor's Mansion in St. Paul, before he was working the crowds a second time. After greeting well-wishers a block from the mansion and even gesturing to protesters, Mr. Gorbachev clasped his wife's hand and, with a handbell choir performing in the background, walked to the mansion.
 
Veal and Walleye Pike
There, he dined on breaded walleye pike, Wisconsin Provimi veal, a compote of wild rice and corn and minted sweet biscuits filled with whipped cream and served with early-summer berries and caramel sauce.
From an economic perspective, Mr. Gorbachev's visit to Control Data Corporation could yield immediate results, including a stop he made to observe a demonstration of computer work stations being built under contract to improve nuclear power-plant safety in the Soviet Union.
A delegation of scientists arranged meetings with Control Data scientists, discussing topics ranging from computer-to-computer communications to computer-aided design.
''Gorbachev understands that to get into the modern world it will take automation and advancement in electronics,'' said Lawrence Perlman, Control Data's president and chief executive.
Realizing that no amount of money could generate as much favorable publicity as the Gorbachev visit, Mr. Perlman and other Control Data officials decided to turn the event into a party.
They had huge tents erected on the company's front lawn, supplied truckloads of hot dogs, cotton candy, popcorn and corn on the cob and invited all Control Data employees and their families. More than 15,000 tickets were handed out.
The celebration was paid for by Control Data. Indeed, except for the overtime pay that St. Paul and Minneapolis will have to pay employees who were involved, virtually the entire Soviet visit was financed by businesses, providing cash, goods and services.
International Business Machines Corporation, for instance, lent personal computers. U.S. West Communications Inc. donated telephones. The Carlson Companies Inc., owner of the Radisson lodging chain, provided rooms. And Northwest Airlines gave free travel.
 
Volunteers Save the Day
An army of local lawyers, accountants and public-relations executives offered their services. It was a demonstration of volunteerism that made local officials proud.
''If they wouldn't help me I don't know what I would have done,'' said Roger Parkinson, publisher of The Star Tribune, who was chosen by Governor Rudy Perpich to head the committee organizing for the visit.
Minnesota officials had less than three weeks to prepare.
Early in the planning, Soviet officials emphasized that President Gorbachev would want to meet with business and farm leaders. Indeed, one reason Minnesota was chosen is that Minnesota has well-developed agricultural and industrial sectors.
But what began as an intimate gathering of prominent Minnesotans evolved into a congress of industrialists from across the country, with hundreds of companies jockeying for an invitation.
When Soviet officials made clear that Mr. Gorbachev hoped to meet with leaders of American business and finance no matter what their home base, the list of invited guests swelled to 145.
'We received many, many requests from individual companies,'' said Ray Bohn, Governor Perpich's press secretary. ''And various business groups forwarded invitation lists.''
Security along the entire route was extremely tight. Major roads were closed to all but official traffic.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mikhail S. Gorbachev acknowledging cheers from a crowd of well-wishers who greeted him yesterday when he arrived for a brief visit in Minneapolis. (Pool photo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (60%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (60%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (60%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); BALTIC STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (52%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (76%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (93%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: ARBITRON INC (60%); CERIDIAN CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MINNESOTA

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (85%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); GOVERNORS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); TRENDS (60%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: BERG, ERIC N; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



112 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON;
Business Leaders Meeting With Gorbachev in Minneapolis

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, June 3

 BODY:
Here is a list of American business executives and trade representatives invited to meet with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev today at the Radisson Plaza Hotel in Minneapolis. The list was provided by the Minnesota Governor's office.
 
John F. Akers, International Business Machines
Edward Anderson, L'Orbits
Richard Anderson, World Trade Center, Washington
Dwayne Andreas, Archer Daniels Midland
Edwin Artz, Procter & Gamble
H. Brewster Atwater Jr., General Mills
Lowell W. Andreas, Mid-Communications
Hans Becherer, Deere
Lee Berlin, Lectec
John R. Block, National American Wholesale Grocers Association
John H. Bryan, Sara Lee
Duane L. Burnham, Abbot Laboratories
August Busch III, Anheuser-Busch
Edward A. Brennan, Sears, Roebuck
Edgar M. Bronfman, Seagram
Willard C. Butcher, Chase Manhattan
James Camerlo, National Milk Producers Federation
Curt Carlson, Carlson Companies
John J. Cavanaugh, Summit
Alfred A. Checchi, Northwest Airlines
Ross Colwill, Detector Electronics
Frank W. Considine, American National Can
David Cook, Stearns Manufacturing
John Chrystal, Bankers Trust, Des Moines
Simon Chilewich, Chilewich
Mark Dayton, Vermillion Investments
Willis Eken, Minnesota Farmers Union
Roger Enrico, Pepsi-Cola Worldwide Beverages
William F. Farley, Farley Industries
Donald Fites, Caterpillar
William Forester, U.S.-U.S.S.R. Trade and Economic Council
H. Lawrence Fuller, Amoco
Elizabeth Garst, Raccoon Valley State Bank
John E. Gherty, Land O' Lakes
James Giffen, Mercator
William George, Medtronic
Harvey Golub, IDS Financial Services
Pierson M. Grieve, Ecolab
Jack Grundhofer, First Bank System
H. R. Haldeman, American International, Radisson
Roger Hale, Tennant
Allen Hanson, Harvest States Cooperative
Ron Hayes, American Crystal Sugar
Michael M. Harper, Conagra
Vernon Heath, Rosemount
John Hinds, A.T.&T. International
Bill Hodder, Donaldson
Jim Howard, Northern States Power
Stan Hubbard, Hubbard Broadcasting
Jon Huntsman, Huntsman Chemical
Charles E. Hugel, ASEA Brown Boveri
Lee A. Iacocca, Chrysler
Allen F. Jacobson, 3M
Lloyd P. Johnson, Norwest
Marlyn Jorgenson, American Association of Soy Producers
Martin N. Kaufman, Phillips Mining
Dean Kleckner, American Farm Bureau Federation
Alan Kemper, National Corn Growers Association
Donald M. Kendall, Pepsico
George D. Kennedy, International Minerals and Chemical
Donald R. Keough, Coca-Cola
Richard L. Knowlton, Hormel
David Koch, Graco
Alex Kroll, Young & Rubicam
William E. LaMothe, Kellogg
Douglas Leatherdale, St. Paul Companies
James K. Baker, United States Chamber of Commerce
Carl H. Lindner, American Financial
Donovan C. Loeslie, U.S. Wheat Associates
Anthony Luiso, International Multifoods
H. William Lurton, Jostens
Mike Lynn, Minnesota Vikings
Whitney MacMillan, Cargill
Barry MacTaggart, Pfizer International
William Marvin, Marvin Windows
Robert Maxwell, Mirror Group Newspapers
John F. McDonnell, McDonnell Douglas
Richard D. McCormick, US West
Ken Macke, Dayton Hudson
Patrick Maher, American Sugar Beet Association
Robert H. Malott, FMC
George Melnykovich, Food Processing Machinery and Supply Association
Kendrick Melrose, Toro
Thomas Miner, Mid America Committee
John C. Marous, Westinghouse
Ian A. Martin, Pillsbury
Richard Mahoney, Monsanto
William F. McSweeney, Occidental Petroleum
John Murphy, Dresser Industries
Rick Norling, Fairview Hospitals
Harold V. Haverty, Deluxe
Dwight Opperman, West Publishing
Anthony J. F. O'Reilly, H. J. Heinz
Ara Oztemel, Satra
John Pellet
Lawrence Perlman, Control Data
Robert Petersen, IBP
Carl Pohlad, Marquette Bank
Frank Popoff, Dow
Harold Poling, Ford
Robert Price, Control Data
Robert Pritzger, Marmon Group
Gerald Rauenhorst, OPUS
James Reagan, American National Bank and Trust
James J. Renier, Honeywell
James D. Robinson 3d, American Express
John A. Rollwagen, Cray Research
Bernard Rome, American International
Orion C. Samuelson, Agricultural Broadcasting
Burt Sandberg, American Crane Service
Kent Schulze, Northrup King
Dennis Sokol, Medical Consortium
Don Smith, National Cattleman's Association
Nick Smith, Lake Superior Center
Barry F. Sullivan, First Chicago
Donald Sullivan, MTS Systems Michael Sullivan, Dairy Queen
Roger B. Smith, General Motors
George Soros, Soros Fund Management
Morton Sosland, Sosland Publishing
William Stiritz, Ralston Purina
Robert B. Shapiro, Nutrasweet
Henry Schacht, Cummins Engine
Robert Schmidt, Minne-Aspen and Associates
Robert Smith, Quebecor Printing
Lee Swenson, National Farmers Union
Paul Tatum, American International
Curtis Hessler, Unisys
Thomas N. Urban, Pioneer Hi-Bred International
Robert A. Van Diest, Van Diest Supply
Ernst Van Eeghen, Holland-American-Soviets
Paul Van Orden, General Electric Aircraft Engines
Robert Vekich, ARGO International
James Verrant, Allied Signal International
A. C. Wallace, Blandin Paper
Dr. Robert Waller, Mayo Foundation
Winston R. Wallin, Medtronic
Edward Morgan Williams
Richard D. Wood, Eli Lilly
De Von Woodland, National Farmers Organization
Michael W. Wright, Supervalue Stores
Elva Walker, National Purity
Elroy Webster, Cenex
Michael Wehler, National Pork Producers Association

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (84%); ABT (SWX) (71%); ABT (NYSE) (71%); ABT (LSE) (71%); ABL (FRA) (71%); TRV (NYSE) (63%); IBMC (BRU) (58%); IBM (NYSE) (58%); IBM (LSE) (58%); GIS (NYSE) (57%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (56%); MDT (NYSE) (55%); PEP (NYSE) (55%); ECL (NYSE) (54%); ABJA (FRA) (53%); ABJ (FRA) (53%); ABBN (SWX) (53%); ABB (STO) (53%); ABB (NYSE) (53%); ABB (NSE) (53%); KO (NYSE) (52%); HNZ (NYSE) (51%); PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%); TGT (NYSE) (51%); MON (NYSE) (50%); OXY (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (85%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (85%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (84%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (84%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (84%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (84%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (84%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (84%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (63%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (57%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (57%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (55%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS561790 OTHER SERVICES TO BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); NAICS561720 JANITORIAL SERVICES (54%); NAICS561710 EXTERMINATING & PEST CONTROL SERVICES (54%); NAICS325612 POLISH & OTHER SANITATION GOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC7349 BUILDING CLEANING & MAINTENANCE SERVICES, NEC (54%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (53%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (53%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (51%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (51%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (51%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (51%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (51%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (51%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (50%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (50%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (50%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CARLSON COS INC (85%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (84%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (71%); TRAVELERS COS INC (63%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (58%); GENERAL MILLS INC (57%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (57%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); MEDTRONIC INC (55%); PEPSICO INC (55%); IDS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (54%); ECOLAB INC (54%); ABB LTD (53%); COCA-COLA CO (52%); H J HEINZ CO (51%); PFIZER INC (51%); PROCESSING MACHINERY & SUPPLY CO (51%); TARGET CORP (51%); MONSANTO CO (50%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (50%); NATIONAL MILK PRODUCERS FEDERATION (56%); NATIONAL MILK PRODUCERS FEDERATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MINNEAPOLIS (MINN)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); WHOLESALERS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); AIRLINES (68%); CORN FARMING (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); GOVERNORS (57%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S RICHARD H ANDERSON (79%); MARK DAYTON (57%); 



113 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON;
U.S. and Soviets Will Seek to Prevent Ethiopia Famine

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
The United States and the Soviet Union said today that they will work together to avert a famine in Ethiopia and announced that the Ethiopian Government has removed a major obstacle to the delivery of relief supplies.
President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union, in a statement on Ethiopia issued at the conclusion of their four days of talks, said that joint diplomatic efforts had succeeded in persuading the Government of Lieut. Col. Mengistu Haile Mariam to stop bombing Massawa, the Eritrean guerrilla-held port, in order to enable food to enter the country.
''This is a major advance over where the United States and the Soviet Union were a year ago in cooperation on African issues,'' said Herman J. Cohen, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs. ''I'm very pleased because the port of Massawa is the highest priority for saving potential victims.'' 
 
Port Bombing to Cease
Mr. Cohen said the Soviet-allied Ethiopian Government had made its decision to stop bombing Massawa two days ago and estimated that one million people could be fed from supplies delivered to the Red Sea port.
But before food shipments begin to come through Massawa, United Nations technicians will have to survey the port to examine war damage and see if there are adequate facilities for docking and unloading. Delays could take weeks at least.
Today's announcement was the first indication that American-Soviet cooperation to end the Ethiopian war was producing results. The struggle between the Ethiopian Government and separatist guerrillas from Eritrea province has raged since 1962. Fighting has intensified in the last few months as the Eritrean People's Liberation Front has taken Massawa and encircled the provincial capital, Asmara.
The war, compounded by a second separatist war in Tigre province, immediately south of Eritrea, has exacerbated the effects of drought and collectivist economic policies to bring a series of famines to Ethiopia in recent years. Currently 3 million people, of a total population of 50 million, are at risk of starving.
Peace negotiations mediated by former President Jimmy Carter broke off in December, when Addis Ababa refused to go along with an Eritrean proposal to include a United Nations observer in the talks.
The three-paragraph American-Soviet statement issued today indicated that the Ethiopian Government has now removed that obstacle by agreeing to include a United Nations representative in the process.
But a top Administration policymaker said Addis Ababa's decision may have come too late to resume a dialogue because the military situation has deteriorated so far in so short a time. The Eritreans are expected to mount a large-scale offensive this month to take Asmara - an action that would effectively slice off Eritrea from the rest of the country - as the rainy season grounds the Ethiopian Air Force.
 
Food Will Be Delivered
In their statement, the Soviet and American Presidents announced an agreement to cooperate on delivering food aid to 100,000 people living in regions isolated by the war. Soviet AN-24 transport planes, now used to deploy Ethiopian military units and supplies, will soon be used to supply American-supplied sorghum and rice. Before the airlifts can go into high gear, the Soviets must repair or replace four planes sabotaged by guerrillas last month.
The statement said the two Governments will support a United Nations conference to consider how to resolve the Ethiopian conflict. Mr. Gorbachev proposed the idea to Mr. Bush at Camp David. ''Nothing is planned yet on that,'' Mr. Cohen said, ''We'll have to flesh that out now.''
Mr. Cohen expressed hope that efforts by the United States and the Soviet Union to resolve the conflict in Ethiopia would soon expand to similar efforts to negotiate a conclusion to the guerrilla war in Angola.
Washington has been urging the Soviet Union to press Ethiopia to negotiate a settlement of its war for two years. About a year ago, Administration officials say, Moscow came to the conclusion that President Mengistu could not win. In the last few weeks, Moscow put Ethiopia on notice that it would significantly cut military aid next year as a pressure point to negotiate.
The United States effort to enlist Moscow's cooperation in ending the conflict and relieving the Ethiopian food shortage reached a high point last month during Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d's visit to Moscow, when the Soviets agreed in principle to work together on airlifting supplies.
Since then the Soviets and Americans have coordinated efforts, with Moscow explicitly telling Addis Ababa to negotiate an end to the fighting and Washington offering to upgrade relations in return for reopening the port.
President Mengistu's problems were compounded two weeks ago when 12 senior military officers accused of involvement in an attempted coup were executed.
Representative Tony P. Hall, Democrat of Ohio, chairman of the House Committee on Hunger, hailed today's statement as a ''mighty victory.''

GRAPHIC: map of Massawa, Ethiopia

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ETHIOPIA (99%); ERITREA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: RED SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ETHIOPIA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; FAMINE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FAMINE (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (86%); STARVATION (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CIVIL WAR (70%); AIR FORCES (65%); PEACE PROCESS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; MENGISTU HAILE MARIAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (72%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); 



114 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 6072 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN WASHINGTON;
Key Sections From the Bush-Gorbachev News Conference

 BODY:
Following are statements by President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev yesterday at a news conference and excerpts from the question-and-answer session that followed, as recorded by The New York Times through the facilities of the Cable News Network. Mr. Gorbachev spoke through a translator.
 
BUSH STATEMENT
 
Well, when President Gorbachev and I were at Malta, we agreed that we would try to build a fundamentally different U.S.-Soviet relationship, one that would move beyond containment to an era of enduring cooperation.
At the time, no one knew the momentous events that would unfold around the world. And our task is, if anything, more urgent. And the case for a new U.S.-Soviet relationship more compelling, because the opportunities before us are so great. 
We've not shied away from discussing issues about which we disagree. There were some tough ones before us, particularly the aspirations of the Baltic peoples, a cause which the United States fully supports.
I think it's a mark of how far the U.S.-Soviet relationship has come that in all our exchanges, whether about issues on which we agreed or disagreed the spirit of candor and openness, a desire not just to press understand but to build bridges, shone through.
President Gorbachev and I had intensive discussions on the transforming events in Europe, events that have put before us our best chance in four decades to see Europe whole and free.
I stressed that the long-held aspirations of the German people should be met without delay. On the matter of Germany's external alliances, I believe, as do Chancellor Kohl and the members of the alliance, that the united Germany should be a full member of NATO.
President Gorbachev, frankly, does not hold that view. But we are in full agreement that the matter of alliance membership is, in accordance with the Helsinki final act, a matter for the Germans to decide.
 
List of Accords
Over the last six months and in Washington this week, we made great progress in our mutual effort toward building a more peaceful and stable world. We signed a very important chemical-weapons accord, nuclear-testing protocols and gave a political push to others, including negotiations to reduce U.S. strategic nuclear forces and conventional military forces in Europe.
I'm also hopeful that the good discussion between President Gorbachev and - the one we had about the importance of ''open skies'' -will revive those negotiations.
We discussed regional issues and human rights in considerable detail, made progress in the economic sphere, concluding a commercial agreement, a long-term grains agreement.
And in closing let me say how productive I really feel the last few days have been. President Gorbachev and I have agreed to meet on a regular basis, perhaps annually. Both of us would like to think that we can get together more often with less formality.
Because, you see, we're now at a stage in the U.S.-Soviet relationship, and indeed in world history, where we should miss no opportunity to complete the extraordinary tasks before us.
Mr. President, it's been a pleasure having you here, Sir.
 
GORBACHEV STATEMENT
Ladies and gentlemen, comrades, what has happened over these days enables me to characterize this summit meeting as an event of enormous importance, both for our bilateral relations and in the context of world politics.
President Bush has listed the results of the work that we've done together here, which enables you to see the scope, the scale of this work, and I think confirms the conclusion that I have drawn.
I agree with President Bush fully, who many times emphasized that we took Malta as a point of departure. And it is Malta that added momentum to the process, which, of course, given all the difficulties and disagreements which we have and which we do not deny, still leads us to a qualitatively new relationship with the U.S.S.R. and the U.S.A.
The atmosphere and the results of this meeting make it possible for us to speak really of a new phase of cooperation, which the President has just mentioned.
I believe that this transition is both the result and a factor for further changes that affect all countries. The constructive spirit of these days, the spirit of responsibility in which we discussed all questions, have made our success possible. And that's very important, because that has a stabilizing effect on the entire international situation at a time when we are addressing fundamental issues of civilization.
 
Nuclear and Space Arms
I would not want to now list - give a listing of all that we discussed, to mention all the agreements, all the important questions and statements that we have made and that have a lot of potential for the future.
But let me still mention what is most important. We signed the main position for a treaty on the reduction of strategic arms. And I would like to emphasize that this is the first time that we're not just limiting, but we will be reducing, the most devastating means of warfare. And I hope that we will sign the treaty itself this year.
We also signed a statement about future treaty negotiations on nuclear and space arms. We have agreed to make sure that we will complete the Vienna talks this year and sign an agreement on conventional arms at a European summit by the end of this year. Not everything depends on us. But this is our position. We want still leads us to that.
We also discussed problems relating to the European process, specifically external aspects of German unification. I cannot say that we have reached agreement. But that does not mean that our efforts were futile. Many new arguments emerged as a result of these discussions, and new possible perspectives.
We have clarified our positions, and it is our position that we will continue discussion in order to find a mutually acceptable solution. We could not resolve this issue in Washington with the President, the two of us. There is also the 2-plus-4 formula and other European countries, which are concerned and which want to see a mutually acceptable solution, a solution acceptable to all of us.
The position of the Soviet Union is that we have to find solutions that would fit into the overall positive trend of changes in Europe and in the world that would strengthen and not erode security.
 
'All World Problems'
I would like in particular to emphasize the importance of our dialogue at Camp David, where we talked during the day yesterday. And this is a new phase in strengthening mutual understanding and trust between us.
We really discussed all world problems. We compared our political perspectives, and we did that in an atmosphere of frankness, a constructive atmosphere, an atmosphere of growing trust. We discussed specifically such urgent international issues as the situation in the Middle East, Afghanistan, southern Africa, Cambodia, Central America. And that is just some of what we have discussed.
I would not want to go into detail right now. I think that you will probably seek to get clarification on this. But anyway I think that the Camp David dialogue was very important. We have agreed to make a special statement on Ethiopia, to support efforts to re-establish peace there and also, with the help of the United Nations, to give humanitarian relief to the Ethiopian people.
Speaking of bilateral relations, we have some important political achievements here. Specifically, there is movement on such important areas as trade agreement, grain trade, agreement on civil-aviation cooperation, maritime agreement, peaceful uses of the atomic-energy science and technology and education.
While we and the President were working and our ministers were also discussing things, there were important contacts and discussions with various American companies. And some important decisions were made, such as Chevron, that will be participating in the exploration of the Tengiz oil fields that will mean an investment of about 10 billion rubles.
A group of our academicians were here with me. And they had a good discussion, which resulted in the signing of a memorandum of intent with I.B.M., which will participate in the program of using computers for education in the Soviet Union. I think that this economic area and other areas create a good foundation for our political dialogue and creates a kind of solid support, solid pillar of support, for our cooperation.
I would like to express my profound gratification at this work that we have done together with President George Bush. I appreciate very much him as a political leader who is able, in a very human way and in a politically responsible way, to engage in dialogue and cooperation.
We spent many hours together and were able to come to know each other very well. I don't know whether anyone will be ever able to say that we know each other totally well or completely. I think that would take many, many years. But now we have a good human relationship and, I think, a good human atmosphere between us.
 
Grateful for Warmth
The President has said - and I would like to confirm this - that we have decided to have regular meetings on a working basis in a businesslike manner. And this is really what is necessary.
And I would like to tell you that I've invited President George Bush, the President of the United States, to visit the Soviet Union, to come for a state visit to our country.
In concluding - and that is something that is not within the framework of the official negotiations, but was part of our visit - I would like to say both to the Americans and to the Soviet people that here we, the Soviet delegation, we have felt very good feelings of the American people, feelings of solidarity and a lot of interest from the Americans toward what we are doing in the Soviet Union for perestroika.
I have felt that on many occasions in my short exchanges with the Americans and also in various talks. And I would like to thank all Americans for that. And they certainly can expect reciprocity from the Soviet Union for that.
And, finally, we, the two of us, were discussing things of concern to us, various regions, various problems affecting the lives of other countries. But, that does not mean that we were trying to decide anything for others. Anyway, we remembered always that what we were doing must be useful not only for our countries, but for the world and, of course, specifically, for the third world.
And let me at this wrap up my initial remarks at this press conference.
 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
German Unity and NATO
 
Q. I'd like to ask both Presidents about Germany. President Bush, you mentioned that you still have a disagreement about a united Germany being in NATO. In any concrete sense, did you narrow your differences on this subject, and are any alternatives being seriously considered?
 
BUSH. I'm not sure we narrowed them. I feel I understand President Gorbachev's position. But I know this for a fact certain, I had every opportunity to explain in considerable detail why I felt a united Germany in NATO would be stabilizing, would be important for the stability of a post-German unification Europe.
So, I can't say whether we narrowed them. But the benefit of a meeting like this is, once again, you can talk in great frankness about it. I had no suspicions about his position, and I hope he has no suspicion about mine. And we've got collective decisions to take with NATO allies on matters of this nature. But in the final anaysis, it's a question for Germany to decide that. And maybe we're closer on that, but I would defer to President Gorbachev.
 
GORBACHEV. Since I have already made quite a few remarks on many occasions during these days on the subject, I will confine myself to comments which I think important in order to emphasize the thinking on this score and in order for us to understand better what they're after.
We're not insisting that it should be an option of the Soviet Union. We're not saying that this should be a version by the United States of America or anybody else's option. What we are talking about is an option or a solution of external problems related to German reunification which would organically incorporate the European process and improvement of international politics as a whole.
In order so that resolution of these issues would help enrich this process and make it more stable and reliable, we are opposed to any options whatever it may come from. We ourselves are not going to offer one, one that would weaken these processes or create difficulties for the unfolding processes on the European continent. We're not going to put spokes in the wheels, as it were.
So I believe the fact that the President, myself and our colleagues have devoted a great deal of time to this issue. We have threshed out this idea very, very thoroughly. I think it has been very helpful and beneficial, because we will continue our debates on this.
 
Statesmanship and Progress
 
Q. From Pravda newspaper. I have this question to address to you, Mikhail Sergeyevich. You have just mentioned President Bush as having qualities of a statesman. Could you tell us what role they played in helping you make so many accomplishments at this summit meeting and advance in the solution of many problems that seem to be intractable?
 
GORBACHEV. I can reiterate what I have said and I can add the following: Mr. Bush and I met each other a bit earlier before finding ourselves in this position together. And during my contacts with him I felt - and it was during my first visit here in 1987 - that this is the kind of person to do business with, to build our relations with. Then we had contacts at the Governors Island, which persuaded me even more of that.
We have maintained correspondence between us, and perhaps Malta was exactly the point where President Bush and I could get to know each other even better and to engage in some thinking on one-and-one meetings.
I must say that everything began with discovering the fact that President Bush and myself have a desire to do business informally, which is very, very important.
If we added to this the fact that each of us, while being himself and while representing their own people, should react in a responsible fashion to everything and in context to the real role played by the Soviet Union and the United States of America, we could very well imagine the human compatibility which exists between people and which enables them to create a kind of atmosphere that makes it possible to clarify the root causes of some particular processes.
I can say that this dialogue is well under way. And as to yesterday's meetings at Camp David, they were great accomplishments in and by themselves. This is my assessment, and I think the fact that we have established a rapport will be very important.
 
Guarantees for Palestinians
 
Q. This is a two-pronged question for both Presidents. Beyond words, what guarantees can you give the Palestinians that the decisions you made on immigration will not result in the further usurpation of their lands? And why is it that President Gorbachev has shown so much human sympathy for the Palestinians while the U.S. vetoes even a U.N. look at their plight under a military siege?
 
BUSH. Did you have a particular order you wanted us to answer that question in?
The United States policy on settlement in the occupied territories is unchanged and is clear. And that is we oppose new settlements in territories beyond the 1967 lines. It's a stated reaffirmed policy over and over again.
Now, we do not oppose the Secretary General's sending an emissary to the Middle East to look at this important question. The question is compounded, however, when you see on the eve of the discussion of that a outrageous guerrilla attack on Israel launched from another country. That is unacceptable to the United States.
Having said that, we don't want to - the position of our country is we do not think that it needs U.N. troops or U.N. Security Council missions. But we do favor Mr. Goulding, a representative of the Secretary General, going there.
So when the question came and we differed with the Soviet Union, indeed we differed with many of our other allies on this question. It is our view that the most productive way to handle that question was to have an emissary from the Secretary General, not, as the other countries in the Security Council favored, a Security Council delegation go there.
 
Israeli Settlements
 
Q. Mr. President, do you agree that there have been settlements even though this has been our policy for many years?
 
BUSH. Yes, I agree there are settlements that go contrary to the United States' policy. And I will continue to represent the policy, reiterate the policy and try to persuade the Government of Israel that it is counterproductive to go forward with additional settlements in these territories.
Our objective is to get the parties to the peace table. And our Secretary of State is working diligently with the Israelis, and I have tried to do my best to get them talking. And that's what we think is the most, the most immediate step that is needed. And I will continue to reiterate American policy and continue to push for peace talks.
 
GORBACHEV. Just a moment. I'd like to respond, too. You formulated your question in precise terms, namely, what kind of guarantees can we issue so that those who want to leave, those who have chosen Israel as their place of residence. Those who leave from the Soviet Union should not be resettled on occupied territories. This is not a simple question and this is what I have to say in this connection.
The Soviet Union is now being bombarded by a lot of criticism from Arab countries. Lately I have had meetings with President Assad of Syria and President Mubarak of Egypt. Those were very important talks with them. Nevertheless, this question, this was the question that was also raised by them in acute terms.
The question of guarantees, now. We are facing the following situation: Either after these meetings and exchanges with the President of the United States of America on this particular issue, our concern will be heeded in Israel, and they will make certain conclusions, or else we must give further thought to it in terms of what we can do with issuing permits for exit.
And some people are raising the matter in these terms in the Soviet Union - namely, as long as there are no assurances from the Israelis that this is not going to be done by them - to postpone issuing permits for exit, to put it off. But I hope they will heed what the two Presidents strongly advised them, that they should act in a wise fashion. Perhaps this is what I would like to express by way of reacting.
 
Yeltsin and Change
 
Q. Newspaper Izvestia, Kondrashev. My question is addressed to Comrade Gorbachev. Your relationship with President Bush, perestroika activities are well assured inside, but there is a cooling of interest. Everybody's concerned with internal matters at home. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I'd like to ask you what do you think of your relationship with Yeltsin? Are you going to offer an olive branch of peace to each other?
 
GORBACHEV. I don't think you have chosen the best place for clarifying our internal problems. [Laughter.] But c'est la vie, as they say. There is real life.
There are certain processes under way back home. And I thought I tried to respond to this question when I was in Canada. As soon as I stepped out of the plane, they asked me this particular question, and I said that what I was worrying about most was a kind of an impasse which emerged at the Congress itself. Because there is no strong preponderance. It took, really, three rounds for Comrade Yeltsin to gain a majority by just a few votes to be elected. So the situation remains.
And I said that in recent days something has happened which calls for thinking on our part. Comrade Yeltsin, with respect to some very serious, important, political, fundamental issues has changed his position. At least he has introduced clarity.
And I said if this is not a political game for him to hold high office, it is one thing. A certain approach can be adopted on the basis of that and we could certainly forecast a certain kind of development in the Supreme Soviet and in Russia.
But if this is nothing but a maneuver and he will return to what he's been doing in recent years, not only critical terms - Americans believe this is to be constructive - but also in destructive activities, destructive efforts.
He went as far as to fertilize, in the framework of perestroika, our efforts with some ideas, with ideas regarding forms of life where we are making a turnaround in all spheres. So if he is going to come back to this, then, of course, his chairmanship will certainly complicate these processes.
I should say that after that he gave an interview, and people began to see that he is changing again. The very next day he was interrogated at a session. He tried to explain his position.
In short, I always say life will place everything in proper perspective. Now that we have reached a phase of radical fundamental change, where everybody is supposed to show great responsibility for their country, where we're changing everything, now that we have - we are about to make a radical change about in our economy - it is all very serious. Everything will become clear pretty soon, what Comrade Yeltsin is after.
 
Trade-Emigration Tie
 
Q. President Bush, I'd like to ask you about the trade agreement that you signed yesterday, already a matter of some political controversy and criticism in this country. Secretary Baker has indicated it will not go to Congress for its action until the Soviet codification of its new emigration policies. Does that mean, Sir, that when that law is passed in the Soviet Union that you are prepared to go ahead, as well with most-favored-nation trading status with the Soviet Union, or will that further step require some action, some loosening, some shift on the Baltics?
 
BUSH. Well, we had a chance to discuss the Baltics. And I made clear that, that the Baltics - I think I said it at a U.S. press conference several weeks ago - caused some tensions. But the linkage is between the trade agreement and the emigration legislation. And I'm not going to send that legislation up - and I've tried to be very frank - until the Soviet Union has completed action on the legislation guaranteeing the right of emigration.
 
Preferential Trade Status
 
Q. But what about the further step of actually granting most-favored-nation status?
 
BUSH. Well, I've, I've given our position, and the linkage is between the, the emigration, and that's it. Having said--
 
Q. May we take it, then, Sir, that most-favored-nation status would then be forthcoming if this emigration law is codified?
 
BUSH. Well we'll cross that bridge when we get to it. But I - the linkage is between the emigration and the I mean the, the trade-agreement linkage - is between, the M.F.N. is hooked into the emigration law's being passed. That's it.
We have other trade agreements. We have other agreements, the grain agreement, and we have a maritime agreement. And the concern over the different position we have on the Baltics, you might say, affects, affects, is one of the - of, of thorns in the side of an overall relationship.
We've always had a difference on this. We have not recognized the incorporation of the Baltic states into the Soviet Union. That's been the historic position of the United States. But that concern, you might say, affects a wide array of, of issues that we have with, with the Soviet Union.
Frankly, I've been very pleased. First place, I've tried to be very frank with President Gorbachev. Not just here, but before he came here, saying the difficulties that I face. And Jim Baker was very frank with Eduard Shevardnadze, saying the problems we face.
I think it is important in this emerging relationship that we share as directly as we can with the Soviet side the political problems we face. They - we've got a Congress that has its rights. They have every right to look at what I've signed and every obligation to do that, and make their judgment as to whether it's in the best interest.
I signed the trade agreement because I am convinced that it is in the best interest of the United States. I believe the same thing about the grain agreement. I believe the same thing about the maritime agreement.
But I don't want to mislead the American people and say that I have lessened my concern over the Baltic states. I've tried to be frank with our - the Soviet side - on this. But the linkage, back to your question, is with, with, on M.F.N., the linkage with trade is on M.F.N., emigration law being passed. And then we go forward.
 
Strength vs. Weakness
 
Q: Novoye Vremya, Putansky. In connection with this meeting, there was a lot of speculation about weak and strong points. Somebody speaks from a position of strength, someone from a position of weakness. How would you define what a strong position is? A position of strength. . . .
 
GORBACHEV. . . . I think to assume that someone, myself or President Bush, can dictate to each other or to the Soviet Union is absurd. This would be the greatest misconception on the basis of which no progress could ever be made.
I think that this idea is suggested because at this point in time the Soviet Union is deep into profound change. And since fundamental change is involved, we are walking away from one particular way of life toward different forms of life.
We are changing our political system. We are introducing a new model in economy. All these are fundamental things, indeed. Debates are under way. Doubts are being expressed. Views are being compared. And this is very important, because what is at stake is our destiny.
Of course when you look from outside -well, we ourselves can feel the strain of our society, it is very much politicized - but a look from outside without knowing all the subtleties, without knowing all the depth of sentiments, one could certainly arrive at some erroneous conclusions.
Hence the question of how long will Gorbachev stay in his office, and how this whole perestroika will end and so on and so forth? Even this, I think, fits into this process of profound change, and perhaps this is something we cannot do without.
But the most important thing is that everything that is happening confirms not only the fact that we are cleaning up our courtyard. We are really revamping our entire society. We are trying to adapt it to human needs on the basis of freedom and democracy.
Of course, it's up to us to solve all these problems. But of course everybody understands full well that this is something that the whole world, all the nations, need. For without such changes, without a stronger, balanced, harmonized world, we will not accomplish our objectives. So today the pivotal point of world politics is perestroika in the Soviet Union. Not because we are there, but because this is an objective reality.
 
BUSH. May I simply add that the United States is not trying to deal from strength or weakness. I tried to say this at the welcoming ceremony for President Gorbachev.
We have a unique responsibility to deal with world peace. It is - no other countries have the same degree of responsibility that the Soviet Union and the United States have.
And so we're not looking for winners or losers. We salute reforms that make our systems more compatible on the economic side, on the human rights side, the openness side. But we're not looking for, for trying to achieve advantage.
 
Membership in NATO
 
Q. President Gorbachev, on the subject of NATO membership for a united Germany, you have complained in the past about Western sensitivity to your security concerns. Some of your aides say privately that Germany, a united Germany, could belong to NATO and your security concerns could be satisfied both by a limited American presence in Germany and primarily by strict limits on German troops and armaments.
The real problem, they say, is psychological, a matter of national pride. They say that if you accept Germany in NATO it will be a humiliating admission to the Soviet people that you've lost the cold war. In your talks with President Bush, were you frank about this? Is this a problem for you? And, President Bush, have you considered this problem yourself, in your own thoughts?
 
GORBACHEV. First, I do not think that whatever I am saying on this extremely important question of world politics appears to be a complaint from me or from the Soviet Union. This would be humiliating for the Soviet Union to pass his hat around, to come here to Washington or to Bonn or elsewhere. This is out of the question, and please bear that in mind. This is the first point.
The second point is you know there is a process under way, a beneficial process. And look how far we have progressed in this process. We are entitled to raise the question in these terms. Each subsequent step must strengthen it rather than weaken it. We have a right to that.
Take for example our negotiations on the 50 percent reductions in strategic offensive arms. If this whole negotiating process were to be depicted to you in its entirety, you would certainly see the kind of battles we are having on each and every point.
Why? Because nobody really wants his security to be diminished.
Incidentally, our own position is that we find it unacceptable that we should have greater security than the United States of America.
So the question arises. A united Germany - its advent on the horizon - all this is very important and serious. While applauding the Germans' desire to be united, we must at the same time think about ways of preserving the balance that has been emerging and taking shape for decades.
And here is the central point. If we were to adopt only one point of view then I would think that it would not be complete. For it gives rise to concerns. And if that is the case, then we, if there were no other way out - but I believe that such a way out will be found to mutual satisfaction - but if this were to be the only option, and some would like to impose it on us and say that we reject this, then we should go back and see where we are.
What's happening to our security? What should we be doing with our armed forces, which we are both re-forming and reducing? What should we do about Vienna? How should we behave there? . . .
As to the second part, it's a question of pride. Well, I'd say that the problem is not pride, really. If today I have to remind you once again that we lost 27 million people in the fronts, in partisan detachments - 27 million people during World War II - and 18 million people were wounded and maimed, then I think it's not a matter of pride, but of justice, supreme justice.
For these sacrifices of our people enable us to raise these matters with all nations, and we have a moral right to do so. So that everything that was obtained at such tremendous cost and so many sacrifices would not spell new perils.
 
Struggle in Lithuania
 
Q. Mr. President - this question is directed to President Bush, but President Gorbachev, feel free to join in, of course. Mr. President, about six weeks ago you suggested that your patience was nearing an end in regards to the Lithuanian situation. I was wondering if that's still the case? If not, why has it changed and, specifically, have you received any assurances that the embargo will be lifted?
 
BUSH. No, there have been no such assurances. I'm not sure anything has changed. I don't recall placing it that my patience is nearing an end. I'm, and I have tried to make clear to everybody that we have not recognized the incorporation of these Baltic states into the Soviet Union and, therefore, we have a difference with the Soviet Union. They consider this an internal matter. And we say that having not recognized the inclusion, why, we have a different problem.
But we had some good discussions of this. I have been encouraged to see discussions going on over there between various leaders. And let's hope the matter can be resolved, because I haven't, I haven't lessened my view as to people's aspirations for self-determination. And I feel strongly about that. That's a hallmark of American belief and policy, and I haven't changed one bit on that.
But I would turn it over to President Gorbachev, who has a different view on it.
 
GORBACHEV. . . . It seems to me that our position is constructive and convincing. Our Constitution has recorded the right for each people to make a choice for sole determination, up to and including secession.
We did not have laws or legislation that would regulate. We did not have a mechanism that would regulate the implementation of that right. Now we have it recorded in the law.
So we are reforming our federation. We are expanding the republics' sovereign rights. And we hope that a full federation is something that we are in vital need of to resolve all the problems that have been accumulated.
This is our conviction. This is the way we're acting. And shortly, in the next few days, there's to be a federation council meeting convened to consider specific steps, dates and ways of resolving this particular problem in specific concrete terms.
Perhaps this particular process will develop in a way that wouldrecognized imply the presence of different levels of federative ties, just like various ties or links between the republics.
If, nevertheless, in the framework of this process, some republic or other is going to raise this question - and I'm sure they will - they must be addressed and dealt with in the framework of the constitutional process.
We want to see this happen precisely on the basis of the Constitution. Any other different approach leads only to an impasse.
And the experience that we have by now not only with respect to Lithuania, but also with respect to other republics in terms of dealing with ethnic problems where some people are trying to resolve the problem by different methods without due regard for the Constitution, leads to exacerbation, aggravation and confrontation. And this is not beneficial either for people, for their families or for the economy or for the overall atmosphere in our country.
The President of the Soviet Union, just like the President of the United States of America, and I happen to know the American Constitution, have as one of their main responsibilities to defend and protect the constitutional system. I swore an oath of allegiance to the Constitution. And for that reason, we are prepared and willing to address any issue, including those that have been raised by the Supreme Soviet of the Lithuanian S.S.R. in the framework of the constitutional process.
This implies a referendum, incidentally. . . . And let the people decide. After they make a choice, I'm sure no fewer than five or seven years would be required for us to sort things out.
There will be these divorce proceedings on the way, for there are 800,000 non-Lithuanians who live over there. Defense, missiles, navy - they're all there. Today, Lithuania's territory includes five areas that used to belong to Byelorussia. Stalin ceded Klaipeda, which the Soviet Union on the basis of the results of World War II, received, just as it did Kaliningrad and eastern Prussia. It received Lithuanian territories.
So they raised this question to return to Russia these lands.
And we'll do our best in order to resolve on the basis of constitutional approaches this particular issue.
But any other way would be unacceptable. I keep referring to - well, I'm not asking the President to come over to us and bring order into our house - but I keep saying that President Bush would have resolved an issue like this within 24 hours and he would have restored the validity of his Constitution within 24 hours in any state. But we are going to resolve it. We are going to do it ourselves.
With full responsibility, I wish to declare here and now for all of you to know that we are anxious to see this issue resolved in such a way as everybody's interests would be taken into account and within the Constitution's framework.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Presidents Bush and Gorbachev during news conference in the White House. In the audience were Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze, Raisa Gorbachev, Barbara Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d.; Soviet and American flags adorned the East Room during the leaders' joint news conference yesterday. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); ISRAEL (92%); GERMANY (92%); MALTA (88%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FINLAND (79%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS (OCCUPIED TERRITORIES); JEWS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



115 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: EVOLUTION IN EUROPE;
Moscow, With an Eye on Discontent, Puts Off Vote on Economy

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 3

 BODY:
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev has apparently had second thoughts and decided against holding a national referendum on his Government's unpopular economic-reform plan to raise prices.
An initial announcement by the Kremlin was followed by a week of growing doubts, and Mr. Gorbachev indicated in his visit to the United States that a referendum might turn out to be too risky to try in the current mood of public opposition to announced plans for a significant rise in food prices.
The price increase was proposed as a necessary first step toward easing Government subsidies and preparing the nation for free-market innovations. The referendum was originally described as a means of enlisting public support in the spirit of sacrifice. But deep opposition was quickly vowed by critics outraged at the prospect that bread prices would triple on July 1. 
''We need, of course, to form national accord, but we do not have a referendum law,'' Mr. Gorbachev said on Friday in Washington when asked about the proposal for the referendum.
 
Searching For a Forumla
''We have never had a referendum so far,'' said the President, who appears to have sufficient power in the new exective presidency post to order a referendum simply if he wishes to do so.
''I suggested the idea with a view to finding some kind of a formula in order to bring about consent and accord among the people,'' he added, stressing that he was considering the less risky path of encouraging ''discussion'' of the plan in labor councils and local government councils.
Such an approach would be informal and therefore likely non-binding, and it would avoid the possibility of a bold popular vote of rejection when Mr. Gorbachev's promises for national renewal have fallen under greater criticism at home.
Mr. Gorbachev contended that discussions in the local councils, called soviets, would be a sufficient method of the close consultation he has promised the public before any drastic reform actions are taken.
 
'Can Be Fully Trusted'
''These are new soviets that have just been established, just been elected by the people, and they can be fully trusted,'' he said.
Then in his clearest indication that he was shying from the referendum proposal, Mr. Gorbachev said, ''So, after discussing everything and passing on to us the proper information, I'm sure we will have the entire picture.''
Traditionally the Kremlin has pretended that local soviets have critical input in Kremlin decisions. Mr. Gorbachev recently made a show of ''consulting'' regional workers on his economic predicament in televised visits in which the meetings were dominated by his characteristically long monologues.
Despite such token nods to the localities, the actual planning process of Soviet life has remained centrally controlled in Moscow. How best to ease or end that central control, to encourage enterprise and variety, is a point of dispute in the unwieldy central planning process, and it is that process that the Government has been trying to apply to the problem.
Mr. Gorbachev's ambivalence over how best to involve the public in the long-promised free-market overhaul of the economy reflects a number of factors. One is the novelty of adapting some democratic processes to Soviet life, so that citizens are more outspoken. But politicians are consequently more wary in the face of new electoral competitiveness.
The volatility of the situation was clear within minutes of the announced plan to begin ending some food-price subsidies. Hoarding began across the nation, and republics and local governments began introducing rationing on consumer goods and embargoes on local produce, to protect home needs first.
Under the latest in a series of revised central plans, the Government retreated from more drastic free-market initiatives to promise a Government-regulated ''market'' of half-steps to ease the public alarm over the higher prices and unemployment likely to occur initially in any move toward market conditions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS; PUBLIC OPINION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION REFERENDUMS (94%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); TRENDS (77%); FOOD PRICES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); BAKED GOODS (68%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (95%); 



116 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: EVOLUTION IN EUROPE;
Independence Fervor in Quebec Said to Grow

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BERTHIERVILLE, Quebec

 BODY:
It was a scene to mist the eyes of any Quebec patriot. Standing in a churchyard behind a fluttering fleur-de-lis flag, 45 tiny drummers and buglers, Les Feux Follets de Berthierville, the Fireflies of Berthierville, played a beloved Quebec folksong, ''Les Gens du Pays,'' that has become the unofficial anthem of the separatist movement.
The Fireflies wore crisp blue and white band uniforms, each one adorned by a small patch stamped with an unmistakable yellow M - McDonald's golden arches.
Robert Jeansonne, the band's drumming coach, is an ardent Quebec nationalist who said he would ''rather die'' than surrender his French-Canadian identity. He described the golden arches insignia as ''a great honor.'' 
Given that McDonald's is often viewed by other nations as a jarring symbol of American cultural imperialism, Mr. Jeansonne's zeal might seem confusing.
 
A Symbol of Liberation
But Mr. Jeansonne, like many residents of this small town, views the recent arrival of the Miami-style pink and avocado green McDonald's franchise outlet as a symbol of Berthierville's liberation. If McDonald's can come to Berthierville, they reason, then Berthierville can do without English-speaking Canada.
There is fervent nationalist sentiment in Quebec today. In polls, 60 percent of its citizens have said they favor political autonomy, and of those, 48 percent said they preferred outright independence. That is a marked change from a 1980 referendum, when 60 percent of voters opposed separation.
''Berthierville is also much more independence-minded now,'' said Albert Houde, who represents the town in Quebec's National Assembly.
''I would say that a little more than 50 percent would still say no, but not a lot more,'' he added, referring to sentiment against separation from Canada. #75 Percent Voted 'No'
Berthierville (pop. 4,000), a cluster of small factories, brick houses and farms nestled along a branch of the St. Lawrence River, was emphatically against separation 10 years ago; 75 percent of the residents voted ''no'' on the referendum.
''We didn't just say no, we said, no, NO,'' said 76-year-old Bernard Gregoire Sr. Mr. Gregoire, founder of Richard, the family-owned tool company, has not changed his mind since.
Neither has his son, Bernard Gregoire Jr., who is the Mayor of Berthierville. ''I can't see how a mere 6 million of us could be independent in North America,'' the Mayor said. ''We would end up as some kind of tribe.''
Yet many Berthierville citizens have rethought their position.
Like others in Quebec, they are bitter about the Meech Lake Accord, a 1987 agreement which was designed to bring Quebec into Canada's constitutional fold, and instead stirred up age-old animosity.
The agreement recognized Quebec as a ''distinct society'' in the Constitution. Other provinces grew concerned that the Quebec provincial government would use the clause to pass laws infringing the rights of Quebec's non-French minority. Since signing it, three provinces have refused to ratify it by the deadline, this June 23, unless amendments are added. Premier Robert Bourassa of Quebec pronounced the changes ''unacceptable.''
 
'Scars Hard to Heal'
If the accord is not ratified, many in Quebec think a move toward independence is inevitable. Even if compromise is reached at the 11th hour, Mr. Houde somberly noted ''there are some scars that are hard to heal.''
Police Chief Benoit Gendron voted against separation in 1980, but said that now he is not so sure. The Meech Lake controversy, he said, made him mistrust English-speaking Canada.
''They don't want to give us equal status as French-Canadians,'' he complained. ''I feel threatened by the Anglo-Saxons. The big fish always swallows the little fish.''
Mr. Gendron said he was not afraid of the economic consequences of independence. ''Why should I be?'' he said. ''Quebec does business all over the world. We're as strong now as the English, and that wasn't true 20 years ago.''

GRAPHIC: map of Berthierville, Quebec

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (94%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (94%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA)

SUBJECT: SECESSION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; PUBLIC OPINION; REFERENDUMS SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (90%); MAYORS (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); REFERENDUMS (86%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); FRANCHISING (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA ROBERT JEANSONNE (61%); 



117 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: Father's Vanishing Act Called Common Drama

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
For all the talk about the new American father, those Cosby-like dads who are just as involved in diapers and day care as any mom, the reality in many families is quite the opposite: the disappearing American father, who leaves his children, emotionally and financially.
While it has long been common knowledge that many poor children, especially those whose parents never wed, had little contact with their fathers, a research paper has found the phenomenon of the disappearing father alarmingly widespread.
The paper, by Frank Furstenberg and Kathleen Mullan Harris, both of the University of Pennsylvania, was based on a study that followed more than 1,000 children in disrupted families nationwide from 1976 to 1987. The families were selected to be a representative sample, mirroring the general population on factors like race, geography, income and education.
Over all, more than half the children whose fathers did not live with them had never been in the father's home, the study found, and 42 percent had not seen their fathers at all in the previous year. Only 20 percent slept at the father's house in a typical month, and only one in six saw the father once a week or more, on average. 
The problem of maintaining contact with an absent father affects millions of children, and the number is growing. More than 21 percent of all American children lived in families headed by women in 1988, almost twice the percentage that did so in 1970.
''The whole abandonment thing is terrible for the children,'' said Paula Roberts, a senior staff lawyer at the Center for Law and Social Policy in Washington. ''In terms of the possibility of these kids' making healthy long-term relationships for themselves, it's very troubling.''
Professor Furstenberg said the results of the study, published this spring, might reflect a changing concept of fatherhood in American society, with many men behaving as though their responsibilities to their children last only as long as their relationship with the children's mother.
 
'Marriage as a Package Deal'
''Men regard marriage as a package deal,'' said Professor Furstenberg, a sociologist who studies families. ''They cannot separate their relations with their children from their relations to their former spouse. When that relationship ends, the paternal bond usually withers within a few years, too.''
Children who live apart from their mothers are a far smaller group, representing only one in nine single-parent families nationwide, the study said they fared substantially better in contact with the absent parent. Only seven percent had not seen the mother at all in the previous year and 58 percent slept at her house in a typical month.
But, Professor Furstenberg said, both mothers and fathers who live apart from their children find it hard work to maintain a close relationship. Doing so is often complicated by geographic distance, remarriage or an inability to negotiate amicable child-rearing arrangements with a former spouse.
 
'Real Mechanical Obstacles'
''We tend to think of abandoning children as a bad personality trait, but it seems that there are real mechanical obstacles to maintaining a relationship when you're excluded from the household, even for moms,'' said Professor Furstenberg.
The study found surprisingly little difference between fathers who had divorced the mothers and those who were never married. For both groups, contact with the children dropped off sharply the longer the father had been gone. And the estrangement occurred no matter how old the child was when the father and the mother separated.
Fathers of all races lose contact with their children: In the study, 60 percent of the black fathers had not seen their children in the previous year, as against 47 percent of the white fathers.
Since most women raising children without the father in the home receive no child support payments, having an absent father can spell both emotional and economic problems for children.
 
'I'm More Than Mad'
Misty and Joey Milot of Dallas have not seen their father for six years. Their parents divorced in 1981 when the children were still small. For a while, their father visited occasionally and paid child support regularly. But in 1984 he stopped coming, and in 1988, the payments trickled to a halt. And now, 12-year-old Misty says what she feels toward her father is simply rage.
''When I see him, if I ever see him again, all I want to do is beat him and spit on him and then laugh when I'm done,'' she said. ''I'm more than mad that he abandoned us, I'm disgusted.''
Mr. Milot, who now lives in Arizona, blames his former wife for the estrangement. ''We had a very bitter divorce and I moved away, but whenever I came back to Dallas to see the kids, their mother would always get in the way,'' he said.
''Once I got there,'' he said, ''the kids were crying and cowering by the wall, because she's been priming them against me, so they were petrified. After that, I sat down and said to myself, 'Norman, what's happening to those kids isn't worth it; let them get on with their lives.' '' I'm convinced I've done the right thing.''
His former wife, Lynda Milot Benson, who heads the Texas chapter of ACES, the Association for Children for Enforcement of Support, a Toledo, Ohio-based organization concerned with child support, said she never interfered with her former husband's visits.
''I can't think of anything that in any way resembled that,'' Ms. Benson said. ''It's the typical thing you hear from abandoning fathers, that the moms are psychotic, and it's all their fault.''
About the only thing they both agree on is that the divorce has been very hard on their children. ''The sad part is that kids need two parents,'' Ms. Benson said. And Mr. Milot said, ''Kids don't deserve to be torn up like that.''
 
Pattern Is Predictable
Experts in family matters say the pattern of separation, bitterness, accusation and counteraccusation, and guilty misery on the part of the children is so common as to be predictable. Almost always, they say, the fathers who stop visiting and stop paying child support accuse the mother of being a bad parent, interfering with visitation, or spending past child support payments on herself.
''Those accusations are usually a red herring, either to cover up lousy behavior by the abandoning parent, or as a bargaining chip to make the custodial parent accept less child support,'' said Ms. Roberts, of the Center for Law and Social Policy.
Many mothers report that they have heard from the father of their children only rarely since he left, have no contact with his family, and little sense of his whereabouts, a state of affairs the children often find bewildering.
Frances Snyder of New Carrollton, Md., never married the father of her daughter, Chelesea, and he moved across the country before the baby was born five years ago. Why Doesn't He Love Me? ''He called when she was 18 months old to ask what I'd had,'' she said. ''And then I didn't hear from him again until last year. Chelesea asks where he is, and why he doesn't love her or come visit, and I don't know all the answers.''
Children's advocates say it is difficult to find a policy solution that would change the behavior of fathers.
''You can't legislate a parent to have a good relationship with a child,'' said David Liederman, executive director of the Child Welfare League of America in Washington. ''The only thing we can really address is the economic abandonment, the fact that so many of these children are left in poverty when their father fails to pay child support.''
Despite increasingly tough child-support enforcement laws, Federal statistics show that about $18 billion of owed child support is unpaid. For example, Mr. Milot, who once earned $100,000 a year, was ordered to pay $750 a month for Misty and Joey, but he says he has not held a regular job in two years and cannot make the payments.
In many cases, children whose biological father leaves them will eventually see the father role filled by another man who comes into the household.
 
Transfer of Family Loyalties
''Many men who become stepparents or surrogate parents in a new household transfer their loyalties to their new family,'' said Professor Furstenberg. ''Relations with their biological children become largely symbolic if they survive at all.''
Ms. Benson, who has remarried, said Misty and Joey are far less upset about the loss of their biological father now that they have a stepfather who can coach them in sports and go to school activities.
Mr. Milot, too, remarried and had another child in Indiana, and another divorce. He says that he fought to maintain contact with the child and that she lived with him briefly. Now, because of problems with the girl's mother, he has not seen the girl for more than a year.
Many parents who have stopped contact with young children seek to resume a relationship when their children reach late adolescence and become more independent of the former spouse. While studies show that few regain closeness, many such parents hold onto reconciliation as a fantasy.
''What I keep hoping is that when they're grown up, mature and independent of their mother, they'll come find me by themselves, and maybe they'll be able to understand what's happened,'' Mr. Milot said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A University of Pennsylvania study has found the phenomenon of the disappearing father alarmingly widespread. Misty and Joey Milot of Dallas, 12 and 13 years old, have not seen their father, Norman Milot, for six years; he and their mother, Lynda Milot Benson, above, were divorced in 1981. Mr. Milot, who now lives in Arizona, blames Ms. Benson for making it difficult for him to see the children. (Brian Payne for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); PARENTS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); 

PERSON: LEWIN, TAMAR FRANK FURSTENBERG (85%); 



118 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Side by Side at the Summit

 BODY:
George Bush and Mikhail Gorbachev put pen to paper over the weekend to draw an end to the cold war. They pledged deep cuts in nuclear and chemical arms. And Mr. Bush offered most-favored-nation trade status for the Soviets - a sign of his willingness to meet Mr. Gorbachev's urgent economic and political needs. 
The two men did not write the final word on Germany. The gulf between their rival visions of post-cold war Europe won't be easily bridged. But such was the spirit of this summit meeting that even the task of devising a new framework for European security - one that would include, not isolate, the Soviets - does not seem beyond reach.
One reason for optimism was the extraordinary understanding and trust between the two men. Even as they differed on issues, they displayed respect, even deference, for each other - proof that both want to keep the process of reconciliation going.
Mr. Gorbachev wowed Washington on his last visit in 1987. This time the thrill of discovery was missing. But the results of this summit meeting were much more substantial.
The two leaders began with old business -dismantling the tools of conflict. They committed themselves to sign a strategic arms accord this fall, and they agreed on terms that will cut their long-range nuclear weapons by a third. They also agreed to halt the production of new chemical weapons and begin destroying nearly all that they already have.
Then they turned to the new business of cooperation. In an unexpected stroke, Mr. Bush offered, and Mr. Gorbachev eagerly accepted, an agreement that could open up trade and investment. The surprise was that Mr. Bush conditioned the agreement only on Moscow's expected passage of a law easing emigration, not on ending the Soviet chokehold on Lithuania. Some in Congress won't like that, but Mr. Bush may have a more realistic grasp of what it takes to move Moscow.
Moscow fears a unified Germany in NATO, while conceding that it's up to Germany to choose its allies. Washington says it can't think of an alternative, but Moscow may have the makings of one -a new, pan-European structure, including both superpowers, to deal with questions of security. The idea of a ''Greater European Council,'' existing alongside NATO, is worth careful study.
Mr. Gorbachev is on shaky enough ground at home without having to swallow humiliation in Europe. At a news conference yesterday, an Izvestia correspondent noted that the Russian people seemed less interested in foreign affairs than in their domestic problems, and then shot Mr. Gorbachev a sharp question about his rival Boris Yeltsin.
Mr. Gorbachev obviously needed an American vote of confidence. George Bush wisely gave it to him. Now it's up to Congress and the allies to speed Moscow's military withdrawal by helping it find a new economic and political place in the world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); COLD WAR (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 



119 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: The Vision of Need-Blind Admissions

 BODY:
Many private colleges face a dilemma over the high cost of need-blind admissions, the practice of accepting students regardless of ability to pay. Two colleges are now responding in different ways. Smith feels driven to cut back on the practice; Barnard vows to continue it. Their responses dramatize the larger issue of how society ought to subsidize college for able but poor students. 
The public already subsidizes deserving students through community colleges and state and city universities. Students also receive government grants and loans. But to what extent is it also in the public interest to subsidize independent schools, which comprise about half of the nation's 3,000 colleges and enroll one of every five undergraduates?
At many elite private colleges, admission is divorced from financial aid. Students are admitted solely on the basis of their qualifications and desirability. If family income falls short of the school's costs, the school will make up the difference. That helps insure a diverse student body.
While wonderfully worthy, this practice is also expensive and colleges feel they can no longer afford it. Smith College, with 2,700 students, has increased its financial aid budget by 20 percent in each of the last five years. Recently, its trustees voted to limit the amount spent on financial aid.
Starting in 1991, Smith will rank students accepted for admission and distribute money down the list, meeting the total financial need of each student until the allotted money runs out. Students deemed acceptable but who fall outside the aid allotment will be reconsidered for admission if they or Smith can scrape up extra money. By contrast, Barnard's trustees recently vowed to seek more from foundations and individuals to continue admitting desired students without regard to means.
Smith's solution is regrettable but understandable. Most private colleges are worried about increasing financial aid costs. In 1987-88, these colleges provided $2.3 billion in aid, according to the National Institute of Independent Colleges and Universities. That's twice what they provided in 1970-71, adjusted for inflation.
The increased aid burden reflects changes in Federal support. There's less of it, and more of it now comes in loans. In 1975-76, Washington made grants of $3.4 billion. In 1987-88, grants totaled only $1.1 billion. Taken together, grants and loans are flat at best. If Washington fails to provide even modest increases, equal opportunity for needy college students will be further threatened.
A society that pays for public higher education is not likely ever to fully subsidize attendance at private colleges. But public policy does not have to be wholly need-blind to be farsighted - by giving poor students a more meaningful choice between public and independent education.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FEDERAL AID (US); FINANCES; EDITORIALS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (53%); 



120 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: California's Proposition for America

 BODY:
Tomorrow, the state that gave birth to the tax revolt will decide whether to double its gasoline tax and lift spending limits. California's initiative vote on $18.5 billion in highway and mass-transit propositions is viewed as a tax referendum with reverberating consequences. 
Citizens of other states concerned about air pollution and crumbling infrastructure will be pulling for the proposals to succeed. And if Californians thus announce, ''Yes, new taxes,'' Washington will be listening.
The need for a higher gas tax is clear. California's transportation infrastructure is unsafe for earthquakes and overwhelmed by traffic. The Gann Limit, a constitutional lid on spending, effectively keeps the state in gridlock. But California, which depends more on the automobile than any other state, levies the fourth-lowest gas tax of the 50 states, behind New York, Alaska and Georgia.
Proposition 111 would raise the gas tax from 9 cents to 18 cents per gallon over five years. Revenues would be used for transportation. It is supported by a bipartisan coalition of business, environmental and political leaders.
The supply-side economist Arthur Laffer warns that it will ''give carte blanche approval to future tax hikes . . . If you want to hold a rein on taxation, vote it down.'' That kind of talk once won landslide victories in California, encouraged tax revolts elsewhere and helped send Ronald Reagan to the White House. But the grim Oakland freeway collapse during the 1989 earthquake shocked Governor Deukmejian into action.
Proposition 111 promises to be the biggest civil construction project in California history. It would make freeways, bridges and streets ''earthquake-safe,'' expand the highway system and create commuter rail networks. By enacting it, Californians would help their state and dispatch a welcome challenge to other states to invest in infrastructure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; REFERENDUMS; EDITORIALS TAXES & TAXATION (94%); FUEL TAX (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); AIR POLLUTION (57%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



121 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Troop Cutback Would Limit Spread of AIDS

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Recent protests against military bases in the Philippines have their primary roots in the historical opposition of the Filipino people to the use of their country for military (including nuclear) breeding grounds. Filipinos now have another reason for opposing bases on their soil: the role of the military in the transmission of acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
An April 23, 1988, news article thus described conditions in Olongapo, the town outside Subic Bay Naval Station: ''Olongapo is home to 300 bars and nightclubs and 6,000 registered prostitutes. According to some estimates, the number swells to 16,000 when the fleet is in.'' Twenty-three prostitutes in the area of Olongapo had tested positive for the AIDS virus by April 1988, and many of them were still at work. 
The connection between militarism and AIDS is not singular to the Philippines. A similar situation exists in South Korea, which has close to 40 military installations. In Honduras with 11 new military installations, the transmission of AIDS through prostitution left that country with 512 cases by last Dec. 31, the highest per capita figure in Latin America, excluding Mexico and the Caribbean. In Southern Africa, the relationship between low-intensity warfare and AIDS transmission through troop movements and population dislocation was detailed in a paper presented by the Mozambican ministry of health last April.
The American Journal of Public Health last March reported that 1,588 out of 648,032 screened active-duty United States servicemen were positive for the human immunodeficiency virus. Our soldiers are in more than 3,000 military institutions worldwide. While few studies have been released on servicemen from other countries, we can presume that single men, stationed in foreign countries throughout the world are at high risk for AIDS transmission.
The relationship between militarism, war and disease is not new. The influenza pandemic in the aftermath of World War I killed more people than the war itself. The AIDS pandemic, now in more than 152 countries, is occurring at a time of continued warring, growing economic dis-equilibrium and major political transition. Lasting peace will come only when we address the economic issues underlying the conflicts. One of the ''peace dividends'' will be an end to a major mode of transmission of the virus that threatens our civilization.
 
PAUL R. EPSTEIN, M.D.
Chairman, AIDS Task Force
 Cambridge, Mass., May 21, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE AIDS & HIV (97%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); VIRUSES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); EPIDEMICS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); NAVIES (78%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); PROSTITUTION (75%); INFLUENZA (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WORLD WAR I (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (65%); 



122 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Currency Fall a Cause Of Nicaragua Strikes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I would like to respond to ''Strikes Testing Chamorro's Rule'' (front page, May 16) in order to clarify one important point about the strikes of Nicaraguan civil servants against the new Government of President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, which have affected telephone service, public transportation, border crossings and the national airport.
I just returned from Nicaragua, and during my stay the currency was devalued by almost 80 percent. When I arrived, the rate of exchange at the banks was 68 cordobas to the dollar, while the black market rate was 140.
In an attempt to help stabilize the economy, the official rate was changed to reflect the black market. Suddenly, the people's money was worth less than half, while prices began to rise, reflecting the new monetary value. However, wages remained the same.
It thus makes more sense that Nicaraguan workers are demanding a 200 percent pay increase. I would not be surprised if the currency has been devalued even further since I have been back in the United States. I was surprised you failed to include this important information, which would help readers understand the situation.
 
J. LJILJANA HOLSTEIN
 San Francisco, May 16, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA

SUBJECT: STRIKES DEVALUATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); AIRPORTS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); 



123 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Ocean Energy Raises Environment Issues

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Ocean thermal energy conversion is a promising new source of renewable energy (''Tapping Ocean's Cold for Crops and Energy,'' Science Times, May 22). Although the pilot facility in Hawaii you describe has not drawn protests from environmentalists, this does not mean the technology is completely benign.
Some plans call for the use of R-22, a chlorofluorocarbon that is not completely ozone-friendly. It is also a powerful greenhouse gas. Planners should investigate fluids that are environmentally harmless. 
The potential for ecological disruption by ocean thermal energy conversion is enormous. It will work best in tropical regions, where the temperature difference between surface and deep water is greatest. Even when mixed with warm surface water to ameliorate environmental effects, the effluent carries a double shock to tropical marine ecosystems that have evolved within narrow temperature fluctuations and extremely low nutrient levels: the effluent is both cold and rich in nutrients.
Ocean energy conversion will bring deep water very rich in carbon dioxide to the surface. Some carbon will escape to the atmosphere, perhaps ex-acerbating the greenhouse effect. We also need to know how pumping large amounts of ancient deep water to the surface will affect ocean circulation and heat distribution.
Proponents of ocean energy conversion should study the feasibility of an integrated mariculture system to reduce levels of nutrients and increase the temperature of the effluent. The concept would be to grow salmon or some other cold-water, high-value fish in the effluent. This has worked very well at the pilot plant in Hawaii.
While the water is still cold, nori, the seaweed used to make sushi (which has also been demonstrated to grow well in the Hawaiian system), could be grown in the salmon effluent to remove nutrients and add oxygen. The water could simply be stored and allowed to return to surface temperature or used to grow warm-water species of animals and plants so that even more of the nutrients are removed.
This effluent is virtually free of disease organisms, which should improve public acceptance. A mariculture system using ocean thermal energy conversion effluent could produce valuable crops and release a nutrient-free, high-oxygen, low-carbon effluent at temperatures similar to those of receiving waters, minimizing the environmental impact of discharge and maximizing economic feasibility.
 
RODNEY M. FUJITA
Staff Scientist
Environmental Defense Fund
 New York, May 23, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: DVN (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: OCEAN ENERGY INC (92%); DEVON ENERGY CORP (92%); OCEAN ENERGY INC (92%); DEVON ENERGY CORP (92%); 

SUBJECT: OCEANS; THERMAL POLLUTION; ENVIRONMENT OCEANS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (89%); FISHES (88%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ANIMALS (64%); 



124 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Woes Have Hurt Cuomo, but How Much?

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 3

 BODY:
As Gov. Mario M. Cuomo prepares to campaign for a third term, politicians and strategists from both parties agree that he has been wounded by the state's torturous fiscal problems.
What the Nov. 6 general election will quantify is the degree of that damage. While Mr. Cuomo will be heavily favored to defeat the Republican nominee, Pierre A. Rinfret, their contest may determine whether the sheen on the Governor's national reputation is sufficiently tarnished to dampen his prospects as a Presidential contender.
Few people outside New York know that this year's state budget battle resulted in $1.4 billion in new taxes and the delay of a $400 million income tax cut. They also do not know that the state's credit rating now ranks above only those of Massachusetts and Louisiana, or that Mr. Cuomo was unable to forge a budget compromise until 49 days after the start of the fiscal year, or that miscalculations by the Governor's budget office caused the budget gap to grow by $2 billion between January and May. 
 
Vulnerable Issues
Mr. Rinfret, an economist from Manhattan who is not well known politically, said during the Republican State Convention in Rye last week that he believed that Mr. Cuomo was most vulnerable on fiscal managment and his opposition to the death penalty. While Mr. Cuomo blames the State Senate, which has a Republican majority, for the worst offenses of this year's budget, Mr. Rinfret says he will remind voters of Mr. Cuomo's responsibility for the problems.
Mr. Cuomo, who is expected to be nominated for governor on Monday at the Democratic State Convention here, has given no indication that he is considering the 1992 Presidential race. But he has been mentioned prominently by Democratic Party leaders as a possible challenger to President Bush.
Mr. Cuomo's appeal as a national figure, beginning with his 1984 speech at the Democratic National Convention, has long been rooted in his ability to communicate his party's message of compassion and inclusion. Outside the state, at least, Mr. Cuomo's rhetoric has been made more credible by the hazy national perception of a robust New York economy.
But political analysts both inside and outside government believe this year's state budget, which set records for lateness, tax increases and the weakening of state credit, could undermine the power of Mr. Cuomo's message.
 
Comparisons to Dukakis
If Mr. Cuomo chooses to run for President in 1992, national Republican strategists believe they could use the 1990 state budget to build a case against Mr. Cuomo's fiscal competence. They are quick to draw comparisons between Mr. Cuomo and Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts, who was caricatured in the 1988 Presidential campaign as a Northeastern tax-and-spend liberal.
''It lays down a tremendous amount of negatives,'' said Charles R. Black, a Republican consultant who worked on Mr. Bush's 1988 campaign, ''and you don't have to be a genius to present the record and compare it to how he would do as President. He would be reduced to running on his personality and his charisma rather than on his record.''
Raymond D. Strother, a Democratic consultant, said the margin of a Cuomo victory in the race for governor would signal whether the Governor has sustained ''a bruise or a bleeding wound.'' Perhaps unfairly, he is likely to be measured against his 1986 race against Andrew P. O'Rourke, which he won with a record 65 percent of the vote.
No statewide public opinion polls have been published to suggest the political impact of this year's state budget on Mr. Cuomo. But even members of the Cuomo administration predicted that the prolonged budget battle would leave at least temporary scars on the Governor's popularity.
''He may possibly have been hurt because people don't like bad news,'' said Lieut. Gov. Stan Lundine. ''He has been damaged slightly in past years because of budget deliberations. But my assessment is that it will be moderate and short-lived.''
Mr. Cuomo parried questions today about the state's fiscal problems after he announced that he would seek a third term.
The damage could have been much worse if New York's Republican Party had exploited Mr. Cuomo's problems. But during the more than four-month budget process, no Republican stepped forward to challenge Mr. Cuomo's claims that the budget mess was not his fault.
 
Budget Gimmickry
Although there were arguments to be made that Mr. Cuomo was culpable for years of overspending and budget gimmickry, the State Senate's Republican majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, often seemed reluctant about, or incapable of, politicizing the budget process.
And it was only after the budget was laid to rest in mid-May that the state Republican chairman, J. Patrick Barrett, convinced Mr. Rinfret to run. Last week Mr. Rinfret wasted little time in attacking Mr. Cuomo's fiscal policies, but he was striking after the iron had cooled.
Mr. Cuomo also helped his own cause by orchestrating a campaign to control damage. ''He did a pretty good job of throwing blame on everybody else,'' said Roger Ailes, Mr. Bush's 1988 media consultant.
In a four-month continuum of news conferences, speeches and interviews, Mr. Cuomo repeated the argument that New York's budget gap, which eventually grew to $4 billion, was created not by mismanagement but by national economic forces beyond his control.
To counteract a Time magazine squib that called Mr. Cuomo the ''loser of the week'' because of the drop in the state's bond ratings, his press aides distributed copies of articles about budget problems in other states.
The Governor noted frequently that New York City and New Jersey were facing budget gaps that were larger proportionately than New York State's. He reminded people that the governors of Massachusetts, Vermont and Connecticut chose not to run for re-election this year, largely because of looming financial problems.
The implicit message was that Mr. Cuomo, unlike his colleagues, had the fortitude to outlast the hard times.
 
More Evidence
Mr. Cuomo found further exculpatory evidence in Washington when the White House announced last month that its estimates of the Federal deficit were growing and that Mr. Bush would discuss tax increases as a possible remedy.
When Richard G. Darman, Mr. Bush's director of the Office of Management and Budget, began revising deficit numbers, Mr. Cuomo gleefully told reporters that Mr. Darman sounded like Dall Forsythe, who is Mr. Cuomo's budget director.
If Mr. Bush eventually goes along with a tax increase, Democratic consultants believe Mr. Cuomo might be insulated in a Presidential campaign from Republican attacks about this year's $1.4 billion tax increase, which followed last year's increase of $1 billion.
And Mr. Cuomo's press secretary, Gary Fryer, said the state's 1990 budget would have little political relevance by 1992, as long as the fiscal measures taken this year help correct long-term budget problems.
''The perception has to be pretty clear that you screwed up for you to be disqualified,'' said Mark Melman, a Democratic pollster in Washington. ''And I don't think there's a perception that Mario Cuomo screwed up the state of New York.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who is expected to be nominated for re-election at the Democratic State Convention, which begins today in Albany, has refused to commit himself to serving a full four-year term. He spoke with volunteers at the convention site yesterday afternoon. (David Jennings for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 BUDGETS (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (70%); TAX RELIEF (69%); RANKINGS (69%); INCOME TAX (54%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



125 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Democrats Back Veteran as Silber Wins Ballot Spot

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, June 3

 BODY:
John R. Silber, the president of Boston University, narrowly captured a place on the Democratic primary ballot for governor this weekend as the state Democratic Party endorsed Francis X. Bellotti, a veteran politician, as its favored candidate.
The outcome allows Mr. Silber to continue his challenge for the nomination for governor in the September primary. It also averts a potential embarrassment for the Democrats. The maverick educator leads in the public opinion polls, but he had few state convention delegates; the convention tends to be more liberal than the voters at large. 
Mr. Silber, an eclectic mixture of traditional New Deal Democrat and Ronald Reagan conservative, has injected fresh energy and uncertainty into the campaign. Many voters have been outraged by his barbed remarks; others say he has the toughness to rescue Massachusetts from an economic and political slump.
 
Setback for Lieutenant Governor
The balloting at the Democrats' state convention in Springfield on Saturday was a sharp setback to Lieut. Gov. Evelyn F. Murphy, who campaigned as the only liberal in the contest but was hurt by her close identification with Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, the Democratic candidate for President in 1988. Ms. Murphy finished with 40.1 percent of the 5,000 delegates on the second ballot, to 51.4 percent for Mr. Bellotti. Mr. Silber won 15.4 percent on the first ballot, barely more than the 15 percent necessary to secure a place on the September primary ballot. He withdrew his name before the second vote, but that did not affect his being on the primary ballot. Ms. Murphy also remains in the primary race.
Mr. Bellotti, 67 years old, first ran for governor, and lost, in 1963, and has been a regular candidate for state office. He served for several terms as Attorney General. But at a time when voters talk about wanting and outsider for governor, he seems an unlikely candidate.
The convention turned into an embarrassment for the Democrats, already staggering under voter anger about the state's unresolved fiscal problems and the likelihood of sharply higher taxes. The start of the convention was delayed for four hours when the Springfield police union picketed the city's Civic Center in a contract dispute with the Mayor Mary Hurley, a Democrat.
The Democratic delegates, forced to stand in the hot sunshine as they faced a difficult choice over whether to cross a picket line, were not made happier knowing that the police union had endorsed George Bush against Mr. Dukakis.
 
Scuffles With Picketers
James Roosevelt, the general counsel to the state Democratic Party, said the Republicans were responsible for the officers' action. He noted that Ronald Kauffman, a White House political aide, and Alexander Tennant, the executive director of the Massachusetts Republican Party, were seen driving around the convention site. Mr. Kauffman and Mr. Tennant denied any responsibility.
The picketers, chanting ''Four more years'' in an evident reference to Mr. Bush, scuffled with several delegates who tried to enter the Civic Center, hitting several of them.
The picketing ended only after the Democrats obtained a restraining order from a local judge.
But former United States Senator Paul E. Tsongas worried that the picketing and the way it was handled would hurt the party.
 
Harsh Words for Party
''This is everybody's worst caricature of the Democratic Party, sitting out there for hours captive of a union that never supported us,'' Mr. Tsongas said. ''I think it would have been appropriate for someone to say we have to get through that line and show some leadership.''
Despite public anger against the Democrats, the outcome of the governor's race is far from certain. Stephen Pierce, the minority leader in the State House of Representatives who is the leading Republican candidate, is best known for his strong stand against new taxes and opposition to a woman's right to abortion. He is regarded as an uninspiring speaker and has offered few new programs.
He is opposed by William F. Weld, a former United States Attorney in Boston and former Assistant Attorney General who resigned his position in 1988 to protest the ethical problems of Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d.
Mr. Silber would seem to have violated all the rules in the political book by his outspokenness, offending, at one time or another, blacks, women, homosexuals, immigrants and union members, the core members of the Democratic Party. But by refusing to tone down his campaign speeches and by calling for policies like cutting off welfare benefits to teen-age mothers who have a second child, Mr. Silber has struck a responsive chord with many disgruntled voters.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Francis X. Bellotti, a veteran politician, acknowledging supporters on Saturday in Springfield, Mass., after the Massachusetts Democratic Party endorsed him as its favored candidate for governor. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (84%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; PRIMARIES; GOVERNORS (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); STRIKES (65%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (63%); LAWYERS (61%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX; BELLOTTI, FRANCIS X; MURPHY, EVELYN F (LT GOV); SILBER, JOHN R RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



126 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 3; Style Desk

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: CHRONICLE

BYLINE: By Susan Heller Anderson

 BODY:
Over the years, KARL ELLER has given generously to the University of Arizona, his alma mater. The grateful Tucson school has, in return, named parts of itself in his honor: the Karl Eller Graduate School of Management and the Karl Eller Center for the Study of the Private Market Economy, both in its College of Business and Public Administration. 
Recently, Mr. Eller, 62 years old, quit as chairman of the Circle K Corporation, a convenience store chain. Now, the troubled company has filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code. Is the Eller name still one you wound want on the door of a business school?
''Mr. Eller is a typical entrepreneur - they fall on good times and hard times,'' said Susan Wong, assistant dean in the graduate school of management. ''And he's just going through a bad time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CHRONICLE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (90%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CIRCLE K CORP (72%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA; CIRCLE K CORP

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; GIFTS GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (87%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (87%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (86%); CONVENIENCE STORES (86%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: ELLER, KARL; ANDERSON, SUSAN HELLER KARL ELLER (93%); 



127 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 15, Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Re-creating a Musical Event of 1927

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL

 BODY:
Since 1987, Stephen Rogers Radcliffe and his New York Chamber Ensemble have been presenting some of New York's friskiest programming - and performances, one hastens to add, since intention without follow-through equals mere conceit.
Mr. Radcliffe has an interest in the music of the early 20th century, meaning the earliest and best years of modernism. He looks at music with a historian's eye, re-creating important musical events with modern forces. For those forces he unites smaller chamber groups under his ''Chamber Ensemble'' banner, the current components being the Chester String Quartet and the piano and wind sextet Hexagon, with additional freelance forces added as necessary. 
Friday night's program at Gould Hall, which enlisted 22 instrumentalists and 7 singers, counted as one of the ensemble's best. In 1927 the prestigious, composer-organized summer festival at Donaueschingen, in what is now West Germany, moved over to Baden-Baden, which had a bigger hall. The central program, on July 17, presented staged performances of four new chamber operas by Ernst Toch, Darius Milhaud, Kurt Weill and Paul Hindemith, ranging in length -the timings are those from Friday -from 11 minutes to 33 minutes.
Mr. Radcliffe re-created that program with a few variations. The most important was that in Baden-Baden the operas were staged with proper sets and costumes; in New York, despite some effective hints of characterization, they were given in concert form. The order was juggled, too, ending with the longest piece, the Toch. Musical interludes were omitted, most piquantly Milhaud's jazzy ''Creation du Monde,'' which received its first performance in Baden-Baden.
Friday's program was rather grandly entitled ''The Birth of Chamber Opera.'' That does a disservice to more than 300 years of earlier chamber operas. It also suggests that these 1927 scores had a profound impact on music to come. Since some pessimists count 1925 as the year the operatic canon stopped admitting new entries, and since Nazism and World War II disrupted artistic evolution of all kinds, that is hard to sustain. Certainly there were all manner of theatrical ''actions'' in the 1960's, but they were generally closer to today's performance art than 1927's operatic compressions.
That said, the 1927 evening was clearly an event, and given the quality of at least three of the scores and of the performances, Friday was also something of an event. The music sounded urgent, amusing and ingenious, full of a spirit of adventure and even an optimism that was soon to be dashed by larger political events.
Far and away the most famous and influential of the four scores was Weill's ''Mahagonny Songspiel,'' a 27-minute song sequence that soon grew into the full-dress ''Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny,'' which the Metropolitan Opera has done with success.
The ''Songspiel'' crops up fairly often, but few performances have matched Friday's in the crispness and spunky clarity of the instrumental playing. Hearing the music so performed, one could appreciate anew the brilliance with which Weill synthesized Bertolt Brecht's cabaret obsessions, jazz and modernist formalism. The singing - all night - was by no means bad, either.
The program opened with Hindemith's ''There and Back,'' Marion J. Farquhar's English version of ''Hin und Zuruck.'' This 11-minute score depicts a jealous husband's murder of his wife, the intercession of an angel and then the filmic rewinding of the events back to the opening marital bliss, the second half being an exact musical reversal of the first half. More a cute joke than evocative music, the opera succeeds because it is a joke and is most definitely cute.
The most successful mix of musical economy and invention was Milhaud's ''Abduction of Europa,'' heard in an Eric Smith translation. Here, more than in any of the other three operas, one feels that the composer has made a complete, ingenious and fully satisfying statement within the limits set by the festival's commissioners.
Finally, Toch's ''Princess and the Pea'' (again in a Farquhar translation) emerged as not only the longest but also the most operatically and musically conventional of the lot. Posterity is not as dumb as is sometimes asserted; there's a reason Toch is now less famous than the other three composers on this bill.
Singers for the evening were Katherine Johnson, Margaret Bishop, Nancy Ortez, Mark Bleeke, Michael Brown, Richard Holmes and Robert Osborne.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CHAMBER ENSEMBLE (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CHAMBER ENSEMBLE

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS; CONCERTS AND RECITALS MUSIC (93%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); OPERA (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); HISTORY (77%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); MUSIC REVIEWS (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 



128 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
The Japanese Government wants to redirect the country's huge flow of private investments overseas from the industrialized Western countries to the third world and Eastern Europe. Tokyo, the world's largest exporter of capital since the mid-1980's, seems to be responding to criticisms that it has not had a world vision to watch its wealth. [Page A1.] 
A year after China violently suppressed the democracy movement, the optimism of foreign businesses about the potential of a vast market is gone. [D1.] Throughout Beijing and the rest of the country, hundreds of families are remembering their loved ones who were killed on June 4 last year when the Government moved against protesters. [A1.]
The war on cocaine trafficking in Colombia is costing Bogota dearly and officials there are growing impatient with what they feel has been a lack of aid from the U.S. [D1.]
East Germany's 3,400 industrial companies are scrambling to stay alive after the country's monetary, economic and social policies are melded with West Germany's. [D6.]
 
 
 
The Economy
Robert N. Noyce, a co-inventor of the microchip that revolutionized the eletronics industry and gave rise to Silicon Valley and the high-technology era, died after suffering a heart attack. [A1.]
Many credit market analysts do not expect the Federal Reserve to begin efforts to stimulate growth until later in the summer, despite mounting evidence that the economy is expanding at a sluggish pace. Credit Markets. [D1.]
 
 
 
Companies
Landmark Land is being forced to sell some of the country's best-known golf resorts and developed communities because it owns its real estate assets through a savings and loan institution. The subsidiary must comply with the tougher restrictions imposed on savings institutions by the Government. [D1.]
 
The Media Business
At Time magazine, the editorial direction and managerial practices are being transformed. The distinctive Olympian voice has disappeared from its pages and group journalism is being replaced by stories written in the field by reporters, and the editor in chief has ceded much control in a decentralization move. [D1.]
Book sales in Las Vegas, the gambling mecca where American booksellers are holding their annual convention and trade exhibit, are above the national average. Residents, not tourists, do most of the book buying in the town, bookstore owners say, but the city still has three shops devoted to books on gambling. [D7.]
One tradition in the book business has resisted dizzying change in an industry that has become glitzy and global: the publishing lunch. Between 12:30 and 2:30 in the afternoon, in posh restaurants in Manhattan, publishers, agents and occasionally authors do business over their midday meals. [D7.]
NBC will have to fend off questions from its affiliates about its leadership in the industry at network's annual convention of station managers. NBC became unexpectedly vulnerable in prime time toward the end of the recent television season. [D7.]
When Romann & Tannenholz won a $3 million account to promote a set of Time-Life cookbooks through direct-response advertising, the small agency saw visions of growth and glory. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D8.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Labor costs of American companies are rising again. Not since the early 1980's have they gone up so fast. This time, the problem is the rising cost of benefits. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
International Minerals and Chemical, once the biggest fertilizer company in the world, has spun off several major components and bought back a substantial piece of its stock in the last five years to the applause of institutional investors. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (57%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (71%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: MEDIA EDGE (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BOOKSTORES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RESORTS (71%); COCAINE (69%); SAVINGS & LOANS (68%); WRITERS (67%); PUBLISHING (67%); JOURNALISM (67%); COMPUTER CHIPS (66%); LITERARY AGENTS (65%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (63%); TRADE SHOWS (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (54%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (54%); 



129 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
High Cost of Fighting Drugs Strains U.S.-Colombian Ties

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, June 1

 BODY:
As the cost of Colombia's war on cocaine trafficking rises, officials here are growing more impatient with the United States.
''In trade and financial matters related to the drug war, there have been more words than results,'' President Virgilio Barco Vargas said in an interview here, as he prepared to lead an economic mission to the United States.
Mr. Barco estimated that the war with the traffickers was costing Colombia $1 billion a year. The figure includes money to support army and police operations, the loss of tourism and foreign investment and the cost of repairing buildings bombed by drug traffickers. 
To offset the cost, the Colombians want better prices and better access to the American market for their chief exports: coffee, cut flowers, bananas and textiles.
On Tuesday, Mr. Barco is scheduled to meet with President Bush, largely to discuss economic issues. Colombia's Finance Minister, Luis Fernando Alarcon Mantilla, will meet with Barber B. Conable Jr., president of the World Bank.
On Monday, Colombia's Minister of Economic Development, Maria Mercedes Cuellar de Martinez, is to meet with Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative.
Many officials in this nation of 32 million people have become bitter toward the United States.
''If President Bush is offering cooperation, why doesn't it filter down to the bureaucracy?'' the economic minister asked in an interview before she left for Washington on Thursday.
Referring to a recent move by the United States trade representative to place Colombia on ''a watch list'' of unfair traders, another senior Government official said, ''Carla Hills is becoming one of the most difficult foes of the drug war.''
Colombia would like to join a group of about eight countries that use the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to resolve export-subsidy disputes with the United States. Colombia is also seeking American guarantees for a $1 billion bond issue that would ease budget problems caused by the drug war.
This week, an agreement is expected that would give Colombia a portion of the assets seized in drug raids in the United States that result from information furnished by Colombia.
 
Exports to U.S. on Rise
American diplomats here note that this year the duties on imports of Colombian flowers have been reduced, barriers to Colombian textiles have been removed and imports of Colombian tropical fruits have been promoted. Later this year, the United States is expected to increase Colombia's sugar export quota by 30 percent.
''Last year, Colombia's exports to the United States increased by 17 percent,'' one American official said. ''We think Colombia should keep an eye on the results, and not on the debate and anxiety surrounding the process. We are Colombia's best and fastest-growing market.''
On the Colombian side, anxiety is fueled by a growing sense that the drug war is proving longer and more costly than many Colombians bargained for.
''Colombia is paying a high cost,'' Cesar Gaviria, the nation's president-elect, said in his victory speech on May 27.
Without international aid and foreign reduction in cocaine consumption, Mr. Gaviria warned, ''It will be increasingly difficult for the Colombian people to understand that their sacrifice is not being matched and could be in vain.''
Tourism to Colombia's Caribbean beaches has been hit hard, said Oscar Rueda Garcia, president of the National Association of Tourism.
Since traffickers began a campaign of assassination and bombing last August, 100,000 fewer tourists have visited Colombia, costing the country $80 million, Mr. Rueda Garcia said.
Domestic air traffic is running 15 percent below normal since last August. Avianca, the state airline, has lost $15 million since last August.
In May, the Government announced a $10 million low-interest credit line to help the hundreds of bombed-out shopkeepers and homeowners. In the coastal city of Cartagena alone, a bomb at a shopping center in mid-May heavily damaged 100 stores, causing at least $2 million in losses.
In Cali, the city government recently said it would create a $300,000 ''family support fund'' to aid victims of a series of drug-related bombings.
The violence has frightened away an unknown amount of foreign investment from an economy that is considered one of the best managed in the region. With an average growth rate of 4 percent since 1986, Colombia has never skipped a payment on its foreign debt in recent years. Mr. Gaviria, an economist and former Finance Minister, has promised to continue the nation's tradition of honoring its foreign obligations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: BELGIAN AMERICAN RADIO CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COCAINE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COLOMBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); COCAINE (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (88%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ASSET FORFEITURE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EXPORT CONTROLS (69%); BOND ISSUES (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); DRUG PRICES (58%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; BARCO VARGAS, VIRGILIO (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



130 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Immediate Move by Fed Not Expected

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Despite mounting evidence that the economy is expanding at an even more sluggish pace than the tepid 1.3 percent rate in the first quarter, many credit market analysts do not expect the Federal Reserve Board to begin efforts to stimulate growth until later in the summer.
Even though the Federal Reserve runs the risk of tipping the economy into recession if it waits too long to act, analysts said the central bank is primarily concerned about inflation. Consequently, Fed governors will want to see additional confirmation that inflationary pressures are ebbing from the first quarter before they move to help shore up the economy, the analysts said.
 
Economist Sees No Action
''The Fed ought to be concerned about the economy,'' said Alan Sinai, the chief economist at the Boston Company, ''but I don't think they will do anything about it yet.'' 
The most recent - and for many, conclusive - signs of a significant slowdown were contained in the employment figures for May, which were released on Friday.
Some analysts saw some hints of modest strength in the report, including a marked uptick in the factory workweek, an indication that activity in the manufacturing sector may be picking up.
But the small positives were outweighed by the third straight month of weak overall employment growth. Excluding temporary census workers, nonfarm payroll employment rose by just 17,000 last month. Even more sobering, revised figures for March and April show that nonfarm employment for the three months actually fell by 34,000 jobs after the census workers hired during that period were excluded.
The analysts are particularly concerned with the slowdown in employment in the service sector, which has served as the wellspring of activity in the economy for much of the last decade.
Excluding census workers, service-sector employment has increased an average of about 65,000 jobs, said John R. Williams, a managing director at Bankers Trust, down from an average increase of 275,000 in the first two months of the year. For all of 1989, the service sector added an average of 200,000 jobs a month.
 
'Demands Are Waning'
''The thing that has kept us out of recession for much of the last decade has been a strong service sector,'' Mr. Williams said. ''Now, for the first time, we are seeing that those demands are waning a bit.''
Douglas Schindewolf, an economist at Smith Barney, Harris, Upham & Company, suggests in the firm's weekly credit market commentary that the slowdown in service-sector employment growth may be a ''symptom of the recently tightened credit standards for smaller businesses, which would disproportionately impact the service sector.''
With service businesses growing less rapidly and manufacturing activity remaining weak, Mr. Williams said growth in the current quarter was likely to be less than 1 percent.
Credit market participants, who thrive on signs of weakness in the economy because they usually lead to an easing in inflationary pressures, responded to the release of the employment report by sending bond yields below 8.50 percent, to their lowest levels since mid-February.
By late Friday, the Treasury's 8 3/4 percent bonds of 2020 were offered at a price to yield 8.44 percent.
With the fear of a Fed tightening all but obliterated by the employment numbers, short-term interest rates moved closer to the 8 1/4 percent rate that has been the target for the overnight rate on bank loans in the Federal funds market since mid-December.
 
Current Rate Levels Seen
With no significant economic reports to be released this week, interest rates are likely to trade around current levels for the near term, barring an unforeseen policy change by the Fed.
The next test is likely to come in the middle of the month, when key inflation reports will be released.
''We continue to feel that a continuation of the current sluggish pace of economic activity allows for bond yields to test the 8 percent level in the months ahead,'' Mr. Schindewolf said, ''particularly if the Fed is patient on the policy trigger.''
In the wake of last week's rally, the Treasury's 8 1/2 percent two-year notes were offered at a price to yield 8.30 percent.
The sharp drop in interest rates could well prompt a flood of corporate bond issues in coming weeks, corporate finance specialists said.
But the decline may also signal a slowdown in the issuance of ''put'' bonds, a financing vehicle favored by corporations during periods of interest rate volatility.
Put bonds allow investors to cash in the securities with the issuing company at 100 cents on the dollar at a specified time.
For issuers, offering the put option to investors means that issuers can shave 25 to 40 basis points off their borrowing costs, depending on the credit of the issuer, said Robert Schwartz, a financial market economist at Merrill Lynch.
Last month a total of $1.3 billion worth of put bonds were issued, a figure that just about matches the total issued during the first four months of the year, Mr. Schwartz said.
While put bonds are not new, investment bankers have added a wrinkle by tacking on additional put dates.
''Securities with multiple puts are very unusual,'' Mr. Schwartz said. ''And investors place much more importance on the secondary puts than the issuer does, because if the first put isn't exercised, the probability that the second or third will be increases exponentially. But the issuer, who is basically paying for the first put, doesn't really care.''
With participants looking - and expecting - further declines in interest rates, corporations may be far less interested in issuing put bonds in the weeks ahead.
''With this rally we have had in the market, there might not be so many,'' Mr. Schwartz said, ''because absolute rate levels for borrowers are very attractive.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (69%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (62%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENSUS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (89%); RECESSION (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N JOHN R WILLIAMS (64%); 



131 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Pessimism on Chinese Trade

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, June 3

 BODY:
Ever since they sailed their clipper ships to China two centuries ago with cargoes of opium, foreign traders have brimmed with optimism about the potential of the vast China market. These days, however, on the first anniversary of the bloody suppression of the democracy movement, the flush of optimism is gone, along with much of the business.
While only a handful of American corporations have closed their doors and left China since the crackdown last June 4, and a few newcomers have set up shop, many companies say business is more difficult than ever, and in some cases slower than they had expected it would be.
For most traders with sales offices in China, business is in a deep slump. 
''We feel that things just have to get better,'' said a foreign business executive in Beijing. ''But I can't say we're past the bottom of the cycle.''
 
Curbs on Imports and Credit
Executives say these hard times stem from the austerity program China began in the fall of 1988 and intensified last summer, with the Government clamping down on imports and on credit to local companies.
But beyond that, they say the violent crackdown last year and the mixed signals about economic liberalization since then have made it nearly impossible to assess China's political risk with any confidence.
Doing business in China has always been difficult, particularly because China's bureaucracy often requires myriad steps and approvals before any agreement can be signed. Collecting and confirming seemingly simple information, like the amount of a new tariff, can often lead a company through a maze of bureacratic red tape without a definitive answer.
 
Sales Have Decreased
Now China has tightened credit, cutting off funds to many Government entities and industrial enterprises that would otherwise purchase from American companies, and so sales of American products are down.
For many foreign companies, this year has been marked by other obstacles, further tainting the business climate. Some obstacles, like martial law, are being removed. But in the meantime China has recentralized its decision-making process, so that the central Government and not just the local authority must agree to certain investment and trade proposals. This has created a more difficult and confusing investment environment.
It is also unclear how long China's leaders will stall decisions on economic changes, especially in such areas as freeing prices and expanding stock ownership. Many foreign companies had pinned their hopes on a more market-oriented business environment in China. Now, greater uncertainty about the direction of economic policy and about political stability has led many companies to cancel or postpone plans for expansion in China.
 
Expansion Ruled Out
''We didn't set up any expansion plans before June 4,'' one executive said. ''But of course after June 4, we wouldn't even consider it.''
The freeze on lending by the World Bank has also meant that loans from foreign institutions are few and far between, and business for bankers has slowed so much that two of the four American bank representatives in Beijing have been reassigned outside China. For many foreign bankers who remain here, much of their time is absorbed with loan problems, primarily hotel loans that need to be renegotiated because the debtors have not been able to meet their obligations.
''I guess I was wrong because I thought things would have picked up,'' one foreign banker said. ''I've been disappointed too many times this year.''
 
Optimistic, but Restrained, Talk
Traders and corporate executives prospecting for lucrative investment possibilities have returned to China, and they fill the hotel coffee shops with optimistic, if restrained, talk of business. But the current economic recession in China has made prospects grim for new business and investment in the future.
''We're not seeing any new ideas in the pipeline,'' said John T. Frisbie, director of the United States-China Business Council in Beijing. ''For traders, it'll be lean business years unless there is a significant change in trade policy.''
In the first quarter of this year, American companies signed 65 investment contracts worth $48 million, according to statistics from China's Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. The ministry has not publicized comparable quarterly figures for previous years, but other statistics show that the latest figure is far below the level in the past.
In the first six months of last year, for example, American corporations signed contracts worth $382 million. That was nearly three times the new investment for the same period in 1988. At the end of 1989, the total amount of American contracts for investment projects was about $4 billion, an increase of about 20 percent over the amount at the end of 1988.
 
Investing Smaller Amounts
Industry executives say there are isolated cases of American and Japanese companies that are considering large investment projects of about $100 million. But in general, companies are investing smaller amounts -an average of $700,000 in the first quarter - and negotiations on contracts sometimes have become more cumbersome and protracted during the last year.
''The Chinese are generally strapped for money, so negotiating is as hard as it ever was before, and they are trying to extract as many concessions as they can,'' said Timothy A. Steinert, an American lawyer in Beijing who helps negotiate some deals.
Mr. Steinert added that there seemed to be a rising number of commercial disputes, as American companies become more willing to go to arbitration instead of turning a blind eye to what they believe are contract violations. ''Problems that were swept under the rug before are now becoming conflicts,'' he said.
 
American Exports Down
United States trade statistics show that American exports to China had been on the rise, jumping 16 percent, to $5.7 billion, in 1989. The exports fell a percentage point during the first two months of 1990, to $876 million, compared with the same period a year ago.
Some companies say they expect the rest of the year to bring more business, and most companies in industries that China is strategically encouraging, including energy, telecommunications and transportation, say they are still closing sales. But most trade representatives say the last year has been a struggle, and they are cutting costs where they can to offset reductions in revenues.
The IBM China Corporation, for example, one of the most visible foreign companies in China, now has 100 employees in its office, compared with 127 a year ago. Many other companies have reduced their sales staffs and representatives. And most joint-venture hotels have cut down their expatriate staffing and electricity costs.
''The double whammy of economic retrenchment and political shock took the romance out of China,'' a Western diplomat said. ''It takes a lot of vision and staying power to remain here.''

GRAPHIC: Graphs of Foreign investment contracts; quarterly foreign investment contracts (sources: United States-China Business Council; China's Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade; China's State Statistical Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: US-CHINA BUSINESS COUNCIL (59%); US-CHINA BUSINESS COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); TRENDS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); POLITICS (65%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



132 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
Offsetting the Rise Of Labor Costs

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
DESPITE years of concessions from workers, the labor costs of American companies are rising again. Not since the early 1980's have they gone up so fast. But the increases do not reflect labor militancy. The problem this time isn't escalating wages, but the escalating cost of benefits - and they are not easily controlled by labor or management. That makes the impact on the nation anyone's guess.
Today's labor costs are hard to deal with at the bargaining table. The big collective-bargaining issue is wages, but they are rising only mildly, failing even to keep up with inflation. The growing burden for corporate America is in non-wage items -particularly big jumps in health insurance premiums, imposed by the insurers, and higher Social Security taxes, imposed by the Government. 
''You are really hard pressed, when you look at the numbers, to talk of wage explosion going on there,'' said Daniel J. B. Mitchell, a labor economist at the University of California at Los Angeles. ''When you back out the benefits, nothing is really going on in labor costs.''
That does not make the problem less painful, from several viewpoints. One is inflation. When economists talk of the ''inflation threat'' these days, the chief concern is that companies will raise prices to recover their higher outlays for labor. But in a sluggishly growing economy, price increases are hard to come by, even when the Labor Department's Employment Cost Index, measuring the cost of wages and benefits, goes up alarmingly. (The index for the private sector rose 5.2 percent in the year ended March 31, compared with increases of 4.6 percent and 3.8 percent, respectively, in the two previous years.) Without the option of price increases, many companies are paying for the higher labor costs out of profits. The Labor Department measures the profit from the sale of each unit produced in the nation, whether the unit is in the service sector (a newly cleaned suit, a haircut) or in manufacturing (a toy, a computer, a car). This index plunged to 112.5 last year from 128.8 in 1988. Not since 1983, a year in which the nation was emerging from a recession, have unit profits been so low.
Another alternative is to obtain more production from each worker. That increases profits by spreading the labor cost over more units; a presser is pushed to iron more suits, and the 10 workers in a toy factory to make more toys, for the same wages and benefits. This exercise in greater productivity is particularly noticeable among companies competing with foreigners - a competition that often forces them to hold down prices.
Thus, the Bank of America, with headquarters in California, where Japanese banks have a huge presence, is relying on incentives. Loan officers, for instance, get extra pay to negotiate more loans and the bank's real estate appraisers to churn out more appraisals. ''We are moving from traditional merit increases to this sort of incentive payment,'' said Norman Snell, a vice president.
Similarly, with its health insurance premiums rising 16 percent a year, the Union Camp Corporation is spending millions on machinery to increase output at mills making liner board, a material used in shipping containers. In addition, the mill workers, whose wages are rising only 2.5 percent a year, have agreed to rules changes that increase their output. Production and maintenance people, for example, now do each other's tasks.
But in a sluggish economy, productivity has its ceiling. Fewer people are taking out loans, no matter how motivated Bank of America's loan officers are. And while liner board demand is rising, it is not rising as fast as the capacity to produce it.
American corporations are trying two other routes around the labor cost burden. One is to reduce the outlay for benefits, particularly company-paid health insurance. Many companies are pushing employees toward less expensive doctors and hospitals. Some are also lobbying Congress to help bear the cost of some health care.
But if none of this slows the rise in labor costs, American companies could return to more drastic measures. The early 1980's were a period of wage givebacks and layoffs that fell heaviest on blue-collar workers. And the early 1990's could become a similar period, but this time focused on white-collar employees. White-collar wages and benefits are rising more rapidly than blue-collar compensation (10.2 percent over the last two years, versus 8.4 percent) and their average income is higher ($18.50 versus $14 an hour).
Already, reports of layoffs or hiring freezes for white-collar employees are appearing regularly -involving such giants as Caterpillar, I.B.M., Lockheed, Chrysler and H. J. Heinz. ''You don't necessarily cut functions, but you cut the number of people who do each function,'' said Donald Hilty, a Chrysler economist. ''One way to do this is to reduce the layers of white-collar management.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (65%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (65%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS



133 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Book Industry Meets in Land of the Bookmaker

BYLINE: By EDWIN MCDOWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nev., June 3

 BODY:
''Sports books'' and ''race books'' are by far the best sellers in this desert gambling mecca. Gross revenues from those ubiquitous betting parlors, and from the other legal games of chance, add more than $3 billion a year to the local economy.
By contrast, sales of books - the kind that are read - were only $16.1 million in Las Vegas bookstores in 1987, the latest year for which figures are available. But according to the Commerce Department, per-capita book sales in Las Vegas are above the national average. 
''The national average was $57.15 in 1987,'' said William Lofquist, the specialist in book sales for the Commerce Department, ''and the Las Vegas average was $64.84.''
In this town, book talk is unlikely to replace talk of jackpots, of hot hands or bad luck, but book talk has been plentiful here since Saturday, when the 90th annual convention and trade exhibit of the American Booksellers Association opened at the Las Vegas Convention Center, with 24,000 booksellers, publishers and vendors registering for the four-day event.
 
Pleased to Have Event
Las Vegas booksellers say they are happy to have the convention here, but only the half-dozen or so adult bookshops on or near Las Vegas Boulevard (the casino-lined ''Strip'') cater to the convention trade or the city's 17 million annual visitors. In fact, the only traditional bookstore on the Strip, a Waldenbooks outlet, is tucked away on the second floor of a fashionable shopping mall, far from the madding gambling crowd.
''There's a tremendous amount of cash in this town, left behind by visitors, and there are people with money to spend on books,'' said Danny Greenspun. Gambling that they will spend some of it in an independent bookstore about 15 minutes from the Strip, Mr. Greenspun and his wife, Robin, recently opened The Culture Dog, a literary bookstore and gallery in Green Valley, just outside the Las Vegas city limits.
''I was annoyed there wasn't a Rizzoli, Brentano's or Scribner's here, so I opened one,'' Mr. Greenspun said. His father, the late Hank Greenspun, founded The Las Vegas Sun, one of the town's two daily newspapers.
The Culture Dog is not yet a Rizzoli, Brentano's or Scribner's, nor does it have the selection equal to Waldenbooks & More, one of that chain's superstores a couple of miles away. But the Culture Dog carries an impressive list of fiction, including fiction from small literary presses, and a good selection of children's books and books on art and architecture.
While Mr. Greenspun plans to expand, Dana McKay, another Las Vegas bookseller, has gradually retrenched - to just one store, from five stores in the 1970's.
''Once the national chains came in,'' she said, referring to the two B. Dalton stores and four Waldenbooks, ''we couldn't compete with their discounts.''
Ms. McKay opened her first bookstore here in 1955, with $500 worth of books given on credit by a wholesaler. ''I started my store because I couldn't find anything to read,'' she said. ''There was no bookstore in town and the only library was in the basement of our City Hall.''
The biggest of the city's three stores devoted to books on gambling, Gamblers Book Shop, carries thousands of new titles and about 2,000 used. ''We also carry novels if they have even a slight gambling theme or if they're about the Mafia,'' said Howard Schwartz, the store's marketing director.
Housed in a red-brick building at a busy intersection a few miles north of most of the gaming action, Gamblers Book Shop consists of two plain rooms filled with books arranged in dozens of categories - poker to casino management to sports betting. The latter category is growing so fast that the store carries more than 60 titles just about betting on football.
''We're 80 percent mail order, only 20 percent walk-in traffic,'' Mr. Schwartz said. ''We publish our own books and we mail up to 75,000 catalogues all over the world.''
The store was started in 1964 by John Luckman, a former dealer and manager at casinos on the Strip, and his wife, Edna. (Mr. Luckman died in 1987.) Asked if she gambles, Mrs. Luckman wrinkled her nose in disapproval. ''No, and we don't encourage others to gamble,'' she said. ''But if they do, that's their business. And we hope the books in here will help them.''
Las Vegas has many religious bookstores - at least seven Christian evangelical stores, five catering to members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints and one that sells Jewish books.
''Our clientele is families who live here,'' said Glen Hales, owner of two of the Mormon bookstores. ''As far as I know, we've never had a gambler, repentent or not, come into our stores.''
Gray Crampton, an owner of the two Christian Supply Center book stores, said his stores carry a selection similar to that of other evangelical Christian stores: Bibles, religious self-help, even novels with Christian themes. While it does not carry books about gambling, it does sell books about overcoming various addictions.
While sales in Mr. Campton's stores are largely unaffected by tourism, it seemed certain that sales would surge last summer, when more than 18,000 members of the Southern Baptist Convention held their annual meeting here.
But the bonanza never occurred. Mr. Crampton said the delegates brought their own books and set up a bookstore in the convention center. K Martd(Waldenbooks)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Howard Schwartz, above, is the marketing director of the Gamblers Bookshop. Danny Greenspun owns the Culture Dog Bookstore. (John Gurzinski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (54%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (96%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: WALDEN BOOK CO INC (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION (82%); AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSN AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LAS VEGAS (NEV)

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; BOOK TRADE BOOKSTORES (93%); BOOK SALES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); GAMING (90%); LITERATURE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); DOGS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (73%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (66%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN DANNY GREENSPUN (66%); JOHN LUCKMAN (62%); 



134 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
For NBC, 'Party's Over' at Its Affiliates Meeting

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
For the first time in five years, NBC is facing questions about its leadership in the industry at the annual convention of the managers of its affiliated stations.
''We all know the party's over,'' said Betty Hudson, senior vice president of corporate communications for NBC. ''But that doesn't mean we can't still have some good parties.'' 
NBC became unexpectedly vulnerable in prime time toward the end of the recent television season, after dominating it for five years.
Pier Mapes, the president of NBC's network division, said the affiliate managers, who begin three days of meetings in Washington today, would probably raise questions about the May ratings sweep period, in which NBC came close to losing its lead to CBS.
He said the affiliates, ''accustomed to our hitting home runs in May,'' were likely to express concerns about the trend in prime time. NBC hopes to reassure them with buoyant descriptions oif its schedule for next fall.
 
Deflecting Criticism
During the last five years, NBC executives were able to depend on their prime-time dominance to deflect potential criticism from affiliates in other areas, most prominently the continuing weak performance of the netwrok news division. Affiliate managers have questioned the leadership of Michael Gartner, the news division's president, at previous meetings.
This year the questions about news may be more intense, Mr. Mapes said, because of the news division's ragged performance on the night of the Northern California earthquake, the inability of NBC evening newscast to escape last place in the national ratings and, most pointedly, the ratings collapse of the ''Today'' program.
''There is be a lot of emotion about 'Today,' mostly because of the economics,'' Mr. Mapes said. More than half of the commercial time in ''Today'' is sold by the local stations. When ratings for ''Today'' plunge, local stations are hurt just as badly as the network. 24-Hour News Service Mr. Mapes said Mr. Gartner would concede that the network had made errors in its handling of ''Today'' and the earthquake. But these concessions will be balanced by praise for the network's performance at the Berline wall and by outlines of changes on ''Today,'' including the addition of three cast members.
NBC News will also disclose plans for a 24-hour news service for broadcast stations. Mr. Mapes said the proposed news service should eventually be a serious competitor to the services that stations currently buy from CNN and other satellite news systems.
In addition, he said, Mr. Gartner will disucss plans to use Jane Pauley more extensively on the ''Nightly News,'' a move that many affiliates have urged.
NBC's affiliate convention, usually held on the West Coast, has been moved to Washington to underscore legislative issues affecting broadcasters.
The two main issues, Mr. Mapes said, will be what the stations consider to be unfair opportunities granted to cable operators, at the expense of broadcasters, and Federal restrictions on the networks' financial ownership of programs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (96%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC)

SUBJECT: TELEVISION TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL PIER MAPES (93%); MICHAEL GARTNER (68%); 



135 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
A New Formula in Hungary: Speed Service and Grow Rich

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: BUDAPEST

 BODY:
The road to riches in Eastern Europe? A former Hungarian rock musician, Gabor J. Varszegi, found an answer: hire young people untainted by Communist work experience, pay them four times the going rate and then offer customers a one-hour film-developing service instead of the usual monthlong wait.
In Hungary, like other Eastern European nations, where service has traditionally ranged from sullen to nonexistent, Mr. Varszegi's formula has proved to be both revolutionary and highly profitable.
Today the trim, bearded 44-year-old entrepreneur is one of Hungary's richest men, worth an estimated $10 million or more. His fortune might not make him John Paul Getty, but in a nation just emerging from Communism, where the average annual salary is $1,800 at current exchange rates, he is surely a tycoon.
He drives a large black Mercedes and the walls of his office in a mansion overlooking Budapest are bedecked with Chagall and Dali lithographs. 
Envying his success, many Hungarian businesses are seeking to copy his bold, unorthodox style. And some Western observers say Eastern Europe could lift itself out of its economic morass in a year, instead of a decade, if it had a few thousand executives with the skills and market instincts of Mr. Varszegi (pronounced var-SAY-gee).
But in Hungary, he is resented as well as praised. In fact, he refused to have his picture taken for fear that his family might become targets for criminals.
''In Eastern Europe, the people don't like rich people,'' he said. ''They were taught for 40 years that wealth is bad.''
Mr. Varszegi picked up many of his business ideas in the United States, where he traded diamonds and machinery in the early 1980's. Returning to Hungary in 1985, he and two partners invested $200,000 to set up Eastern Europe's first one-hour photo minilab. The business was an instant hit, earning $200,000 in the first year.
Since then, his empire has grown steadily and branched into new fields. Today it includes seven photo-developing shops, two contact lens stores, and factories that make contact lenses, leaded glass, picture frames and commemorative coins. Now he dreams of someday becoming the first Eastern European to take his company public through a share offering in the United States. He said his company, Fotex Ltd., earned $4 million last year on sales of $10 million.
Impressed by Mr. Varszegi's business skills, several American corporations have asked him to be their man in Hungary. He is Eastman Kodak's exclusive distributor here, and he is negotiating with the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company to distribute its Scotch-Brite scouring pads and Post-It notes.
 
'A Western-Minded Hungarian'
Mr. Varszegi, a millionaire who often wears faded blue jeans, does not hesitate to give advice to budding entrepreneurs or foreign investors.
''To succeed in business in Hungary you have to be a Western-minded Hungarian,'' he said in his roomy office. ''You have to understand the people here, their way of life, and the day-to-day changes, but you also have to be a Western-style entrepreneur.''
For his part, Mr. Varszegi has transplanted American business ideas to Hungary's badly neglected service sector. He saw that it took six months for Hungarians to obtain contact lenses. So last year he invested more than $1 million in computer-controlled, precision cutting machines - Hungary's first contact-lens equipment. Now customers can have their eyes examined in the morning and pick up lenses in the afternoon.
''What makes him so successful is he knows what the customer wants,'' said Horst Escher, Kodak's assistant general manager for Eastern Europe.
When Kodak was searching for a distributor in Hungary three years ago it chose Mr. Varszegi because he seemed the most entrepreneurial of the candidates. He was buying huge sheets of Fuji film wholesale, cutting and processing them into rolls and selling them under the name Tokyocolor. It quickly became Hungary's most popular film made outside of the Soviet bloc.
 
A Boon for Kodak
Thanks to him, sales of Kodak film jumped from 30,000 rolls in 1987 to more than a million last year. He has made Kodak far more popular than Fuji or Agfa even though he charges 60 percent more than Kodak's competitors. He has also made Kodak batteries the best seller among Western brands.
''If you start to sell a product that is unknown here and you advertise it well, you have a good chance of building up a market,'' he said. Kodak is now talking to him about assembling its cameras in Hungary.
Mr. Varszegi's approach may be old hat to Westerners but it is welcome in Eastern Europe: fast and friendly service, convenient locations and emphasis on quality. Fotex shops, often on main streets and in subway stations, are among the few places in Budapest, other than at McDonald's, where service comes with a smile. Unlike the many dingy brown and gray stores of Budapest, Fotex shops are spick-and-span, vibrant yellow and brightly lighted. Some are open round the clock.
''It's great that there is a store like Fotex close by,'' said Zsuzsa Zsiga, a law student. ''It might charge a little more than other places, but it's good that we can have our pictures back in a few hours.'' The stores also sell wooden picture frames that Mr. Varszegi manufactures.
 
The Pay Is Good
He is known for unorthodox personnel policies as well. To win loyalty and instill motivation, Mr. Varszegi pays his employees more than $550 a month on average. Hungary's average wage is $150.
His employees say they work hard for their money. ''To work here, you have to be young, pretty and quick on your feet,'' said Victoria Szomolanyi, a 24-year-old manager in a photo development shop. ''You have to smile and be polite. You also have to be able to think independently. Sometimes there are large lines out the door, and you have to make a lot of quick decisions.''
The average age of his work force is 23. He refuses to hire people who held jobs under Communism, which he said encouraged slacking off. ''I hire young people because they haven't inherited the bad habits of older workers,'' he said.
Mr. Varszegi said he developed his knack for business as a rock musician in the mid-1960's. He was bass guitarist as well as business manager for Gemini, one of Hungary's most popular groups, and bargained with Communist apparatchiks about fees.
''Back then, the only private businessmen in Eastern Europe were rock musicians,'' he said.
A traditional business education will not guarantee success in Eastern Europe, he said, adding: ''It's not possible to learn in Harvard Business School how to do business in Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Romania or Hungary today. In Czechoslovakia they don't even know what rules will exist two weeks from now.'' Even so, Mr. Varszegi is looking to open Fotex shops in Prague.
 
'Find the Right Partner'
His advice for Western executives interested in Eastern Europe is ''find the right partner, someone who is able to do what you do.'' 3M seems to have followed his advice. Mr. Varszegi will soon begin processing, packaging and marketing Scotch-Brite.
Horst Flemming, head of 3M's Eastern European operations, said: ''You just don't go into Hungary tomorrow and identify distributors. You have to find a person who you think has the talent, whatever it takes to get you good distribution. You gamble on him and trust him to distribute your product. We chose Mr. Varszegi because he has a track record.''
One big problem for Mr. Varszegi has been the limits that the Hungarian Government, worried about trade deficits, has placed on imports of consumer goods. Mr. Varszegi has navigated around this obstacle by exporting picture frames to reduce his company's trade deficit.
As part of that effort, he acquired control late last year of an export-oriented glass company, Ajka, which supplies fine pieces to Cartier and Tiffany. Mr. Varszegi has introduced more modern designs and opened several Ajka stores so the company can sell directly to the consumer, bypassing the middleman.
''We've earned as much in the first quarter as the company did all last year,'' he said.
He has one final piece of advice for Western investors: ''Now is the time to build up in Hungary; there are marvelous opportunities,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (50%); MMM (NYSE) (50%); MMM (FRA) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (50%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); HUNGARY (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (92%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (58%); 3M CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOTEX LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNGARY; EUROPE, EAST; EUROPE

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PHOTOGRAPHY; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); POP & ROCK (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); OPTICAL GOODS STORES (65%); TRENDS (63%); LEAD (60%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (58%); COINS & COINAGE (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; VARSZEGI, GABOR J; VARSZEGI, GABOR J (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) GABOR J VARSZEGI (95%); 



136 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: After the Summit;
GORBACHEV, ENDING U.S. TRIP, MEETS SOUTH KOREA LEADER, WHO SEES A RENEWAL OF TIES

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 4

 BODY:
President Roh Tae Woo of South Korea met here today with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union and said later that the two nations would establish diplomatic relations in the future.
Mr. Gorbachev who left for the Soviet Union shortly after the meeting with the South Korean leader, told reporters as he got into his car that it was important to improve relations with all countries in the region but did not say anything specifically about establishing formal diplomatic relations.
Mr. Roh said at a news conference, ''The cold-war ice on the Korean peninsula has now begun to crack.'' He said he expected his conversations with Mr. Gorbachev ultimately to lead to Korean reunification.
Mr. Roh provided no details on the timetable for diplomatic recognition but said Mr. Gorbachev had told him that ''the meeting signified that progress has already been made along those lines.'' 
Asked after the meeting whether the Soviet Union and Korea had agreed to normalize relations, Mr. Gorbachev answered: ''Let the fruit grow ripe, and when it grows ripe, we shall eat it.''
At a news conference after the meeting, Mr. Roh said through an interpreter that ''normal bilateral relations will be restored after 86 years,'' a reference to the period before the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-5, when czarist Russia had relations with a unified Korea. After Russia's defeat in that war, Korea became a virtual protectorate of Japan, which eventually annexed it in 1910.
 
Step to Reunification, Roh Says
The South Korean leader said that he and Mr. Gorbachev had discussed the future of the peninsula and military and economic relations and that they ''didn't find any basic difference in views about these matters.''
Citing imminent German reunification, Mr. Roh said that Korea was ''the only nation on earth still divided by cold-war policy.'' But after the meeting with Mr. Gorbachev, he said, ''We expect this to be the first major step toward a peaceful and unified Korea.''
It was the first face-to-face meeting between leaders of the Soviet Union and South Korea, which have been ideological and military adversaries since the division of the Korean peninsula after World War II.
Any improvement of relations between Moscow and Seoul is sure to further anger North Korea, the Soviet ally, which has expressed concern even over the initial report of Mr. Gorbachev's plan to meet with Mr. Roh.
The news conference in the Fairmont Hotel, at which Mr. Roh's remarks were read in English by an interpreter from a prepared statement, was attended not only by scores of reporters but also by Donald Gregg, the United States Ambassador to South Korea.
 
Achievement for Roh
For Mr. Roh, the meeting with Mr. Gorbachev was a significant achievement. The South Korean President's prestige has been battered in recent months by student strikes and a slowdown of the economy.
But the meeting here, a product of a two-year-old policy of reaching out to Eastern European nations, put Mr. Roh at the center of the world's stage - a player, along with Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Bush, in this week of high-level meetings.
The South Korean delegation arrived here ready to offer the Soviets a quid pro quo: Let us help you rebuild your collapsed economy as a trade partner in exchange for your help reunifying our divided country.
 
Hoping to Isolate the North
If the Soviet Union establishes formal ties with South Korea, senior Government officials said, then North Korea may feel hopelessly isolated and forced to reckon with its neighbor on the other side of the 38th parallel.
A senior South Korean Government official said the North Korean Government's refusal to recognize Seoul was one of the final vestiges of the cold war - ''the last island in a sea of change.'' A warming of relations between Seoul and Moscow ''would give North Korea a chance to rethink their position and become more reasonable in accepting change,'' the official said.
Mr. Roh made the same point in a statement to the South Korean people before his departure for San Francisco. ''The waves of reform now reshaping the world have started rushing toward northeast Asia as well,'' he said. ''I am confident that the cultivation of Republic of Korea-Soviet Union relations will contribute not only to the common prosperity of both countries but also to peace in Asia, especially on the Korean peninsula.''
Mr. Roh set out to establish ties with Warsaw Pact countries at the time of the 1988 Summer Olympic Games in Seoul, when South Korea came out onto the world stage as a nascent economic power. The North Korean Government called for a boycott of the Games, but only Cuba and Albania stayed away -a victory for the Seoul Government that eased the way for diplomatic relationships with a half-dozen Eastern European nations.
Seoul and Moscow have not had an official relationship since the division of Korea after World War II, but even these ideological and military adversaries began moving closer after the Games. Trade offices and consular relations were established, and cultural exchanges grew. Last year, bilateral trade reached $600 million, more than a 100 percent increase from 1988, South Korean officials said.
The prospect of formal relations between South Korea and the Soviet Union is also expected to put pressure on Japan to rush to Mr. Gorbachev's side as a trade partner.
''There is the thorny issue of the four northern territories,'' a senior South Korean official said, referring to the islands north of Japan that the Soviet Union has occupied since the end of World War II. ''But after seeing what Korea is doing, I am sure Japan will not want to miss the bus.''
The South Korean President arrived here on Sunday morning, about 12 hours before his Soviet counterpart, and was greeted at the airport by Mayor Art Agnos and George P. Shultz, the former Secretary of State, who is now a professor of international economics at Stanford University.
Mr. Shultz, who worked with Soviet officials during the Reagan years, was said to have been instrumental in both Mr. Gorbachev's visit to the Bay Area and his meeting with Mr. Roh. Mr. Roh met later on Sunday with Mr. Shultz and also with former President Ronald Reagan, here for a breakfast today with the Gorbachevs.
While South Korea and the Soviet Union have been steadily moving toward each other, the meeting between the two leaders was hastily planned, announced last Thursday as Mr. Gorbachev was beginning three days of talks with President Bush in Washington. By then, Mr. Gorbachev's itinerary here was already crowded, but Mr. Roh was shoehorned in.
 
City Officials Scramble
When San Francisco officials learned that Mr. Roh was coming, they scrambled to accommodate another high-level visitor and entourage. Quickly, a third national flag was hung outside the Fairmont Hotel here, where Mr. Roh would join the Soviet traveling party and Ronald and Nancy Reagan.
Dozens of South Korean journalists also flocked to San Francisco. By the time the South Korean Government had set up a press room for them at the hotel, separate from the room used by Soviet and American journalists, the telephone company had run out of equipment. Telephones were rented and connected to A.T.&T. lines.
Now that his meeting with Mr. Gorbachev has ended, Mr. Roh is scheduled to travel to Washington to brief President Bush.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mikhail S. Gorbachev meeting in San Francisco with President Roh Tae Woo of South Korea (Tass via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); NORTH KOREA

SUBJECT: TRAVEL, PERSONAL; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SOUTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); COLD WAR (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); WORLD WAR II (70%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; GROSS, JANE; ROH TAE WOO (PRES) ROH TAE WOO (92%); 



137 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: After the Summit;
Gorbachev Urges Major Changes In the World's System of Alliances

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 4

 BODY:
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union ended an exhausting transcontinental visit to the United States today with an appeal for a radically changed system of global alliances.
''Alliances have been built on a selective and in fact discriminatory basis,'' Mr. Gorbachev said in a speech at Stanford University, referring to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact, which arose from the cold war.
''They were based on setting countries against each other,'' he continued. ''They divided countries and peoples much more than they united them.'' [Excerpts from the speech are on page A16.] Non-Military Roles Stressed Rather than strengthening defense, he asserted, alliances of the future should be designed to foster an international unity that would ''protect the environment, combat hunger, diseases, drug addiction and ignorance.'' 
The Soviet leader seemed to be underlining once more his insistence that NATO be supplanted by a new pan-European security organization. Rejecting that idea, the West contends that a unified Germany should belong to a redesigned NATO. Neither side budged from its stand during three days of detailed talks between Mr. Gorbachev and President Bush last week.
''The cold war is now behind us,'' Mr. Gorbachev told 1,700 students, teachers and administrators in Stanford's Memorial Auditorium. ''Let us not wrangle over who won it.''
 
Running Behind Schedule
He appealed, in a state that is heavily dependent on military contracts, for the demilitarization of the Soviet and American economies.
Mr. Gorbachev and his wife, Raisa, departed for the Soviet Union late tonight. The Soviet leader's schedule had been running behind ever since he decided to sleep in this morning to recover from the grueling schedule that took him from Washington to Minneapolis and then to San Francisco on Sunday.
After the speech at Stanford, he sped back to San Francisco for a late lunch with West Coast business leaders, including computer makers and the manufacturer of Levi's, a status symbol among Soviet young people. Soviet officials said they hoped the meeting would produce investments to help their staggering economy.
A reunion for the Gorbachevs with former President Ronald Reagan and a precedent-shattering meeting with President Roh Tae Woo of South Korea were also accomplished before their departure.
''I always wanted to come here, and I never had the chance,'' Mr. Gorbachev said to reporters just before he flew out of San Francisco. ''You're fortunate to live here. If I were President Bush, I would levy a tax on you. Fantastic!''
Although he and Mr. Bush failed to resolve their differences over the place of a reunified Germany in a restructured Europe or to settle their dispute over Lithuania, Mr. Gorbachev took home with him a package of major agreements, including a trade deal that he had avidly sought, as well as what he termed a ''qualitatively different relationship'' with Mr. Bush.
In addition, the Soviet leader took with him enough cheers, hugs, medals, handshakes, honors and congratulations to last several lifetimes. Beleaguered at home, he was hailed here by President Donald Kennedy of Stanford as ''the architect of a great world transformation.''
Mr. Gorbachev responded with generous praise for Stanford, for the work of its scientists on disarmament and, indeed, for the whole state of California. He noted that the United Nations was founded in this city 45 years ago, said that ''the ideas and technologies of tomorrow are born here in California'' and quoted the 19th-century Russian writer Aleksandr I. Herzen as describing the Pacific Ocean as ''the Mediterranean of the future.''
The Soviet leader said his second summit conference with Mr. Bush had helped move the United States and the Soviet Union ''toward a new world,'' but he also sounded a note of caution about the relationship.
''I am under no illusions as to the possibility of a faster rapprochement or convergence of our two societies,'' he said. ''They are quite different. For many years, they were developing in different directions. They will probably never be fully alike. Indeed, there is no need for that.''
 
'Everyone Must Change'
''For a new type of progress throughout the world to become a reality, everyone must change,'' Mr. Gorbachev added. ''Tolerance is the alpha and omega of a new world order.''
In San Francisco, Mr. Gorbachev conceded that he had made mistakes in the early stages of Soviet economic reform, and he told the business leaders that there were ample opportunities for Soviet-American economic cooperation, including the use of heavy Soviet rockets to launch American satellites and joint efforts to search for oil and other materials. He said:
''You are wondering: Could investment in the Soviet Union be a trap? Could you lose money? I think risk is good both in business and politics, but adventurism is bad. The Soviet leadership seeks change in a careful way, a balanced way.''
 
Many Foul-Ups in Bay Area
The Gorbachev visit to the Bay Area, which was conceived only a few weeks ago, was marred by many technological and logistical foul-ups. Schedules and itineraries were changed repeatedly, without notice, and the Soviet leader ran late all day.
At the request of the Gorbachevs, Mr. and Mrs. Reagan arrived at the residence of the Soviet Consul General, Valentin Kamenev, a half-hour late. After an exhausting Sunday, which began with a White House news conference, ended here almost 17 hours later and included a tumultuous stop in Minnesota, the Soviet leader and his wife decided to sleep in, according to Joseph V. Reed, the American chief of protocol.
Mr. Reagan and Mr. Gorbachev spent about 45 minutes together in the consular residence, a red-brick building with roses climbing up its facade. Their wives, whose relationship seemed distinctly frosty when the Reagans were in the White House, seemed to get on better this time, standing on a balcony overlooking the earthquake-damaged Marina district and the Golden Gate Bridge for about five minutes, drinking in the magnificent view and holding hands.
 
'A Great Misunderstanding'
Afterward, Mrs. Reagan spoke of ''a great misunderstanding'' about her earlier relationship with Mrs. Gorbachev and said their meeting here had been ''just fine.''
''When we first met,'' Mrs. Reagan said, ''it was a very difficult time. We were plowing new ground.''
Asked whether he approved of the trade agreement that Mr. Bush signed with Mr. Gorbachev on Friday, which has engendered some Congressional criticism, the former President replied: ''I'm not going to discuss any of those things, but President Bush was a major part of what we were doing during those eight years. He wants the same solution we want to these problems.''
Mr. and Mrs. Gorbachev gave no appraisal of the occasion, climbing immediately into their black ZIL limousine for the drive to Stanford, about 40 miles south of San Francisco.
 
Shouts of 'Gorby! Gorby!'
As they had in Washington and in Minneapolis, crowds shouted ''Gorby! Gorby!'' as the Soviet leader strolled across the Stanford campus, pausing now and then to study its low-lying neo-Romanesque and Mission buildings with flat, red-tile roofs.
He stopped to speak with and to embrace several people, including a woman in a vividly striped dress and a man in a workman's flat cloth cap. They and thousands of others had waited for hours in the shade of eucalyptus trees, and he plunged several times into crowds to shake hands.
At the Stanford Business School, Mr. Gorbachev met with a group of students and faculty members to discuss management techniques. On his left sat former Secretary of State George P. Shultz, a professor at the school who played a major role in persuading Mr. Gorbachev to visit Stanford and also helped set up the Soviet leader's meeting with Mr. Roh of South Korea.
After his speech, Mr. Shultz gave Mr. Gorbachev a 1921 Soviet poster, from the collection of revolutionary documents and memorabilia at the Hoover Institution at Stanford. For reasons that have not been fully explained, the Soviet leader canceled plans to visit the institution.
Small groups of anti-Gorbachev demonstrators - Armenian-Americans, supporters of the Baltic republics, Korean-Americans in traditional dress and others - turned up at every stop, but the police kept them at a considerable distance from the official party.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and former President Ronald Reagan examining a proclamation from the Soviet people thanking Mr. Reagan and the American people for help after the 1988 Armenian earthquake. (Associated Press) (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (90%); LITHUANIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: TRAVEL, PERSONAL; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION COLD WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); TRENDS (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (53%); COMPUTER MAKERS (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 



138 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Congress Looks Anew at Ties With Vietnam

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
Pushed by Vietnam War veterans, Congress is reopening a debate on normalizing economic and diplomatic relations with Hanoi.
The opening salvo is a piece of legislation introduced by Representative Howard L. Berman, Democrat of California, that would remove legal restrictions on travel to Vietnam and four other nations - Cambodia, Cuba, Libya and North Korea.
Veterans groups around the country have testified in favor of the legislation and have begun to urge their members to write supporting letters to their representatives in Congress. The legislation is expected to be considered by the House Foreign Affairs Committee before the July 4 recess. 
''This is the first step towards Congress's getting over its trauma over Vietnam,'' said Representative Sam Gejdenson, Democrat of Connecticut, chairman of the House Subcommittee on International Economic Policy and Trade. ''There is no reason we can't review our relationship. Veterans groups are leading the charge.''
Mr. Gejdenson's subcommittee, which is handling the travel legislation, is at the forefront of Congressional efforts to normalize relations. In a small gesture toward that end, the subcommittee recently removed language in PL-480 Food for Peace legislation that prohibited the sale of American food and other commodities to Vietnam.
Since losing the Vietnam War 15 years ago, the United States has not pursued normal diplomatic relations with Hanoi. The Bush Administration has said it is not opposed to normalizing ties once a complete removal of Vietnamese military forces from Cambodia can be verified.
The Vietnamese invaded Cambodia, then ruled by the Khmer Rouge, in 1978 and installed the Hun Sen Government. Vietnam announced the withdrawal of its troops last September, but persistent reports have indicated that elite Vietnamese combat units still back the Hun Sen Government in its war against a guerrilla insurgency consisting mainly of the Khmer Rouge.
A State Department official who deals with East Asian affairs said that now would be a bad time to send friendly signals to Hanoi, given the stepped-up diplomatic activity to resolve the Cambodian conflict.
''We need leverage'' to make sure Vietnamese forces leave Cambodia, he said. ''It would be unwise to act unilaterally to satisfy Vietnamese demands.'' The United States would like to see a coalition, backed by an international peacekeeping force, replace the Hun Sen Government.
Currently, under the Trading With the Enemy Act, it is illegal for commercial or non-profit tour groups to organize or advertise trips to Vietnam. Individuals may travel legally to Vietnam on their own. But without the help of people experienced in dealing with the Vietnamese, they often have trouble arranging visas and hotels.
Allied with the Bush Administration opposing the Berman bill, which is called the Free Trade in Ideas Act, are Cuban exile groups opposed to liberalizing travel to Cuba.
A growing number of legislators disagree with the Administration position. Senator Mark O. Hatfield, Republican of Oregon, said that liberalizing travel and trade with Vietnam made sense ''from every angle'' because it would not only help moderate Hanoi's foreign and domestic policies but would also enable relatives of Americans missing in action to visit Vietnam to press their search for information.
Mr. Hatfield said the Berman bill ''could be a triggering action toward normalizing relationships because it does have the support of those who in previous times were against normalization, like the veterans groups.''
Don Mills, from Akron, Ohio, told the committee: ''Twenty years ago, if I didn't go to Vietnam I was threatened with jail, and now if I want to go to Vietnam I am threatened with jail.''
Mr. Mills has helped organize tours of Vietnam for more than 200 veterans. The Treasury Department has warned him that he may be prosecuted unless he halts his activity. A letter sent to Mr. Mills from the Treasury Department said he could face up to 10 years' imprisonment and a fine of up to $50,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CAMBODIA (95%); CUBA (94%); VIET NAM (94%); VIETNAM (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM; UNITED STATES; CAMBODIA; CUBA; LIBYA; NORTH KOREA

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; VETERANS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM VETERANS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); VIETNAM WAR (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); ARMED FORCES (64%); 

PERSON: BERMAN, HOWARD L (REPR); KRAUSS, CLIFFORD HOWARD L BERMAN (89%); 



139 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Debt-Burdened Zambians Find Life Costly

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KASAMA, Zambia

 BODY:
Judith Chileshe was looking forward to outfitting her children for school on a rare shopping pilgrimage to this provincial capital more than 100 miles from her village. But when she arrived with her $20-a-month salary from a part-time teaching job, she was confronted by New York City prices.
Notebooks of inferior quality cost $1 and folding umbrellas - the kind found for $2 on Times Square - are $5. Blankets, which boarding students must provide for sleeping on the floor, are $32; towels are $15. 
Mrs. Chileshe, who is 35 years old, shook her head in disbelief. Her teen-age daughter would have to make do with her threadbare blanket. After persevering on the towel shelf in the Government store, she found a skimpy one for $7.
Mrs. Chileshe's cheerless shopping expedition is a reflection of Zambia's state-run economy, one of Africa's most mismanaged. Once buttressed by copper and considered one of post-colonial Africa's most promising economies, Zambia has been going downhill fast for the last decade.
As copper prices fell and production dropped, President Kenneth D. Kaunda piled up enormous international debts and heavily subsidized food for urban dwellers at the expense of farmers who grew it.
Now, as the Government has been forced to remove subsidies on food, Zambians find urban life impossibly expensive. Many are retreating to their home villages to grow crops; once there, they find that the most basic standard of living has also regressed.
A bus to Kasama once ran regularly from Mrs. Chileshe's village, Chakombe. But the Government cut the service, and now, unless villagers are lucky enough to get a ride with the local missionaries, they must walk for four days. Even for the 20-mile journey to Chinsali, a fleck on the map with several stores and an unsanitary hospital - but at least a doctor - the bus was abandoned. Chakombe village, never wired for electricity, is now virtually isolated in the northeastern corner of Zambia, in Mr. Kaunda's home district.
Zambians are beginning to grumble ever more loudly about the price they are having to pay for Mr. Kaunda's economic policies in the 26 years he has been President.
Last year, Mr. Kaunda finally agreed to impose austerity measures approved by the International Monetary Fund. Among them, devaluations of the kwacha in the last nine months have made everyday items prohibitive for most. Last year, the inflation rate topped 100 percent.
Some $1.2 billion in arrears to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and with only eight million people, Zambia has one of the highest debt per population ratios in the world. Because of the arrears, the country is not eligible for badly needed capital from either institution.
Economic mismanagement affects even the smallest things. Mrs. Chileshe's teen-age daughter Peggy did not take exams last semester: there was no paper in the school for the exams to be written on. The absence of exam results was understood but not helpful when Peggy wanted to prove herself to the local missionaries as a worthwhile candidate for further study.
Spending on education dropped in Zambia from 19 percent of the budget in 1972 to 8 percent in 1987, even though the number of students has doubled. Statistics like those are prompting many Zambians to remark that life has deteriorated since independence in 1964.
It is hard for the villagers of Chakombe to see how foreign aid from well-meaning Western sources has made much difference. At the main provincial hospital in Kasama, there has been no water for three years. Patients usually sleep two to a bed, with others on the floor. They must arrange with relatives or friends to have water brought to them.
Despite the difficulties in Chakombe, the village headman, Henry Chakobe, is both resigned and philosophical. ''It is cheaper than in towns,'' he said, referring to life in his village. ''I have enough land to grow the things I want. I've got things to help us: firewood for cooking and grass for thatching our houses. And we live in peace.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ZAMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ZAMBIA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES; CREDIT CHILDREN (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); COPPER MARKETS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); INFLATION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); COPPER INDUSTRY (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); TRENDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); APPROVALS (60%); DEVALUATION (60%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE JUDITH CHILESHE (90%); KENNETH D KAUNDA (79%); 



140 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: After the Summit;
Gorbachev at Stanford: Excerpts From Address

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's address at Stanford University yesterday, as recorded by The New York Times through the facilities of Cable News Network. Mr. Gorbachev spoke through an interpreter.
 
Imagining Destiny
It is appropriate now to ponder the destinies of the world since it was here in San Francisco that the United Nations was founded 45 years ago. I think it is very symbolic that it is this sunny city that was selected as the place to proclaim the foundation, the establishment of this organization, whose efficiency we need very much.
Let us look at the conclusions drawn at that time right after a horrible war. The United Nations was set up to, I quote, ''maintain peace and security and remove the political, economic and social causes of war; to settle disputes in conformity with the principles of justice and international law; to promote relations among nations based on the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples; a respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion.'' Marvelous words, a marvelous appeal, but, alas, it is only now that we have come closer to addressing the tasks in practical terms. 
It is only now that international politics is really starting to adjust itself to these ideas and principles. And all of us have felt how much we need the United Nations if we really are to move toward a new world, and new kind of relationships in the world in the interest of all countries. . . .
 
New Winds in Asia
For a long time, the Pacific was a theater of confrontations and the arms race. Located on its opposite shores, our two nations found themselves on the opposite sides of the barricades of Asian revolutions. But new winds are now blowing in Asia. It has been developing dynamically according to its own logic, setting impressive examples of economic efficiency and international interaction.
The Japanese, the Koreans, the Chinese and other Asian peoples have lessons for the entire world to learn, including lessons for us. And for you. And to avoid finding ourselves on the sidelines in the Pacific as well as, of course, in Europe, we ought to think about the speediest way to abolish political-military rivalry.
Let us think about the future. Our two countries have more than enough reasons to be partners in building it, in shaping new security structures in Europe and in the Asian Pacific region. And also in the making of a truly global economy, indeed, and the creation of a new civilization. . . .
 
War Without Winners
It is important to see the thrust of what is happening as we move toward a world without wars; a world of equality and freedom. In our cooperation to build a better future, I will take, as a point of departure, the fact that the cold war is now behind us.
And let us not wrangle over who won it - who won the cold war.
There can be no winners in the cold war, just like in a nuclear war. This truth has already been established. Both our countries know that. So any kind of talk about the cold war being useful to some countries, I think, is just political cheating and irresponsibility. Our two countries, who know the burden of the arms race during the cold war, know that particularly well. The cold war was nurturing our political thinking, our political approaches, our political analysis and the whole of the political choice. . . .
 
A Novel Alliance
Each of our two countries bears its share of responsibility for the fact that the postwar period in the history of mankind took on the character of an exhausting and dangerous confrontation. It is now, and it is quite logical to say that, that it is now our common responsibility to make sure that the mechanisms of East-West military confrontation are dismantled as soon as possible. . . .
We are witnessing a revolution of international relations toward increasingly open and mass-scale communication. And this greatly increases the role of creative and positive policies. But equally, it raises the price of mistakes - the price we must pay for adherence to outdated dogmas, routine and old thinking. . . .
I'm convinced that we stand on the threshold of revising the concept of alliance building. Until now, alliances have been built on a selective, and in fact discriminatory, basis.
 
The Common Interest
They were based on setting countries against each other. They divided countries and peoples much more than they united them. This system was perfected during the years of the cold war, producing the twin antipodes of the North Atlantic Alliance and the Warsaw Pact. But we are approaching a time when the very principle of alliance-building should become different. It should mean unity to create conditions for a life worthy of a human being, protect the environment, combat hunger, diseases, drug addiction and ignorance.
It is in the common interest of our two countries and nations not to fight this trend toward new cooperation, but rather to promote it, and I think that both the United States and the Soviet Union, if they understand the need for this, and if they really work together, can contribute in a decisive way to moving our entire, placing our entire civilization on the road of genuinely peaceful development. . . .

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: ASIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TRAVEL, PERSONAL; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR POLITICS (78%); COLD WAR (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); ARMS RACE (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (60%); 



141 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: After the Summit: Reporter's Notebook;
A Communist at Home With the Capitalist Elite

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STANFORD, Calif., June 4

 BODY:
When Nikita S. Khrushchev visited California in 1959, he made a point of declaring his sympathies in the class struggle by including leaders of the longshoremen's and auto workers unions in his wide-ranging itinerary.
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, who prizes investment over solidarity, left little doubt here that he feels more comfortable on the other side of the barricades. His stop in the San Francisco Bay area was a day of rampant, unabashed, big-money, high-tech, brand-name California capitalism.
At Stanford University, the Soviet leader shunned an exhibit on Soviet history in favor of a chat with students and faculty at the business school. The subjects ranged from economics to earthquake-proof engineering and included a brief presentation by the arch-ideologist of capitalism, the economist Milton Friedman. 
Then it was back to San Francisco for lunch with the corporate elite of the Bay area, a guest list made up largely of the kind of capitalists who used to be caricatured in Pravda wearing top hats and squatting on the backs of the downtrodden.
Before leaving for home, Mr. Gorbachev met with the South Korean President, Roh Tae Woo.
Appropriately for a leader now bent on Western sponsorship, Mr. Gorbachev's visit here was underwritten in large part by corporations mindful of the Soviet leader's marketable aura. City officials said the press center, the luncheon, transportation, and everything else except for police time, were paid for by an array of newspaper executives, oil men, bankers and industrialists ranging from A.T.&T. down to the Wallaroo Juice Company.
Khrushchev, by contrast, ended his meeting with a labor delegation headed by Walter Reuther of the United Auto Workers by calling his host ''a capitalist lackey.''
 
Red-Hot Tickets
The most marketable commodity in the Bay area this week was, of course, Mr. Gorbachev.
Stanford University used a lottery to distribute 7,100 tickets to various events among the school's students and faculty, including 1,700 seats for the Soviet leader's speech in Memorial Auditorium.
This morning, scalpers outside the university's security perimeter were asking prices from $250 for an upper-balcony seat to more than twice that for a place front and center.
''It's a great opportunity to see one of the great leaders of the world, a charismatic guy, who is changing the face of at least two countries,'' said Matt McLeod, a senior from Los Angeles who is studying product design, offering a 10th row center seat for sale. ''So from my point of view I couldn't possibly go below $350.''
Local entrepreneurs were quick to exploit the hysteria that was described in a column by Rob Morse, a columnist for The San Francisco Examiner, as ''a Gorbasm.'' In San Francisco, Tsangares Silk Screen Company exploited Gorbymania with the inevitable T-shirt design contest. The winner depicted Mr. Gorbachev as the cartoon brat Bart Simpson aiming a slingshot. Underneath was the slogan, ''I killed Laura Palmer,'' and down the side the exclamation ''Yo, Dude.''
 
A Snub at Stanford?
The mystery this week at Stanford was why Mr. Gorbachev had backed out at the last minute from a planned tour of one of the Western world's greatest archives of Soviet history, at the Hoover Institution on campus.
The institution, known both for its wealth of expertise on Soviet affairs and for its strong anti-Communist orientation, had laid on a special exhibit of Soviet historical treasures, including a handwritten letter from Lenin, the abdication letter of Czar Nicholas II, turn-of-the-century photos from czarist secret police files and a copy of the first issue of Pravda. A visit to the exhibit, called ''A Century of Revolutions: Lenin to Gorbachev,'' was on Mr. Gorbachev's tentative agenda, but was abruptly scratched without explanation.
One theory was that Mr. Gorbachev was put off when he learned of the center's historic hostility to Communism and the abiding pessimism of some of its scholars about Mr. Gorbachev's prospects for reforming his country. Perhaps, some campus analysts said, Mr. Gorbachev's schedulers reviewed the book list of Hoover Institution writers - titles include ''The Coming Soviet Crash'' and ''The Arms Control Delusion'' - and wondered if this was an appropriate stop for a man touting the end of the cold war.
A related and more prevalent theory was that Hoover scholars had inadvertently scotched the visit by boasting in American newspaper interviews that Mr. Gorbachev was coming to them for lessons in democracy and capitalism.
''The tenor of the comments was that by coming here Gorbachev would be admitting that he was wrong and our guys were right,'' said John B. Dunlop, a Hoover Fellow and specialist on Russian culture.
''Of course, there is no hard evidence that the snub was intended at all,'' Mr. Dunlop added.
 
'I Saw Her Hand!'
Raisa M. Gorbachev stood up the press and public all over town today. Scheduled stops at city showplaces like the War Memorial Opera House and Davies Symphony Hall were jettisoned without explanation. Instead of taking in the view of the city from the oak-paneled Carnelian Room on the 52d floor of the Bank of America, Mrs. Gorbachev visited the tiny New Terrace Market on Twin Peaks, where she checked out the frozen dinners and questioned a young clerk about her customers' shopping habits.
Later, a crowd of 500 people mobbed an intersection in the Fisherman's Wharf area as she drove by, only to be disappointed when her car slowed but did not stop. ''I saw her hand! I saw her hand!'' fans shrieked.
But two hours earlier, a mysterious fake Mr. and Mrs. Gorbachev toured the city in a black limousine, allowing tourists a photo opportunity with a realistic substitute.
 
Glory to Spare
When Khrushchev was here, he was so smitten by San Francisco that he sometimes leaned precariously out the window of his speeding limousine, prompting the Mayor of that time to worry that the Soviet leader would topple from the car - and that the public would think the Mayor had pushed him. With Mr. Gorbachev, it was the city that adored the leader, and the local politicians chased along eagerly to bask in the glory.
The state's two United States Senators, Alan Cranston, a Democrat, and Pete Wilson, a Republican, trailed Mr. Gorbachev enviously this morning through the throngs of screaming young voters at Stanford, one of whom waved a sign proclaiming ''Gorby for President.'' Presumably he meant President of the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Reagans and the Gorbachevs leaving the Soviet Consul General's residence in San Francisco yesterday after meeting. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER (50%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); HOOVER INSTITUTION ON WAR REVOLUTION & PEACE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY; HOOVER INSTITUTION HOOVER INSTITUTION OF WAR REVOLUTION AND PEACE; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF)

SUBJECT: TRAVEL, PERSONAL; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); ENGINEERING (74%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (70%); WRITERS (69%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (64%); CITIES (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%); 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S (MRS); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; REAGAN, NANCY RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



142 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: After the Summit;
U.S. Will Press the Soviets To Accept Plan on Germany

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
Bush Administration officials say they have given the Soviet leadership a nine-point plan designed to induce Moscow to accept the presence of a united Germany in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
The program, which brings together many different elements related to the future of NATO and German-Soviet relations, was largely designed by Washington and Bonn and first presented to the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, in Moscow in mid-May and then reiterated for President Mikhail S. Gorbachev last week, the officials said.
While virtually all elements of the plan have been discussed in public, the Administration wanted to package them in one document to be presented to the Soviets as part of the American strategy for convincing Moscow that the West is seriously trying to address Soviet concerns on German membership in NATO.
 
West Will Push On, Anyway
Despite Mr. Gorbachev's suggestion that the Soviet Union may delay withdrawing its troops from Eastern Europe if a united Germany joins NATO, Bush Administration officials say they intend to press ahead with their plans to integrate Germany into the Western alliance. 
Indeed, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d left today for a gathering of European foreign ministers in Copenhagen, the first of a series of high-level meetings that Administration officials see as critical for putting their German strategy into effect.
The carrot in that strategy, officials say, is to keep offering Moscow this package of nine military and political points designed to make a united Germany's membership in NATO so nonthreatening in military terms and so economically beneficial to the Soviet Union that it will eventually acquiesce.
''We have presented to the Soviets nine points that summarize how we propose to deal with their legitimate interests,'' a senior Administration official said. ''The message of these nine points is that we really want to deal with your concerns on Germany sensitively.''
 
Onus of the Spoiler
The stick, officials say, is to use the gathering momentum of German unification and the broad European support for German membership in NATO, to make prohibitive the diplomatic costs for Moscow of seeking to block German unification. These would involve alienating the German nation whose economic support will be badly needed in the coming years and generally playing the role of ''spoiler.''
''We basically said that if you want to engage on these nine points, fine,'' the senior official said. ''Otherwise, you are going to be isolating yourself and antagonizing the Germans. But if you're serious about having your concerns addressed, then we are ready to go a long way.''
These are the nine points:
* A united Germany will reaffirm its commitment not to develop nuclear, chemical or biological weapons.
* After conclusion of a conventional arms reduction treaty now being negotiated in Vienna, the NATO allies will be prepared to immediately conclude a follow-up manpower accord that would limit the size of a united Germany's armed forces.
* NATO is prepared to advance the date of negotiations to limit short-range nuclear weapons in Europe.
* NATO will radically revamp its military strategy and structure of forces to make them far less threatening to Moscow.
* Germany will renounce claims not only to Polish territory, but also to former German territory now in the Soviet Union, such as East Prussia.
* No NATO forces will be stationed in what is now East Germany.
* Soviet troops will be allowed to remain in East Germany for a transition period, with expenses paid by the German Government.
* The 35-nation Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe will be institutionalized and expanded, as Moscow has insisted, to make it a pan-European organization in which the Soviets can play a leading role as the Warsaw Pact disintegrates and NATO remains intact.
* Germany will offer Moscow a variety of trade, lending and commercial arrangements to help the Soviet Union in its transition to a market economy.
 
Described as Appreciative
''The nine points are concrete things, and Gorbachev clearly appreciated them,'' a State Department official who took part in the summit meeting said. But ''I think what we learned from him at the summit is that he may also need some intangible things.
''Gorbachev's remarks on Germany were never very clear, but what he seemed to be saying was that the very political nature of NATO causes him problems,'' the official said.
''The nine points are telling him that NATO will eventually change, but that's a pig in a poke for him. He wants to see something now, have something to point to, to prove that NATO is no longer the cold war menace but just a grouping of Western states which want constructive relations with the East. He also want to see more specifics on some of the nine points.''
In Copenhagen on Wednesday, Mr. Baker is to give an address to the European security conference foreign ministers, laying out some American ideas on the roles that this all-European organization might play. From there, Mr. Baker will continue to Turnberry, Scotland, for a meeting of NATO foreign ministers that will lay the basis for a NATO summit meeting early next month focusing on ways to make NATO, as it absorbs a united Germany, a less dangerous alliance to Moscow.
 
Baker to See Shevardnadze
While in Copenhagen, Mr. Baker will meet with Mr. Shevardnadze and try to develop with him some of the ideas floated at the summit for quickly transforming NATO's political image in Soviet eyes. These include more frequent visits by Soviet diplomats and generals to NATO, possibly giving NATO forces a non-American commander, and possibly even drafting an agreement between NATO and the Warsaw Pact for new principles of relations.
On July 1, the two Germanys will put into effect complete monetary, economic and social union, meaning that they will have one currency, one set of labor laws and, effectively, one economy. By autumn, all East and West German political parties will be merged and by sometime between December and next April, all-German elections will be held.
By then, the only thing holding up German unification will be the completion of the so-called ''two-plus-four'' negotiations, in which the two Germanys and the four World War II Allies - the United States, the Soviet Union, Britain and France - are supposed to dissolve their rights and responsibilities over Germany, making final Germany's borders and concluding a treaty that would be approved at a summit meeting of the European security conference.
To be sure, Administration officials say, Mr. Gorbachev can simply refuse to withdraw Soviet troops from East Germany and hold up the whole matter, but for how long and at what price?
''What are they going to do the day the representative of a united Germany walks into NATO headquarters in Brussels and presents his credentials and it is done?'' an American official asked. ''What happens when the three Western powers say they are going to terminate their rights and responsibilities in Germany and the Soviets say no? What do you think that is going to do for Soviet-German relations?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE; WEST GERMANY; EAST GERMANY

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (67%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 



143 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: After the Summit;
Japanese Feel Ready for a Visit From Gorbachev

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 4

 BODY:
After years of frigid relations with the Soviet Union, Japan today greeted President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's affirmation that he would soon visit Tokyo with relief and with a glimmer of hope that superpower summit meetings would no longer be something that this country's leadership watches on television.
Though a Japanese-Soviet summit meeting has been in the works for months, Mr. Gorbachev's comment in Washington on Sunday that he would travel to Japan next year to ''open that area for discussion'' was his first public reference to the trip. The statement was welcome here, in a country that in recent months has felt slighted by the focusing of superpower attention on Europe.
But there was a clear if unspoken message to the Japanese public, a senior Japanese computer executive said today. ''The rest of world is rushing to Moscow,'' he said. ''And we are going no place.'' 
For Japan, the images of the last few days - from Mr. Gorbachev's signing of trade accords with the United States to South Korea's President, Roh Tae Woo, arriving in San Francisco for his country's first leader-to-leader talks with a Soviet chief - have been acutely uncomfortable.
 
Territorial Dispute
A succession of failed efforts to resolve a territorial dispute dating back to the last days of World War II keep Tokyo's diplomatic relations with the Soviets in an uneasy freeze, shaking Japan's faith that the lure of loans and the whir of Walkmans would soon bring Soviet concessions. Recently, even Japan's modest business relationship with the Soviet Union - what really counts to many here - has shown signs of souring over delays in Soviet payments for goods.
Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu told the Parliament today that he looked forward to a ''major opportunity'' to mend differences between two of the world's three largest economies. Misoji Sakamoto, the chief Cabinet secretary, said it would be a moment to ''radically improve'' relations.
Privately, though, no one is quite so sure that Mr. Gorbachev's appearance next year will end the 40-year chill. Among government officials, there is widespread speculation that Mr. Gorbachev, with a finely tuned sense of the political power of Japan's business leaders, plans to use the broadening of trade ties with the United States and South Korea - two of this country's biggest economic rivals - to gain leverage in negotiations with Japan.
''I don't think it is a strategy with much substance,'' a senior Japanese diplomat said today. ''But it is possible that over time it could have a significant psychological effect here.''
 
A Sluggish Time
What Mr. Gorbachev may have working on his side is the guiding rule of Japanese foreign policy for the last 40 years: the Government usually avoids taking positions that are conspicuously out of step with those of the United States. But as once fiercely anti-Soviet countries like South Korea begin to warm to the Soviets, and companies like I.B.M. sign agreements to put computers in the Soviet schools, such a divergence is exactly what is developing.
''In Japanese-Soviet relations, we have seen comparatively little movement in the last half-year,'' said Kazuhiko Togo, the head of the Soviet division of the Japanese Foreign Ministry. In contrast, he said, ''There has been steady growth and development in the momentum of building a relationship'' between the Soviet Union and South Korea.
The biggest obstacle to a similar thaw with Japan, which has far more sophisticated technology and far bigger financial resources to offer the Soviets, is the perpetual debate over four sparsely populated and often-frozen islands north of Hokkaido, which the Soviet Union calls the Kurile Islands and the Japanese call the Northern Territories.
Japanese officials consider the islands part of Japan's natural territory, and say that the islands must be returned if the Soviet Union wants Honda plants and video-cassette-player factories - to say nothing of a peace treaty formally ending World War II. President Bush urged Mr. Gorbachev to address the issue when the men discussed regional problems over the weekend, saying that resolving the problem of the islands was important to developing solid East-West ties.
 
'No Land to Spare'
At times in the last 30 years the Soviets have shown interest in discussing the topic, but not recently. With Lithuania and other territories annexed during the war seeking independence, a Japanese diplomat said dryly a few weeks ago, ''This may not be the best time for Mr. Gorbachev to be seen returning land.'' When Mr. Gorbachev told workers in the Urals not long ago that the Soviet Union has ''no land to spare,'' the comment received huge headlines here.
Like protecting the rice market, insistence on the return of the islands has long been an article of faith in Japan. But in recent months that faith has been tested by a latent movement questioning whether a group of islands with little practical value to modern Japan is worth jeopardizing the country's chance to invest in perestroika.
The issue got a rare airing in late April, when a powerful former Deputy Prime Minister, Shin Kanemaru, broke ranks and said Japan should be more flexible about the issue, perhaps considering the return of only two of the four islands, Habomai and Shikotan, as a starting point. The Soviet Union floated a similar offer in 1956, but it was rejected by Japan and later repudiated by the Soviet Government. The other two islands are called Kunashiri and Etorofu.
Mr. Kanemaru's comment started a small sensation here, and he was so heavily criticized by the press and the Foreign Ministry that he was quickly forced to ''correct'' his statement. Gold in the Future? The Japanese are betting that as his economy collapses, Mr. Gorbachev will conclude that he needs Japanese investment and technology more than he needs the islands. To achieve that goal, Japan has been gradually trying to increase its exports, much as South Korea has done.
But in recent months, even the slow growth has appeared threatened. The Japanese Association for Trade with the Soviet Union and the Socialist Countries of Europe estimates that the Soviets, once known for paying cash on delivery, are suddenly $200 million in arrears to Japanese firms. Increasingly worried, Japanese businesses cut their exports by 26 percent in April.
''We think it is a short-term problem,'' Itaru Otawa, a senior economist at the association, said today. ''Over the long term we think the Soviets will come in with loans from Western countries and bigger sales of gold.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and his wife, Raisa, being welcomed by Gov. George Deukmejian of California as they arrived Sunday night in San Francisco. At rear was a security agent. (Associated Press); map of Japan (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; TRAVEL, PERSONAL; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICS (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S (MRS); SANGER, DAVID E ANN LIVERMORE (74%); 



144 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
Split at Top On Tactics For Talks On Budget

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
Richard G. Darman and John H. Sununu, the twin towers of the Bush Administration's domestic and economic policy, are at odds. Not over substance or personalities, but over tactics.
Budget talks with Congress are to resume Wednesday, and Mr. Darman, the budget director, and Mr. Sununu, President Bush's chief of staff, disagree over the chances of striking a favorable deficit-reduction deal with the lawmakers.
Mr. Darman is confident it can be pulled off. Patience is crucial, he has said in top councils, and he expects the Administration to win big concessions on spending cuts and tightening the budget-making process without unacceptable tax increases. 
If that happens, he maintains, the Federal Reserve would lower interest rates, the economy would strengthen and President Bush's re-election in 1992 would be assured.
Mr. Sununu, on the other hand, is skeptical about the motives of Congress and afraid the White House cannot produce support among Republican back-benchers for an agreement that includes any new taxes. He has repeatedly told his colleagues that the Administration must be prepared to walk out of the talks abruptly if they start going badly.
An official who has met often with both men put it this way: ''Darman believes Congress can be manipulated. Sununu is not sure. Deep down, he doesn't trust Congress.''
Although they hardly knew each other when they took office 16 months ago, the budget director and the chief of staff have become fast friends.
In many respects, they are cut from the same bolt. Mr. Darman is said to have had perfect scores on his S.A.T.'s. Mr. Sununu is said to have an I.Q. of 180. They tend to be impatient with lesser minds.
They have joined forces against Government regulations, trade restrictions, industrial policy and environmental measures that they maintain would retard economic growth.
But their backgrounds are different. And this seems to be the source of their views on Congress.
Mr. Darman, who has worked in Washington most of his career, is an old hand at cutting complicated deals with the legislators. In the Reagan Administration, he was instrumental in negotiating the 1983 Social Security legislation and the Tax Reform Act of 1986, two of the most politically sensitive measures of the 1980's.
In private, colleagues say, Mr. Darman sometimes expresses exasperation over the legislative process, even contempt for it. But he has mastered it like few others off Capitol Hill. A secret of his success has been his ability to strike alliances with key Democrats. He did it with Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey at a crucial point in the tax reform talks. In recent weeks he has been cultivating Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, and Representative Leon E. Panetta of California, chairman of the Budget Committee.
Mr. Sununu cut his teeth in New Hampshire, where politics is dominated by a phobia against taxes and where the Legislature, the largest in the country, is more often the butt of jokes than the subject of respect. As Governor, he stood against all new taxes for three terms, and he found he was more successful bullying the Legislature than working with it.
He has made few Democratic friends here. The strategy he developed for Mr. Bush in the New Hampshire primary two years ago - having Mr. Bush forswear new taxes while calling Bob Dole of Kansas ''Senator Straddle'' - may have won Mr. Bush the Presidential nomination. But it left deep scars in Mr. Sununu's relationship with Senator Dole, the Republican leader.
If Mr. Darman and Mr. Sununu disagree over tactics at a crucial stage in the negotiations, the President will probably turn to his close friend, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, who has stayed in the background in the budget talks so far.
''We're happy with our second-tier visibility,'' said a Brady aide. ''He thinks he's more effective that way as an adviser to the boss. He likes not to be Darmanesque or Sununu-like.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SA T CEREALES ASTIGI (66%); SA T LOS GONZALEZ (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAX REFORM (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (71%); INTEREST RATES (54%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; DARMAN, RICHARD G (DIR); SUNUNU, JOHN H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN SUNUNU (79%); LEON E PANETTA (57%); 



145 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: No Church, No Ministry, No Pulpit, He Is Called Religious Right's Star

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: POMONA, Calif.

 BODY:
James Dobson is a radio psychologist, not a television evangelist. He heads no church. His professional training is in the field of child development.
But millions of Americans now look to him for spiritual and, sometimes, political guidance. He has emerged as one of the country's most influential religious figures, a man the Rev. Jerry Falwell has called ''the rising star'' and future leader of the religious right.
How the 55-year-old Mr. Dobson came to acquire such status is the story not of his calling sinners to repentance but of his counseling parents on toilet-training and spouses on mid-life crises. 
Like an old-fashioned machine politician who earned immigrants' votes by responding to their economic needs, Mr. Dobson gets his followers' religious, political and cultural loyalty by responding to their anxieties and offering advice. For him, the machine is the radio - his programs are heard on 1,450 stations in the United States and overseas - and a staff of 700 people who answer the phones and deluge of mail seeking advice.
 
Machine Works for Him
So well has this machine served Mr. Dobson, a former professor of pediatrics at the University of Southern California School of Medicine, that only the Rev. Billy Graham was ranked higher among influential conservative church leaders in a survey last year of Protestant denominational clerics.
With such momentum behind him, there is repeated speculation that Mr. Dobson might run for office one day. But he denies all political ambitions. ''I have no qualification for political life,'' he said in an interview. ''I will never be a candidate for any public office. I do not want a political appointment. I am not seeking political power.''
He says he does care passionately about the future of the family, a passion that has led him to promote what he calls traditional family values. These include the permanence of marriage and opposition to anything that might condone or encourage sexual activity outside marriage, from soap opera love affairs to public acceptance of homosexuality.
 
Interview With Bundy
In January 1989 he made national news with a videotaped interview in which the murderer Theodore Bundy, hours before going to the electric chair, said ''hard-core pornography'' had started him on the road to violent crime.
Mr. Dobson is a determined opponent of abortion and was a featured speaker at the anti-abortion rally in Washington on April 28.
But his following does not stem from these widely publicized events. Instead, it centers on the efforts of Focus on the Family, the organization he heads here in Pomona that has an annual budget of nearly $60 million.
''I love radio,'' the tall, sandy-haired psychologist said as he showed off the organization's offices, where antique radios as well as paintings of family scenes decorate the halls.
''Radio is very intimate, more intimate than television,'' he said. ''Television is performance. Radio is a conversation. People write you like a brother, uncle or friend.''
 
Thousands Seek Advice
In fact, listeners send him 200,000 letters a month, and make more than 1,200 telephone calls daily to his organization's toll-free phone number. Many are looking for further advice on the down-to-earth topics discussed in the broadcasts. Among these topics are eating disorders, learning disabilities, midlife crisis, spouse beating, child abuse, workaholism, family finances and sex education.
In response to these requests, Focus on the Family ships out 52 million pieces of literature and more than a million cassettes a year. The organization's two main-frame computers contain information on two million correspondents.
Mr. Dobson has also fashioned a sophisticated apparatus to provide emergency help or special computerized responses to writers who demand more individual attention: an average of 10,000 often heart-wrenching letters a month.
''Through this department we are watching the unraveling of a social order,'' Mr. Dobson said. ''Five years ago people wrote us about thumb-sucking and bed-wetting. Now they're writing about wife beating, child abuse, manic depression, suicide and satanic cults.''
 
Beginnings in 60's
Mr. Dobson has been worrying about the unraveling of the social order since the 1960's, when he said he was appalled by what he viewed as the impact of sexual and cultural permissiveness on people he was treating in family counseling.
In 1970, he wrote a manual on child rearing, ''Dare to Discipline,'' and earned a reputation as a kind of evangelical antithesis to Dr. Benjamin Spock.
Mr. Dobson's father was a minister in the Church of the Nazarene, a denomination that has retained the revivalist fervor of its Pentecostal origins while dropping the practice of speaking in tongues. ''I grew up in the church and I never left it,'' Mr. Dobson said. ''When I talk about traditional values, I'm talking about those that go back to Jesus Christ.''
Mr. Dobson can sound like a pillar of conservatism when he defends traditional roles for men and women, or he can sound like a radical social critic when he criticizes society for making children see themselves as winners or losers on the basis of beauty or brains.
 
Repackaging Scripture
What may ultimately bind Mr. Dobson to his audience, however, is not this personal brand of psychology but a conviction he shares with his audiences that he is simply ''repackaging'' scriptural messages.
He does not separate secular and religious wisdom into different compartments, and he does not expect others to do so. A psychological discussion of guilt merges into a theological one of God and Satan.
Mr. Dobson recounted how, by the mid-1970's, a flood of speaking engagements and a burgeoning career in medical research was turning his own family life into a pressure cooker. He had been married since 1960 to Shirley Deere, and they had two children.
''The pace at which we run is probably the biggest threat to marital relationships,'' the psychologist said. ''Everybody I know is exhausted, living on the edge. You don't have time for sex; you're worn out by the time you fall into bed.'' #1,000 Emergencies a Month He decided to leave academia and to substitute radio and videotapes for personal appearances. A few years later, drowning in mail from his broadcasts and books, he started composing prototype responses to common problems. It was another step in creating Focus on the Family's mixture of personal teamwork with impersonal technology.
Today, of the 10,000 letters a month that require special treatment, about 1,000 are emergency cases, containing threats of suicide, fears of violence or marital breakups. Nineteen California-licensed family counselors try to phone these people immediately. They are equipped with computerized lists of therapists and other sources of assistance throughout the nation.
Mail that is special but less urgent goes to 60 staff members familiar with more than 1,000 prototype letters approved by Mr. Dobson. The topics begin with aging, abuse and abortion and run to the end of the alphabet.
Using words like ''rejection,'' ''infidelity'' and ''custody,'' a correspondence assistant can also frame a more complicated reply, picking out pertinent paragraphs from different prototypes and sending or recommending books, tapes or other resources from an index of materials.
 
A Flood of 'Pain Mail'
The organization tries not to schedule several broadcasts on topics like incest or child abuse close to one another because staff members' morale drops and they fall behind in replies.
''The pain mail will be so great that you can tell the impact on the whole department,'' said Kurt Bruner, who oversees the correspondence staff.
Besides the half-hour weekday program featuring Mr. Dobson, Focus on the Family produces a daily 15-minute family news analysis, a weekly one-hour program, a radio drama series for children and a brief daily program in Spanish.
Mr. Dobson draws no salary, relying instead on royalties from his 11 books and compensating the organization for the help his broadcasts give in promoting their sales.
Focus on the Family publishes six magazines for different age groups. A monthly political publication tells 267,000 subscribers what they can do to combat gay rights, abortion and sexually suggestive advertising.
 
Pro-Family Organizing
The organization is forming coalitions of ''pro-family organizations'' for lobbying and public education at the state level. Coalitions are now in place in 18 states and are being organized in seven others.
In November 1988, the organization began sponsoring the Family Research Council, a Washington-based research center headed by Gary L. Bauer, who was a domestic policy adviser to President Ronald Reagan.
Mr. Dobson says he keeps his conservative views private unless they touch on the family. ''I don't talk about South Africa,'' he said, ''and you'll never hear me endorse a political candidate.''
Asked why the problems are so much worse nearly a decade after a conservative President and his Administration began backing much of Mr. Dobson's agenda, staff members of Focus on the Family said the society is still suffering the cultural consequences of 1960's permissiveness.
''There's a moral drift to society, and families are caught in a river with a rapid current,'' Mr. Dobson said. ''Nobody floats upstream without a lot of energy.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Radio is a conversation,'' said James Dobson, who broadcasts his ''Focus on the Family'' program from Pomona, Calif. (Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FOCUS ON THE FAMILY (59%); FOCUS ON THE FAMILY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION AND CHURCHES; RADIO RELIGION (95%); CHILDREN (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); FAMILY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PARENTING (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); PEDIATRICS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (70%); PORNOGRAPHY (66%); VIOLENT CRIME (60%); ABORTION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER; DOBSON, JAMES; FALWELL, JERRY (REV) JERRY L FALWELL (72%); WILLIAM FRANKLIN 'BILLY' GRAHAM JR (55%); 



146 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: COMMENCEMENTS;
M.I.T. Is Told Latin Nations Deserve Help

 BODY:
In what he described as ''one of the last major speeches'' of his presidency, President Virgilio Barco of Colombia today urged graduates of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, his alma mater, to look beyond East-West relations and support economic development in Latin America.
''Almost a whole contintent has moved from military rule to legitimately elected leaders,'' said Mr. Barco, whose four-year term ends in August. ''Still, as evidence of North America's bias to the Cold War ideology, this dramatic change so close to your own borders receives relatively little attention.
''It is your responsibility, and those in other wealthy countries, to insure the fostering of global economic growth,'' Mr. Barco told the 1,712 graduates and about 8,000 and guests in Cambridge, Mass. ''In this way you can help these fledgling democracies as they struggle to spread their wings.'' 
Mr. Barco, who earned his undergraduate degree in civil engineering from M.I.T. in 1943, also reiterated his plea for help in the struggle to overcome the powerful drug groups and organized crime that have terrorized Colombia.
Also giving his last commencement remarks was Paul E. Gray, who is retiring after 10 years as the university's president to become chairman of the M.I.T. Corporation, the university's board of trustees. Dr. Gray's resignation, announced in March 1989, will become effective as soon as a new president is chosen - a process that has taken longer than university officials expected.
''Since March of 1989, I had planned to follow your example and graduate myself later this month,'' Dr. Gray said. ''However, as the search for M.I.T.'s 15th president continues, I now expect to carry on for a few more months. And I hope that you will forgive me some envy at the apparent ease with which you got it all together and got it right.''
In February, Philip Sharp, a professor of molecular biology at the university, was recommended for president by a search committee. He first accepted and then declined the job, citing his commitment to science.
The board met today and reportedly discussed the search, but university officials denied that a new president had been selected, saying the board routinely meets on commencement day.
 
Swarthmore College
Robert D. Putnam, the dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, told the graduates of Swarthmore College yesterday that world events in their senior year would have been unthinkable in the early 1960's, when he was a student there.
''Yours is the class that witnessed the fall of the Berlin Wall,'' Mr. Putnam said to 330 new graduates at the school's 118th commencement, at its campus in Swarthmore, Pa. ''Mine was the class that was marked by the Cuban missile crisis.''
Mr. Putnam, who graduated from Swarthmore in 1963, said he sensed a new curiosity about democracy among people in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.
''Just last Monday I sat until 2 in the morning at a kitchen table in Moscow, talking with two ebullient Russian reformers, eager to exchange ideas about how to create a democracy,'' he said. ''To anyone who came of age in the Cold War and endured that fearsome nuclear confrontation of 1962, the very thought of sharing in the democratization of the Soviet Union is awe-inspiring, indeed almost unimaginable.''
The college gave honorary degrees to Mr. Putnam; Mary Patterson McPherson, president of Bryn Mawr College; Heywood Hale Broun, a television and radio commentator who graduated from Swarthmore in 1940; David Montgomery, a social historian who graduated from the college in 1950, and Robert Whitman, an expert on earthquake engineering who graduated from the college in 1948.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (78%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (78%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COLD WAR (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ENGINEERING (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); ORGANIZED CRIME (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (61%); BIOLOGY (61%); 

PERSON: BARCO VARGAS, VIRGILIO (PRES) JOHN F KENNEDY (51%); JOHN F KENNEDY (51%); 



147 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: White House Must Back HDTV Research

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Tom Wicker shows up the shortsightedness, indeed the ultimate danger to American interests, in the failure of the White House to support high-technology electronics (''The High-Tech Future,'' column, May 24).
The retreat from supporting private-sector research and development of high-definition television, or HDTV, affects far more than military research and development. HDTV represents the next stage in electronic development. It will provide not only clearer pictures on a home television tube but also the capability to detect cancer at a far earlier stage and countless other economic and social uses; not to mention enlarging the market share we are rapidly losing abroad and will lose dramatically if the United States cannot compete in the era of HDTV.
The White House should strengthen the office of science adviser to the President, add a deputy for international communications to the National Security Council and listen to Secretary of Commerce Robert Mosbacher, who understands HDTV's crucial role in America's future.
More than that, extensive tax freedom should be provided for private research and development and antitrust restrictions should be relaxed to permit consortiums of United States companies to cooperate in high-tech development. The White House should clearly signal this policy supportive of America's eminence in a high-tech world. This is not ''industrial policy.'' It is simply a recognition of national security.
 
LEONARD R. SUSSMAN
New York, May 25, 1990
 The writer is senior scholar in international communications at Freedom House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; RESEARCH; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION (HDTV) HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (91%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); BUDGETS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); MARKET SHARE (69%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (55%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SUSSMAN, LEONARD R THOMAS GREY 'TOM' WICKER (74%); ROBERT ADAM MOSBACHER (56%); 



148 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Shelter Syndrome Theory Has Dangerous Flaw

 BODY:
To the Editor:
A historical note on the newly rediscovered phenomenon of ''shelterization,'' which allegedly afflicts homeless men in New York City's Fort Washington armory (''Shelter Life: Why It's Hard to Get Out,'' Health page, May 24), preventing ''their return to another way of living'':
On two other occasions, once in the Progressive Era and again during the Great Depression, the same specter of iatrogenic disability - shelter-generated dependency - was raised. In the first period, Alice Solenberger in Chicago and Charles Barnes in New York City railed against municipal lodging houses for habituating men to ''idleness and uncertainty,'' rendering them virtually useless should the labor market need them again.
In the 1930's Nels Anderson in New York and, in Chicago, Edwin Sutherland and Harvey Locke (who coined the term ''shelterization'' in 1936) traced the stages by which a man loses contact with old friends, gives up ambition, becomes indifferent to time and slowly sinks into that collective ''waiting for nothing'' (Tom Kromer's phrase) that defined life on the skids. For all the hand wringing, however, lasting damage was never documented. In both decades, when the American war machine was cranked up, the ranks of skid row were depleted of all but the elderly and severely disabled. Shelterized men apparently had no trouble returning to life as soldiers or factory hands. 
Like the ''culture of poverty'' thesis to which it is related, ''shelterization'' risks mistaking for an indelible trait behavior that is better seen as adaptation. Bitter experience suggests that the real danger of such a thesis is that it will be used to justify restricting ''rehabilitation'' efforts to men, rather than buildings and labor markets, which play the crucial role in ''another way of life'' to return to. It isn't bad habits, but affordable housing and jobs that matter most in leaving the shelters. And while housing and jobs may be plentiful in the artificial economies and dispersed habitats of wartime, they are in perilously short supply today.
 
KIM HOPPER
New York, May 24, 1990
 The writer is a visiting assistant professor of anthropology at the new School for Social Research.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); DISABLED PERSONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (63%); 

PERSON: HOPPER, KIM



149 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: A Workmanlike Summit

BYLINE: By David K. Shipler; David K. Shipler, author of ''Russia: Broken Idols, Solemn Dreams,'' is a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
If all goes well in Soviet-American relations, the summit just ended may be the last one in which mere gestures of friendliness between the leaders are enough to stir the emotions of the world. For if the two Presidents fail to bring more imagination to their next couple of meetings, they are likely to find themselves with diminished ability to manage the historic upheaval now taking place.
The handshake, the smile, the courteous word, the informal talk and the modest agreement may no longer stand out as dramatic counterpoints to the hostility between the two countries, the two systems, the two ideologies. With the collapse of Communism and the erosion of enmity, the Soviet and American Presidents will need more creative thinking to excite hopes for solving human problems. 
Ideally, summit meetings will cease to be isolated pageants of accord or encounters of great moment. They will become more frequent, more businesslike and blessedly routine. Their success will be measured not by the warmth of the visual images but by the substantive vision they apply to world affairs.
It may be too early to employ this standard, for as Mikhail Gorbachev and George Bush just demonstrated, we still need symbols to nourish our yearnings. The pictures of recent days were uplifting, inspiring confidence in the possibilities of Soviet-American harmony.
But the revolution that Mr. Gorbachev unleashed, and now cannot control, has given rise to soaring expectations of a new world order, which he and Mr. Bush failed to satisfy in their discussions.
These higher goals, especially in a post-postwar Europe with a united Germany, test both leaders to think differently about their countries' roles than they have in the past. The Soviet Union and the United States have every reason to become allies, or at least partners, in economic, diplomatic, cultural and social spheres.
Potentially, our economies are complementary: vast natural resources in the Soviet Union and technologically advanced industry in the United States. If the Soviet system is transformed, there will be fertile ground for extensive American investment and cooperation.
Our diplomatic interests overlap increasingly, with both sides having less to gain from igniting regional conflicts than from dampening them, which cries out for mutual restrictions on global arms sales.
And if the Soviets overcome their domestic difficulties, we may be able to cooperate in turning our attention from East-West competition to North-South issues - famine, disease, illiteracy and poverty in the third world.
This summit meeting, which operated on four distinct levels, was more complex than those before. First came the symbolism of a Soviet leader being welcomed with military fanfare at the White House, plunging happily into street corner crowds, making his first toss of a horseshoe a ringer at Camp David. This was a resounding success.
Then came the personal rapport, with Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev achieving what seemed to be a frank and trusting relationship. At their joint news conference Sunday, they praised each other effusively. This was an important but transitory success. No leader is in power forever, and hard international problems rarely succumb to the force of personal friendships.
The third level was the conventional agenda: arms control, human rights, trade, aviation agreements, cultural exchanges and the like. The results were mixed.
The notable accomplishment in arms control was the accord to stop producing and start destroying chemical weapons. But its full value will be realized only if Washington and Moscow press hard on their clients and allies to join the band.
Obstacles remain to a treaty reducing long-range nuclear weapons, despite promises to try to sign an accord by the end of the year. Little evident progress was made on conventional military reductions in Europe, despite the unilateral Soviet withdrawals that are under way.
The trade issue got snagged by human rights concerns over Jewish emigration and Lithuanian independence - issues that reawaken old American fears about the Soviet Union as an authoritarian state. President Bush signed a trade agreement and is poised to grant the Soviet Union most-favored-nation status, but has properly waited until a new law liberalizing emigration procedures is passed by the Supreme Soviet. The U.S. Senate also wants a resolution of Lithuania's problems.
The fourth level of the summit, the need to redefine the relationship in concrete strategic terms, turned out to be the least fruitful. There were few new ideas, and the leaders were unable to narrow their differences over Washington's proposal for a united Germany in NATO.
As Gregory Flynn of the Carnegie Endowment observes, the issue is less about Germany than about the power of the Soviet Union, and the Soviet Union's role in Europe. This requires some new thinking in Washington about how to welcome the Soviets into Europe rather than exclude them.
Significantly, President Bush was unable to describe this transition period in Soviet-American relations. He fumbled a question on where he would now place the Soviet Union along a scale between adversary and ally. ''We've moved towards a - I don't quite know how to quantify it for you,'' he said.
Next summit, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev will have to give us something more.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); FAMINE (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: SHIPLER, DAVID K; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



150 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Puerto Ricans Debate Right to Vote on Island's Future

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
In 34 years as a New Yorker, Reinaldo Pacheco has not voted in New York City. But his apathy turns to indignation at the thought of being prevented from choosing, by ballot, the political future of his native Puerto Rico.
Mr. Pacheco is one of an estimated 2.5 million Puerto Ricans living in the United States. The group is now at the center of an emotional debate about who should vote on whether Puerto Rico becomes the 51st state, an independent country or a United States commonwealth, as it is now, but in a modified form.
Mr. Pacheco, a 49-year-old native of Puerto Rico and a hospital maintenance worker in East Harlem, said he is entitled to vote on the island's status as much as any resident of Puerto Rico. 
 
No Poll in Puerto Rico
''Just because we left we don't stop being Puerto Rican,'' he said. ''We shouldn't be denied the right to vote.''
Support in Puerto Rico is less clear-cut. The three major political parties in favor of the vote are said to agree with some form of participation. Puerto Ricans on the island have not been polled on the issue, even though they are believed to be as divided as Puerto Ricans in the United States.
The vote, a plebiscite, is being sought by the three major political parties in Puerto Rico for some time before the gubernatorial election in 1992. It has the support of President Bush, who favors statehood for the Caribbean island of about 3.5 million people.
It would be authorized under bills pending in the House and Senate that are still the subject of discussion at committee level. Among the discussions is not only who would participate but also whether the outcome of the plebiscite would be binding on the United States.
But already Puerto Ricans on the mainland are forming organizations, lobbying politicians both in the United States and Puerto Rico and exploring legal options to insure that they are not left out if the plebiscite is held. Those Puerto Ricans would not normally vote in an island election because they do not live there.
But many Puerto Ricans who live here argue that ethnicity should be as valid a criterion of eligibility to vote on something as crucial as a change in the political status of their native country. Since 1952, that status has been as a commonwealth of the United States. (Puerto Rico was ceded to the United States by Spain after the Spanish-American War in 1898.) While residents of Puerto Rico are United States citizens, they cannot vote in Federal elections or have a voting member in Congress, and they pay no Federal income taxes.
Many Puerto Ricans who came to the United States note that they own property in Puerto Rico and most of their families remain there. Many also say that they left because of economic reasons and hope to return someday.
Still others defend their right to participate based on cultural identity. Manuel del Valle, a Puerto Rican lawyer who practices in Manhattan, said international principles on self-determination would call for the participation of all Puerto Ricans regardless of home address.
 
Not All Want to Vote
''This issue will affect us directly and indirectly.'' said Jose Luis Rodriguez, chairman of the Committee Pro-Puerto Rican Participation, which was formed in New York late last year.
But the sentiment is not universal. The Institute for Puerto Rican Policy, a research and advocacy group in New York, found in an opinion poll last summer that of the 615 Puerto Rican community workers surveyed in 18 states, Washington and Puerto Rico, 59 percent favored allowing Puerto Ricans living in the United States to vote while 38 percent did not.
Ramon Daubon, vice president of the National Puerto Rican Coalition in Washington, which represents 105 community-based service organizations, said he has found that many Puerto Ricans living here are more concerned with problems in their communities, like drugs and AIDS, than with the plebiscite.
One resident of Puerto Rico who opposes the idea is Manuel Casiano, publisher of Caribbean Business, a business weekly. ''You want to be part of Puerto Rico?'' he asked. ''Come on back, and help solve the problems. Why should we be allowed to vote in New Jersey and have a voice and vote on their problems?''
 
A New York City Effort
The voting-right efforts come mostly from New York City, which is home to about 900,000 people from Puerto Rico or of Puerto Rican descent. The interest led the House Subcommittee on Insular and International Affairs to plan a hearing in Manhattan on the plebiscite. The focus is expected to be on a proposed amendment to the House bill that would allow all United States citizens born in Puerto Rico living overseas to vote by absentee ballot.
The provision was offered last month by Representative Jose E. Serrano, Democrat of the Bronx. Mr. Serrano, a native of Mayaguez in the island's Northwest, moved to New York with his family when he was 7 years old.
''I have yet to meet a Puerto Rican who left Puerto Rico in the 30's, 40's, 50's and 60's because they didn't like the weather, or the beaches, or the food or their neighbors,'' Mr. Serrano said. ''It was the social and economic conditions that caused them to leave, and those conditions were the result of the relationship with the United States. Now that that relationship will be decided forever, those of us who were forced out of the island should be allowed to participate.''
The issue has shown the attachments some Puerto Ricans in the United States have toward the island. At a forum sponsored by the Institute for Puerto Rican Policy on Saturday at Columbia University, City Councilman Jose Rivera unexpectedly began a version of a patriotic song about a Puerto Rican peasant's inability to survive economically on the island.
He changed the words, to the audience's delight, to sing, ''Even though I'm far from Puerto Rico, I will vote on this plebiscite.''
 
A Question of 'Empowerment'
The vote is also viewed as a way to raise the political conscience of Puerto Ricans in the United States at the grass-roots level.
''By focusing on the referendum we can begin an entire educational process and discuss fundamental questions of political organization and empowerment,'' said Pedro A. Caban, a political science professor at Fordham University.
Most Puerto Rican elected officials in New York have publicly endorsed participation in the plebiscite and many, like Councilman Rivera, are enlisting backers. Some, like Borough President Fernando Ferrer of the Bronx, support participation but question the plebiscite itself. If Congress refused to pass legislation binding the United States to accept the outcome of the plebiscite, he said, ''then who cares who participates?''
In deciding who will participate in the plebiscite, logistics and costs are two considerations. Would proof of voter eligibility for offshore Puerto Ricans be a birth certificate or an affidavit? How would they register and vote? Would the offspring of Puerto Rican parents also participate?
If allowed to participate, however, Puerto Ricans in the United States are expected to vote in much higher numbers than they have in any election in the United States, and to split along the same lines found in Puerto Rico, where the electorate is divided mainly between commonwealth and statehood, experts said.
While debate in Puerto Rico about the plebiscite has revolved around issues like the fate of Federal aid, United States military installations on the island or Spanish as the official language, random interviews with Puerto Ricans in East Harlem revealed other concerns. Many worried whether independence would result in restrictions that would limit travel between the island and New York. Many also wondered whether a new status would worsen the conditions that made them or their parents leave in the first place.
Fernando Onativia was born and raised in Brooklyn, and by his own admission hardly speaks Spanish. His only memories of Puerto Rico - sitting with his grandfather in a porch with ''chickens all around'' - stems from a visit 17 years ago. But he, too, wants to vote. ''That's my heritage, where I come from,'' said the 22-year-old radiology student at Hostos Community College in the Bronx. ''Even though I've never lived over there I feel that Puerto Rico would always be there for me, as I'm here for them.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''That's my heritage,'' said Fernando Onativia, who was born in Brooklyn, but considers Puerto Rico ''where I come from.'' (Angel Franco/The New York Times) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4424 COASTAL FREIGHT (92%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PUERTO RICO CONTAINER CO (92%); PUERTO RICO SAFETY EQUIPMENT CORP (92%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ACQUISITION CORP (92%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CO (92%); PUERTO RICO SUN OIL CO (92%); PUERTO RICO TELEPHONE CO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO

SUBJECT: STATES (US); REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS; PUERTO RICANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT REFERENDUMS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US TERRITORIES (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (88%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); ETHNICITY (72%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 



151 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Top New Jersey Court to Issue Crucial School Ruling Today

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 4

 BODY:
The State Supreme Court announced today that it would issue its long-awaited ruling on the constitutionality of the education-financing system on Tuesday. The announcement was made as Gov. Jim Florio's proposal to revise the formula to shift aid to poor communities suffered a second round of attacks in legislative hearings.
The court made its announcement as a lawyer who filed the challenge against the formula argued before a joint hearing of the State Senate and Assembly Education Committees that Mr. Florio's plan would perpetuate illegal spending disparities between affluent and poor districts and lead to additional suits.
''What is being offered is, as it was in 1976, a single year's influx of money in some districts, with absolutely no plan to insure long-term equity,'' the lawyer, Marilyn J. Morheuser, head of the Education Law Center in Newark, testified. ''No attempt has been made in the proposed legislation to assure an end to the long history of discrimination against New Jersey's poor and minority public school children. My plea is that you refrain from enacting into law that which will have to be challenged.'' 
The timing of the court ruling appears to disrupt the administration's plan, sharply criticized in two days of hearings by the Education Committees, for quick enactment of the formula.
 
'Abide by That Decision'
The head of the Senate panel, Matthew Feldman, Democrat of Teaneck, said at the opening hearing last Wednesday that he planned to release the formula to the full Senate on Thursday. That timetable will have to be delayed until after the committee studies the court decision and determines whether the ruling requires minor changes in the Governor's proposal or a major overhaul, Mr. Feldman said.
''Whatever the court does we will accept,'' he said. ''We will abide by that decision.''
He also said he would delay two major amendments he had planned for the Governor's plan. One would have lengthened the four-year phase-out of all aid, except transportation and special-education money, for 151 of the 578 districts covered by the new formula.
Another amendment would have revised the plan to have all districts absorb some or all their staff's pension and Social Security costs. The state now pays 100 percent of those costs.
 
Hope for Court Ruling
Mr. Florio issued a statement after the court announcement saying: ''The court's ruling has been anticipated for months. Everyone who cares about quality education in New Jersey expects the court's decision will reflect the need to offer the same high level of education to all of our children wherever they live in our state.''
The ruling could have broad implications for Mr. Florio's budget and education plans. If the court upholds the formula that was enacted in 1976, along with the income tax as its financing, and orders additional aid to the districts, the administration would be forced to find a major new revenue source for the 1991 budget, which has to be approved by July 1.
The existing formula calls for $500 million more than the state is providing the districts for the 1990-91 school year. In the past the court has suggested that the formula was constitutional if it was fully financed. Mr. Florio is providing 83 percent. If the court orders 100 percent financing, $500 million in new money would have to be found by the end of the month.
 
Caps on Spending
Invalidating the formula could undercut a basic tenet of the proposed formula. Mr. Florio's plan sets no cap on spending per pupil and allows using property taxes to pay for whatever a board wants to spend.
The Education Law Center contends that the reliance on property taxes has led to unconstitutional spending disparities and, consequently, unequal educational opportunities affluent and poor districts.
To eliminate inequities, Ms. Morheuser has urged the court to set a statewide spending level for each pupil and allow each district, no matter how affluent, to exceed it by just 5 percent.
Mr. Florio's plan does not incorporate that restriction and gives districts unlimited spending freedom. His aides said imposing curbs on affluent districts could, over time, diminish the quality of their schools and ultimately harm the economy of their regions.
 
Possible New Challenges
Ms. Morheuser sharply criticized the lack of spending caps today. She said that educational quality would remain a function of local property wealth and that new constitutional challenges were inevitable if Mr. Florio's formula were enacted.
The legislative panels also heard criticism from the New Jersey Association of School Administrators, which represents superintendents; the New Jersey Principals and Supervisors Association, and the New Jersey Association of School Business Officials, which represents business administrators.
They join the New Jersey School Boards Association and the New Jersey Education Association, the union representing 130,000 teachers, in voicing major misgivings over the bill, including what they consider the plan for its hasty enactment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY ASSOCIATION (60%); STATE SENATE&ASSEMBLY EDUCATION (63%); EDUCATION LAW CENTER (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); BUDGETS (73%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) JIM FLORIO (95%); MARILYN J MORHEUSER (61%); 



152 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Bush Decision Expected on Whether to Delay Offshore Oil Drilling

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHABECOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
President Bush can be expected to announce in a few weeks his decision on whether to delay any oil drilling off the coasts of Florida and California until more environmental studies can be done, Administration officials said today.
Stephen Hart, a White House spokesman, said the President had not yet made up his mind about whether to let oil companies drill off the coasts of southwestern Florida, Southern California and Northern California. But officials said that given the facts available to Mr. Bush, he was likely to choose a delay. 
The officials said a panel appointed by the President to study the three areas found that the lease sales could cause ''unacceptable changes to local environments'' and recommended additional study before they proceed.
Moreover, a decision to proceed with drilling could be damaging to Republican candidates for governor in the two states: Gov. Bob Martinez of Florida and Senator Pete Wilson of California.
 
Opposition Along Coast
Offshore oil activity is strongly opposed by coastal communities and their political representatives in those two states.
By denying the appropriations necessary for the Interior Department to carry out its sale of leases to oil companies, Congress has effectively blocked oil and gas activity on areas of the outer continental shelf off California, Florida and other areas for nearly a decade. Even if Mr. Bush decided to move forward in the three areas at issue, Congress would almost certainly impose another moratorium on drilling in those areas.
Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan Jr., frustrated with the continuing delay in offshore oil leasing activities, recently announced a new plan to ''jump-start'' the program.
In the department's next five-year plan for the outer continental shelf, scheduled to begin in 1992, Mr. Lujan plans to scrap the policy, instituted in 1981 by former Interior Secretary James G. Watt, of making the entire 1.4-billion-acre outer continental shelf available for drilling. Instead, Mr. Lujan plans to exclude environmentally sensitive areas from the leasing program and offer only those tracts shown to have a high potential for producing large areas of oil and gas.
If Mr. Bush were to order the lease sales off California and Florida to move forward immediately, it could jeopardize the entire five-year plan, one official said.
 
Lease Cancellation Unlikely
But the President is unlikely to permanently cancel the Florida and California leases.
Mr. Bush, an oil industry entrepreneur before he entered public life, is concerned about having adequate supplies of energy to assure economic growth and to minimize dependence on foreign sources. The United States is already importing over 40 percent of its oil, much of it from politically volatile countries in the Middle East.
But simply delaying leasing off Florida and California is likely to be regarded as an inadequate solution by man in the affected areas and others who worry about the potential effects on the marine environment and related economic activities like fishing and tourism.
''Any decision that doesn't incorporate permanent protection will be viewed with disappointment and skepticism by environmentalists,'' said Lisa Speer, a scientist and expert on offshore oil issues for the Natural Resources Defense Council, a national environmental group.
''Secretary Lujan talks about a bold stroke to jump-start the offshore program, but token delays are not a bold stroke,'' Ms. Speer insisted.
Mr. Hart said today that the documents needed for the President to reach a decision on the offshore leases had not yet reached his desk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS; EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); OIL EXTRACTION (91%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); COASTAL AREAS (67%); IMPORT TRADE (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SHABECOFF, PHILIP GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



153 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 2; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1584 words

HEADLINE: Beginning Scientists Face a Research Fund Drought

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
DR. KATHERINE WILSON joined the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine recently with high hopes. The university had hired her as an assistant professor of cell biology and anatomy and invested $350,000 in her laboratory equipment and salary.
But there was one problem. She had to bring in grant money to run the laboratory. Dr. Wilson applied to the National Institutes of Health, the largest source of funds for biomedical research. She asked for a million dollars to pay for her research and overhead expenses for five years to study cell division. In a letter from N.I.H., she was informed that her proposal was ''highly worthwhile'' and ''likely to yield new and important information.'' The proposal was rated in the top 25 percent of those submitted.
But she was turned down. There was not enough money in the N.I.H. budget to finance all the high-quality proposals for new research. The financing squeeze occurred even though the N.I.H. budget has been rising rapidly for many years - from $3.2 billion in the fiscal year 1980 to $7.5 billion in 1990 - and even though biomedical research has been very generously financed compared with most other areas of research. But amid this overall abundance, administrative choices and other factors have limited the money available for new grants. 
Dr. Wilson squeaked by with a two-year grant from the American Cancer Society for a total of $250,000 and she is applying to the N.I.H. again. But like her fellow young biomedical researchers, she is deeply worried about her future.
''We love what we do,'' Dr. Wilson said. ''It is basic research, but we have seen all the spinoffs and we know it is valuable.'' But, she added, ''If we apply again and we don't get grants, there is a very good chance that many of us will just call in the chips.''
Scientists of all ranks, from Nobel laureates to graduate students, say stories like Dr. Wilson's have become common. They and administrators at the National Institutes of Health say the reasons for the sudden money drought include soaring costs of doing research, more money than ever tied up in long-term grants and more scientists applying.
The fund problem has caused leading scientists to speak out with alarm.
''It's the most important problem facing us today,'' said Dr. Philip Leder, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, who is head of the genetics department at Harvard University's School of Medicine. ''It is having a devastating impact on the morale and enthusiasm of young people.''
The Institute of Medicine is studying what long- and short-term solutions might be feasible, said Dr. Samuel Thier, the institute's president, who said a meeting with the National Academy of Sciences would be held June 27 to discuss ''what can be done to buffer the effect.''
Some administrators have asked, however, whether the pitch of hysteria in the scientific community has become too fevered.
''Some of the anxiety relates to the perception of the good old days that aren't here anymore,'' said Dr. James Wyngaarden, a former N.I.H. director. His remarks, published in a recent issue of The Journal of N.I.H. Research, indicated that he thinks there is a problem with funds for basic research but that the most important research is done by a small cadre of elite scientists, so that it may not be so harmful to cut out good, but not stellar scientists.
 
Loss of Young Researchers
''The dilemma becomes whether we protect the largest number of scientists or make certain that the most productive scientists are adequately funded,'' he wrote.
Scientists and administrators say that if more money does not become available to young researchers, they will be driven out of basic research, irrevocably damaging the next generation of American research.
N.I.H. research grants account for about 75 percent of all biomedical research funds provided by the Federal Government and private nonprofit sources, the N.I.H. says.
The number of N.I.H. grants awarded for new research projects and continuing ones that must compete again for approval has dropped sharply, from 6,446 in fiscal year 1987 to an estimated4,633 in the current fiscal year. So few new grants are available that the percentage of worthy applicants who are able to obtain funds has dropped to a record low. In recent years, N.I.H. has typically received about 19,000 applications for grants. The vast majority are approved as worthy of financing by peer review panels. But the percentage of the approved proposals that actually received funds fell from 38.3 percent in 1987 to an estimated 24.1 percent in this fiscal year.
For young scientists submitting their first grant application, the figure is even worse. Dr. Marvin Cassman, deputy director of the National Institute of General Medical Sciences, reports that just 11 to 16 percent of those whose grant applications are approved for financing actually receive any funds.
 
Slamming a Door Shut
''We've never had a time in which the field is better equipped,'' said Dr. Keith Yamamoto, a microbiologist who reviews N.I.H. grant proposals in his specialty. But Dr. Yamamoto, a member of the National Academy of Sciences and a professor at the University of California at San Francisco added: ''The system now appears to be slamming the door in the face of young people. We have a real crisis on our hands.''
The research is the sort that can lead to new drugs and diagnostic techniques and new understanding of questions like why a cell becomes cancerous or why brain cells die in diseases like Alzheimer's.
The financing problem has several sources, researchers and administrators say. The major one, some administrators and senior scientists say, is that the N.I.H. has become more heavily committed to grants it has already financed, leaving less money for new grant applications. Starting in 1987, in response to demands from leaders of biomedical research, N.I.H. began extending the duration of its grants so scientists would not be forced to return as often to seek more money. Whereas previously it financed projects for an average of three years, it began financing many grants for five years or more.
Although scientists had clamored for just such a system, they had not anticipated living with the consequences. The money that would ordinarily be availble for new grants is now being used in part to pay for the added years of the old grants. The leadership of N.I.H. had made no provision to assure that there would be enough money to pay for both the old and the new grants.
''It's like someone who bought a house with very large interest payments,'' said Dr. David Korn, dean of Stanford University's School of Medicine. ''Your income isn't big enough to pay the mortgage, buy gas for the car and feed your family.'' One way to deal with it, he said, is ''to make fewer obligations.'' In the case of the N.I.H. budget, that means fewer grants, he said.
One factor exacerbating the problem, many researchers say, is that science research costs more than ever. Increasingly advanced equipment and methodology have put the research inflation rate above 10 percent a year, whereas the N.I.H. budget has increased only a few percent a year, Dr. Cassman said.
Another reason, some scientists say, is that special projects, like the human genome and AIDS, are competing for funds with other basic research. The most recent budget increase was 4.7 percent, from 1989 to 1990, but if the money set aside for AIDS and the project for mapping all human genes is excluded, the budget increase was 3.7 percent for the past fiscal year, Dr. Cassman said.
Dr. Yamamoto said even though AIDS and the genome project may not be major contributors to the fund problem, many researchers are resentful of what they perceive as a laxity in awarding those project funds. ''These are big ticket items that have gotten a pat on the head from the bureaucracy, but there is a perception that the research is not as good,'' he said. ''I think it's a perception that is widely felt in the community and I share it.''
Another reason, some scientists say, is that more scientists are seeking grants than in the past.
Uncommitted money is now so tight that reviewers cannot discriminate on objective grounds between grants that are financed and many of those that are not, scientists on review committees said. ''The ranking system falls apart,'' Dr. Leder said.
 
End of a Career
For a young scientist, not getting an N.I.H. grant can end a career in academic science. Dr. Ponzy Lu, a chemistry professor at the University of Pennsylvania, said that he has repeatedly warned a young faculty member in his department, Dr. David Christianson, ''that if he wants to get tenure, he has to get an N.I.H. grant.''
Although there are no national data to indicate how students and scientists are affected by the difficulty in getting research money, anecdotal data abound.
Dr. J. Michael Bishop, a professor of microbiology and immunology at the University of California in San Francisco and the recipient of the 1989 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, said that even some high school students who are interested in science are growing leery because of the financing situation.
Dr. Bishop said he recently spoke toa group of elite high school students who were interested in science. But he was dismayed when, ''One after another, they said, 'We heard that scientists can't get the money they need to do research so we're thinking of other careers.' ''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Katherine Wilson at Johns Hopkins University School of Medecine in Baltimore. Her application for grant money was denied. (Marty Katz for The New York Times); graph showing the percentage of eligible health research projects that receive grants from the National Institutes is declining. (source: National Institutes of Health) (pg. C12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (58%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (94%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (91%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (91%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (91%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (54%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; FINANCES; RESEARCH SCIENCE NEWS (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BIOMEDICINE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); CANCER (71%); 

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA KATHERINE WILSON (77%); 



154 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
Greyhound Lines filed for bankruptcy protection from its creditors under Chapter 11. The company, whose bus drivers walked out on March 2, has missed more than $16 million in loan, interest and lease payments since the end of April, while spending money to fight the strike. [Page D1.] 
 
Donald J. Trump acknowleged that he is holding talks with the banks that have helped finance his far-flung business ventures. On the news, the prices of the bonds issued to finance his Atlantic City casinos plummeted, reflecting the market's increasing nervousness about Mr. Trump's financial condition. [D1.] Mr. Trump is fond of calling the Plaza Hotel, which he bought nearly two years ago, ''the ultimate trophy in the world.'' But the famous luxury hotel in Manhattan has proved to be a costly trophy. [D1.]
 
Willis Faber and Corroon & Black announced plans for a $731.6 million merger. The stock-swap deal would create the world's fourth-largest insurance brokerage. [D1.]
 
An opinion by one of the nation's top jurists in patent law, about what he considered an unwarranted appeal of a lower court's decision, is causing a stir among lawyers. [D2.]
 
Robert N. Noyce attracted enough financial resources and managerial and scientific talent to Sematech that the alliance can succeed without him, industry officials said. [D4.]
 
The convention of the American Booksellers Association gives publishers an occasion to show off their fall wares. [D20.]
 
There was a disagreement between broadcast networks and a coalition representing Hollywood producers over whether they had made progress in their longstanding negotiations over financial control of television programs. [D20.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
After a state tax has been found to be unconstitutional, the state must give ''meaningful relief'' to those whose taxes it has already collected, the Supreme Court ruled. [D2.]
 
The Economic Strategy Institute opens in Washington today. The research organizaton is built on the prestige of Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr. and is dedicated to the proposition that U.S. corporations should not be become ''stateless'' global enterprises. [D1.]
 
Foreign investors are seeking to remove a bill intended to enhance American competitiveness from the House calendar. [D7.]
 
MARKETS
 
A computerized trading system, called Portal, is to start on June 15, but so far large insurance companies and other institutional buyers have been reluctant to subscribe - even though the system is being offered for free. [D4.]
 
The stock market advanced into uncharted territory with the Dow gaining 34.22 points, to 2,935.19. [D8.]
 
The rally in the credit markets continued as prices of Treasury securities rose in light trading. [D15.]
 
The dollar declined in domestic trading against most currencies except the British pound and Japanese yen. [D16.]
 
Prices of grain and soybean futures closed mostly lower on the Chicago Board of Trade as the weather forecast continued to be the guiding force of the market. [D16.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
A growing number of large employers are asking health insurers and prepaid health-care plans to come up with numbers that measure not only costs but also the quality of the care that patients get. Milt Freudenheim: Business and Health. [D2.]
 
Pic 'N' Save is fighting for its future and the battle with an investor has cast a spotlight on its problems. Market Place. [D8.]
 
Conde Nast Publications is introducing a British edition of Vanity Fair that will have the same content as the American version except for its advertising, which will be British. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (80%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (80%); AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTERURBAN BUS TRANSPORTATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); INSURANCE (75%); GRAIN MARKETS (75%); MERGERS (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); FUTURES (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); APPEALS (71%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); BOND ISSUES (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (67%); PATENT LAW (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); BRITISH POUND (60%); PATENTS (52%); BOOKSTORES (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (76%); 



155 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: A Haze of Debt Clouds The Plaza Hotel's Gleam

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Donald J. Trump is fond of calling the Plaza Hotel, which he bought two years ago, ''the ultimate trophy in the world.'' But the famed Manhattan luxury hotel has proved to be a costly trophy.
Under Mr. Trump's stewardship, the Plaza is filling more of its rooms and charging more for them. Yet because he borrowed heavily to buy the Plaza and spruce it up, the improved profits are still not high enough to cover the interest payments on his bank loans. So the Plaza drains cash from other Trump Organization businesses, consuming more money than it generates.
That cash-flow problem is similar to the pinch Mr. Trump faces with other properties, including the Trump Shuttle airline. Mr. Trump's cash bind is a key reason he has been forced to open talks with bankers in what is apparently an effort to restructure some of his loans. 
For his part, Mr. Trump still exudes confidence. He says he remains optimistic and appears to believe that the Plaza will not be hurt by the sluggish New York City economy.
Real estate analysts contend that he paid too much for the Plaza, at $390 million, not to mention the $50 million he says he has spent on renovations. But Mr. Trump seems to hold no such qualms. He asserts that if he chose to sell the grand old hotel he would have little trouble finding a buyer willing to pay substantially more than the $440 million he invested.
''There is always somebody to pay more,'' Mr. Trump said in a recent interview, recalling his $100 million profit on the sale of another Manhattan hotel, the San Moritz, to Alan Bond, the Australian financier whose empire has since collapsed under a mountain of debt.
The Plaza, by some accounts, is a much improved hotel from the one Mr. Trump bought. ''They really have done a spectacular job of renovating the property,'' said Arthur Adler, a partner with the accounting firm of Laventhol & Horwath who specializes in New York hotels.
Indeed, the Plaza's new chandeliers gleam, conference rooms are bright and inviting, and ballrooms are restored to the grandeur that made the Plaza New York's premier hotel when it opened in 1907 just south of Central Park and just off Fifth Avenue.
By aggressively courting both foreign travelers and corporate executives, the Plaza has managed to fill more rooms than it did when it was run by Westin Hotels and Resorts, and to charge sharply higher rates. This year, it hopes to average $280 a night in room charges, up from $249 last year and $233 in 1988.
 
Financial Reports Disclosed
Over all, the hotel's operating performance has improved substantially. Angered by reports of large losses at the Plaza, Mr. Trump and his aides, including Richard R. Wilhelm, the Plaza's vice president and general manager, provided monthly profit-and-loss reports dating from the fall of 1987, along with projections for the rest of 1990, on the condition that many of the exact numbers not be printed. These financial statements had been reviewed by independent auditors.
The reports show that the hotel's operating profit - before interest payments and income taxes, and ignoring such non-cash charges as depreciation - rose to $20 million in 1989, from $16 million in 1988, when the hotel was under Mr. Trump's ownership for less than half the year. In this year's first quarter, traditionally a weak period, the profit came to $4.3 million, up from $1.6 million in the 1989 period.
Still, operating profits do not tell the entire story of a hotel. Because Mr. Trump borrowed the money to buy the Plaza, paying interest of about 10 percent a year, with much of the debt floating at around the prime rate, the hotel must show an operating profit of more than $40 million a year just to break even. Last year, the Plaza fell almost $24 million short of that goal. Add in the renovation expenses, and the hotel consumed $74 million more in cash than it earned.
 
Pressing Need for Cash
Financially, the Plaza resembles another recent Trump acquisition, the Trump Shuttle. Mr. Trump calls the airline ''an esthetic success,'' but it, too, is not throwing off any cash.
While both may yet prove to be financial successes, Mr. Trump needs to find cash to support them. In an interview, he refused to discuss cash flow for his empire, but with some loans on his Atlantic City casino operations coming due soon, he may have to rely on bank loans. While some bankers say privately that they are comfortable with their loans to Trump operations, and are willing to make more, others say they are nervous.
The Plaza management is hoping the hotel will stop being a cash drain for Mr. Trump in 1990 - that is, break even after the interest payments. But to do so, the hotel will have to improve substantially on last year's results at a time when the New York economy is weakening.
''Basically, our goal is to break even, to give Donald $1 after all the expenses,'' said Ivana Trump, the hotel's president and Mr. Trump's wife. Even, she was asked, after extensive publicity of their marital troubles? ''I still want to give him the dollar,'' she responded.
 
Bathrobes and Gift Items
Part of the success that the Plaza has enjoyed under Mr. Trump has come from a resolute desire to leave no potential source of profit untapped. The hotel is more aggressively marketing items like Plaza towels and bathrobes, and Mr. Wilhelm said it had managed to persude many suppliers to provide substantial discounts in return for the privilege of advertising that they are suppliers to the Plaza. That, he said, is part of ''the Trump factor.''
In addition, the hotel has embarked on a drive to find extra space to rent out. The catering and marketing staffs were ousted from rooms with a nice view of Fifth Avenue, creating more banquet and meeting rooms. The employees were moved into offices carved out of what Mr. Wilhelm calls ''the largest ladies' room in the history of mankind.''
The Plaza also embarked on a drive to get more of the revenue from various spaces that had been leased out. The newsstand and gift shop, which had produced $120,000 a year in rent, was taken away from the lessee and is now operated by the hotel. Mr. Wilhelm estimates that it could add $850,000 a year to the hotel's profits.
 
Recycling Beer and Soda Cans
Upset by big increases in the cost of trash removal, the hotel has begun sorting all of its trash, separating newspapers for recycling and beer and soda cans for the five-cent deposit. The outside contractor that used to clean the chandeliers was dismissed. Hotel workers now do the job.
In an effort to trim expenses, Mrs. Trump said she monitors weekly reports on revenues versus labor costs, the highest single expense for a hotel. In June 1989, she said, labor costs came to 29 percent of the Plaza's $8.6 million in revenues, but this month the plan calls for them to account for only 25 percent of the expected $10.2 million in revenues.
The immediate problem for the hotel is getting through the summer. Last July and August, burdened by the renovation, the hotel lost about $150,000, even before interest costs. This year, projections call for operating profits of more than $2 million, even without additional occupancy, assuming it can charge more for rooms.
Still, a slowing New York economy could make those anticipated profits elusive. ''I think there is a big decline in the hotel industry,'' Mrs. Trump said. ''The people are discounting like crazy.'' Nonetheless, she expressed confidence that the hotel will meet its profit targets.
Just how large a role Mrs. Trump plays at the Plaza is a source of much speculation outside the hotel, in part because Mr. Trump played down her contribution when talking to reporters about a possible divorce. (He now says she has done ''a nice job.'') In an interview, Mrs. Trump expressed irritation at the speculation. ''They talk like I make the beds or something,'' she said, without specifying whom she was referring to. ''I know what they are saying.''
In fact, she said, she is active both in marketing the Plaza internationally and in keeping a close watch on operations. ''They say I don't know the business or the numbers,'' she said. ''I know the numbers. I always did.'' Certainly, in the interview, she seemed familiar with a wealth of operating figures.
 
Effect of Higher Room Tax
But the success or failure of the Plaza as an investment for Mr. Trump now probably hinges more on the future of the New York economy than on his wife's management skills. Mr. Trump, along with most other observers, sees signs of a slowing, and there are some worries that the local convention business may be damaged by New York State's decision to raise the tax on hotel rooms.
The tax will soon rise to 18.25 percent of the room rate, plus $2, an increase of five percentage points. If the Plaza does average $280 in rent for its rooms, as it plans, the customer will end up paying $333.
Despite the uncertainties, Mr. Wilhelm said he hopes operating profits will rise to $46 million in 1991 and $51 million in 1992, providing a profit after interest payments of about $10 million in 1992, and perhaps enabling Mr. Trump to begin paying down the debt on the Plaza.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The window of Donald J. Trump's office in Trump Tower affords a commanding view of what Mr. Trump likes to call ''the ultimate trophy in the world,'' the Plaza Hotel. (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times) (pg. D1); graphs: the Plaza Hotel's sales, room rate, occupancy rate and operating profits from '87 to '90 (Source: The Plaza Hotel) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: WESTIN HOTELS & RESORTS LP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: PLAZA HOTEL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; CREDIT HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (87%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); CASH FLOW (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); RESORTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; TRUMP, DONALD J DONALD TRUMP (94%); 



156 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Bank Talks Confirmed By Trump

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
Donald J. Trump confirmed yesterday that he was holding discussions with representatives of the banks that have helped finance his far-flung business ventures. On the news, the prices of the publicly traded bonds issued to finance Mr. Trump's three casinos in Atlantic City plummeted, reflecting the market's increasing nervousness about the Trump financial condition.
In a terse statement released in response to a report in The Wall Street Journal, the Trump Organization said that Trump aides were ''meeting with major banks and are having cooperative and constructive discussions.'' It added, ''Based upon the excellent asset values and their long-term earnings potential, we are confident we will arrive at a mutually beneficial solution.'' 
The negotiations continued into last evening, with Trump executives being advised by their lawyers and by senior officers of Kenneth Leventhal & Company, an accounting firm based in Los Angeles that specializes in real estate valuations and transactions.
 
'In a Bit of a Jam'
A banker who has been briefed on the talks and who asked not to be identified, said: ''The situation is manageable, but he is in a bit of a jam. There are no defaults yet, but the cash-flow situation is difficult.''
The ''jam'' apparently arises because Mr. Trump faces repayment deadlines on portions of his bank debt at a time when many properties for which he borrowed the money, like the Plaza Hotel and the Trump Shuttle, are not yet producing the cash necessary to service those loans.
Several bankers informed about the talks said the negotiations were initiated about 10 days ago by Mr. Trump with Bankers Trust, Chase Manhattan, Citicorp and Manufacturers Hanover, all of which have been involved in providing credit to Trump projects for nearly a decade.
None of the banks would comment either about the talks or about the amount of credit they have extended to Mr. Trump. But one financial executive dismissed the suggestion that bankers were seeking to prevent Mr. Trump from meeting his debt service obligations to his casino bondholders.
The bonds sold to finance the casinos are secured by the casino properties themselves, this executive pointed out, and any default on debt service would give bondholders the right to seize that collateral. ''If you're a banker, the last thing you would want would be a default on a publicly traded bond that held a mortgage on the property,'' he said.
Despite the security that collateral offers, however, the bond market was clearly unnerved by the reports that bankers were putting pressure on Mr. Trump. ''This is a barometer of the market's faith in this situation,'' said Raymond E. Neidl, a analyst with Dillon, Read & Company.
The bonds sold to finance the new Taj Mahal casino, which opened in April and has not yet shown whether it can sustain its initial revenue levels, were being offered at about $560 for each $1,000 in par value, a decline of roughly $90 from Friday's bids. The bonds sold to finance Trump Castle, where recent capital projects have consumed a hefty slice of the available cash flow, took a sharper dive, falling $110 to close at about $590.
The Trump Plaza bonds fared better yesterday, closing at $800, off about $50 from Friday. ''The Plaza's cash flow is so strong that they should be cash-sufficient through at least the next 12 months,'' Mr. Neidl said.
The fall in bond prices does not directly affect Mr. Trump, several analysts agreed. Indeed, the decline would theoretically make it less expensive for him to repurchase the bonds in the public market, thereby reducing the debt burden on the casinos.
 
Questions Raised on Debts
But yesterday's reaction does illustrate how nervous the market has become about Mr. Trump's financial health in recent months, as various reports have raised questions about whether the developer can service the debts he has run up as he assembled his extensive empire.
It did not help, a bond trader said, that Mr. Trump himself had not disclosed the bank talks. ''If something like this is going on,'' he added, ''you're much better off getting it all out front.''
Much of the brief Trump statement yesterday was devoted to praising the quality of the Trump holdings. Mr. Trump, through various private entities, owns properties that include the Plaza Hotel, the Trump Shuttle, the retail and commercial space in the Trump Tower, half of the Grand Hyatt Hotel, an undeveloped 76-acre site on New York's Upper West Side, and a controlling share of Alexander's, the retail chain.
 
Tied to Weakening Economy
But most of those properties are harnessed, in one way or another, to the weakening economy in the New York area, which makes it more difficult for businesses like the Shuttle and the Plaza Hotel to operate profitably. That, in turn, makes it harder for Mr. Trump to sell his holdings for more than he has invested.
Moreover, bankers have grown increasingly cautious about real estate loans, and the market for high-yield ''junk bonds'' is no longer a ready source of borrowed cash. That affects Mr. Trump as well as those who might wish to borrow to buy some of his assets.
Associates point out that Mr. Trump is an experienced and cautious developer who has weathered real estate cycles, tight credit and depressed property values. It was in just such an environment that he made his first foray into New York real estate in the late 1970's, the transformation of the decrepit Commodore Hotel, next to Grand Central Station, into the Grand Hyatt Hotel, which became the linchpin of East 42d Street's renewal.
It was on that base that he assembled his empire during the 1980's, relying increasingly on borrowed funds and junk bonds as that debt-driven decade progressed.
 
No Details on Net Worth
In a recent interview, without disclosing that he was holding talks with his bankers, Mr. Trump said he was confident he could weather any change in the New York real estate climate. He would not provide any details of his net worth, pointing out that there were numerous strategic and tax-related reasons why he might wish to minimize his wealth.
Several recent news reports have estimated Mr. Trump's total debt at $2.3 billion and measured the annual debt service at roughly $255 million. Estimates of the cash his properties are producing each year fall considerably short of that debt service, although bankers report that Mr. Trump is still current on all his loan repayments.
What is not clear, of course, is how much of a cash cushion Mr. Trump has assembled.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); DILLON READ & CO INC (60%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUMP ORGANIZATION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTIC CITY (NJ)

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND ISSUES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); GAMING (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); LAWYERS (67%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; TRUMP, DONALD J DONALD TRUMP (93%); 



157 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: New Research Group Wary Of U.S. Global Enterprises

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
A new research organization, the Economic Strategy Institute, built on the prestige of Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., opens in Washington today, dedicated to the proposition that American corporations should not be lured into becoming ''stateless'' global enterprises.
Through studies and Congressional testimony, the new institute will push the Prestowitz view that in the long run, the profitablity of American-owned companies depends on maintaining the United States as the center for their best manufacturing and research operations.
''Given that most Americans work in American-owned companies, I don't believe that you can have highly skilled people turning out sophisticated products unless most of this is done in American companies right here at home,'' said Mr. Prestowitz, the institute's founder and president. 
Mr. Prestowitz popularized his America-first approach in his book ''Trading Places,'' an account of the nationalistic corporate practices that made Japan a world leader in automobiles, semiconductors and other industries once dominated by the United States. Drawing on his experience as a businessman in Japan and as a Japan specialist for the Commerce Department, he argues that the Federal Government must similarly help American industry to sustain the nation's standard of living.
The new research institute presents itself as the capital's first such group set up specifically to counter the global tendency of American corporations. The argument of such companies is that their profits - and often their best technologies - come increasingly from European and Asian subsidiaries. Indeed, the overseas subsidiaries of America-owned companies now sell products worth more than $700 billion abroad, twice the nation's annual exports.
One forthcoming institute study, for example, is likely to conclude that the recent United States-Japan trade negotiations, in which the Japanese agreed to purchase more American satellites, supercomputers and wood products, probably will not achieve the promised trade breakthroughs.
Other studies are likely to argue for Federal subsidies for high-technology research and for national planning to promote American-owned high-technology industries. Still others, assessing the boom in foreign investment in the United States, will probably find that foreign companies, European and Japanese, hold back their best technologies from their American operations.
''They start out using foreign components, and while they eventually do substantial research and value-added manufacturing in this country, the general history is that it does not happen that quickly,'' Mr. Prestowitz said.
 
Corporate Sponsors
Ten corporations supplied most of the nonprofit institute's $1.4 million in first-year financing. The list of donors includes Motorola Inc. and the Ford Motor Company, both in the forefront of the global movement, The North American Philips Corporation, the Dutch-owned electronics company, is also a donor.
The Motorola and Philips support illustrates contradictions in the global trend. One goal at Philips, for example, is to make its United States subsidiary as American as possible.
''Our relationship with the Economic Strategy Institute demonstrates, if you will, our commitment to being an American company,'' said Daniel F. Minahan, the executive vice president.
Motorola, on the other hand, has set up a research facility in Japan to develop a new highway technology that signals traffic jams and other road problems to drivers on dashboard computers. Japanese Government support has made Japan a leader in this technology, which is why Motorola set up shop in Japan. The problem is that the Japanese are likely to be the first customers for a home-grown technology and ''they aren't likely to buy from an American company,'' said Richard Heimlich, a Motorola vice president.
Motorola seeks Federal support for similar American technology. ''We look to the Economic Strategy Institute to bring these issues out into the open,'' Mr. Heimlich said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); MSI (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (80%); NORTH AMERICAN PHILIPS CORP (60%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC STRATEGY INSTITUTE ECONOMIC STRATEGY INSTITUTE; 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (76%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); TRENDS (70%); SPONSORSHIP (66%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; PRESTOWITZ, CLYDE V JR CLYDE V PRESTOWITZ JR (83%); 



158 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up 34.22 Points, to a High of 2,935.19

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
Without looking back, the stock market advanced into uncharted territory yesterday, with the Dow Jones industrial average pushing well past 2,900. With an apparent clear horizon for inflation and interest rates, the Dow gained 34.22 points as buying surged in the afternoon.
The Dow closed at 2,935.19, setting a record high again after it reached the 2,900 mark Friday, ending a week that saw the average increase 80 points. Other indexes were strong. The S.&P. 500 posted a fifth straight high at 367.40, up 4.24. The Dow Jones transportation index reached a high for the year, gaining 18.43 points, and the utility index rose 3.71 points. 
Trading volume reached 175.5 million shares, down from Friday's 187.9 million. Advancing issues numbered 1,105, while only 477 declined. Financial issues were strong.
The Dow hugged the 2,900 mark most of the morning as blue chips traded in a narrow range. In the final hours, stocks surged as more money managers bought in and selling abated.
''It's still a case of some newly converted optimists flush with cash and undercommitted to the equity market,'' said Michael Metz, chief market analyst for Oppenheimer & Company.
''There's really been no radical change in the external world,'' Mr. Metz said. ''But it looks like we are having a slowdown without a recession. And if the Fed is going to change it will be toward easing interest rates. All of this is a recipe for higher stock prices.''
 
Transportation Index Advances
Some analysts saw confirmation of broad market strength in the Dow transportation and utility indexes. The transportation index surpassed its high for 1990 as it rose to 1,207.85. The 12-month top of 1,532.01 is much higher, but was distorted by earlier merger and buyout activity, analysts said.
''A lot of analysts are saying that the market is being narrowly led by blue chips,'' said Robert H. Stovall of Stovall/Twenty-First Advisers. ''There was confirmation that it was not a true-blue market in the form of the S.&P. 500 index. Now today we have a transporation new high for the year and the recently dormant utilities are beginning to move up in response to lower interest rates.''
Also helped by the outlook for lower interest rates were financial issues. American Express gained 1 7/8, to 31 5/8. BankAmerica, rose 1 1/4, to 32 5/8, and Federal National Mortgage was up 2, to 43 5/8.
First Interstate added 6 1/4, to 44 7/8, with a 500,000-share block traded at 41 1/4, and Wells Fargo jumped 3 5/8, to 84 1/2.
First Interstate said it knew of no corporate developments for the rise in its stock. A Wells Fargo spokesman told Reuters that there has been speculation about a matchup for six months or more but declined to confirm or deny Wells Fargo's interest.
Corroon & Black, a United States insurance broker that plans to merge with Willis Faber, a London insurance broker, fell 2 1/4, to 34 1/4. The deal valued Corroon & Black shares at $38.15, traders said.
L.A. Gear, the athletic footwear maker that was hit hard last week on its outlook, fell 1/8, to 30 5/8, leading the most active list.
Wal-Mart Stores gained 2 1/4, to 60 5/8, as the company told of plans to double the number of stores by the end of the decade.
Compaq Computer jumped 5 3/8, to 124 3/4. Michele Preston, an analyst with Cowen & Company, reiterated a buy recommendation.
Philip Morris continued active and strong, at 44 1/2, up 1 1/4.
The Amex market value index closed up 0.57, to 364.40. The Nasdaq composite rose 3.48, to 465.61.

GRAPHIC: favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (68%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MERGERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); BONDS (78%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F ROBERT H STOVALL (59%); MICHAEL METZ (59%); 



159 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
U.S. Securities Rise in Light Day

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The rally in the credit markets continued yesterday, as prices of Treasury securities rose in light trading.
The gains represented a reversal from early in the session, when traders took profits in the wake of Friday's big rally. But the selling did not last long.
''The fundamental situation is pretty bullish and the fact that the market is not going to see any new paper for awhile means that the technicals are getting better every day,'' one government bond trader said. ''At times like these, the market moves up faster and easier than it does down. And it stood the test that it had to stand on a Monday following a big week-ending rally.'' 
Bond prices rallied sharply on Friday after the Labor Department reported that employment growth in May was far weaker than most analysts had anticipated.
The fifth straight daily decline in the Commodity Research Bureau's index of major commodity futures prices and a further drop in gold prices also provided some support to the market yesterday.
''There is a firm bid underneath the market,'' said Ward McCarthy, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates, a Princeton, N.J., firm that provides research and commentary on developments in the fixed-income and foreign exchange markets.
''That firm bid is symptomatic of a people who are afraid they will miss something if they stay out.''
Even though employment data have been weak for three straight months, a trend that strongly suggests the economy is losing steam, the prevailing view among credit market analysts is that the Federal Reserve will delay any easing of monetary policy until sometime in July, after it has seen further evidence that inflation is slowing.
Mr. McCarthy does not share that view.
''I think the Fed will ease in June, after the May producer price and consumer price figures come out,'' he said. ''That easing, which will push the funds rate to 8 percent from its current level of 8 1/4 percent, will be nicely timed in advance of Alan Greenspan's Humphrey-Hawkins testimony to Congress in July, and will take some political heat off of him.''
The Federal Reserve, which is headed by Mr. Greenspan, gave no indication yesterday that it had initiated a change in policy, as the rate for overnight bank loans in the Federal funds market traded in a narrow range around 8 1/4 percent throughout the session.
At the weekly bill auction, the Treasury sold three-month bills at an average discount rate of 7.69 percent, down sharply from an average rate of 7.80 percent at last week's sale.
Bids on the six-month bills sold yesterday produced an average discount rate of 7.62 percent, compared with an average rate of 7.74 percent a week ago.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 3/4 percent bonds of 2020 were offered in late trading at a price of 103 19/32, up 7/32, to yield 8.41 percent. Late Friday the benchmark issue was offered at a price to yield 8.44 percent.
Among note issues, the 8 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 102 30/ 32, up 1/8 point, to yield 8.43 percent. And the 8 1/2 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 3/8, up 1/32, to yield 8.29 percent.
Activity in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds was light yesterday, dealers said. Prices of most widely quoted issues were little changed on the day.
In the tax-exempt municipal bond market, traders said that prices of most issues were unchanged in dull trading.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

$	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.056	96.148	Discounted Rate	7.69%	7.62%	Coupon Yield	7.95%	8.03%	High Price	98.059	96.163	Discounted Rate	7.68%	7.59%	Coupon Yield	7.94%	8.00%	Low Price	98.056	96.148	Discounted Rate	7.69%	7.62%	Coupon Yield	7.95%	8.03%	Accepted at low price	79%	63%	Total applied for	$32,414,780	$27,234,565	Accepted	$8,640,255	$8,606,385	N.Y. applied for	$28,561,260	$23,944,510	N.Y. accepted	$7,481,675	$7,399,240	Noncompetitive	$1,422,215	$1,122,205	
 
Both these issues are dated June 7, 1990. The three-month bills mature Sept. 6, 1990 and the six-month bills, Dec. 6, 1990.

GRAPHIC: graph: 3-month treasury bills (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (57%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); FUTURES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TRENDS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); GOLD MARKETS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 



160 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Brady's Remarks on Rates Send Dollar Down at Close

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
After a mixed performance overseas, the dollar declined yesterday in domestic trading against most currencies except the British pound and Japanese yen.
Trading volume was light because most European markets were closed for the Whitmonday holiday.
Comments by Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, implying that United States interest rates could be heading lower, knocked the dollar down as trading ended in New York. As a result, the dollar closed near its lowest levels of the session. 
Mr. Brady, speaking at the International Monetary Conference luncheon in San Francisco, expressed optimism that a budget agreement could be reached between Congress and the Bush Adminstration that would reduce interest rates.
Currency dealers said the effect of Mr. Brady's remarks was exaggerated because of the market's low liquidity. Markets in continental Europe were closed; of the European markets, only those in London were open.
''For the most part, it was a very quiet, dull day, with the dollar stuck in a narrow range,'' said Bob Morrissey, senior currency trader at the Bank of Boston's office in New York.
Attention was generally focused on trading between the dollar and West German mark. Speculation about possible intervention by West Germany's central bank to prop up the mark restrained the dollar. In New York, the dollar closed at 1.6905 marks, down from 1.6985.
The dollar rose against the Japanese yen. But dealers in New York and London said the gains reflected momentum from Asian buying rather than a fundamental improvement in sentiment toward the dollar. In New York, the dollar ended at 152.65 yen, up from 151.85 on Friday.
The dollar's trading day began in Tokyo with a gain of 0.25 Japanese yen, to a closing level of 152.42 yen. Later, in London, the dollar was quoted at 152.65 yen.
Weakness in the British pound favored the dollar. A pound fetched $1.6745 late in the day in London, down from $1.6840 late Friday. The pound lost strength in New York, falling to $1.6770, from $1.6810 on Friday.
Selected late dollar rates in New York, compared with those of late Friday, included: 1.4340 Swiss francs, down from 1.4375; 5.696 French francs, down from 5.7295; 1,243.00 Italian lire, down from 1,250.375, and 1.17475 Canadian dollars, up from 1.17465.
Other late dollar rates in London, compared with late Friday's levels were: 1.6940 West German marks, unchanged; 1.4390 Swiss francs, up from 1.4358; 5.7080 French francs, down from 5.7180; 1,245.50 Italian lire, down from 1,247.25; 1.9068 Dutch guilders, down from 1.9073, and 1.1763 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1728.
Gold prices declined. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, an ounce of gold for June delivery edged down 60 cents, to $358.60. The Republic National Bank quoted a late bid of $357.40 for gold bullion, $1.35 lower than on Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); CANADA (92%); JAPAN (91%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (50%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (50%); 

PERSON: NICHOLAS F BRADY (89%); 



161 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Confidence Index Slips

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Consumers were slightly less confident about the economy in May than in the previous month, according to a monthly survey released yesterday by the Conference Board.
The business research group's index of consumer confidence stood at 106.7 in May, down from 107.3 in April. Consumers' opinions of current conditions fell slightly, while expectations for the future were virtually the same.
The index is considered an important barometer of spending behavior; consumer spending accounts for much of the economic activity in the United States.
About 23 percent of the survey participants believed business conditions were good, while 20 percent said they were bad. The percentages are down slightly from April, as is consumer opinion on the availability of jobs.
More than 18 percent expect business conditions to improve in the next six months, while 10 percent fear they will worsen. The figures are virtually the same as those for April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD INC (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); 



162 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Booksellers Mixed on Fall Outlook

BYLINE: By EDWIN MCDOWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nev., June 4

 BODY:
The annual convention of the American Booksellers Association is as much a pep rally for publishers as an occasion to show off their wares for the fall. So it is understandable that many publishers exude optimism despite what others say are troubling times.
''Our industry is still sluggish, and the consumer doesn't seem to be coming into the stores the way we would like,'' said Alberto Vitale, the chairman and chief executive of Random House Inc.
But Mr. Vitale predicted that Random House's fall book list, including the works of its subsidiaries and imprints, would bring buyers into the stores. Other publishers and booksellers agree that this fall's lineup of books by name authors is one of the strongest in memory. 
 
Many Noted Authors
From just Alfred A. Knopf, a Random House subsidiary, those authors include John Updike, Anne Rice, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Tom Peters and Jacobo Timerman.
The Random House imprint includes a long-awaited novel from Norman Mailer; nonfiction from William Styron, and another book from Donald J. Trump, the New York developer, as well as a novel and a nonfiction work by William F. Buckley Jr. And Crown, another Random imprint, plans a first printing of at least a million copies of ''The Plains of Passage,'' a novel by Jean Auel.
Works will also be published this fall by Stephen King for Viking; Sidney Sheldon for William Morrow & Company; Larry McMurtry and Jackie Collins, each for Simon & Schuster; Dick Francis and Dean R. Koontz, both for G. P. Putnam; Mario Vargas Llosa for Farrar, Straus & Giroux; Cleveland Amory for Little, Brown; Elmore Leonard and Belva Plain, each for Delacorte; Len Deighton for Bessie/HarperCollins; James Herriot for St. Martin's Press; Victoria Holt for Doubleday, and Andrew Greeley for Warner Books.
Gary P. DelVecchio, president of Doubleday's 41 book shops, agrees that the lists are impressive. ''But the big uncertainty is the national economy,'' he warned. He said he was nervous that many of the novels would cost $22.95, up to $3 more than current prices for fiction.
But the immediate outlook for booksellers is for continued good health, with retail sales being projected at $7.2 billion this year, up from $6.6 billion in 1989, according to William Lofquist, a specialist in book sales for the Commerce Department.
Bernard Rath, the association's executive director, said during the four-day event that so many people wanted to open bookstores that the association's 4,700 membership could double during the 1990's.
More than 6,200 booksellers are attending the convention, the largest book event in the English language, which ends on Tuesday night.
Many delegates who were apprehensive about coming to Las Vegas, in part because they regard its get-rich-quick values as fundamentally antithetical to those of the book industry, quickly came to terms with this desert city.
''I was opposed to holding the convention here, but I've changed my mind,'' said Liv Blumer, the director of subsidiary rights for Warner Books. ''The city is tacky, but it's magnificently tacky.'' 606,000 Square Feet Most exhibitors are also happy with the Convention Center and its 606,000-square-foot exhibit hall. ''With almost all the exhibits on one floor, it's a good place for a convention,'' said Steven J. Mason, the president of the Ingram Book Company, a large book distributor based in Nashville.
The 1,400 exhibitors include suppliers to the book industry, as well as companies that sell books on audio tape and videocassette. Also registered are many representatives of television, radio and film, who prowl the aisles looking for authors and for books to option.
Foreign publishers are here in greater numbers than ever. More than 100 booths display books from Spain, France, Argentina, Hungary, Colombia, Mexico and other nations. British, Canadian and Australian publishers are here in force, while three Soviet publishers and two Soviet booksellers are guests of the booksellers association and the Association of American Publishers, another industry group.
''The overall costs of attending have increased astronomically,'' said Morton Mint, the chief executive of Penguin U.S.A. ''But we still find it very valuable from a corporate point of view.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: RANDOM HOUSE INC (85%); WILLIAM MORROW & CO INC (66%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (54%); GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (53%); AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BOOKSELLER ASSN AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION; 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; FORECASTS; BOOK TRADE BOOKSTORES (93%); PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (89%); LITERATURE (78%); RETAIL SALES (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN STEPHEN KING (55%); DONALD TRUMP (51%); 



163 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 30, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Jack Gilford, Actor, Dead at 81; Veteran of Stage, Screen and TV

BYLINE: By PETER B. FLINT

 BODY:
Jack Gilford, the actor and comedian whose malleable face, rapier wit and buoyant manner energized scores of plays, films and television shows, died of stomach cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years old.
Mr. Gilford grew up in Brooklyn, learned acting by studying silent films and entering amateur contests, and gained stamina and staying power in nightclubs.
On the stage and screen, he matched barbs with a fellow Roman slave (Zero Mostel) and neatly executed a turn in drag in ''A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum.'' Also on Broadway, he slyly and elegantly romanced Lotte Lenya in ''Cabaret.'' He was nominated for Tony Awards for those two plays. 
Other stage roles were in ''Meet the People'' (1940), ''The Diary of Anne Frank'' (1955), ''Romanoff and Juliet'' (1957), ''Once Upon a Mattress'' (1959), ''The Tenth Man'' (1959), ''No, No, Nanette'' (1971) and ''Sly Fox'' (1976).
In films, he battled American materialism with Jack Lemmon in ''Save the Tiger'' in 1973, receiving an Oscar nomination as best supporting actor. His other films included ''Enter Laughing'' (1967), ''Catch 22'' (1970), ''Harry and Walter Go to New York'' (1976) and ''Cocoon'' (1985).
Television appearances included ''The Defenders,'' ''All in the Family,'' ''Rhoda,'' ''Soap,'' ''The Love Boat'' and, on cable in 1982, ''The Very Special Jack Gilford Special.''
 
From Commercials to Opera
The actor was also a long-trusted television guest in American households as a purveyor of Cracker Jack and a frequent favorite of opera devotees for his nonsinging appearances as Frosch, the besotted jailer, in the Metropolitan Opera's widely popular ''Fledermaus.''
He made his Met debut in 1950 and also played a solo act at the Palace Theater the same year, observing that ''there are not many people who played the Met and the Palace in the same year.''
Cabaret ''is the most difficult performing art,'' he tolf an interviewer. ''Audiences drink, chat and dance. You may become an intrusion. It's a constant struggle, and if you're rejected, you're standing there all alone.''
The actor, whose original name was Jacob Gellman, was born on July 25, 1907, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan to an immigrant Jewish couple, Aaron, a furrier, and the former Sophie Jackness. They divorced when he was a child, and his mother moved to the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn and made a living by bootlegging.
''She made whisky in the kitchen and sold it by the gallon,'' Mr. Gilford said. ''It probably wasn't too bad because even after repeal, customers still came to buy because they trusted it. She got arrested a couple of times and told us it wasn't she, but Prohibition, that was bad.''
Mr. Gilford's acting career began with mimicry. ''I would do people of my time, John D. Rockefeller Sr., Jimmy Walker, Calvin Coolidge,'' he said. ''I was very influenced by silent movies, particularly Laurel and Hardy, even before they were partners.''
In 1939, Barney Josephson invited him to perform in his new Manhattan club, Cafe Society, which soon became a legend. ''You could stand at the bar, nurse a beer all night and see the best talents in town,'' he recalled.
''It was the first place to let Negroes sit down at tables below 110th Street. Hazel Scott was the lull pianist between acts. A young girl named Helena Horne was the singer before she changed her name to Lena. Billie Holiday was there, too.''
 
Unemployed in the Blacklist
The low point in Mr. Gilford's career occurred in the blacklisting period after World War II. ''One day the phone just stopped ringing,'' he said, ''and I wasn't able to do films or TV for 10 years.'' He generally refused to discuss that period, though in 1956, in a hearing before a subcomittee of the House Committee on Un-American Activities, he invoked the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer questions as to whether he had ever been a Communist. As late as 1967, he said, ''Some performers still can't get jobs.''
His first dramatic role, in ''The World of Sholom Aleichem'' in 1953, which was revived on Broadway in 1982, had a single line, which stunned audiences and became associated with him for years. His long-suffering, silent character, told in heaven that he can ask for anything, replies, ''In that case, if it's true, could I have, please, every day, a hot roll with butter?''
The actor's routines include a day in the life of a golf ball, an impression of a surrealistic movie, pea soup coming to a slow boil, a conductor afflicted by an errant clarinetist and a drowsy subway rider struggling not to sleep past his station. His performances consistently earned acclaim, with Frank Rich of The New York Times concluding in 1982 that ''no Broadway season should lack Jack Gilford.''
Surviving are his wife, Madeline Lee, a producer and actress; a daughter, Lisa, of Denver, who is the Colorado state chairman of films; two sons, Sam, an actor and jazz anthologist, of Montague, Mass., and Joe, an actor and director, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
A funeral service will be private, and a memorial service will be scheduled later.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 6, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An obituary yesterday about Jack Gilford, the actor and comedian, misstated his age. He was 82, not 81.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Gilford

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (56%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ACTORS & ACTRESSES (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); OPERA (85%); CELEBRITIES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); FILM (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (73%); CANCER (73%); THEATER (58%); WILD CATS (51%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (50%); 

PERSON: GILFORD, JACK; FLINT, PETER B MICHAEL MCMAHON (61%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (61%); 



164 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: EVOLUTION IN EUROPE;
BUSH GAINS TIME AS MOSCOW DELAYS LAW ON EMIGRATION

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5

 BODY:
A conflict between the White House and Congress over the trade accord signed at the Washington summit meeting was averted today when the Soviet Parliament said it would probably not take up a new law permitting unfettered emigration until September.
Because passage of the Soviet law is a condition for expanding trade ties with Moscow, the White House said today that President Bush would not submit the accord that he signed on Friday with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev to the Senate until September at the earliest, assuming that the Soviet legislature, the Supreme Soviet, acted then.
 
Political Breathing Space
The likely delay will give the White House political breathing space to shore up support for the trade agreement. Presidential aides greeted the news from Moscow with obvious relief. 
As the results of the summit meeting were tallied, Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze of the Soviet Union announced today at a meeting of foreign ministers in Copenhagen that the Soviet Union would withdraw a small number of its short-range nuclear weapons from Central Europe. Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d lost little time in dismissing the military significance of the Shevardnadze announcement. [Page A10.] Soviet officials said the decision to postpone the vote on the emigration bill could conceivably be changed, but the legislation was not on the agenda of the Parliament's current session, which ends on June 14. The Parliament does not convene again until September.
On the trade treaty, some American officials said the Administration was aware before it signed the accord that the Soviet Union, which delayed passage of the emigration bill before, could well do so again. That would give Mr. Bush time to deal with Congressional opposition to the treaty.
But Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said this consideration ''didn't have any influence'' on Mr. Bush, who he said had ''no idea'' beforehand that the vote would be delayed until September. ''We didn't have any indication of a timetable,'' he said. ''We assumed it was totally unpredictable, just like our own Congress.''
At a meeting today with Congressional leaders, Mr. Bush defended his decision to sign the trade treaty. He has been criticized by some lawmakers for not linking the signing of the treaty to a resolution of Moscow's struggle with Lithuania over its declaration of independence. Senator George J. Mitchell, the majority leader, accused Mr. Bush of ''abandoning Lithuania.''
Several of the lawmakers who met with Mr. Bush said they warned him that the treaty would not go through the Senate as long as Moscow's dispute with Lithuania was in a stalemate.
''Even after they codify their emigration practices, if the Lithuania or Baltic problem is not resolved, then I think it will become a matter of great concern in the Congress,'' said Senator Bob Dole, the minority leader.
Administration officials said they saw the Soviet Parliament's action today as a temporary reprieve from the political battle over the trade agreement and expressed hope that Mr. Gorbachev might be able to make progress toward resolving the Baltic dispute by the time the Soviet Parliament votes on the new emigration law.
The news today from Moscow on the Parliament's agenda was the latest twist in the tortuous history of the treaty, which sets rules for Soviet-American commerce, establishes protections for American companies doing business in Moscow and would increase the volume of trade by leading to the lifting of longstanding barriers, including higher tariffs and restrictions on Soviet access to American financial markets.
Officials said that Mr. Bush warned Mr. Gorbachev five weeks ago in a letter that the proposed treaty was a political land mine because Congress was unlikely to approve it without a resolution of the Lithuanian situation or at least a lifting of Moscow's economic sanctions against the Baltic republic and the start of negotiations. The sanctions were imposed after Lithuania declared independence on March 11.
 
An Implied Warning
The letter's implied warning that no trade agreement would be signed at the Washington summit meeting was made explicit just before Mr. Gorbachev arrived, the officials said. Aleksandr A. Bessmertnykh, the Soviet Ambassador to Washington, was told last Wednesday that the treaty would not be among the documents Mr. Bush was willing to approve at a signing ceremony with Mr. Gorbachev that was scheduled for Friday, an official said.
But there were sentiments within the Administration that the treaty should be signed, and even as Mr. Bessmertnykh was given the warning, the Administration was considering the option that was finally adopted - signing the treaty but holding up Senate consideration until the new emigration law was adopted, officials said.
''There was a sense that not to sign it at all would be a rebuke to Gorbachev at a time when we are trying not to show a loss of support for perestroika,'' an official said. Then, over two days of talks with Mr. Bush, Mr. Gorbachev made the trade agreement a personal issue between the Presidents, officials said.
Members of the Soviet delegation threatened, meanwhile, to scuttle a long-term grain agreement if the overall trade accord were not signed, officials said.
Mr. Fitzwater said of the delay of the emigration law: ''That may not be bad in the sense of it gives them a little time'' to work out the Lithuanian dispute and issues related to emigration. These include Mr. Gorbachev's suggestion that he might consider delaying Soviet Jews' emigration visas unless Israel guarantees that they will not settle in the occupied territories.
Mr. Fitzwater said Mr. Gorbachev's warning is ''contrary to our policy'' and added that Mr. Bush told Mr. Gorbachev that the United States wanted to see unfettered Jewish emigration.
During a discussion on human rights, Mr. Bush also expressed concern about what he perceived as rising anti-Semitism in the Soviet Union, officials said. He suggested that both leaders ''speak out against it,'' Mr. Fitzwater said.
''President Gorbachev said he would look for an opportunity to do that, but that was it,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); LITHUANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: SOVIET PARLIAMENT (83%); WHITE HOUSE&CONGRESS (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; TREATIES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; JEWS TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (54%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (79%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 



165 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3127 words

HEADLINE: THE SAVINGS DEBACLE: A SPECIAL REPORT:
A Financial Disaster With Many Culprits

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5

 BODY:
The cost, which seems to mount daily, will stretch out for decades. By one current measurement, paying for the collapse of the savings and loan industry could cost American taxpayers as much as $500 billion, or about $5,000 for every household.
It is easily the biggest disaster in public finance since the Depression. Yet even though billions of dollars in precious resources were squandered in the last decade and even though the money required to undo the damage will make less available for schools, drug control and other services, the political cost of the savings crisis seems to be slight. So many politicians are to blame that few are left to point fingers.
 
Warnings Ignored
The warnings from this growing disaster were ignored in Washington for more than a decade. Yet today, polls show, most Americans do not seem to hold the Government responsible. 
Many experts believe that vigorous Government action as late as six or seven years ago might have held the savings and loan losses to $25 billion or less, an enormous sum but tiny compared with the current projections. Instead, the Government played down the problem and the losses grew and grew.
Unlike Watergate, which cost Richard M. Nixon his presidency, or Iran-contra, which shook the Reagan Administration, the collapse of the savings and loans was not the product of adventurers operating outside normal bounds. The huge debacle was rooted in politics as usual and nourished by the prevailing political and economic philosophies of the 1980's.
''This is a huge scandal,'' said Charles A. Bowsher, the Comptroller General, ''and to a large extent it was allowed to grow because of the way this town does business.''
The Carter, Reagan and Bush Administrations, eager to avoid bad economic news or measures that would throw budgets further out of balance, ignored the problem or vastly underestimated the expense of solving it. They were never taken to task by their opponents. The savings crisis was too complicated for a catchy slogan or a television sound bite.
Many of the most powerful people in Congress were blinded by friendships with savings and loan executives at home and their quest for campaign donations from an industry that had deep pockets.
Government regulatory agencies were understaffed and ill equipped. Little pressure was put on the examiners to get tough, the notion being in vogue that the Government should let the free market take its course. Yet free market principles did not apply. The Government bore most of the financial risk.
The savings and loan industry, established more than a century ago to provide home mortgages, could not cope with the relaxed regulation and the high finance of the 1980's.
Many savings and loans used the new freedoms to offer high interest rates to attract deposits and then tried to earn hefty profits with risky loans and investments, especially in real estate. Some savings and loans were run by rogues, others by incompetents. Their deals - sometimes shady, sometimes merely chancy - often went sour. Yet the savings and loan executives were not at risk. The Government was because the deposits were federally insured. So the taxpayers were left holding the bag.
Because so much money was poured into bad loans and worthless property, the United States economy has grown less, interest rates are higher, fewer people are employed, tax revenues are lower and the prospect of recession is greater. And in the years ahead, the Government will have to borrow heavily to make good on its promise to depositors.
In the end, nearly half the savings and loans may fail, and the industry itself may be extinct by the turn of the century.
How big is the problem? How did it come about? Who is at fault? What follows, in broad terms, are the answers to those questions.
 
The Cost
 
Rapid Increases In the Estimates
Last month, Nicholas F. Brady, the Secretary of the Treasury, testified that based on new projections, more than 1,000 savings associations, about 40 percent of the industry, might eventually have to be seized, at a cost to the Government of at least $89 billion and possibly as much as $130 billion. That is calculated at ''present value'' - the cost if a check were written today. It comes to roughly $1,300 for each American household.
An outside expert, Prof. Edwin W. Hill of Cleveland State University, puts the present value between $159 billion and $203 billion.
But the bill will be paid with borrowed funds. Mr. Bowsher told Congress this spring that including interest payments, the bailout would cost at least $325 billion, probably much more and possibly as much as $500 billion in the next 40 years, or $5,000 for each American household.
The projections have grown rapidly. Estimates of how many savings and loans will fail increase almost daily. The interest payments the Government must make on bonds to finance the bailout keeps rising. The value of the assets the Government can sell continues to fall. And the income the Government receives in deposit insurance premiums from healthy institutions is lagging.
Economists who have studied the savings and loan debacle say three points must be kept in mind:
* The Government has no choice but to pay what it takes to clean up the situation. Every penny will go to pay off insured depositors or to reduce what must be paid to them. Nothing will be paid to the investors.
* The biggest cost to the economy has already taken place. ''The money has already gone out the window,'' said Benjamin M. Friedman, professor of political economy at Harvard. ''It went into fraud and graft and empty office buildings.''
* The large amount of borrowing the Government must now assume to meet the savings and loan obligations is less damaging to the economy than other kinds of borrowing would be. Borrowing to build bombers or finance education reduces the amount of national savings dollar for dollar. That money is spent, and raises interest rates by reducing the amount available for lending. Almost all of the money borrowed to pay off the savings depositors will go right back into savings accounts in other institutions.
How the bailout will affect the budget deficit as measured by the Gramm-Rudman- Hollings law on balancing the budget is more complicated.
That is because the liquidation of failed savings institutions and the sale of their assets do not necessarily occur in the same fiscal year, making the deficit artificially high some in years and artificially low in others. President Bush and Congress are talking now about removing these transactions from the Gramm-Rudman calculations.
 
Fraud
 
Phony Appraisals And Kickbacks
Some savings and loans were swept under by an economic tide not of their making. But many were drowned by greedy, unscrupulous and sometimes fraudulent operators.
L. William Seidman, who is in charge of the day-to-day management of the cleanup, said that fraud had been found in 60 percent of the failed savings institutions and that in half of those, it had been the main element in the institution's demise. Phony appraisals, self-dealing, loans to family and associates, kickbacks and payoffs were rife.
The Bush Administration wants to prosecute such operators aggressively, but fraud is difficult to prove in court. ''Often truckloads of documents are involved,'' William S. Sessions, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, told Congress in April.
Even worse, ''there is a difficult dividing line between what is mismanagement and what is criminal fraud,'' said Laurence A. Urgenson, head of the fraud section of the criminal division of the Justice Department. ''Merely proving someone is acting imprudently and improperly is not enough to get a conviction.''
 
The Origins
 
Simple Business, Low in Risks
One direct cause of the crisis was the Government deposit insurance that has been part of the American social contract since the New Deal.
It permitted depositors to seek the highest possible interest rates without worrying about the soundness of the institutions and it enabled savings institutions, no matter how sick, to pull in deposits and risk that money with long odds against them, knowing that the Government stood to be the big loser.
But the roots of the savings and loan associations themselves, and their first cousins, mutual savings banks and building and loan societies, go back to the 19th century. Commercial banks had little desire for small deposits and even less for long-term loans. But Americans wanted to own their homes. Savings institutions - small businesses, sometimes little more than storefronts, often family-owned or owned mutually by the depositors themselves - accepted modest deposits and lent the money out in long-term home mortgages.
Nearly 40 percent of the nation's commercial banks failed in the Depression, wiping out millions of depositors. Savings and loan associations, with their conservative lending practices and close ties to their communities, weathered the storm. Of the 12,000 in 1930, fewer than 5 percent failed.
Franklin D. Roosevelt, who opposed to deposit insurance lest it ''put a premium on unsound banking,'' was powerless against the prevailing view that deposit insurance alone could prevent runs on banks. Early in his Presidency, he signed laws guaranteeing that Government insurance would cover up to $5,000 in bank and savings deposits. The ceiling was increased periodically over the years to keep pace with inflation.
By 1960, nearly two-thirds of American families owned their homes, the highest percentage of any large country. To encourage deposits, the rate of interest savings institutions paid was fixed by Washington at a quarter of a percentage point or a half-point above what banks were permitted to pay.
The savings associations were as much an element of a social policy to encourage home ownership as they were a commercial enterprise, and they were nutured by the American dream. It was a simple, low-risk business. The Federal Home Loan Bank Board had a dual statutory purpose: to regulate the industry and to promote it. Savings and loan executives lived by the 3-6-3 rule - pay 3 percent on deposits, charge 6 percent on mortgage loans and tee off on the golf course at 3 o'clock.
 
The Squeeze
 
A Sudden Bulge In Interest Rates
In the late 1970's, the Federal Reserve's action to curb runaway inflation pushed short-term interest rates as high as 20 percent. Tens of billions of dollars were withdrawn from savings institutions and placed in Treasury securities, the new money market funds and other financial instruments that paid much higher rates of interest.
By the early 1980's, more than two-thirds of the savings industry, stuck with long-term, low-rate mortgages and a shrinking deposit base, was technically insolvent. Nearly all savings institutions were unprofitable.
A 1980 law increased the ceiling on deposit insurance to $100,000 from $40,000, expanded the savings and loans' authority to make consumer loans and started to phase out the limit on interest rates that could paid. But the flow of money out of savings accounts persisted.
In 1982, Congress permitted savings institutions to make unsecured business loans and to invest large amounts in commercial real estate.
By 1983 a recession brought inflation and so interest rates back to a relatively normal level. At this point, in the view of many scholars, the savings industry could have regained its health - had most executives been prudent and the Federal regulators tough.
 
Bad Loans
 
A Recipe For Disaster
But the oil boom in Texas, the get-rich-quick atmosphere on Wall Street, the Reagan Administration's philosophy of keeping business free of government intrusion and lawmakers' need for money to run their ever-more-expensive campaigns laid the groundwork for disaster.
Deposit insurance permitted brokers to take $1 million of investments, divide it into blocks of $100,000, and put the money wherever they could get the highest interest rate. New computer and telecommunications technology allowed this money to be moved around the country readily.
Street-corner institutions with no experience in big-time finance competed for jumbo deposits. Many doubled and tripled their deposits in months.
''Someone at the time should have said this is ludicrous; no one in finance has ever been able to grow like this and stay alive,'' said William Taylor, the chief banking regulator at the Federal Reserve, who is in line to take over management of the Government's bailout effort from Mr. Seidman.
With little of their own capital invested, savings and loan owners speculated in risky investments like ''junk bonds,'' office buildings and land development seeking the high returns they needed to pay the high rates they offered on deposits. Some were honest gamblers. But many cooked their books, made insider deals with friends and family members and paid and took kickbacks. Some used the new deposits to support opulent living.
In 1986, the bottom fell out of the oil market, and land and real estate prices, especially in the Southwest, began to plunge. The junk bond market turned sour. Many owners of savings and loan associations quickly lost their own stake in the business.
''They were like guys who had lost all their chips in a poker game and were desperate to recoup their losses,'' said Mr. Bowsher, the Government's chief auditor. The difference, Mr. Bowsher added, was that it was the Government that bore the risk of losing the pot because it was responsible for the deposits.
By 1987, the savings and loan industry had a net loss of $6 billion. The figure rose to $11 billion in 1988 and $20 billion in 1989.
 
The Blame
 
A Wide Range Of Choices
In the savings and loan scandal, there is no Richard M. Nixon or John N. Mitchell, no Ivan F. Boesky or Michael R. Milken, no Oliver L. North or John M. Poindexter. No single person bears the brunt of the blame. Many people and groups of people were at fault. Here are some of them: Congress As the crisis developed, Congress seemed to be in the pocket of the savings and loan industry, passing laws the lobbyists wanted, tying up bills they opposed, and hectoring regulators relentlessly to ease up.
How did the savings industry gain so much political influence?
Partly, no doubt, because of campaign contributions and personal favors.
The so-called Keating Five - Senators Alan Cranston of California, Dennis DeConcini of Arizona, John Glenn or Ohio and Donald W. Riegle of Michigan, all Democrats, and John McCain of Arizona, a Republican -intervened with regulators on behalf of Charles H. Keating Jr. after he gave them $1.3 million in contributions.
Representatives Jim Wright of Texas, the Speaker of the House, and Tony Coelho of California, the majority whip, were forced from office last year in part because of questionable dealings with savings officials. Fernand J. St Germain, the Rhode Island Democrat who had been chairman of the House Banking Committee, lost his seat in 1988 largely because of gifts from industry lobbyists.
But money was only a small part of the close relationship.
Senator David H. Pryor, an Arkansas Democrat who sits on the Ethics Committee, explained it this way: ''You've got to remember that each community has a savings and loan; some have two; some have four, and each of them has seven or eight board members. They own the Chevy dealership and the shoe store. And when we saw these people, we said, gosh, these are the people who are building the homes for people, these are the people who represent a dream that has worked in this country.''
 
The Reagan Administration
In eight years in office Ronald Reagan never addressed the growing savings and loan crisis publicly. David A. Stockman, his first budget director, and Donald T. Regan, first Treasury Secretary and later White House chief of staff, pressed for less Government supervision, repeatedly rejecting requests to give the savings examiners more money and staff.
''I think the Administration played ostrich right through 1988,'' said Mr. Bowsher, who was nominated by President Reagan to be Comptroller General in 1981 and confirmed by the Senate for a 15-year term. ''They didn't want the problem to be recognized until after Reagan left town.''
 
The Regulators
The Federal Home Loan Bank Board, the regulator of the savings and loan associations in the 1980's, was not up to the job.
That was in part because the industry had not required much supervision until then, and in part because they were hamstrung by the politicians. But for the most part, it was because they were tied so closely to the industry they were also responsible for promoting.
''The regulators were closer to the regulated than in any other industry in America,'' said John G. Heimann, vice chairman of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets and a former Comptroller of the Currency.
As late as 1987, officials at the bank board accepted the industry position that the problem could be grown out of. Savings banks, supervised by independent commercial bank regulators, had limits placed on their growth and strict requirements for capital reserves and accounting. They survived mostly intact.
 
Lobbyists
Within industry circles, people content with the familar business of making mortgage loans were overwhelmed by the high-rollers.
The chief lobby, the United States League of Savings Institutions, fought for ''forbearance,'' meaning waivers of normal supervisory rules that might have protected much of the industry.
The league, said Herbert M. Sandler, chairman of the highly profitable World Savings and Loan Association in Oakland, Calif., and an advocate of stricter regulatory procedures, ''was willing to risk 80 percent of the industry to save 20 percent from going under.''
 
The Future
 
Dismantling An Industry
The new regulatory structure provided by last year's Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act has had a rocky start, with policy mistakes and personnel conflicts, and the cleanup's ambitious plans are fraught with danger. It is not clear how many investors are prepared to take over the failed institutions or how much the Government will have to pay them to do so. The Government is also being pressed by real estate interests and some lawmakers to keep the asking price of its real estate high to prevent local markets from being driven down.
In any case, hundreds of institutions remain to be liquidated and many billions of dollars of property remain to be disposed of. Most Government officials and industry executives agree that a distinct savings and loan industry will not exist 10 years from now.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 25, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day last Wednesday about the savings and loan failures misstated the political setting in which Congress increased deposit insurance for each account to $100,000, from $40,000. The change was made in 1980, when both houses of Congress were controlled by Democrats, not just the House of Representatives.

GRAPHIC: graph: profits and loses of savings and loans institutions (Source: Office of Thrift Supervision) (pg. A1); drawings (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (61%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY SAVINGS & LOANS (92%); BANK FAILURES (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); SCANDALS (64%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (55%); JIMMY CARTER (55%); 



166 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: $85 Million for New York City Homeless Unspent

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
Two years after the New York State Legislature set aside $85 million to build permanent housing for homeless families in New York City, the Cuomo administration says it has grown impatient because the money has not been spent, and it is threatening to give some of it to suburban counties.
State and city housing officials blame one another for delays that have kept the money tied up. The state says the city was slow to provide abandoned buildings and vacant land on which to create new housing. Municipal housing officials say that they did offer sites but that state officials were not satisfied with the properties.
Now Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has proposed a change in state law that would make as much as $50 million of the $85 million available to Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester and Rockland Counties. City housing officials and some lawmakers vow to block the plan, which some officials said would make the housing agency headed by the Governor's son Andrew the main beneficiary. 
The dispute comes as the city is struggling to remove homeless families from emergency quarters in rundown welfare hotels and city shelters and when Federal subsidies for permanent, low-income housing have all but vanished. While the loss of some of the state money would not cripple the city's efforts, the angry debate between the city and state underscores the fierce competition for housing dollars and for political recognition.
Assemblyman Alexander B. Grannis, a Manhattan Democrat who is chairman of the Assembly Housing Committee, said Andrew Cuomo, through a nonprofit housing agency called HELP, which he operates, would be able to use some of the money that had been reserved for the city. Mr. Cuomo could finance housing projects for the homeless in Westchester and Suffolk Counties, the lawmaker said.
Mr. Grannis said his chief aide had been lobbied by an aide to Andrew Cuomo to support the change in the law proposed by the Cuomo administration.
Andrew Cuomo said he supported the effort to shift some of the money to the suburbs, but along with state housing officials, he denied that the state was motivated by a desire to aid his group.
''I happen to think the bill makes sense,'' he said. ''The money has been available for the homeless for two years, and it has not been utilized. The suburbs have a tremendous housing problem. If you have money appropriated and you have people sleeping on the streets in the suburbs, why not use it in the suburbs?''
He also noted that there were many more housing renovation and construction programs for the homeless in the city than in the suburbs.
 
Commitment to City Noted
Assemblyman Grannis, as committee chairman, introduced the bill for the Cuomo administration. But he said it ''is not going anywhere,'' because the money has been set aside solely for the city under a complex legislative agreement in 1988.
''This money was committed to the city,'' he said. ''It is going to stay in the city.''
Richard L. Higgins, Commissioner of the State Department of Housing and Community Renewal, said the state wanted to offer some of the money to the suburbs because of the city's ''general unwillingness to proceed expeditiously.''
''We made this money available,'' he said. ''If it wasn't going to be spent and buildings weren't going to be made available, there were other areas of the state where it was desperately needed.''
Mr. Higgins called Mr. Grannis's remarks about Andrew Cuomo ''a smokescreen for the city's problems on spending the money.''
The dispute centers on a compromise reached two years ago over how to spend $326 million in state surplus money on housing. The $85 million was reserved for the city under the legislative agreement, and $241 million was made available statewide for other low- and moderate-income housing programs.
 
One Project Approved
Only one organization has been approved so far to use the state money for permanent housing in the city - Mr. Cuomo's HELP. Construction is scheduled to begin next month on 150 new apartments in the East New York section of Brooklyn.
Another nonprofit group, the Coalition for the Homeless, has received preliminary approval to rebuild an abandoned building in East Harlem with 15 apartments. The state agency overseeing the housing program for the homeless, the Housing Finance Agency, has not yet approved this project, however.
In addition, bids were received last month for a contract to build housing on five different sites in the South Bronx and Harlem. A total of 320 apartments are to be built.
Together the first three projects would use $35 million of the $85 million state pool. The city matches each dollar spent by the state.
Mr. Higgins said the program had not moved more quickly because the city was slow to provide vacant land and abandoned buildings. He also said the city had prolonged the process by insisting that the sites be reviewed by local community boards.
 
Mix of Tenants Approved
There was also a lengthy debate over whether all of the apartments should go to the homeless, or whether the new buildings would remain more stable in the long run if they contained a mix of homeless and other families. The state, which insisted on a mix, ultimately prevailed.
Such difficulties ''highlight some things that just slowed down the program from our point of view,'' Mr. Higgins said.
But Mr. Grannis said state officials had insisted that the 1988 law required the city to provide sites to the state and to obtain approval from community boards and the Board of Estimate.
''It was written to make sure the city took all the heat for the siting decisions,'' Mr. Grannis said.
City officials said they had warned the state that most of the larger abandoned buildings in the city's inventory had already been assigned to developers and nonprofit groups under the city's own housing plans.
Only smaller buildings at less desirable locations were left, said city officials, who asserted that state officials were slow to understand that the city was not withholding more desirable sites from them.
 
State Inexperience Cited
Some municipal officials said another reason for delays was that the State Housing Finance Agency had never before developed low-income housing.
''We built thousands of units during that time, thousands,'' said Felice Michetti, Commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. ''That's why to say that the delays were our fault makes no sense.''
The city has overseen the completion of 4,300 new apartments in formerly abandoned buildings over the last four years, said Roz Post, a spokeswoman for the city housing department. A total of 15,000 more apartments are being built. About a third are for the homeless.
Mayor David N. Dinkins has said he will continue the city's housing efforts, which were begun by his predecessor, Edward I. Koch. As Manhattan Borough President and a member of the Board of Estimate, Mr. Dinkins voted to approve most housing initiatives undertaken by the Koch administration.
The state's development efforts have been modest by comparison. The most successful state effort, called the ''turnkey'' program, has spent $128 million of the surplus money in the last two years to build or completely renovate low- and moderate-income housing. Eleven projects are being built, with 121 units completed. Construction is scheduled to start by September on 11 projects. Overall, nearly 1,200 apartments are to be created.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); ROCKLAND COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); HOUSING HOMELESSNESS (92%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (91%); COUNTIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); SUBURBS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATION (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); LOBBYING (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); CUOMO, ANDREW M ANDREW CUOMO (89%); 



167 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: SIHANOUK WIDENS KHMER ROUGE RIFT

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 5

 BODY:
Responding to the concerns of his Western backers, Prince Norodom Sihanouk distanced himself further from the Communist Khmer Rouge today, signing a communique with Hun Sen, the Prime Minister of Cambodia, that the Khmer Rouge refused to support.
Speaking alongside his non-Communist ally, Son Sann, Prince Sihanouk said the two men and their followers would abide by the terms of the communique, even though their allies, the Khmer Rouge, would not do so.
The statement calls for the establishment of a Supreme National Council by the end of July to embody Cambodian sovereignty until new elections can be held and a new government formed.
The communique says the council will be made up of equal numbers of representatives from the two rival governments, as Mr. Hun Sen wishes - not of equal numbers from the four Cambodian factions, as the Khmer Rouge demands. 
 
'Voluntary Self-Restraint'
The communique also calls for ''voluntary self-restraint on the use of force'' - diplomatic language for a cease-fire that cannot be enforced -beginning on the first day that the Supreme National Council meets.
But Prince Sihanouk admitted at a news conference tonight that no cease-fire or lasting peace in Cambodia could be reached until the Khmer Rouge agreed to take part.
He also said the Supreme National Council would not truly be representative of Cambodian sovereignty until the Khmer Rouge took part.
''There will be no Khmer Rouge -they do not want to participate in the Supreme National Council at all,'' the Prince said. ''But in my opinion, the Supreme National Council will really be a symbol of sovereignty only on the day the Khmer Rouge join as full members. In order to have peace in Cambodia, we need to make peace with the Khmer Rouge. We must persuade the Khmer Rouge to join us inside the Supreme Council.''
 
Pressure Off Western Nations
But if the Prince and Mr. Son Sann do what they have now promised to do -form a Supreme National Council with Mr. Hun Sen even without the participation of the Khmer Rouge - it will enable the United Nations this fall to give Cambodia's seat there to the council, thereby further legitimizing Mr. Hun Sen and isolating the Khmer Rouge.
It would also take some of the pressure off the Bush Administration and other Western governments that have been increasingly criticized for indirectly supporting the Khmer Rouge by their support for the Prince and Mr. Son Sann.
Cambodia's seat is currently held by the Sihanouk coalition, which includes the Khmer Rouge, who were driven out of power when the Vietnamese invaded Cambodia in 1978. Under the Khmer Rouge, more than a million Cambodians were killed or died of starvation and disease during a brutal campaign of restructuring.
But as the Prince implied tonight, such an pact is likely to do little to end the war in Cambodia, the brunt of which is carried by the Khmer Rouge, and may intensify the fighting.
If they are cut out of any settlement, they will have little incentive to stop fighting, and Asian and European diplomats make clear that no country will agree to put international peacekeeping troops into Cambodia as long as the Khmer Rouge have not agreed in principle, at least, to lay down their arms.
 
Talks Turn Sour
Japanese officials started the two days of talks confidently, working from a draft text that the Thai Defense Minister, Gen. Chavalit Yongchaiyudh, had gotten all four factions to sign.
Japanese officials spoke of the meeting as a first venture into regional peacemaking since the end of World War II, and as a diplomatic exercise more commensurate with Japan's standing as a world economic power.
But what was envisaged as two days of negotiation between Mr. Hun Sen and Prince Sihanouk as the two leaders of rival sides quickly turned sour. The Khmer Rouge, scheduled to attend as part of the Prince's delegation, boycotted the first meeting on Monday, which adjourned after 25 minutes.
The bipartite negotiations never resumed. Although General Chavalit and Japanese officials shuttled among the factions, they spent most of their time in conversation with the Khmer Rouge and the Sihanouk side. Officials with Mr. Hun Sen said there was little for them to do but wait.
 
Japanese 'Very Annoyed'
A joint Hun Sen-Sihanouk news conference turned into separate ones, and then it was announced that Mr. Hun Sen would not speak this evening after all. Throughout, Japanese officials tried to keep smiles on their faces, although one official said the Japanese were ''very annoyed'' with the Cambodians, the Khmer Rouge in particular.
In the end, what Prince Sihanouk and Mr. Hun Sen signed tonight was a communique little different from the one that the four factions initialed last month.
But the real importance of the meeting here is likely to be the growing isolation of the Khmer Rouge within a diplomatic process that is accelerating, and that is treating Mr. Hun Sen with much more respect than before.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prince Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia, left, with Prime Minister Hun Sen after they signed a communique yesterday in Tokyo. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (99%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: KHMER ROUGE (98%); SUPREME NATIONAL COUNCIL (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: KHMER ROUGE (CAMBODIA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAMBODIA

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); GENOCIDE (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); STARVATION (60%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; HUN SEN (PRIME MIN); NORODOM SIHANOUK (PRINCE) NORODOM SIHANOUK (95%); HUN SEN (94%); 



168 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: No Rush on Ties to Seoul, Moscow Says

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 5

 BODY:
The Soviet Union reacted with reserve today to suggestions that it might soon establish diplomatic relations with South Korea in the wake of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's meeting with President Roh Tae Woo.
After the meeting on Monday in San Francisco, at the end of Mr. Gorbachev's trip to the United States, Mr. Roh said at a news conference that ''normal bilateral relations will be restored,'' but did not give a timetable.
Soviet news reports did not contradict his assertion but put the possibility of formal relations in the context of a general improvement in the region and between the two Koreas.
Mr. Gorbachev was quoted by Tass, the official press agency, as saying that diplomatic relations ''may arise as bilateral ties develop and in the context of the general improvement of the political situation in the region and on the Korean Peninsula.'' 
The meeting with the Korean leader was reported in a brief front-page article today in Izvestia, the Government newspaper. The article said the question of diplomatic relations can be raised as ties develop and the political situation improves on the Korean Peninsula.
 
No Abandonment of North Korea
A later analysis by Tass stressed that ''political dialogue with other countries in no way means that we give up our principled positions and priorities or forgo the interests of third parties,'' a clear allusion to North Korea.
North Korea, which expressed concern when reports of the scheduled meeting first appeared, has not issued any official reaction to Mr. Gorbachev's meeting with Mr. Roh.
South Korean officials have hailed the meeting, with some predicting that diplomatic ties might be established in the second half of this year.
In his own comments after the meeting, Mr. Gorbachev did not refer to diplomatic ties, saying, ''We have commercial ties and that is why we decided to meet with him.''
The Tass analysis took a skeptical tone toward Western news reports, saying they portrayed the San Francisco meeting as a ''political sensation'' that ''supposedly marks 'drastic changes' in the U.S.S.R.'s Asian policy.''
While stressing Moscow's sensitivity to relations with North Korea, the Tass analysis also conceded ''the removal of ideological blinkers from our foreign policy'' in Mr.Gorbachev's search for help for the troubled Soviet economy.
 
Reaction in South Korea
SEOUL, South Korea, June 5 (Special to The New York Times) - South Korean political leaders expressed satisfaction today over President Roh's meeting with President Gorbachev.
Choi Woon Sang, a senior foreign policy adviser to the opposition leader, Kim Dae Jung, said he hoped that the meeting would lead to the restoration of diplomatic relations between the two countries.
''But achievements in foreign affairs,'' he warned, ''will not affect in any way the problems we have here, such as labor problems and economic problems.''
Leftist dissident groups accused Mr. Roh and Mr. Gorbachev of helping permanently to divide the peninsula by effectively extending Soviet recognition to two independent Koreas. The dissident groups criticized the summit meeting as failing to present ''substantial measures'' for peace between South and North Korea. Radical students staged a few small, scattered demonstrations denouncing Roh's diplomacy.
The talks have also raised hopes of increased Soviet-South Korean trade. During the last week, the Soviets have announced nearly $30 million in new contracts with South Korean companies. Two-way trade between the countries doubled to $600 million last year and is expected to reach $1.1 billion this year. A report from a private economic institute released today said that trade is expected to reach $2 billion in two or three years.
The Soviets want increased trade and investment from the South Koreans while Seoul wants full diplomatic relations as a way to press the North Korean Government to lessen tensions in the region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH KOREA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); NORTH KOREA

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; ROH TAE WOO (PRES); CLINES, FRANCIS X ROH TAE WOO (92%); 



169 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: EVOLUTION IN EUROPE;
Gorbachev Returns to Duty As the Soviet Master of Spin

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 5

 BODY:
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev returned home today from his dual summit labors as chief Soviet negotiator and the nation's principal journalistic analyst of his own performance.
On nightly television news broadcasts, the Soviet leader indulged himself fully in the role of analyst and reviewer, enjoying one of the lingering perks of the old dictatorial order of the Kremlin.
There was none of the point-counterpoint coverage more familiar in Western news reports, as Mr. Gorbachev served as the nation's sole spin doctor, calmly and happily presenting glowing summaries of summit events at special televised interviews on Saturday and Sunday with the press feature syndicate Novosti and with the state television, broadcast in addition to the day's questions and answers.
He dominated the Saturday and Sunday night television reports on the main state-controlled evening news show, ''Vremya,'' with long monologue answers to reporters' questions, setting the tone and filtering the substance of most of the Soviet public's impression of the event. 
 
Gorbachev's Last Say
The printed press has followed suit, presenting dispatches loyal to his view, confirming that while democratization and dissent have begun in some parts of the nation's life, Mr. Gorbachev continues to have the last say in coloring major events.
''You have raised absolutely the right question,'' was a typical preamble of one of his answers to a question in a state television interview.
''Maybe you heard my speculations on this subject and that prompted your question,'' he said to the beaming state reporter as he began a drawn-out description of achievement that faced no danger of being shrunk on the air by sound-bite-minded news editors.
''I would call what happened in Camp David a big day,'' he began in answer to another night's stretch of virtually uninterrupted news time on ''Vremya.'' ''What was discussed there was discussed profoundly by all.''
There were a few new wrinkles in the Soviet coverage of this summit meeting, like the appearance with Mr. Gorbachev in one long interview of his Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze. Mr. Shevardnadze's main point to the respectfully delving questioner was to declare, ''I find it hard to add anything to what Mikhail Sergeyevich has said.''
The coverage included more conventionally objective summaries of events, including a brief account of Mr. Gorbachev's meeting on Monday night with President Roh Tae Woo of South Korea and the hopes for further progress. There were scant allusions by Soviet reporters to the economic and political problems on the boil here at home.
But one American diplomat whose duties included monitoring the full array of Soviet news accounts presented here concluded: ''Writing about international relations is still one of the final taboos of the Soviet media. The reporters still think with one brain.''
Even a rare touch of individual analysis that appeared amid the blanket of universally uncritical coverage was that of a combination cheerleader and patriot who wrote in the Soviet Government daily newspaper Izvestia, ''We all sighed with relief when it became clear the trade agreement was signed.''
 
'We Love You Gorby!'
''This time, Mikhail Sergeyevich reached President Bush with his sincerity, passion, drive and honesty,'' the Izvestia reporter confided to the reader back home.
The television-monitoring diplomat said that since Mr. Gorbachev always had the dominant say on the news, the public may be inured to the propaganda effects of his soliloquies.
In any case, the official said, ''Gorbachev's public image does not really matter as much for him here as President Bush's does back home, simply because the public does not matter as much here.'' Even so, the Soviet public could hardly resist the coverage of the crowd scenes in America, replete with shouts of ''We love you Gorby!''
In contrast to the television pictures, Soviet newspapers generally took a muted tone and avoided presenting the color of events as large separate stories in the manner of the Western press. Most front-page space, in fact, was devoted to summary dispatches and the texts of the Presidents' news conference on Sunday and to Mr. Gorbachev's separate showcase interviews on Saturday and Sunday nights.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mikhail S. Gorbachev speaking with Prime Minister Nikolai I. Ryzhkov, right, and Anatoly I. Lukyanov, chairman of the Supreme Soviet, as Mr. Gorbachev returned to Moscow yesterday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; CLINES, FRANCIS X MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (96%); 



170 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Minnesota Journal;
Savoring the Afterglow Of a World-Class Visit

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, June 5

 BODY:
Gov. Rudy Perpich sat in the Governor's mansion here today and recalled the exact moment Sunday when he asked Mikhail S. Gorbachev the question that every journalist, civic leader and politician in the state had been wondering about.
Why had the Soviet leader chosen to visit Minnesota, among all the states, after his summit meeting with President Bush?
''We had just gone into the drawing room for a family picture, and he went like this,'' said the Governor, jabbing his thumb toward his chest, in imitation of the Soviet President.
''My decision,'' was how Mr. Perpich interpreted the gesture. ''President Gorbachev said he was the one who chose to come, because he had always had such warm feelings about the state, as a result of business contacts over the years.'' 
This state is still basking in the afterglow left from Mr. Gorbachev's seven-hour sojourn, which brought out thousands of local residents in cold, rainy weather to catch a glimpse of his motorcade.
Everyone here has spent the last two days proclaiming the visit a boon to the state's future, even though the weather seemed only to underscore the old saw that Minnesota is a state with nine months of winter and three months of poor sledding.
But for all the civic pride, it is still not clear what tangible benefits, what new economic opportunities and business openings this state of four million people will reap.
''You know, perceptions are 90 percent of the game,'' the Governor said today. ''And I think a lot of people all over the world now have some pretty good impressions of Minnesota. Who knows what effect that might have on an executive thinking of relocating his staff?''
William H. Whyte, an urban sociologist from New York University, said events like the Gorbachev visit provided a kind of ''seal of certification'' to a lesser-known city or state, proof that it could play on a larger stage.
Among the nation's second tier of cities, places like Atlanta and Minneapolis-St. Paul and Denver, there is especially intense interest in being perceived as someplace other than just another provincial capital.
Roger Parkinson, publisher of The Star Tribune in Minneapolis, the man who led the volunteer committee that organized the Gorbachev visit, says the Twin Cities do not usually come to mind when people rattle off a list of great American cities.
But he thinks Minneapolis is now on the way. In July the city will be host to the United States Olympic Sports Festival, which will draw more than 3,000 athletes from around the country to compete in 37 events. And in January 1992 Minneapolis will be the site for the Super Bowl, making it just the second cold-weather city, after Detroit, to have the event.
Al Eisele, a former St. Paul journalist and Washington public relations specialist credited with a key role in arranging the Gorbachev visit, said the impressions from the trip would pay economic benefits back to the state over the long erm.
Not only does he believe that the visit brought many Minnesota companies ''near the front of the line'' in doing business with the Soviets, but he said Mr. Gorbachev had also helped to mold a new, world-class image for the state, by helping to emphasize its economic diversity and high technology.
''I'd like to think we have put Lake Wobegon behind us now,'' said Mr. Eisele, recalling the humorist Garrison Keillor's tales of the mythical and modest Minnesota village.
''In some ways, Garrison Keillor did more damage to the image of Minnesota than Stalin did to the Soviet Union,'' Mr. Eisele said. ''We are more than a bunch of dumb Swedish farmers wandering around telling corny jokes.''
For now, the biggest winner is the man in the Governor's mansion.
They laughed when Governor Perpich sent the invitation to President Gorbachev several months ago. Now Republicans and rivals in his own Democratic Farmer Labor Party are trying to play down the significance of the visit.
Mr. Perpich's aides, meanwhile, are editing yards of videotape that they took while the Governor traveled around with Mr. Gorbachev. By November, said one political consultant here, the two men will have been seen together so often in political ads, voters might think they were running together on the statewide ticket.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (96%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (93%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TWIN CITIES PEPSI (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MINNESOTA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS GOVERNORS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (86%); CITY LIFE (85%); CITIES (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); WRITERS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SPORTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); OLYMPICS (65%); FESTIVALS (62%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E; PERPICH, RUDY (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 



171 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: The Capital Gains Promise: Still False

 BODY:
When Washington's budget negotiators get to the dicey question of which taxes to raise, it will be no surprise if the Administration comes out for tax reduction. President Bush still wants a special break for capital gains. It's still a bad idea. 
Since 1986, capital gains - income from the appreciated value of an investment - have been taxed at the same rates as ordinary income, mostly at 28 percent. The previous lower rate was eliminated by a key compromise in the 1986 reform package. That's reason No. 1 to maintain the status quo: a deal is a deal.
The Reagan Administration wasn't happy with the agreement on capital gains, however, and President Bush campaigned on a promise to repeal it. He insists that a preferential rate stimulates investment. But it's unproven that a lower tax would stimulate much new investment. It might even stimulate consumption if people didn't reinvest their gains.
Reason No. 2 is the familiar but correct argument that a capital gains tax favors the rich. A 15 percent tax, which Mr. Bush has advocated, would shower two-thirds of its benefits on people with incomes over $200,000. Politically, this may be the opposition's best rallying point. But there are solid economic negatives as well.
Besides overturning the deal sealed in 1986, tax preference for capital gains violates the sound philosophy behind President Reagan's original proposal for reform. The economy functions best if people invest, save or spend their money according to the merit of the options, not because one or the other saves more taxes. With a special rate for gains, the Government would be saying invest in stocks and bonds - and timber and real estate, if they're included - rather than in money market mutual funds or other ways taxed as ordinary income. The special rate would also revive tax shelter abuses as taxpayers converted ordinary income into gains that would be taxed less.
Capital gains aren't treated as badly as Mr. Bush implies. Gains are not taxed until an investor decides to sell; as long as an investment is held, the taxpayer gets the compounding benefit of untaxed growth. And gains are not taxed at all if the investment is passed on to heirs and beneficiaries when the investor dies. This loophole amounts to $5 billion a year in potential taxes not collected.
In Washington's desperation for ways to shrink the deficit, a capital gains tax cut offers one mighty temptation in the short term: higher revenue from a lower tax. A reduced tax for past as well as future investments would immediately boost revenues as investors unloaded investments they held onto when the tax was higher.
The Treasury says this revenue boost would continue in years to come, but other authorities say it would soon become a revenue drain. Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation, which has the final word in evaluating tax bills, has estimated that over five years, a 15 percent tax on gains would cut revenue by $11 billion.
The fairest way to treat gains is to index them so investors pay tax only on real, not paper gains. And if Congress wanted a real increase in revenue, it would tax gains at death.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; EDITORIALS; INDEXING (ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT SYSTEM); INCOME TAXES; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (93%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); CONSUMPTION (72%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); BONDS (71%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



172 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Asian Romance in San Francisco

 BODY:
There's far more than post-cold-war symbolism in the courtship between Moscow and Seoul, further nurtured by Monday's meeting of Presidents Gorbachev and Roh Tae Woo in San Francisco. A consummated relationship could bring real gains to both countries. America, too, would benefit from a wider peace in Northeast Asia. 
South Korea was born anti-Communist when the Korean Peninsula was partitioned along ideological lines after World War II. It fought a bitter war against Soviet- and Chinese-backed invaders from the North, succeeded by a tense and dangerous armed peace.
But under President Roh, a newly confident and economically successful South Korea has reached out to former foes. Moscow and Beijing both came to the 1988 Seoul Olympics. South Korea opened embassies in Eastern Europe even before Communism's collapse.
Diplomatic ties with Moscow remain at the consular level for now but economic relations are booming. Bilateral trade doubled last year to $600 million. The Soviets seek further trade growth, especially in low-cost imports of Korean ships, vehicles and machinery. Moscow also hopes for Korean loans and investments in Siberian development. This, in turn, could entice investment from Japan, to prevent Korea from locking in a head start.
South Korea's anticipated gains are mostly political. Mr. Roh is eager to defuse the danger from the North. If he can persuade Moscow and perhaps Beijing to press moderation on Kim Il Sung, South Korea can have greater security at lower cost. A peace dividend would release funds to respond to the social demands democracy has awakened.
Achieving full relations with Moscow and detente with Pyongyang could also brighten South Korea's political mood. President Roh's standing has abruptly declined in recent months amid political maneuvers, strikes and crude repression.
Washington can only gain from a relationship that promotes Soviet economic reform and reinforces South Korean security. A warmer strategic climate would also allow further American troop withdrawals.
For years, South Korean nationalists have demonized Washington as the main obstacle to better North-South Korean ties. By meeting Mr. Gorbachev on U.S. soil, Mr. Roh refutes their argument while honoring their goal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (87%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (87%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH KOREA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SOUTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); WORLD WAR II (73%); OLYMPICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); IMPORT PRICES (67%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; ROH TAE WOO (PRES) ROH TAE WOO (92%); KIM JONG IL (54%); 



173 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sellout at the Summit

BYLINE: By Richard Perle; Richard Perle was Assistant Secretary of Defense in the Reagan Administration.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The most poignant words spoken during the summit talks came from a nonparticipant, Lithuanian spokesman Algimantis Cekuolis. Shortly after agreements on strategic weapons and trade were signed last Friday, he said of his beleaguered homeland: ''Today we were all alone.''
Unlike Mikhail Gorbachev, who won several concessions on trade and arms, the Lithuanians didn't ask for much - a sign, a gesture, an indication that, in its zeal to shore up the Soviet President, the U.S. would, half a century after refusing to recognize the Soviet incorporation of Lithuania, remain true to its belief in democracy and self-determination.
The Administration relegated its concern for Lithuania to sotto voce murmurings amid the pomp of a largely symbolic occasion, because it considers Lithuania a fly speck on the scales of the U.S.-Soviet relationship. 
In pretending to manage the process of change in the Soviet Union -even as Mr. Gorbachev was busy in Washington managing his agenda at the expense of ours - a self-satisfied Administration has conjured the conceit of a ''pragmatic'' approach to issues of power and principle, a self-censoring refuge in which it is now comfortably entombed. No room in there for a hapless little Baltic nation.
It was a symbolic summit meeting because the agreements signed had been largely negotiated beforehand. The principal U.S. concessions concerning strategic arms were made by Secretary of State James Baker in Moscow a fortnight earlier.
One concession opens the way to Soviet deployment of heavy missiles that are twice as capable as the ones they replace. This will largely vitiate the 50 percent reduction in the ceiling for heavy missiles agreed to at Reykjavik in 1986. Another concession limits the range of cruise missiles in a way so favorable to the Soviets that it was resisted by administrations for nearly 20 years.
In his rush to sign an agreement on strategic arms, President Bush set aside, at least temporarily, two important demands: that Soviet ''Backfire'' bombers be included in the treaty and that Soviet heavy-missile tests be limited to two a year, presumably to encumber the development of yet another generation of new heavy missiles.
Like the statement on Start, the trade agreement signed in the White House had been negotiated before Mr. Gorbachev touched down in Washington. For now, it too has only symbolic value, since the Soviets have not yet met the test of the Jackson-Vanik amendment. That law conditions the concessions the treaty promises -most-favored-nation status and access to Government credits - on movement toward free emigration.
Yet, Mr. Gorbachev's implied threat to curtail emigration to Israel in deference to Arab objections again raised the issue of the reliability and permanence of any assurances on emigration that might be given to allow the trade agreement to go forward.
There is one issue on which the Administration deserves favorable mention. Mr. Bush, with the steadfast backing of Secretary Baker, wisely rejected Mr. Gorbachev's demand that a unified Germany should change its status within NATO to something less than full membership. A neutralized, non-nuclear Germany would imperil the stability of post-cold war Europe without in any way enhancing Soviet security.
The cold war may be over, but the two Presidents will still take the measure of each other as they contemplate future policies. Mr. Gorbachev saw a President eager to keep him in power and willing to make concessions to do so.
What he heard from the White House was an unidentified (but almost certainly authorized) adviser derisively critical of Boris Yeltsin, the newly elected, reform-minded president of the Russian republic. In fact, Mr. Yeltsin is far more tractable on Lithuania, bolder on economic reform and more amenable to the American agenda than the Soviet leader. What Mr. Gorbachev read in the statements he signed was American political and economic largesse that is more likely to whet than satisfy an ambitious appetite.
In a summit meeting of symbols, where the measure of the men who made it may have been its only significant product, the plaintive cry of a lone Lithuanian rings still.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); BALTIC STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); LITHUANIA (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (86%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); 

PERSON: PERLE, RICHARD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (75%); 



174 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Executive Director to Leave Port Authority

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
Stephen Berger, executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said yesterday that he planned to leave his post in July after five years with the agency to take a job in the private sector.
His departure was widely expected in government and local transit agency circles since the appointment in April of Richard C. Leone as the authority's new chairman. People familiar with the authority said Mr. Leone, a former New Jersey State Treasurer, wanted a new executive director.
Mr. Berger will become president and chief executive of the Financial Guaranty Insurance Company, a leading insurer of municipal bonds, where he is expected to make considerably more than his current salary of $170,000 a year. 
His departure comes at a time when the Port Authority is dealing with several growing problems. Revenues are sliding, traffic at the airports run by the authority is declining, its marine terminals are losing customers and traffic across its Hudson River bridges and tunnels is at a lull. And the region is facing weak economic conditions.
In the last year, Mr. Berger found himself at sharp odds with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York and Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey, each of whom can veto the authority's actions. Mr. Berger's proposal for sharp increases in tolls on bridges, tunnels and the PATH train service was abandoned in April after both Governors resisted the plan.
Mr. Berger is credited with generating support among officials in New York and New Jersey to finance a $6 billion capital plan for overhauling the Port Authority's immense operations, which include airports, river crossings, docks, container ports and terminals, and reducing the sprawling bureaucracy of the organization.
But Mr. Berger will be leaving his post before most of those plans are carried out.
''While the past five years have been among the most rewarding of my professional life,'' Mr. Berger said, ''the opportunity that has been presented to me is, from a professional and personal standpoint, one I could not turn down.''
Financial Guaranty, which is owned by G.E. Capital, a division of the General Electric Company, insured more than $2 billion in securities in the first quarter of 1990.
Several potential candidates are said to be under consideration to replace Mr. Berger, with the leading ones being Stanley Brezenoff, a former first deputy mayor now with the Commonwealth Fund, and Vincent Tese, head of the State Urban Development Corporation and a close personal friend of Governor Cuomo.
At a news conference yesterday at the World Trade Center, Mr. Berger, a balding man with a pointed beard, said that among his major accomplishments at the Port Authority were a privately operated ferry service from Hoboken, N.J., to Manhattan, the refurbishing of the PATH system and stations, the overhaul of La Guardia Airport and increased cooperation by management and labor.
Mitchel Moss, director of the Urban Research Center at New York University, applauded Mr. Berger for having reduced the size of the Port Authority's bureaucracy and appointing ''quality people'' in its middle ranks.
Mayor David N. Dinkins said Mr. Berger's years at the had been ''characterized by fiscal discipline and a visionary commitment to bringing the region's transportation infrastructure into the 21st century.''
But Mr. Moss criticized Mr. Berger for his strained relationships with the two Governors and for not finding funds to continue the renovation of Kennedy International Airport, which has been scaled back. ''He forgot that his authority was derived from the Governors and not his title,'' he said.
Mr. Berger's successor will inherit an agency facing some major problems. Shipping at the Port of New York is lagging far behind many other ports in major cities on both the East and West Coasts. In 1989, the value of cargo shipped through New York was exceeded for the first time by the value of imports and exports shipped through the Port of Los Angeles.
At the same time, fewer people are traveling through the region's airports and using the Port Authority Trans-Hudson system known as PATH.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (63%); GEC (LSE) (63%); GE (SWX) (63%); GE (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE CO (83%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (63%); PORT AUTHORITY (95%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ; FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE CO

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PORT AUTHORITIES (93%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); CITIES (89%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); FERRIES (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); MAYORS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); HAIR LOSS (50%); 

PERSON: BERGER, STEPHEN; LEONE, RICHARD C; SIMS, CALVIN STEPHEN BERGER (97%); RICHARD C LEONE (55%); 



175 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Takes 55 Minutes To Accept

BYLINE: By FRANK LYNN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 5

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo accepted the Democratic nomination for a third term today and responded with a 55-minute speech that often sounded as though he was running for the White House rather than the Statehouse.
While insisting that he was not ''Washington bashing,'' Mr. Cuomo declared that the state's slipping economy and its growing crime and drug problems - the major Republican issues against him - were national problems that affect most states.
But he did not forget his political roots as he devoted one segment of what was to have been a 35-minute speech to hopscotching around the state from Horseheads to the North Country and from Shoreham to Buffalo detailing projects planned by his administration.
 
A Favorite Target
Nor did he forget the State Senate's Republican majority, a favorite target and the main Republican power base in the state. He castigated the Republican Senators for failing to enact laws forcing drug dealers to forfeit property and banning assault weapons. He also criticized them for not accepting his proposal to impose life sentences without parole instead of the death penalty and for failing to enact a bias-related crime bill. 
While he frequently referred to Ronald Reagan and George Bush, he never mentioned Pierre A. Rinfret, the Republican candidate for governor.
When someone from the enthusiastic audience of Democrats shouted ''92,'' an obvious reference to the next Presidential election year, Mr. Cuomo adopted his ''aw shucks'' pose and replied: ''That's all. Now I'll never talk about Washington again.''
 
Ignored His Opponent
But in a vintage Cuomo speech in which he recited his record, he blamed the Republicans in the State Senate and in Washington for what problems there are, and provided a general glimpse toward the future and '' a whole new shining century.''
It was a blueprint for his campaign, which he said would be actively waged throughout the state. That approach would be in sharp contrast with 1986, when the Governor generally ignored his opponent and did not formally campaign until fall.
Lieut. Gov. Stan Lundine said in an earlier interview that ''after eight years, it's important to go out and say I need your vote.''
Mr. Cuomo put it more colorfully today. ''In this business, if you don't blow your own horn,'' he said, ''there's no music.''
Seated to his left, as he roused a full house of 600 Democrats at the Empire State Plaza Convention Hall, across from the capitol, was his wife, Matilda, and other Cuomo family members.
The Governor added to the family theme he likes to sound by having his younger son, Christopher, who is 19 years old, introduce him as ''the man you know as Governor and I know as Pop.''
Mr. Cuomo repeatedly tried to turn a major Republican issue, the state's economy, spending and taxes, on the G.O.P. by blaming Washington.
''The sluggishness of the national economy has dragged down the state economy,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''This is not some failing of New York State, New York City and local governments.'' He predicted that 37 states would face budget difficulties this year.
 
The Flow of Drugs
Mr. Cuomo also tried to shift responsibility for the state's drug crisis. ''The problem of drugs is not a state failure,'' he said. ''It is a national failure.'' He cited what he said were futile efforts to stop the flow of drugs into the country.
He criticized major defense spending, arguing that even a small diversion of defense funds could produce billions for social-welfare programs.
He drew perhaps the loudest applause of the two-day convention when he sarcastically referred to ''these geniuses, these conservatives'' who deregulated savings-and-loan associations. ''The bankers, what did they do?'' he asked. ''They stole everything in sight.''
He also tried to counter the Republican labeling of him as a big spender and taxer by saying that he presided over ''the largest tax cut in the state's history'' - without mentioning that this year he also recommended the largest tax increase in the state's history as the state's credit rating dropped to a historic low.
 
More College Scholarships
Mr. Cuomo said his administration was responsible for one million more people employed, 100,000 people removed from the welfare rolls, more college scholarships for the poor, an ethics law, a rebuilding of the state's bridges and roads, a near doubling of the state's prison population, and the first full-term appointments of a black and a woman to the New York State Court of Appeals.
The Governor's acceptance speech and an on-stage fireworks display ended a relatively tranquil state convention that left only one piece of unfinished business: a primary battle for the comptroller nomination between Carol Bellamy, the former New York City Council President, and the convention designee, Andrew J. Spano, the Westchester County Clerk.
Also nominated were Mr. Lundine and Attorney General Robert Abrams.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Mario M. Cuomo addressing delegates to the New York State Democratic convention yesterday in Albany after accepting their nomination for a third term. He said the state's slipping economy and growing crime were national problems. (David Jennings for The New York Times) (pg. B1); Attorney General Robert Abrams as he accepted the Democratic nomination to run for re-election. (Gary Gold for The New York Times) (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (84%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; ATTORNEYS GENERAL; LIEUTENANT GOVERNORS (US); PRIMARIES; COMPTROLLERS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); DRUG POLICY (76%); FAMILY (76%); HATE CRIME (72%); SENTENCING (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); GUN CONTROL (67%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); LYNN, FRANK; ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); LUNDINE, STAN (LT GOV); BELLAMY, CAROL; SPANO, ANDREW J RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 



176 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: New 'Witness' Recants Her Bensonhurst Story

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES

 BODY:
The woman who recently claimed that she saw the slaying of Yusuf K. Hawkins in Bensonhurst recanted her story yesterday, the Brooklyn District Attorney, Charles J. Hynes, said.
''It is now clear that she was not a witness to events of that tragic night as she claimed,'' Mr. Hynes said in a statement.
The woman had said in television and newspapaer interviews at the end of the Bensonhurst murder trials that she had watched about 40 white youths surround the 16-year-old Mr. Hawkins on the night of Aug. 23. 
She said she had seen Joseph Fama shoot Mr. Hawkins in the chest while Keith Mondello urged him on.
 
'Set Back' to Federal Case
The woman, accompanied by her husband, issued a statement yesterday at the District Attorney's office, retracting all her previous accounts, including a version she said she wrote in Spanish a day after Mr. Hawkins was killed. Yesterday was the second time she had met with prosecutors.
Andrew J. Maloney, the United States Attorney in Brooklyn who is considering civil-rights charges against Mr. Mondello, called the retraction a setback.
''This is another blow to any potential successful prosecution of any Federal civil-rights violation,'' he said.
Officials at Channel 47, the Spanish language television station that played a large role in promoting the woman to other media organizations, expressed regret over the incident.
''I feel we have been used,'' said Helga Silva, the station's news director, ''but worst of all it makes a mockery of our justice system. It makes a mockery of civic duty when you are talking about life and death.''
 
Woman Won't Be Charged
The woman had identifed herself as ''Iris'' and ''Maria'' in the interviews. Mr. Hynes's office did not release her real name.
Her lawyer, Kenneth Pearson, said through his office that he was no longer representing the woman and had ''no comment'' on the retraction.
Mr. Hynes said he would not seek charges against the woman. ''I am saddened by her actions,'' he said. ''However, I have decided not to file charges against her. The interests of justice would not be served by criminal action.'' He added that the woman's motives ''remained unclear.''
The existence of a possible mystery witness was considered important because she was the only person who said she had heard Mr. Mondello, who was accused of being the ringleader, tell Mr. Fama, who was accused of being the gunman, to shoot Mr. Hawkins.
 
Would Have Been Called
If she had been a credible witness prosecutors said they would have called her in a possible civil-rights case against Mr. Mondello, who was aquitted on May 18 of murder and manslaughter charges but was convicted on several lesser charges.
Mr. Fama was convicted of second-degree murder on May 17. Both will be sentenced on Monday.
The 50-year-old woman, an unemployed cleaning woman, had said she had been in Bensonhurst for the day with a real-estate salesman when she saw the murder.
She had said she went home and wrote down an account of the murder to a friend, but had refused to talk to the police because she was afraid of repercussions and feared that her husband would not understand what she was doing in the neighborhood with the real-estate broker.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC); BENSONHURST (NYC)

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; HOAXES; BLACKS (IN US); RACIAL RELATIONS WITNESSES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MURDER (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); LAWYERS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); 

PERSON: HAWKINS, YUSUF; HYNES, CHARLES J (DIST ATTY); HEDGES, CHRIS YUSUF K HAWKINS (92%); CHARLES J HYNES (83%); KEITH MONDELLO (81%); JOSEPH FAMA (71%); 



177 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From New Jersey Court Ruling on School Financing

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 5

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the unanimous New Jersey Supreme Court decision today ordering the state to insure that the poorest cities spend as much on education as wealthy suburbs.
Chief Justice Robert N. Wilentz wrote the opinion.
 
FROM THE OPINION
We find that under the present system the evidence compels but one conclusion: the poorer the district and the greater its need, the less the money available, and the worse the education. . . . We hold that the Act must be amended to assure funding of education in poorer urban districts at the level of property-rich districts; that such funding cannot be allowed to depend on the ability of local school districts to tax; that such funding must be guaranteed and mandated by the State.
We reject the argument, however, that funding should not be supplied because it may be mismanaged and wasted. Money can make a difference if effectively used, it can provide the students with an equal educational opportunity, a chance to succeed. They are entitled to that chance, constitutionally entitled. They have the right to the same educational opportunity that money buys for others. . . . Our decision deals not with optimum educational policy but with constitutional compliance. 
These state constitutional claims, the underlying contentions and facts, although presenting great variety of detail, are remarkably similar to those facing us: an educational funding system that depends on a combination of state and local taxes producing disparity of expenditures in the face of inverse disparity of need. Fourteen of the states have rejected both constitutional claims; six, including New Jersey, have held the state system of financing education invalid under the state education article, while rejecting or declining to reach equal protection claims; four determined that the existing system violated state equal protection clauses.
Very few of the cases have a factual record that even begins to approach that before us. None has the unique attribute of this case: an educational funding system specifically designed to conform to a prior court decision, having been declared constitutional by the Court but now attacked as having failed to achieve the constitutional goal. In short, we are the only state involved in a second round on this issue.
The constitutional command does not require relief every time the slightest deviation from a thorough and efficient education is found, or any time that deviation, though proven, is likely to be corrected soon. . . .
Nevertheless, we reject the State's claim that in these poorer urban districts a thorough and efficient education has been or will be achieved. The extent of failure is so deep, its causes so embedded in the present system, as to persuade us that there is no likelihood of achieving a decent education tomorrow, in the reasonable future, or ever. The State's argument is strong on paper: districts can raise all the money they want, districts must raise all the money they need to provide a thorough and efficient education. . . . But for 10 years and more there has been no thorough and efficient education in these districts. The factors that lead to this failure are described later, but the simplest is that these districts are just too poor to raise the money they theoretically are empowered to. . . . They can, and as we view it, constitutionally they must, be treated differently. Judicial deference can go just so far. $4,029 a Pupil vs. $2,861 The impact of this disparity, solely in dollar terms, is that on the average, in 1984-85, a group of richer districts with 189,484 students spent 40 percent more per pupil than a group of poorer districts with 355,612 students; one provides an education worth $4,029 per pupil, the other, $2,861. For instance, a 3,000-pupil district in a poorer area has a budget of $8.6 million, while a relatively wealthy suburban district with 3,000 pupils has a budget of $12.1 million. The disparity is not as pronounced in the middle, which covers 339 districts and 575,181 students.
We have decided this case on the premise that the children of poorer urban districts are as capable as all others; that their deficiences stem from their socioeconomic status; and that through effective education and changes in that socioeconomic status, they can perform as well as others. Our constitutional mandate does not allow us to consign poorer children permanently to an inferior education on the theory that they cannot afford a better one or that they would not benefit from it.
The 28 poorer urban districts (excluding Atlantic City . . .) have an average per pupil expenditure in 1984-85 of $2,880 and an average equalized valuation per pupil in 1984-85 of $63,066. . . . No sophisticated analysis can destroy the conclusion: the richer districts spend more than the poorer, and their ability to do so is strongly correlated to their wealth.
However, the level of education offered to students in some of the poorer urban districts is tragically inadequate. Many opportunities offered to students in richer suburban districts are denied to them. For instance, exposure to computers is necessary to acquire skills to compete in the workplace. In South Orange-Maplewood school district, kindergarteners are introduced to computers; children learn word processing in elementary school. . . .
 
Computers From Other Funds
By contrast, many poorer urban districts cannot offer such variety of computer-science courses. While Princeton has one computer per eight children, East Orange has one computer per 43 children, and Camden has one computer per 58 children. Camden can offer formal computer instruction to only 3.4 percent of its students. In many poorer urban districts, computers are purchased with Federal or state categorical funds for use in remedial-education programs. Paterson offers no computer education other than computer-assisted basic-skills programs. Further, many of these districts do not have sufficient space to accommodate computer labs. In Jersey City, computer classes are being taught in storage closets.
Science education is deficient in some poorer urban districts. Princeton has seven laboratories in its high school, each with built-in equipment. South Brunswick elementary and middle schools stress hands-on investigative-science programs. However, many poorer urban districts offer science classes in labs built in the 1920's and 1930's, where sinks do not work, equipment such as microscopes is not available, supplies for chemistry or biology classes are insufficient, and hands-on investigative techniques cannot be taught. In Jersey City and Irvington middle-school science classes are taught without provision for laboratory experience.
 
Importance of Foreign Languages
The disparity in foreign-language programs is dramatic. Montclair's students begin instruction in French or Spanish at the preschool level. In Princeton's middle school, fifth-grade students must take a half-year of French and a half-year of Spanish. Most sixth graders continue with one of these languages. Many begin a second langauge in the ninth grade, where four-year programs in German, Italian, Russian and Latin are offered. French and Spanish are offered on two tracks, one for students who began instruction in middle school and the other for those who begin in the ninth grade. Advanced-placement courses are available. In contrast, many of the poorer urban schools do not offer upper-level foreign-language courses, and only begin insstruction in high school. Jersey City starts its foreign-language program in the ninth grade; Paterson begins it at the 10th grade. Most Jersey City high schools offer only two languages.
 
Crumbling Endangers Safety
Many poorer urban districts operate schools that, due to their age and lack of maintenance, are crumbling. . . . Indeed, the safety of children in these schools is threatened. . . .
In contrast, most schools in richer suburban districts are newer, cleaner, and safer. They provide an environment conducive to learning.
Thorough and efficient means more than teaching the skills needed to compete in the labor market, as critically important as that may be. It means being able to fulfill one's role as a citizen, a role that encompasses far more than merely registering to vote. It means the ability to participate fully in society, in the life of one's community, the ability to appreciate music, art and literature, and the ability to share all of that with friends.
We realize our remedy here may fail to achieve the constitutional object, that no amount of money may be able to erase the impact of the socioeconomic factors that define and cause these pupils' disadvantages. We realize that perhaps nothing short of substantial social and economic change affecting housing, employment, child care, taxation, welfare will make the difference for these students; and that this kind of change is far beyond the power or responsiblity of school districts. We have concluded, however, that even if not a cure, money will help, and that these students are constitutionally entitled to that help.
If the claim is that these students simply cannot make it, the constitutional answer is, give them a chance.
We stress that it is state aid only that we are discussing here. The fundamental inequality of local funding through the property tax and the funding disparities it produces are asserted to have a justification in its assurance of local control and its encouragement of citizens' participation in their local school system. . . .
From this record we find that certain poorer urban districts do not provide a thorough and efficient education to their students. The Constitution is being violated. These students in poorer urban districts have not been able to participate fully as citizens and workers in our society. They have not been able to achieve any level of equality in that society with their peers from the affluent suburban districts. We find the consitutional failure clear, severe, extensive and of long duration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (84%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); URBAN AREAS; SUBURBS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); EDUCATION FUNDING (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); EQUAL PROTECTION (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); VERDICTS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); APPEALS (73%); 



178 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1713 words

HEADLINE: Uphill Struggle to Adapt Wine to the World's Taste

SERIES: FUTURE ARTICLES WILL DISCUSS PORTUGAL, GERMANY AND THE NAPA VALLEY OF CALIFORNIA.

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL

DATELINE: MENDOZA, Argentina

 BODY:
A WINE-BOTTLING line is noisy. As the bottles bump along the metal belt waiting their turn to be filled, they clank, rattle and crash into one another, setting up a terrible din.
On the major bottling line here at the Penaflor winery, Argentina's largest and one of the largest in the world, there is hardly any noise: the wine is being packed in one-liter cardboard boxes called tetrapacks.
That particular bottling line says a lot about wine in Argentina. Of course, no one, not even here in the wine capital of the Southern Hemisphere, would put good wine in a plastic box. The Argentines are among the world's leading wine consumers but, for the most part, they have not been overly concerned about quality. 
Or at least, not until recently. For several years now, the Argentine wine business has been adapting - painfully - to the overworked adage that less is more.
Here in this handsome city at the foot of the Andes, 600 miles west of Buenos Aires, wine production has always been described in gargantuan terms: three quarters of a million acres of grapes, an annual output of a half billion gallons of wine, and individual fermenting tanks with the capacity of 10 medium-size California wineries. ''I think we have 40,000 growers,'' said Domenico LoVecchio, the director of the San Telmo winery, ''but nobody knows for sure.''
Most of the growers sell their production, either grapes or wine, to one of about a half-dozen huge wineries where it is blended and shipped.
Much of this wine, probably 70 percent, even today is little more than vin ordinaire, simple table wine. But until recently, it was wine ideally suited to its principal market: Argentina itself. Argentina is the fifth-largest wine producer in the world after Italy, France, the Soviet Union and Spain, and, four years ago was fourth in wine consumption, with per capita consumption at more than 17 gallons a year.
That figure has been dropping, partly because of the disastrous state of Argentina's economy - many people now cannot afford even the cheapest wine - and because, like elsewhere in the world, tastes are changing. Millions of Argentines, it appears, would rather consume soft drinks and beer than the indifferent wine of the criolla grape sold in five-gallon demijohns or in the nondescript tetrapacks. As a result, wineries have been closing and the industry is worried.
But 10 years ago, a handful of farsighted wine makers, mostly based here in Mendoza, decided that the future was in exports. They began to develop the vineyards and the wine-making techniques that would gain them entry into the world's fine wine markets.
There is no reason why Argentina should not be among the world's premium wine producers. Wine has been made here since the Jesuit missionaries arrived in the country in 1556. The criolla grape they brought with them is the basic wine grape of the country. Other Spanish missionaries took the grape into Mexico and the United States, where it is known as the mission grape.
A hundred years ago, Italian immigrants who had grown grapes and made wine in Italy discovered the fertility of the high plains stretching away from this city in every direction. Within a few years, it was Argentina's favorite land for vineyards.
Only now is the long effort beginning to show some success, many years after Chile, which went through many of the same problems, began to make its mark beyond its borders.
Some of Argentina's problems are unique to Argentina. For 40 years, this potentially rich land has been a closed society; closed to innovation, cut off from modern technology and from contemporary political and economic ideas. For example, by law, Argentine products, if available, must be used in preference to better imports. And Penaflor labels its fine wine bottles by hand rather than to use a virtually unworkable domestic machine.
Only after prolonged and costly battles with the bureaucracy were the big wineries here finally permitted to buy European or American presses and oak barrels for aging wine. Still the ravages of inflation are everywhere. What was meant to be one of the most beautiful wineries in the world, San Telmo, here in Mendoza, is a half-built monument to fiscal ineptitude, a partly finished architectural marvel sitting in a sea of mud, surrounded by rusting piles of building materials with which it was to have been finished 10 years ago.
And yet, even San Telmo produces good wines, some of which can be found in the United States. ''We do the best we can,'' Sigifredo Alonso, San Telmo's president, said, ''and we look to the future.''
The future looms large in the lives of Argentines, partly because the present has been bleak for so long. ''Argentina is a nation of unfinished dreams,'' someone once said.
Carlos Pulenta is a director of Penaflor and president of Bodegas Trapiche, Penaflor's fine-wine subsidiary. ''The future for us is in export,'' he said. ''We must export or we will die.'' Dramatic stuff, but Mr. Pulenta, whose grandfather came from Ancona, Italy, to found Penaflor, seems to mean what he says.
He has opened an importing company in New York and plans to do the same soon in London. He has invested heavily in the equipment needed to make and age fine wine and is converting thousands of acres of dull criolla and Pedro Ximenez grapes to chardonnay, malbec and cabernet sauvignon.
For the moment, Trapiche fine wines are only a part of Penaflor's export mix. Bulk wine, millions of gallons of it, are sold to the wine and spirits government monopolies in Finland and other Scandinavian countries. Even major wine producers like France and Spain buy bulk wine from Penaflor. Grape juice concentrate by the shipload goes to Japan where it is made into wine. The country also exports other fruit juices and bottled water. In fact, olive oil brings in more hard currency than wine.
Exporting wine is an uphill fight. The severely taxed Government has no money to spare for promotion, unlike neighboring Chile, where the Government has for almost a decade paid for a sophisticated marketing program for its wine and fruit exports.
Argentina is also hampered by its unfamiliarity with the world wine market. One evening, in the Trapiche tasting room, someone opened a half-bottle of a 1983 cabernet sauvignon from Beaulieau Vineyards in California. The Argentine tasters were delighted. ''One day we will make a wine like this,'' one said. The one American present found the wine faded and oxidized.
Until recently the preferred wine making style in both Chile and Argentina called for many years of aging in large oak casks, just the formula for producing heavy, oxidized wines. Here was a well-known American wine that seemed to conform to that style. Old traditions die hard.
When the Italian wine makers came to Mendoza in the 19th century, they brought the best European grape varieties with them, including cabernet sauvignon. For some reason, malbec, which is the principal variety in Cahors but mostly a blending variety in Bordeaux, in Argentina makes a wine as good as and often better than cabernet sauvignon. Perhaps it resists oxidation more.
In any event, Trapiche makes a malbec that is quite delicious, as does Navarro Correas, one of the most prestigious of the wineries here in Mendoza. Vilma Gutierrez, the chief wine maker at Navarro Correas studied for a time under Zelma Long, for many years the wine maker and now president of the Simi Winery in California.
Two varieties that appear to have considerable promise are merlot and chardonnay. The best merlots seem softer and more harmonious, certainly more so than the cabernets, and avoid what tasters call the ''hotness'' associated with oxidation. The best chardonnays, Trapiche's among them, are fresh and clean. There seems to be no overwhelming need to age them in oak.
Chenin blanc, produced in considerable quantity in Argentina is no better than it should be, and pinot noir is still pretty much in the experimental stage.
In spite of the county's chaotic economic condition, progress continues here. Old vineyards are torn out and new grapes planted. New growing areas are opening up at higher elevations like Tupungato and in cooler climes like Rio Negro, 500 miles to the south. Techniques continue to be refined, better clones of grapes are developed, wine makers go abroad to study. The wines now in export markets show this improvement, particularly the whites. Excellent sparkling wines are being made here; wines that could compete with any other than champagne itself, if they were to be exported in some quantity.
But there is a long way to go. Until the economy is brought into line, there is little likelihood that outside investors - or the Argentines who squirrel most of their income in Swiss banks - will put up the kind of capital needed to modernize the Argentine wine industry. And, given the current downturn in the world wine market, who can say it would be a wise investment if they did?
For the wine fan, however, the Argentine wines are a whole new world to explore. And, given their remarkably low prices at the moment - mostly under $10 for the good wines - it can be a rather reasonable trip.
 
Buying Them
THE best endorsement for the Argentine wine may be the fact that Argentines drink almost all of it themselves.
Argentine wines may not be readily available in your corner liquor store yet, but with a little effort you will find them.
The best-known name is Bodegas Trapiche, the prestige export label of the huge Penaflor. The Trapiche Reserva line includes cabernet sauvignon, malbec, chardonnay and pinot noir, all costing about $5.99. San Telmo includes a cabernet sauvignon and a chardonnay at about $7.99. Navarro Correas offers a malbec, a syrah and a pinot noir in its Collecion Privada group, all at $8.99. Navarro's sauvignon blanc sells for about $7.50.
Other labels to look for include Clos du Moulin, Fond de Cave, Comte de Valmont and Palmero, whose 1984 merlot, for about $6 is a solid bargain.
Worth sampling, too, are the wines of Humberto Canale, which come from Rio Negro. The Canale Reserva line includes a semillon, a cabernet sauvignon and a merlot. Some stores may still have the 1978 cabernet for under $10, a wine well worth trying.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker at the prestigious Navarro Correas winery in Mendoza adding foil to the top of wine bottles ready to leave the plant. (Agence France-Presse for The New York Times) (pg. C1); Vilma Gutierrez, chief wine maker at Navarro Correas in Mendoza.; Antonio Pulenta, left, head of Trapiche Vineyards, with his son Carlos. (Agence France-Presse for The New York Times) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (58%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (67%); FRANCE (53%); 

STATE: ANDES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (78%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (58%); SAN TELMO (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARGENTINA

SUBJECT: WINES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES WINERIES (93%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (91%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (87%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); TRENDS (77%); CONSUMPTION (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); BEER & ALE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); SOFT DRINKS (50%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J



179 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
Paying for the collapse of the savings and loan industry could cost American taxpayers as much as $500 billion, or about $5,000 for every household, by one account. And even though the money required to undo the damage will make less available for schools, drug control and other services, the political cost of the crisis seems to be slight. [Page A1.] L. William Seidman said his difficulties with the White House went back to when he irritated John H. Sununu, the chief of staff. [D5.] 
The House approved a bill that limits the antitrust liability of U.S. companies for joint ventures in manufacturing. [D1.]
Domestic car sales fell 6 percent in May and the seasonally adjusted annual rate for the period rose to 7.3 million. [D1.]
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady supports giving jurisdiction over stock-index futures to the S.E.C. [D2.]
 
International
The White House and the Soviet Union avoided a conflict over the trade accord signed at the summit meeting. [A1.]
The Government will oppose a project led by U S West to build a fiber-optic cable system across the Soviet Union. [D1.]
 
 
 
Companies
National Intergroup plans to sell its Ben Franklin unit, pay a special dividend or repurchase stock, move its headquarters and change its name to Foxmeyer. [D1.]
Greyhound's creditors are expected to urge Fred Currey, the chairman, to make peace with the drivers' union. But in an interview, he seemed in no mood for compromise. [D1.]
Drexel Burnham Lambert will present its creditors a bankruptcy reorganization plan. [D3.]
Some bondholders of Donald J. Trump's Castle hotel and casino filed suit, charging that Mr. Trump and his executives misrepresented the company's condition. [D3.]
Saatchi & Saatchi is selling the Hay Group, its largest consulting firm, for about $81 million. [D17.]
Sixteen Eastern European journalists will spend 10 weeks at leading magazine companies in New York. [D17.]
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is losing its executive director. Stephen Berger will become chief executive of Financial Guaranty Insurance. [B1.]
 
 
 
Markets
The Dow fell 10.19, to 2,925.00. But the transportation index closed up 4.74, at 1,212.59. [D8.]
Prices of Treasury securities dipped slightly in fairly light trading. [D14.] Yields fell on C.D.'s and money market accounts.[D18.]
Energy futures prices tumbled on reports that Saudi Arabia cut prices for July exports to the U.S. by 40 cents a gallon. [D15.] The dollar ended mostly lower. [D15.]
 
Business Technology
The paper industry is developing new kinds of containers that are not only cheaper than plastic but significantly extend the shelf lives of juices, soups and other products. [D6.]
A strong fiber that has been used in bullet-resistant clothing is now being applied to surgical gloves. [D6.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Do the changing prices of cocaine mean that the war on drugs is being won? Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Uncertainty over whether Japanese art investors will begin selling has hurt the stock of Sotheby's but it appears to have had very little effect on Christie's. Market Place. [D8.]
The advertising industry held two prestigious ceremonies that underscored the stark contrasts between effective advertising and creative advertising. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (64%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (64%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (64%); TRUMP'S CASTLE FUNDING INC (53%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (53%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE CO (52%); WHITE HOUSE (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FUTURES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BONDS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); CHEMICALS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (73%); DIVIDENDS (73%); SAVINGS & LOANS (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); APPROVALS (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); PAPER MFG (69%); PRICE CUTTING (69%); PAPER & PACKAGING (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (68%); ENERGY MARKETS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); JOURNALISM (67%); FIBER OPTICS (66%); WRITERS (62%); EXPORT PRICES (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (50%); 



180 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Bars A Soviet Phone Deal

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
The Commerce Department told U S West Inc. yesterday that the Government opposed a project to build a fiber-optic cable communications system across the Soviet Union, linking Japan and Europe.
The move signals that despite the reforms sweeping Eastern Europe, the Administration remains wary of exporting high technology to the Soviet Union.
U S West, one of seven regional Bell operating companies, said the department had expressed concern that building the $500 million system could threaten the national security. The department said it would oppose the release of any high-speed telecommunications transmission technology to the Soviet Union by any country, said H. Laird Walker, the company's vice president for Federal Government relations. 
An official of the Commerce Department confirmed that the Administration opposed building the system. ''After careful analysis of the strategic and international factors, it was determined by the Administration that the transfer of such sophisticated technology would be contrary to U.S. national security interests,'' said the official, who asked not to be identified.
 
Reaction of Diplomat
When told of the U S West announcement, Vitaliy Verzhbitskiy, an economic affairs officer of the Soviet Embassy in Washington, criticized the Administration's decision. ''Following the success of the summit, I think that the timing of this negative response is very bad,'' he said.
Mr. Verzhbitskiy said he hoped the Administration would change its position. ''Communications these days are the key element of many of our bilateral relations,'' he said, mentioning cultural, economic and scientific exchanges with the West as examples.
U S West, based in Englewood, Colo., is leading an international consortium that planned to build the system to carry international calls and computer data between Europe and Japan, as well as long-distance calls within the Soviet Union.
Mr. Walker of U S West said the consortium had agreed on safeguards to prevent the use of the project for military or intelligence purposes. He criticized the Administration's decision and said the company would ask the Commerce Department to review its decision.
Commerce Department rules provide for such a review, he said, adding, ''It's a major lost opportunity if the project does not go forward.''
The House of Representatives is scheduled to vote today on a bill that would liberalize rules governing the export of advanced telecommunications and computer equipment to the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. And Cocom, the 17-nation export review agency, is scheduled to meet today in Paris to begin negotiations on whether to relax its rules.
 
Criticism From Lawmaker
Sam Gejdenson, the Connecticut Democrat who co-sponsored the House bill with Toby Roth, Republican of Wisconsin, strongly criticized the Administration's decision. ''It's a serious blow to American high-technology exports,'' he said. ''If anything, the information age works to destroy dictatorship.''
Yesterday's move also came a day after Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev concluded a visit to the United States that was intended, in part, to encourage Western investment in the Soviet Union.
Cocom, or the Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Controls, consists of most NATO members, plus Australia and Japan. It has placed embargoes on the export of fiber-optic technology by its members out of concern that it could be used for military purposes.
 
Approval Was Indicated
The Commerce Secretary, Robert A. Mosbacher, told reporters on Dec. 19 that the United States would approve the U S West fiber-optic system provided that the technology involved 5- to 10-year-old technology and not the latest equipment available.
Optical fibers are hair-thin strands of glass that carry conversations and computer data on beams of laser light.
The proposed system would use technology that was first installed in the American telephone network in late 1983, and has been routinely installed nationwide since 1985, said R. Edward Mattix, a spokesman for U S West.
An Administration official said yesterday that military and intelligence officials had blocked the deal because it would impair the ability of the United States to monitor Soviet communications.
 
Reliance on Microwaves
The Soviet Union's communications system now relies heavily on the beaming of microwaves, which can be tapped by satellites and other means. By contrast, fiber-optic cables are typically buried in the ground and are virtually impossible to tap without physical access to the system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: USWCV (NASDAQ) (92%); USWCV (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: U S WEST INC (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; US WEST INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); JAPAN; EAST EUROPE; EUROPE

SUBJECT: COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FIBER OPTICS COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); FIBER OPTICS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (74%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); EXPORT CONTROLS (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (63%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (62%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 



181 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Sales of U.S.-Made Autos Down 6% in May

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 5

 BODY:
Sales of domestically produced cars fell 6 percent in May, as seven months of sluggish consumer demand showed a faint sign of revival during the last 10 days of the month. Sales of domestically produced light trucks rose nine-tenths of 1 percent for the 10-day period.
The seasonally adjusted annual rate for the period was 7.3 million, the highest sales rate since late January, but below the 7.8 million rate registered in the period last year.
Together, sales of domestically made cars and trucks fell 3.7 percent, to 457,565, in the May 21-30 period, compared with 422,134 a year earlier. There were nine selling days this year and eight a year earlier. 
May car sales, including domestics and imports, were 885,279, down 8.6 percent from last May's 968,897. For the month the seasonally adjusted annual rate of car sales was 6.6 million, compared with 7.5 million last May.
Tom Webb, chief economist for the National Association of Automobile Dealers, said, ''I would not label overall demand as strong,'' despite the relative uptick from last year. Of domestically built vehicles, Mr. Webb said, ''The only units that are really moving are the totally redesigned models and the niche markets such as sports-utilities and luxury cars.''
Joel Pitcoff, a sales analyst for the Ford Motor Company, said: ''We were encouraged by the last couple of days of the month. The middle of the month was very slow. There were no bodies'' in the showrooms.
The Big Three also lost market share in May, declining 3.7 points from a year ago, to 69.1 percent, while the leading Japanese producers gained market share. Year-to-year comparisons of market-share penetration showed that the General Motors Corporation slipped to 36.2 percent, from 37 percent, Ford Motor slipped to 22.6 percent from 24.3 percent and the Chrysler Corporation slipped to 12.9 percent from 14.3 percent.
Toyota, however, rose to 8 percent from 5.6 percent, Honda rose to 6.4 percent from 5.8 percent, and Nissan rose to 4.2 percent from 3.9 percent.
In the last 10 days of May, G.M. was off 7 percent in car sales, including imports sold under the brand names of G.M. divisions. The company reported a 1.8 percent increase in truck sales. Total vehicle sales for the period were down 4.4 percent.
For the month, G.M.'s car sales were down 12.2 percent, including imports, and truck sales were down 3.5 percent. Total vehicle sales in May were off 9.5 percent from a year ago.
Chrysler, which has been holding a nationwide publicity tour since February to revive sales, reported a 10.8 percent drop in total vehicle sales in late May, including imported cars and trucks sold as Chrysler-brand vehicles. For all of May, Chrysler's car and truck sales were off about 17 percent, to 168,080, from 202,161 a year ago.
Ford suffered an 8.2 percent decline in total vehicle sales in late May to 130,379 cars and trucks, including imports, from 126,262 a year ago. For the month, total vehicle sales were down 14.1 percent, to 299,318 from 348,553 a year ago.
Light-truck sales were a bright spot for Ford, rising 1.4 percent in late May, to 55,712 from 48,856 a year ago. For the month light-truck sales were off 4.9 percent, to 128,550, from 135,154 a year ago.
The United States sales branch of the Honda Motor Company said sales of domestically produced Hondas fell 9.3 percent in late May, to 24,523, from 24,038 a year ago. But total Honda sales for May, including those of the company's Acura luxury division, were 84,203, a 2.3 percent increase from sales of 82,327 a year ago.
Toyota said United States sales of Toyota brand cars and trucks in May set a record, 99,193 cars, or 24.8 percent higher than a year ago. Toyota's Lexus division posted sales of 5,102 for the month; Lexus began selling cars only last November.

GRAPHIC: Graph of seasonally adjusted annual selling rates for American-made cars (The New York Times) (pg. D19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (81%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (67%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P



182 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: Citicorp Ratings: Jarring Reminders

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Citicorp is accustomed to superlatives.
It is the nation's largest banking company, operates the largest and most profitable credit card business, controls the biggest share of the New York market, makes more home mortgages than any other company, and spends more than any other bank on computer technology.
But one superlative Citicorp lacks is ''top rated,'' as in triple-A, the rating assigned to bonds of the safest, highest-quality companies. Citicorp lost its triple-A luster in the early 1980's, and in the last seven weeks has been hit by a spate of fresh reductions by three rating agencies.
The lower ratings have only a minor effect on the amount of interest Citicorp pays to borrow money. But they are a reminder that not all of the company's activities are as profitable as its consumer banking business, which is likely to make more than $1 billion this year. 
With more than 5 percent of its loans either not earning interest or about to go into default, Citicorp's profits have declined, making it difficult for the company to rebuild its weakened capital base to a level that satisfies rating agencies.
''While Citibank probably is the world's most technologically advanced financial institution, at the same time it is just one more undercapitalized bank with a large collection of borrowers who can't pay it back,'' said Peter Treadway, an analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company.
Citicorp's chairman, John S. Reed, rose to the top on the strength of his management of the consumer banking business and highly computerized back-office operations. Although Mr. Reed inherited Citicorp's troubled loans to less developed countries, problems with loans for commercial real estate and for financing leveraged buyouts developed during his watch.
Like many other banking companies, Citicorp has recently suffered from losses on commercial real estate loans, a business where it is the leading bank lender. It is also the leading bank lender for leveraged buyouts and other deals for heavily indebted companies, which expose it to additional losses if more of those borrowers go the way of the Campeau Corporation, whose American retailing units filed for bankruptcy protection this year.
The risks of these two lending segments were apparent in the first quarter, when Citicorp said its nonperforming loans - those that are not earning interest or that face other troubles - rose by $548 million, to $8.2 billion.
About half of the increase was in loans for leveraged buyouts. Troubled loans for commercial real estate projects rose $119 million, to a total of $1.3 billion, out of the $12 billion of all such loans.
Last month, Thomas E. Jones, Citicorp's chief financial officer, told analysts that the weak American economy and the rocky real estate market would cause the amount of troubled loans to rise by another $500 million or $600 million before the end of the year. Such an increase would make 1990 the second consecutive year in which nonperforming loans increased by more than $1 billion.
As a percent of total loans and real estate owned, Citicorp's nonperforming loans are higher than 40 of the nation's 50 largest banking companies.
 
Lending Problems Overseas
The rising tide of troubled loans in the United States comes while Citibank is still feeling the ill effects of its lending to less developed countries - another category where it has been the industry leader.
As it became clearer that some of these countries could not repay their loans - or even, in some cases, meet interest payments - Citibank was the first bank to set aside a significant amount to cover possible losses. A reserve provision of $3 billion in 1987 and another of $1 billion in the fourth quarter of 1989 eliminated profits in those periods and cut into capital.
Now, reserves equal only about 38 percent of Citicorp's remaining long-term loans to less developed countries, less than at many other large banks. Many analysts expect Citicorp will be forced to set aside additional funds to cover possible future losses, hurting profits again.
 
Less Cushion
With capital of $8.3 billion as of March 31, or roughly 3.5 percent of assets, Citicorp has a smaller cushion available to absorb future losses than other large banking companies have. Mr. Reed, the company's chairman, said earlier this year that Citicorp would not raise capital by issuing more stock unless it was for an acquisition. He said the bank's capital position would be strengthened by profits from regular operations; by the sale of some businesses, including the Ambac Indemnity Corporation, a municipal bond insurer, and by restraining future growth of assets.
The harshest judgment of Citicorp came from Moody's Investors Service. Moody's, which has cut ratings on more than 40 banks and savings associations this year, cut Citicorp's long-term senior bond rating in late May to A-3 from A-1. The new rating is about average for these bonds for all banking companies Moody's rates.
 
Short-Term Ratings
Citicorp's problems are severe enough, Moody's said, to also justify cuts in short-term ratings, which are changed far less frequently than long-term ratings. Citicorp's commercial paper was dropped from the P-1 rating desired by many investors to P-2. Citibank's certificates of deposit due in less than a year were unchanged at P-1, but C.D.'s due in more than a year were cut to a medium grade of A-1 from a high grade of Aa-2.
All of the Moody's ratings remain well within the range earned by investment-quality companies that face no imminent threat of default. But the declines mean, in the view of Moody's analysts, that negative forces like Citicorp's ''deteriorating asset quality'' and its vulnerability to the weakening real estate market outweigh the benefits of ''a successful consumer franchise,'' ready access to cash, strong management and the diversity of its businesses over both the short and long term.
Two other rating agencies, the Standard & Poor's Corporation and Fitch Investors Service, were kinder than Moody's, but agreed that the ratings trend for Citicorp is lower.
Fitch, a New York rating firm, cut Citicorp's long-term debt ratings slightly last week, to AA- from AA, but left the commercial paper rating unchanged at the top-notch F-1+ level.
''We expect Citicorp will handle its problems and improve its condition,'' said Joseph L. Labriola of Fitch. ''Its consumer business is very strong and it has the most diverse sources of profits from wholesale banking and consumer finance businesses around the world, of any banking company.''
Standard & Poor's, the first company to reduce Citicorp's ratings this year, cut its long-term rating on senior debt in late April to AA-, from AA, and left short-term commercial paper and certificate of deposit ratings unchanged at the top A-1+ level.
Analysts and Citicorp officials say the rating changes will have little effect on the company. ''The lower ratings do not hurt Citicorp much in the pocketbook, but they are a blow to its prestige,'' said Ann Robinson, an analyst of banking company bonds at the Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation.
 
Less Long-Term Borrowing
Nancy S. Newcomb, senior corporate officer in charge of funding at Citicorp, noted that the company had greatly cut back the amount of money it borrows in the long-term market. Over the last three years, long-term issues by Citicorp have averaged about $2.5 billion a year, down from $6 billion in 1986.
Rather than issue bonds backed by its own credit, Citicorp has turned to the sale of securities backed by pools of credit-card loans, which can be issued at lower interest. Sales of these securities have totaled more than $8 billion so far this year, exceeding the pace of 1989, when it sold $15 billion.
Growth in the deposits from Citibank's consumer banking business in New York has also reduced its need to borrow money in the wholesale markets, where the ratings are used, Ms. Newcomb noted. Since mid-1987, Citicorp's commercial paper outstanding has fallen to about $6 billion, from more than $11 billion, said Mr. Labriola of Fitch.
 
Rates Have Risen
Despite its reduced borrowing levels, the lower ratings have caused interest rates on Citicorp's securities to rise slightly.
Since Moody's warned in mid-April that it might lower Citicorp's ratings, rates have increased slightly, relative to Treasury bills, at weekly auctions of Citicorp commercial paper. Since the warning, rates for Citicorp's 91-day paper have averaged 49-hundredths of a percentage point more than the average rate for 91-day Treasury bills. During the nine weeks before Moody's warning, the 91-day rate averaged only 38-hundredths of a percentage point more than Treasury bills.
William King, a bond market analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company, estimated that rating cuts have also caused yields on Citicorp's long-term bonds to rise about a tenth of a percentage point, to about 1.5 percentage points more than Treasury issues.
While many banking companies have long-term bonds that sell at yields lower than Citicorp's, Mr. King noted that at current yield levels ''there is a lot of grass-roots support among investors for Citicorp issues.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: John S. Reed, the chairman of Citicorp, the largest banking company in the United States. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); graphs of the rise of Nonperforming Assets & Loan Loss Reserves (source: Keefe, Bruyette & Woods)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Economic Analysis

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (66%); CAMPEAU CORP (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITICORP

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CORPORATE BONDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (88%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (87%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (85%); BANK FAILURES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); FOREIGN LENDING (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL; REED, JOHN S JACK REED (79%); 



183 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Antitrust Limit Voted By House

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5

 BODY:
The House of Representatives today approved a bill intended to enhance the competitiveness of American companies by limiting their liability for antitrust violations, over the objections of foreign investors who would not receive the legislation's benefits.
The bill was passed by a voice vote after a 40-minute debate in which House members expressed concern over the ability of American companies to compete in the global marketplace.
The measure, which had bipartisan support, would relax antitrust laws for joint ventures in manufacturing, a condition that already exists in joint research and development projects. By removing triple damages for antitrust violations in manufacturing, joint ventures would appear less risky to American companies, in the view of the bill's supporters, who say that the threat of costly damage awards has inhibited many such ventures even though they would not have violated the antitrust laws. 
 
Called Counterproductive
Foreign investors, however, had asked that the bill, the National Cooperative Production Amendments of 1990, not be considered, saying that the measure would prove counterproductive because it would discourage foreign participation in research ventures at a time when the United States was seeking access to foreign technology.
Representative Bill Frenzl, a Minnesota Republican, saying that ''we are trying to remove investment restrictions around the world,'' argued that the bill ''discriminates against international investment.''
Foreign companies are believed to enjoy an advantage because their governments support, rather than penalize, joint ventures. Some foreign governments coordinate and provide subsidies for ventures that would enhance technologies.
 
Restrictions Included
The bill passed today would extend the benefits of the National Cooperative Research Act of 1984, which only covered research and development ventures. Under today's bill, joint ventures for both manufacturing and research would not be eligible if foreign investors had an interest of more than 30 percent in any of the companies involved, or if the joint ventures were outside the United States or its territories.
Representative Jack Brooks, a Texas Democrat who is the chairman of the Judiciary Committee and who sponsored the bill approved today, accepted a change that would enable Canadian companies to benefit from the measure, in accordance with the Canada-United States free-trade agreement.
Foreign investors also complained that the measure would violate bilateral treaties that provided that foreign companies would receive the same treatment as domestic companies.
But supporters called it a long overdue measure that provided only a fraction of the assistance that some governments provide to make their companies competitive. And they noted that it would not bar joint ventures with foreign investors, but merely provide fewer benefits to those ventures.
A similar bill is pending before the Senate Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Antitrust, Monopolies and Business Rights, which plans hearings this summer. The bill is co-sponsored by Senators Patrick J. Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, and Strom Thurmond, a South Carolina Republican. The Senate bill would not exclude foreign investors from the benefits.
 
Hailed by Both Parties
During the House debate, both Democrats and Republicans hailed the measure as strengthening America's ability to compete overseas. Representative Norman Y. Mineta, a California Democrat, called the bill ''a large step toward helping United States high-tech industries resume their leadership'' in world markets.
Representative Carlos J. Moorhead, a California Republican, said that ''this is another logical and important step in the effort to assure that America remains economically strong as we enter the 21st century.''
Representative Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, countered that ''foreign investors are outrageous in their criticism of this bill,'' noting that many foreign governments gave their companies far more help than does the United States in the form of subsidies, low-interest loans and other assistance.
 
Opposition to Exclusion
The Bush Administration favors the relaxation of the antitrust laws to promote joint ventures, but opposes the exclusion of foreign-owned companies. Representative Hamilton Fish, a New York Republican and a co-sponsor of the bill, said that the Administration position was prompted by ''some fear of foreign retaliation.''
Foreign investors tried unsuccessfully to persuade the Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley, a Washington Democrat, to remove the measure from the House calendar. The request was made by Elliot L. Richardson, chairman of the Association for International Investment, which represents foreign investors.
The voice vote, instead of a roll-call vote, provided anonymity for the many House members who have foreign investments in their states.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; CORPORATIONS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (95%); LEGISLATION (93%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (92%); JOINT VENTURES (91%); APPROVALS (90%); DAMAGES (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN PATRICK LEAHY (59%); 



184 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Cocaine Policy: Gauging Success

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
ITEM: In recent months the price of Bolivian coca leaf has fallen below production costs.
Item: The Miami wholesale price of a kilogram of pure cocaine rose by roughly 20 percent in the last quarter of 1989. Does this mean the war on drugs is being won? Probably not, argue the handful of economists who analyze the market for illicit drugs the way others plot perturbations in soybean supply and demand. Hard times for Bolivian coca farmers, they believe, are evidence of changes in distribution patterns, not a severing of the long chain of supply from the farmers' fields to the crack houses of America's inner cities. Moreover, the uptick in wholesale cocaine prices has not - could not -have much effect on the street price. 
The peculiar nature of the cocaine market, they assert, makes it almost impossible to win the war on the supply side. Only demand-side strategies hold much promise, and they have yet to win the hearts and minds of Washington's drug centurions.
The price of coca leaf in Bolivia, until recently the supplier of one-third of all the leaf used in cocaine manufacture, has indeed collapsed. And the most plausible explanation is that the regular routes between the fields in Bolivia and processing plants in Colombia have been disrupted by aggressive interdiction in both countries.
But as Peter Reuter, an economist at the Rand Corporation, notes, there is little evidence that supplies of the finished product have been significantly affected. Colombian manufacturers and distributors may be operating on their large inventories while they search for alternative sources of the raw material.
That would mesh with the interpretation of Bruce Bagley, a researcher at the University of Miami. Mr. Bagley believes that the brunt of the anti-drug effort in Colombia has been directed against Medellin producers, rather than their rivals in Cali. And the Cali group may be retreating to growing areas within Colombia, which are near the city.
But it is also possible, Mr. Reuter points out, that production lost in Bolivia has already been recouped in Peru, where the Shining Path guerrillas protect the fields and the lines of supply.
The land suitable for coca plant cultivation in Peru alone (and for that matter, in Bolivia, Colombia or Brazil) is far, far larger than the acreage needed to meet total international demand. And according to Mark A. R. Kleiman at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, no law of nature restricts growth to Latin America: Indonesia was a principal legal supplier between the world wars. It follows that relatively modest efforts to stop the coca leaf traffic from one country would lead to a rapid switch to others.
But to Mr. Reuter, the worst news is the old news: supply-side strategies are inherently constrained by the pattern of markups on cocaine sales. In 1988, it cost just $750 to buy enough Peruvian coca leaf to make a kilogram of the pure drug. Colombian exporters of the processed 2.2 pounds charged just $1,900, while the importers who got the kilo past Miami customs received just $15,000 from major wholesalers.
Once divided and redivided for retail sale, however, the kilo was marked up to about $135,000. Thus a heroic effort to eradicate crops or smash supply routes that increased the cost of the leaf tenfold would have added just 5 percent ($6,750) to the cost on the street. Doubling seizures from importers - and presumably the ''valued added'' in transit - would have increased the competitive cost on the street by just 10 percent ($13,500).
By parallel logic, the 20 percent increase in the Miami wholesale price actually measured in 1989 would have increased retail costs by about 2 percent. In fact, Drug Enforcement Agency figures show no increase; the average street price remains well below 1986 levels.
If the supply-side approach is a task for Sisyphus, what might get the rock to the top of the mountain?
Mr. Kleiman would transfer anti-drug resources to street enforcement, reducing casual access and hence the demand from nonaddicted users. Mr. Reuter looks to education in the broadest sense -to the tales of death and destruction from cocaine that ought to scare away the curious. And as he points out, long-term evidence of decreasing use along with more recent reports of falling hospital admissions for cocaine abuse do offer a glimmer of hope.
But to date, the compelling economic logic against supply-side cocaine policy has apparently made the barest dent on the political culture. As long as Americans measure success in the drug war by acres of plants uprooted, tons of powder confiscated or arrests of young users, it probably will not.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%); 

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (94%); BOLIVIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCAINE; PRICES COCAINE (95%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); WHOLESALERS (89%); DRUG INTERDICTION (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); CITY LIFE (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); CITIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER PETER REUTER (79%); BRUCE BAGLEY (56%); 



185 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Dow Falls 10.19 on Weaker Bond Prices

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
Stock prices retreated yesterday, as the recent record-setting run-up faltered in the face of weaker bond prices.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell by 10.19 points, to 2,925.00, in robust trading. Volume totaled 199.7 million shares, compared with 175.5 million on Monday. Declining issues numbered 813 with 774 advancing. 
The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks fell by 0.76, to 366.64.
The market was positive at the start, with the Dow gaining 12 points, but after the second hour it sold off and remained in a narrow trading range until it began to sink lower in the afternoon.
''The market was under the wrath of the bond market today,'' said Paul Kronlokken, an analyst at Piper, Jaffray & Hopwood in Minneapolis.
The analyst said he did not completely fathom why the bond market was down, as nothing occurred to revise hopes for lower interest rates or inflation. ''It was probably profit taking'' in the bond market, as well as the stock market, he said.
 
An 'Overdue' Pause
The pause was ''overdue,'' said another analyst, Robert B. Ritter of Ladenburg, Thalmann & Company, ''and I don't see how it was set off by any particular incident. The only thing I can see to isolate is that oil prices were down.''
Lower oil prices depressed stocks in the oilfield-service industry, creating selling, or the excuse to do so, after good run-ups in some stocks. Baker Hughes, was down by 2, to 27 5/8; Halliburton was off by 2 3/4, to 46 1/4, and Schlumberger was down by 2 3/4, to 55 3/4.
Airline issues, looking to prospects for cheaper fuel, gained. AMR, the parent of American Airlines, rose by 1 3/8, to 68 7/8, and Delta Air Lines added 5/8, to 80, helping to buoy the Dow Jones transportation index, which rose by 4.74, to 1,212.59.
AMR has been strong lately, and it was aided yesterday by a report projecting higher earnings for the second quarter and the year by a Timothy Pettee, an analyst for Merrill Lynch & Company. He also predicted no debilitating fare war between carriers this year.
Fluor's earnings for the second quarter disappointed analysts, and the stock fell by 1 7/8, to 46 7/8.
Most financial issues held their gains, with BankAmerica up by 1/2, to 33 1/8, and Citicorp rising by 3/8, to 25.
Philips Industries posted a 3 3/4-point, or 23.2 percent, gain, to 17 1/4. It agreed to be sold to Tomkins, a British industrial group, for $550 million, or $18.50 a share. The stock's percentage rise was the Big Board's largest.
Kellogg gained 3 3/4, to 72. Nomi Ghez, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Company, changed her rating to a buy, from a strong hold.

GRAPHIC: Favorite Stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BHI (SWX) (82%); BHI (NYSE) (82%); LTS (NYSE MKT) (68%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); PJC (NYSE) (56%); DAL (NYSE) (53%); BAC (NYSE) (51%); BAC (LSE) (51%); 8648 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (82%); SIC3533 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (82%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (82%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (76%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); BAKER HUGHES INC (82%); LADENBURG THALMANN FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (68%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (53%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME BOND MARKETS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); AIRLINES (85%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (70%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F



186 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Mostly Down; Gold Prices Climb in U.S.

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended mostly lower yesterday, reflecting continued concern about the direction of interest rates. Gold prices rose following a mixed performance overseas.
Currency dealers said worries about the effects of a reunified Germany were lending some suppport to the dollar, but that was being overidden by concern about interest rates. 
Recent reports showing sluggish economic growth have some dealers worried that the Federal Reserve might be loosening its credit grip, they said. Lower interest rates often depress a currency. Economic data due out next week, including reports on consumer and producer prices for May, could shed more light on the economy's direction.
In Tokyo, where global trading begins, the dollar rose 0.01 yen, to 152.43 yen. It traded at 152.55 yen in London, and at 152.35 yen in New York, down from 152.65 on Monday.
 
Pound Stronger
The dollar weakened against the British pound. Sterling bought $1.6820 in London, up from $1.6745 on Monday, and $1.6880 in New York, up from $1.6770 on Monday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's quotes, were: 1.6840 West German marks, down from 1.6905; 1.4280 Swiss francs, down from 1.4340; 5.6785 French francs, down from 5.6960; 1,240.00 Italian lire, down from 1,243.00, and 1.17605 Canadian dollars, up from 1.17475.
Late dollar rates in Europe, compared with Monday's, were: 1.6910 West German marks, down from 1.6940; 1.4340 Swiss francs, down from 1.4390; 5.7020 French francs, down from 5.7080; 1.9070 Dutch guilders, up from 1.9068; 1,244.25 Italian lire, down from 1,245.50, and 1.1752 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1763.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $359.80 an ounce, up $1.20. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold of $359 an ounce, up $1.60.
Gold traded in London at a late bid price of $359.25 an ounce, up from $356.05 Monday.
In Zurich, the bid price was $358.60 an ounce, down from $363 late Friday. Zurich markets were closed Monday for a religious holiday. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold fell 81 cents, to $359.87.
Silver prices strengthened. On New York's Comex, silver bullion for current delivery settled at $5.065 an ounce, up 1.6 cents from Monday. Silver rose in London, to $5.08 an ounce from $5.03.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (53%); HSB (PAR) (53%); HBC (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (90%); SWITZERLAND (87%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (53%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BRITISH POUND (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PRECIOUS METAL SMELTING & REFINING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (63%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%); 



187 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: TAX REVOLT FADES AS CALIFORNIANS VOTE AN INCREASE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES

 BODY:
More than a decade after they led a revolt against taxes and spending, California voters turned around in elections Tuesday and approved higher gasoline taxes, a looser limit on state spending and more than $4 billion in bonds.
As the final returns from California became available yesterday there was talk in Washington and state capitals of a watershed in the long struggle over taxes and spending.
''The tax revolt which allegedly started in California has been tempered by a realization that we have to make investments in the country,'' Speaker Thomas S. Foley, Democrat of Washington, said on Capitol Hill yesterday.
 
Firsts for Women, Blacks
The decisions on taxes and spending in California were among several important results from elections Tuesday in nine states. [Chart of election results, page B6.] Dianne Feinstein, the former Mayor of San Francisco, became the first woman to win the Democratic nomination for governor of California, and in North Carolina, Harvey Gantt, the former Mayor of Charlotte, became the first black person ever nominated by the Democratic Party to run for the United States Senate. 
The emerging power of the abortion issue was demonstrated anew as abortion rights supporters won a crucial victory in the Iowa Democratic primary for governor. But abortion opponents had their own victories in Republican primaries in California and Montana. [Page B6.] Not a 'Stifling' Increase Still, it was California's tax and spending measure, Proposition 111, that aroused the most attention. It doubles the state gasoline tax, from 9 cents to 18 cents over five years, and loosens the limits that have restricted state spending since voters approved Proposition 13 in 1978.
Gov. George Dukemejian, a Republican, noted that the voters had not approved ''some stifling general tax increase'' but rather a specific gasoline tax increase that will go directly to repair California's highways and improve mass transit.
Some opponents of government spending were disconsolate over passage of Proposition 111, while some liberal politicians viewed the vote as a sign that taxes, while hardly popular, can win voter approval if government leaders demonstrate a clear and specific need.
While gasoline prices vary greatly from week to week and around the state, a gallon of unleaded regular gasoline currently sells for about $1.12 a gallon in California. Backers of Proposition 111 said its average cost to each California motorist would be $60 a year.
California has one of the lowest gasoline taxes in the country, and is one of many states raising them this year.
The proposal was approved by 53 percent of the voter, with 47 percent opposing. Mervin Field, the California poll taker, pointed out that slightly more than one in four citizens had voted, but he added that his surveys suggested that nonvoters would actually have been slightly more prone to support the new taxes.
 
'Elimination' of the Revolt
''What you saw in the elections was a wholesale elimination of the tax revolt,'' said Arthur Laffer, the California economist whose supply-side economic theories in the late 1970's inspired Ronald Reagan's budget policies. Dr. Laffer particular pointed to the section of Proposition 111 that will loosen state spending limits.
Dr. Laffer, who had campaigned against the ballot measure, said he expected California's economy to slow as a result of higher taxes and government spending.
While politicians tended to view the California vote as indicative of a shift in public sentiment, they also were cautious, noting several special factors.
Proposition 111 and a companion transportation bond issue, they pointed out, were overwhelming favored by the leadership of both major political parties, as well as by unions, construction contractors and groups representing motorists and mass transportation interests.
Moreover, leaders of California's higher education system campaigned for the measure, even though none of the revenue would directly benefit their systems. They reasoned that the part of the measure loosening state spending would make it easier for them to win budget increases.
 
Only a Narrow Margin
Even with such formidable support and a disorganized opposition, the political analysts noted, the proposition passed by a fairly narrow margin. Indeed, in the closing days of the campaign, supporters feared they were losing. And while the backers spent more than $5 million on the campaign, far more than the opponents, in the end, voters cast ballots along predictable lines, according to a survey of voters as they left polling places Tuesday. The poll was conducted by Voter Research and Surveys.
Those who identified themselves as liberal supported the measure 2 to 1, while those who called themselves conservative were against it, 59 percent to 41 percent.
Low-income voters, for whom the tax would presumably consume a larger share of their incomes, opposed the measure, while the wealthiest supported it.
The outcome was being closely watched both in state capitals, where fuel tax increases are frequently proposed to finance transportation improvements, and in Washington, where there are several proposals for an energy tax increase if budget negotiators decide to raise taxes as part of their effort to reduce the Federal deficit.
Indeed, Federal officials have become increasingly uneasy as state after state increased fuel taxes, making it politically harder to raise such taxes nationally.
Aside from California, 16 states have increased gasoline taxes this year as they struggled to pay highway repair bills with no propsect of more Federal aid.
Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner said yesterday that the California vote was evidence that ''the people of this country will support additional taxes for infrasturcture if they can be shown where their money will go.''
 
Low Gas Tax in New York
But he also said it suggests that the taxes can be raised at the state level, which is where the Bush Administration has said the burden of increased spending on transportation should fall.
Mr. Skinner noted that New York has large highway and mass transit needs but a a low gasoline tax.
Governor Mario M. Cuomo of New York noted the importance of tying any tax increase to specific spending.
''The politicians have lost the credibility that would allow them to say we must raise your taxes to be spent as necessary,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''They don't trust us to do it and I don't blame them. There has been that much waste.''
He said he had asked his staff to carefully review the California vote.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 8, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of a mechanical error, a chart yesterday showing election results omitted a figure in some copies for the Democratic nominee for the Senate from North Carolina. Harvey Gantt won the nomination with 57 percent of the vote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: TAXATION; REFERENDUMS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); BONDS (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); ABORTION (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); 

PERSON: ORESKES, MICHAEL DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); 



188 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Administration To Weigh Plan For Military Cut

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6

 BODY:
White House and Congressional negotiators resumed their budget talks today, with the first indication that the Bush Administration is prepared to offer a plan for reducing military spending.
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney emerged from the daylong session, the first since the lawmakers' Memorial Day recess, and told reporters he would prepare a study showing the policy effects of a 25 percent cut in troops, ships and airplanes over five years.
But Democrats on the negotiating team said the study would also outline the dollar effect of such a cut, and added that it would probably yield a military spending level somewhat lower than the one proposed by the Administration in January.
 
Focus on a Single Plan
The move was the first agreement by the Pentagon to demands from lawmakers to focus on a single plan to reduce the number of troops, ships and air wings, and on the dollar implications of such a reduction. In the Air Force, a wing usually consists of 72 planes. 
Previously, the Pentagon has talked only about cuts in individual components of the military and has never provided Congress a detailed and comprehensive assessment.
Senator Sam Nunn, a Georgia Democrat who heads the Senate Armed Services Committee, noted that this was not the first time the Defense Department had discussed a 25 percent reduction in the structure of personnel, equipment and weaponry in the armed services. But he said the Pentagon had never actually put together the details or the budget implications of such a reduction.
''The Secretary is now willing to undertake in one week what he has been so far telling the Armed Services committees would take until Septemeber,'' Senator Nunn said. He said that while a 25 percent cut would not translate into an equal amount of spending cuts, he considered Mr. Cheney's agreement to produce the study ''real progress'' on a critical element of the Pentagon budget.
 
'Significant Savings' Seen
''It seems if you cut the force structure by 25 percent you would have significant savings in dollars,'' said Senator Jim Sasser, a Democrat from Tennessee who heads the Senate Budget Committee.
But Secretary Cheney insisted that the correlation was by no means certain. ''We're not talking about a 25 percent dollar reduction,'' he said. ''It's a 25 percent force reduction.''
Senator Nunn took the middle road. ''I don't think in the first year you're going to get anything like the dollar cuts talked about by the budget committees,'' he said. ''But I think it will translate into more military cuts than the Administration was talking about in January.''
The budget that the Administration submitted in January called for military spending - that is, actual cash outlays - of $303.3 billion in the fiscal year 1991, which begins on Oct. 1. This figure would mean cutting 1991 military spending about $3 billion below last year's level, after adjusting for inflation.
Using the same yardstick, the budget resolution adopted by the House earlier this year would cut spending by $11.5 billion; the measure adopted in the Senate Budget Committee would reduce it by about $13 billion. Senator Nunn has recomended that 1991 spending be cut by $10 billion, a figure that he said represented a 20 percent reduction in personnel, equipment and weaponry.
The Senator said he believed Mr. Cheney's aim was to achieve a 25 percent force structure reduction over five years. ''I don't think this is a number he threw out casually,'' Mr. Nunn said.
He also said he was particularly pleased that Congressional negotiators and the Pentagon now seemed to be talking about five-year military planning, an approach that he said would allow for a much more efficient reshaping of the military budget.
''At least we've got a group of people trying to put something together,'' Mr. Nunn said. ''In that sense it is real progress, a foundation on which we can build.
Representative Leon E. Panetta, a California Democrat who heads the House Budget Committee, called today's budget session ''the most substantive'' to date.
''It's certainly an important step in the right direction, but whether it takes us to a consensus on defense numbers remains to be seen,'' he said. ''At least we're talking about similar concepts, and the agreement that we focus on 25 percent force structure reduction over five years opens the door.''
A decision on military spending is critical because the Pentagon consumes about a fourth of the Federal budget, and savings in that area determine how much leeway Congress has in setting spending levels for other programs.
Earlier in the day House Democrats, saying they were increasingly frustrated with the lack of serious bargaining, laid plans to begin work on the 13 annual spending bills that finance Federal programs, using the budget measure adopted by the House earlier this year as an overall spending guideline.
''What are we going to do, just shut down the House and Senate and let the summit find all the answers when we don't even know where we are going?'' Mr. Panetta asked reporters. ''By July 4, if we're not talking about deficit options, really bargaining, then it is going to be pretty clear the summit is bogged down.''
House Republicans, in a view echoed by their Senate counterparts, protested that action on the spending bills now would undercut the budget talks and suggested that both the House and Senate direct the negotiatiors to produce deficit-cutting recommendations by June 28.
 
'An Act of Bad Faith'
''If they go through with that it's a major blow to our efforts to have a budget summit,'' said Senator Phil Gramm, a Texas Republican. ''It's an act of bad faith.''
By day's end, House Democratic leaders agreed to postpone for two weeks any action on spending bills to await the outcome of Mr. Cheney's study and any further progress it would encourage in the budget talks.
Under the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings balanced budget law, Congress and the Administration are required to pare the deficit to $64 billion for the fiscal year 1991 or accept automatic spending cuts that would mean deep cuts in domestic and military programs to reach the deficit target. But the law can be waived if economic growth registers below 1 percent in two consecutive quarters, and there is a growing undercurrent of sentiment on Capitol Hill that the weakening economy will force just such a course and eliminate the need for a ''grand compromise'' on the budget.
Democrats said that in their Memorial Day recess they had detected no sense of crisis about the deficit among voters, making the prospect for action on a budget compromise all the more difficult.
Representative William H. Gray 3d of Pennsylvania, the House Democratic whip, said, ''The question is not even whether they can put together a budget compromise, but whether the 16 or 17 people in the negotiations can walk out on the floor and sell it in an election year when nobody at home thinks there is a crisis.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: White House and congressional negotiators resumed budget talks yesterday. Representing the Bush Administration were, from left; John H. Sununu, White House chief of staff; Richard G. Darman, budget director; Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, and Defense Secretary Dick Cheney. (George Tames for The New York Times) (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AIR FORCES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); 

PERSON: RASKY, SUSAN F; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (SEC) DICK CHENEY (90%); 



189 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3443 words

HEADLINE: An Empire at Risk - Trump's Atlantic City;
Debt Forcing Trump to Play for Higher Stakes

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES with M. A. FARBER

 BODY:
For Donald J. Trump, the 43-year-old entrepreneur who built his business empire during the 1980's with borrowed money, the stakes are highest, and the game hardest, along the sandy Boardwalk of Atlantic City.
Mr. Trump is relying on his three casinos, including the recently opened Taj Mahal, billed as the world's largest, for the cash to keep his sprawling empire going. But restoring the strength of his once-lucrative gaming houses in a difficult market will require management skills that Mr. Trump has yet to demonstrate.
 
A Risk-Filled Business
In the seven months since a freak helicopter accident robbed him of his top casino executives, Mr. Trump has for the first time become directly involved in running these complex operations with thousands of employees, where management risk is as ever-present as chance at the gaming tables.
Since then, his casinos have been undermined by an exodus of senior managers, some of whom were dismissed and others who left complaining of Mr. Trump's overbearing and idiosyncratic style. Surviving staff members complain of low morale. Bills are not being paid on time, vendors say. And state regulators, growing more concerned, have stepped up a broad inquiry into all his holdings. 
In recent weeks, Mr. Trump has been huddled with his bankers, who are concerned about his ability to keep making timely payments on the debt he used to accumulate such properties as the Plaza Hotel and the Trump Shuttle. Underlying those talks is his need for cash, which his casinos could satisfy through either strong performance or by fetching high prices on the auction block.
Today Mr. Trump is by far the biggest casino operator in Atlantic City. ''When you go to Atlantic City,'' said Richard R. Wilhelm, once a Trump casino official and now the general manager of the Plaza Hotel in New York, ''you're going to Trump City.''
But the gaming market on which Atlantic City depends is weakening, hurt by a soft economy and too many casinos spending too much to lure customers. Even Mr. Trump forecasts that in a few years, half of the dozen of casinos now operating in Atlantic City may be out of business, though he says he firmly believes that his three will be among the survivors.
The New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement's examination, ordinarily performed before periodic relicensing, was moved up and beefed up because of worries about the debt on the Taj Mahal, Mr. Trump's other bond obligations and the impact the Taj would have on his other Atlantic City interests. Debt payments on his casino bonds total nearly $180 million a year and some estimates of his total debt payments run as high as $255 million.
''It was the confluence of all those factors that led us to choose to review Mr. Trump's holdings in Atlantic City and the state of his overall organization,'' said Anthony J. Parrillo, the division's director.
The strain on Mr. Trump may be showing. On a weekend in mid-May, Trump executives watched anxiously as their boss paced back and forth in the crowded baccarat pit at the Plaza casino. Akio Kashawagi, a Tokyo real estate tycoon who won $6.2 million in February, was back at the table and he was winning again.
The executives, who were ordinarily accustomed to Mr. Trump adding a touch of his celebrity to the ''quality glitz'' of his casino, were embarrassed to see him hovering near the table as Mr. Kashawagi - who eventually lost $9.9 million and complained about his treatment - wagered $200,000 a hand. In their minds, Mr. Trump's behavior indicated a nervousness ill suited to a casino operator.
''This was one of the most coveted gamblers in the world,'' a Trump executive said later. ''In the casino business, you don't sweat the action.''
 
His Challenge
A Tough Time For the Industry
Given his current cash problems, Mr. Trump sorely needs the abundant profits casino gambling once produced, and he says he remains confident that his Atlantic City business will strengthen soon.
''Frankly, I think Atlantic City over the next two or three years will be far greater than anything I could ever do in Manhattan,'' Mr. Trump said in a wide-ranging interview. ''I think it's far greater than anybody can do in Manhattan.''
That optimism is hardly universal. Competition among the dozen casinos in Atlantic City has been fierce and is getting worse, both industry analysts and casino executives say. Profit margins are shrinking and only a larger flood of middle-income people who gamble regularly, whose arrival is uncertain at best, can reverse the trend.
Industry analysts and casino executives warn that this precarious environment will be a challenge for even the most seasoned and stable management. For Mr. Trump, with little practical experience at running a casino, the test will be especially hard.
His record in recent months, these analysts, gaming regulators and some of Mr. Trump's own executives say, is not reassuring. His casinos have been mired in internal dissension and a degree of managerial disarray that even state regulators say is unsettling.
Asked about the recent shaky performance of his casino holdings, Mr. Trump unexpectedly blamed a number of current and past aides, including the three highly respected casino executives who were killed in a helicopter crash last fall. In recent months, he said, he has personally taken hold of the situation in Atlantic City and has appointed people he calls ''warriors'' to start restoring his casinos to the cash-generating health they once possessed.
''Let me tell you my biggest strength that nobody knows,'' Mr. Trump said. ''My biggest strength is that I get the best people for the job. People want to work for me. Trump does well with management.''
Others are not so sure. Mr. Trump is praised by some as an imaginative but conservative real estate developer and a wily negotiator who, as one longtime associate said, ''never lets you know the facts.'' But his skill as the chief executive of a day-to-day business, now employing about 15,000 people, is a question mark.
Since he took a more direct hand in his casino operations late last year, he has fired a number of senior managers. Others have walked out in disgust. ''I simply didn't want to work for Donald Trump any longer,'' said Jack O'Donnell, the former president of the Trump Plaza and a well-regarded gaming industry executive who quit last month. Mr. Trump has lashed out publicly at his own top aides in press interviews and on television, balked at complying with severance agreements and appointed executives to positions for which they seem to have little relevant experience. The result has been a level of friction that has become the talk of the industry - and that has made it increasingly hard for him to recruit managers.
''People who work there are terrified,'' one regulator said. ''People are hiding under their desks.''
 
His Entrance
The New Kid On the Block
Donald Trump was licensed as a casino operator in Atlantic City in 1982, flush from his early successes in Manhattan, including the renovations of the Commodore Hotel, now the Grand Hyatt, and the construction of Trump Tower, the commercial and residential complex that soars over a prime corner of Fifth Avenue's shopping district.
The New Jersey experiment with legalized gambling had been touched with scandal. The Casino Control Commission was reorganized after one its original members had been tainted in the political influence-peddling inquiry known as Abscam, and several prospective Atlantic City operators had been denied a licence because of possible ties to unsavory figures in the gaming world.
Against that backdrop, Donald Trump was welcomed in Atlantic City.
''He was an emerging celebrity in New York,'' one former regulator recalled. ''He was just beginning to be noticed. In our mind, he was the good guys. We had just disqualified two chief executives, and here was this young, vital guy.''
Mr. Trump's first license was approved after a one-day hearing.
His initial stake was a joint venture with the Holiday Corporation. Together, in 1984, they opened what is now called the Trump Plaza casino, on the Boardwalk at the end of the Atlantic City Expressway, an enviable location in a market that, unlike Las Vegas, was dominated by day-trip business.
The deal soon soured, and Mr. Trump sold bonds in 1986 to buy out his partner.
The year before, the Casino Control Commission refused a gaming license to the Hilton Hotels Corporation, which had just built a casino in the marina district, several miles from the Boardwalk. Mr. Trump stepped in to buy the property, which he christened Trump's Castle.
With ready access to credit, Mr. Trump began to find new ways to invest in casino gambling - buying the stock of publicly traded casino operators and later, selling at substantial profits.
Then he turned his sights on the owner of Atlantic City's oldest casino, Resorts International, which was bogged down in the costly and seemingly endless process of building a casino - the Taj Mahal - to replace the antiquated hotel it had converted for gaming in 1978.
In March 1987, Mr. Trump bought the founding family's controlling stake for $288 million. With his voting power, Mr. Trump persuaded the Resorts board to grant him a management contract that was so generous that it threatened to consume most of the company's future profits. Ultimately Resorts International was bought by the entertainer Merv Griffin. Mr. Trump ended up with the Taj Mahal and an additional $64 million in cash from the buyout of his contract.
With the Resorts deal behind him, Mr. Trump owns three of the 12 operating casinos, more than any other operator and the maximum allowed by law. Last year he purchased a fourth property, the failed Atlantis casino on the Boardwalk, and remodeled it into a non-casino hotel, the Trump Regency. His new Taj Mahal, at $1.3 billion, is the costliest and largest gambling house in town. All told, he controls more hotel rooms, more exhibit space and more employees than any other casino enterprise in Atlantic City. Of the estimated $2.3 billion in debt incurred by Trump entities in the past decade, more than $1.4 billion is attributable to his three casinos.
 
His Style
A Preference For Glamour
Mr. Trump's management style has always been quite personal, placing his trust in a small circle of close associates. One of his first casino managers was his wife, Ivana, who was named to run Trump's Castle casino soon after her husband purchased it. Mrs. Trump, of course, had never run a casino before, and spent only a few days a week in Atlantic City. She relied on a senior staff of experienced executives, few of whom remain part of the Trump casino team today. In any event, one casino industry analyst noted, a rapidly growing market is kinder to inexperienced management than a stagnant one.
When he became sole owner of Trump Plaza in 1986, Mr. Trump recruited Stephen F. Hyde from Steve Wynn's Golden Nugget casino hotel in Atlantic City. Mr. Hyde, an accountant with an unflappable demeanor, brought with him Mark Grossinger Etess, whose experience in the hotel industry began with at his family's hotel and country club in the Catskills.
Two other members of Mr. Hyde's team were John Benanav, who had worked for Mr. Hyde at the Sands Casino, and Mr. O'Donnell, who had been senior vice president of marketing and vice president of slot operations at the Golden Nugget and who entered the business as an executive of his family's Bally Manufacturing Company.
In an industry famous for backbiting, Mr. Hyde appeared to have few detractors. Rivals praised his skill, talent and decency, and consultants who have dealt with the Trump Organization for years credited Mr. Hyde with buffering the Atlantic City staff from some of Mr. Trump's whims and eccentricities.
After two years, Mr. Hyde was put in charge of all Mr. Trump's casino operations, further freeing his boss for the glamorous chores he seemed to prefer - escorting fellow celebrities through a long parade of prize fights, rock concerts, regattas, bike races and other promotional events.
At that time, with less competition and rapid expansion in the Atlantic City market, the Trump casinos routinely earned more than enough to cover their overhead and produce sizable surpluses for Mr. Trump. This was possible in part because he was able to postpone repayment of principal on his bonds, and borrow money for new projects.
But the cash flow from Mr. Trump's casinos in 1989 did not increase, as he expected, but fell. At the Castle, renovation work ate up a big chunk of cash; the cost of maintaining Mr. Trump's 282-foot yacht, berthed at the Castle marina for promotional purposes, further consumed earnings.
 
His Managers
Expressions Of Discontent
As a manager, Mr. Trump tends to be guided by his own preferences. The Plaza casino had to cope with Mr. Trump's decision to convert proposed retail space at the Boardwalk entrance into an oyster bar. The staff suggested that the oyster bar would be far less profitable than the shopping boutique called for in the hotel's plans.
But, a former executive involved in the planning said Marla Maples, a frequent guest at Mr. Trump's Atlantic City properties, had pushed for an oyster bar. Miss Maples is the model with whom it is said Mr. Trump is having an affair.
''Actually, a lot of people didn't want the oyster bar,'' Mr. Trump said. ''But we had the ice cream parlor on the other side and we felt this would be a better complement to the parlor.''
Both the Castle and the Plaza, moreover, were hurt in 1989 by one of the worst years in Atlantic City's gaming history. While Las Vegas gaming revenues climbed by 9.7 percent in 1989, gross revenues grew only 2.6 percent on the Boardwalk, down from 9 percent in 1988. One casino, the Atlantis, closed. Another, Merv Griffin's debt-ridden Resorts, filed for bankruptcy. As casinos vied for customers, promotional expenses soared.
Still, if Mr. Trump harbored any discontent with Mr. Hyde and the team he had assembled, it was not known in Atlantic City.
Then, in late 1989, the Trump Organization was dealt a blow from which it has not yet fully recovered. On Oct. 10, Mr. Hyde and Mr. Etess, along with Mr. Benanav, flew to New York for a news conference. On their return that afternoon, their chartered helicopter crashed, killing all aboard.
In most of his public statements, Mr. Trump has continued to lavish praise on the men who died. He named the arena at the new Taj Mahal after Mr. Etess, and recently dedicated the refurbished marina building at the Castle to Mr. Hyde.
Yet during a recent interview, he ascribed much of his troubles in Atlantic City - from weaker profits at the end of last year to the rocky opening of the Taj in April - to those men, and to others they hired.
''After the crash, when I started getting involved and watching the operation in Atlantic City, I didn't like a lot of the things that I was seeing,'' Mr. Trump said. ''I just saw things that I wanted changed. Steve was my great friend, but I just saw things that I frankly wanted changed because I wasn't satisfied.''
He went on to criticize the Hyde team. ''People were put into positions that I didn't agree with,'' he said. ''When they didn't work out, I immediately fired them and put the people that I wanted in there. Since that time, the place has been running flawlessly.''
But other casino executives do not share that view. Indeed, the opening at the Taj in early April brought simmering management problems to a boil.
Donald C. Wood, the chief financial officer at the Taj, was carried from the casino floor on a stretcher, suffering exhaustion and dehydration. Two days later, with Mr. Trump still fuming over the mishaps of the opening, he was fired. Donald Buzney, the new casino's chief personnel officer, was also dismissed in the aftermath of the opening and was unceremoniously told that key features of his severance agreement would not be honored. Executives throughout Atlantic City were stunned when Mr. Trump, in a national telecast of the ''Larry King Show'' from the Taj penthouse, complained about Walter Haybert, who was Mr. Etess's successor as president of the casino.
''We had a Type C personality running the hotel,'' Mr. Trump said. ''I've never made money in my life with a Type C personality. Type C is low key, you know, people that fall asleep.''
Mr. Haybert was soon demoted, and replaced as Taj president by W. Bucky Howard, a gaming specialist with little experience in the hotel side of the business. Edward M. Tracy, who had helped run a casino in Puerto Rico but had been with the Trump organization only nine months, was promoted from the presidency of the Castle to oversee all three of the Trump casinos. He was replaced at the Castle by Anthony Calandra, who had operated the Trump casino marketing office in New York, arranging junkets for high-rolling gamblers.
 
His Chances
Atlantic City's Critical Moment
The management turnover in the Trump casinos comes at a critical moment in New Jersey's experiment with gambling.
In the past, economic prosperity, the excitement of getting started and the limited number of gaming outlets in the resort, and elsewhere in the country, tended to obscure the flaws in the Atlantic City environment. The problems remain daunting: a leadership vacuum in local politics, persistent squabbling among many casino operators,an outmoded convention hall, a shortage of hotel space for the tourist trade, insufficient land for developing the sort of theme casinos that have embellished Las Vegas, inadequate air and rail service, a rundown business district, a cumbersome and costly regulatory process and, underlying it all, the question of whether there will be enough new gamblers.
How many casinos can survive, and in what condition, depends in part on the leadership in Trenton. And after eight years in which former Gov. Thomas H. Kean did little to address the concerns of the casinos, the state's second-largest industry, some assistance may be in the offing.
Gov. Jim Florio, who took office in January, has ordered ''a policy review of the whole spectrum of issues'' surrounding casino gaming, a senior official said, ''including the airport, the convention center, and the structure and function of the Casino Control Act itself.''
What is needed, said Carl F. Zeitz, who served for eight years on the Casino Control Commission and who has participated in the review process, are changes to encourage the casino industry to build ''10,000 new hotel rooms and four to six new casino properties in the next four to six years.'' Unless that happens, Mr. Zeitz said, ''Atlantic City will die on the vine; it will be the world's biggest bus station with slot machines.''
Other policy makers say such ambitions are unrealistic because of the lackluster regional economy, the expectation that other states will approve competing forms of legalized gambling and the cautious attitude in Atlantic City itself, where casino executives are waiting to see if the Taj can succeed after the busy summer season, without damaging all its rivals.
Now that he is pre-eminent in Atlantic City, Mr. Trump says he prefers to see a moratorium on casino construction, something that would enhance the value of existing properties. But even without a freeze, Mr. Trump insists that his casinos are valuable trophies that will be a rich source of profit for him - whether he simply enjoys their future cash flow or decides to sell them.
''It's all superfine stuff,'' he said. ''My stuff is all trophies. I could make a tremendous profit if I wanted to go public.'' It is an option he says he weighs regularly.
Real estate specialists say the better Atlantic City casinos can always be sold - for the right price. Mr. Trump has already tested the market with his Trump Castle casino, asking a ''ludicrous'' $750 million, one real estate investor said.
Mr. Trump could lower his sights and probably find a buyer for one or more of his gaming properties. But so long as he insists on a premium price - which he must do if he hopes to clear a healthy profit after paying debts - he may have no recourse but to continue playing what is, for him, the unfamiliar game of casino management.
If there is agreement about Mr. Trump on any score, it is that his next move is virtually impossible to predict. An executive who worked closely with him for years summed it up by saying that over the long run, Mr. Trump is really not committed to any strategy. ''His outlook is: if you win, it was right.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Donald J. Trump (The New York Times) (pg. A1); Donald J. Trump presided at the opening in April of his Taj Mahal casino, the costliest and largest gambling house in Atlantic City. (Associated Press); Trump's Castle is one of Donald J. Trump's three casinos in Atlantic City (Ray Fisk for The New York Times); map of Atlantic City showing locations of Trump Castle, the Taj Mahal, Trump Plaza, Trump Regency and undeveloped property (The New York Times); graphs showing the stake of Donald Trump's Atlantic City stake (sources: Atlantic City Action; N.J. Casino Control Commission; Ernst & Young; N.J. Division of Gaming Enforcement (The New York Times) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: A special report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PLAZA HOTEL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTIC CITY (NJ)

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; SURVEYS AND SERIES GAMING (91%); CASINOS (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); AUCTIONS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (69%); HELICOPTERS (55%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; FARBER, M A; TRUMP, DONALD J DONALD TRUMP (95%); 



190 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-15
 
Violence erupted in a Soviet republic. Moscow reported that at least 40 people had been killed in three days of ethnic rioting and Soviet troop countermeasures in the Central Asian republic of Kirghizia. Page A1

 
Nuclear plants in Eastern Europe fall far short of Western safety standards and in many cases should be radically modified or closed, West European scientists who inspected the reactors have concluded. A1

 
The man who ruled Czechoslovakia as Communist Party chief for two years until the party was overthrown last November was seized for interrogation on ''criminal offenses,'' including his role in the Soviet-led invasion in 1968. A10 
 
 
Baker seeks Europe security group shift A8

 
Interpreters: hours of tedium and moments of precision A8

 
Soviets to repay lend-lease after a trade accord A11

 
Warsaw declares market conversion complete A9

 
News analysis: The historic meeting between President Gorbachev and President Roh Tae Woo of South Korea has been interpreted very differently by the two leaders. A3

 
China may sell chemicals to Libya that can be used to make poison gas, according to intelligence reports received by the U.S., Bush Administration officials said. A15

 
China releases 97 held in protests A14

 
Justice agency warned on inquiry of loans to Iraq A12

 
A Gandhi crusades against a befouled India A13

 
Leader of Liberia refusing to quit A6

 
Guerrilla hideout is raided in Lima A7

 
Medellin journal: Savagery is the habit in cocaine capital A4

 
National A16-21, B6-8, D22

 
California's tax revolt has faded. A decade after they led a revolt against taxes and spending, voters approved higher gasoline taxes, a looser state spending limit and more than four billion dollars in bond issues. A1

 
The former Mayor of San Francisco, Dianne Feinstein, emerged from the primary not only as the Democratic nominee for governor of California but also as a charismatic centrist figure who may appeal to wayward Democrats and independents. B6

 
Each side says primaries prove strength on abortion B6

 
Helms's opponent sets strategy B7

 
Oakland mayor loses his job B7

 
A plan for reducing military spending may be offered by the Bush Administration. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said he would prepare a study showing the policy effects of a 25 percent cut in troops, ships and air wings over five years. A1

 
Lawmakers hear stealth praised A18

 
The export of dangerous pesticides would be banned under legislation approved by the Senate Agriculture Committee. A similar proposal is pending in the House. A16
 
Jail Poindexter, prosecutors urge A17

 
Kemp urges tightened F.H.A. insurance program A21

 
Jackson urges Barry to seek plea agreement A18

 
Washington Talk: Barney Frank isn't yet done for A16

 
The woman who committed suicide with a doctor's help after learning she had Alzheimer's disease had been at the center of a struggle by her family to keep her from killing herself. A1

 
Physician fulfills a goal: aiding a suicide D22

 
Diagnosis of Alzheimer's is no matter of certainty D22

 
A feud over the Missouri River has ended up in court. After nearly three years of drought in the upper basin states, only a season of plentiful rain across the river's western watershed can resolve interstate tensions. A16

 
Group says pollution fight won't hurt economy D22

 
Donations in U.S. climb, but worries linger A20

 
Federal judge rules rap album is obscene D22

 
From Voyager 1, a space snapshot of six planets B8

 
Shuttle must go to repair hangar B8

 
Regional B1-4

 
Donald J. Trump's three casinos in Atlantic City must supply the cash he needs to keep his sprawling empire going. But restoring the strength of his once-lucrative gaming houses will require management skills that Mr. Trump has yet to demonstrate. A1

 
A church treasurer who disappeared from Suffern, N.Y., in 1982 with $267,000 in church funds may have been found in Taos, N.M. He was spotted by a parishioner from the church.
 A1

 
A mandatory drug-testing policy adopted by the New York City Transit Authority in the mid-1980's for all job applicants and employees was declared unconstitutional by a Federal judge in Manhattan. B1

 
M.T.A. to run TV ads to gain subway riders B3

 
Albany was dealt another setback. A major credit agency lowered New York State's long-term credit rating one notch. The move comes three weeks after the state adopted a budget that its political leaders insisted was sound. B1

 
The ruling on New Jersey school aid prompted the Florio administration and the State Legislature to tailor the Governor's proposals on how the state raises and spends money to conform to the court decision. B1

 
Soil contaminated with radium will be removed from around and under as many as 400 houses in the New Jersey communities of Glen Ridge, Montclair and West Orange. Federal officials said they would spend more than $250 million on the project. B1

 
Woman concedes lying after slaying B2

 
Jack Henry Abbott, the ''lawyer,'' objects B2

 
Brooklyn judge drops charge against grocer B3

 
New charge barred in Howard Beach retrial B3

 
Murder suspect almost walks out of court in Queens B4

 
At the Bronx Zoo, a damsel in distress is rescued B4

 
Business Digest D1

 
Sports

 
The manager of the New York Yankees was dismissed. Bucky Dent was replaced by Carl (Stump) Merrill, a longtime Yankee employee and the manager this season at the baseball team's Columbus affiliate. A1

 
Dream comes true for Merrill B11

 
News analysis: Change won't help B11

 
Yankees lose to Red Sox B12

 
Mets set back Expos B13

 
Column: Anderson on Yankees
 B11

 
Soccer: U.S. braces for rough stuff B15

 
Tennis: Muster gains semifinals B11

 
The Home Section

 
The class of '90 looks ahead to family life C1

 
A Gardener's World C1

 
Doghouses to bark about C1

 
When Karan handles it, fur can look like silk C14

 
Health

 
Pregnant women can gain more and skip vitamins B8

 
New findings tie cut in smoking to drop in heart disease B8

 
Meeting skin problems head-on in the summertime B9

 
A search to bar retardation in a new generation B9

 
Obituaries D23

 
Vasily V. Kuznetsov, a Soviet Vice President and envoy
 
Joseph C. Bevis, among first to monitor public opinion
 
Arts/Entertainment

 
Legislators rebuff extension on arts panel C17

 
A Falstaff who transcends sex C17

 
Theater: ''Prin'' by Andrew Davies C18

 
''Sisters'' C19

 
Film: ''My Dinner With Abbie'' C15

 
Music: Troupe seeks rare operas C16

 
Dance: Robbins festival opens C17

 
Word and Image: ''First Hubby,'' comic novel C22

 
Jerry Seinfeld in a comedy C22

 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A22

 
Spend fairly for schools
 
Canada's latest identity crisis
 
Dying, Dr. Kevorkian's way
 
Topics: Ethical update
 
Letters A22

 
A. M. Rosenthal: Warmth and ice A23

 
Tom Wicker: The public voice - amplified A23

 
Michael Aronson, Christopher J. Georges: Dukakis triumphs
 A23

 
Leonard S. Spector: India-Pakistan war could be nuclear A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (91%); LIBERIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (75%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (62%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); RIOTS (78%); BONDS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (77%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); SUICIDE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); POWER PLANTS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); PESTICIDES (71%); FUEL TAX (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); DEFENSE SPENDING (67%); GASOLINE (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%); ARMED FORCES (60%); LEGISLATION (60%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); COCAINE (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (52%); DICK CHENEY (52%); BARNEY FRANK (50%); 



191 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Soviet Thaw With Seoul: What Is Real Depends on Whom You Listen To

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 6

 BODY:
Within moments of the end of his meeting with Mikhail S. Gorbachev on Monday, the South Korean President, Roh Tae Woo, was broadcasting a message of victory back home, declaring that ''the cold war ice on the Korean peninsula has now begun to crack'' and predicting the imminent establishment of diplomatic relations with Moscow.
In the following two days, however, the Soviets have put a dramatically different, far less enthusiastic cast on the hastily arranged meeting in San Francisco. Making it clear that the session was only an opening step in a broader discussion about Korea's longstanding division, the Soviets treated it more as a first encounter between aspiring business partners than an epoch-making accord between sworn enemies.
The Soviet caution was reflected in statements from Washington today, where Presient Bush was briefed on the results of the talks by Mr. Roh. Administration officials indicated that the contacts were still very preliminary and that they could not predict when relations or concrete agreements would be reached. 
While few question that the meeting itself was a breakthrough, even some of Mr. Roh's aides concede that its substance fell short of the fevered build-up it was given at home. It took place as Mr. Roh is trying to reinvigorate his popularity in the midst of an economic slowdown and increasing problems with a new political coalition that he has put together with two longtime opposition leaders.
 
Trade as Panacea
For two years the South Korean leader has bet that expanding economic ties with the Soviets - trade doubled last year but still amounts to just $600 million - would slowly draw political concessions from the Soviets, further isolating the North Korean leadership of Kim Il Sung. The strategy is a reversal from the days when South Koreans were jailed for consorting with Communists. But it is too early to tell if it is working.
A senior Japanese diplomat with long experience in Asian affairs said today that while he viewed diplomatic relations between Moscow and Seoul as inevitable, Mr. Gorbachev knew he ''could not walk away from the basic tenets of his relations with North Korea.'' And the Soviet leader, he and others suggest, likely sees an opportunity to extract more trade and investment the longer he keeps Seoul waiting.
''The South Koreans are reading what they want into whatever transpired,'' Han Sung Joo, a Korea University professor of political science, noted today in Seoul, discussing how eagerly the South Korean news media have soaked up Mr. Roh's version of events. ''The Soviets were trying to minimize whatever transpired.''
 
Gorbachev Sidesteps Trap
Moreover, Professor Han suggests, the Soviets sensed the South Korean President's eagerness to demonstrate that he had usurped the North's biggest ally and source of funding, ''and Gorbachev refused to walk into that.''
''They know what we want and that we want it so badly,'' said Professor Han, speaking about Mr. Roh's longing to establish himself as the former general who ended 40 years of antagonism beween Seoul and the Communist world. ''They are going to get the last ounce of what we have to offer.''
So far, the silent player in all this has been North Korea. Seoul's announcement last week that Mr. Roh and Mr. Gorbachev would meet left the Communist Government in Pyongyang somewhat stunned.
Until hours before the meeting, North Korea's official press agency offered doubts that the leader of its biggest ally would meet the leader of its adversary - a view fostered by the fact that Soviets did not announce it. ''Our best information,'' a Western diplomat here said, ''is that the Soviets never even told the North in advance.''
That would be consistent with the many recent signs of strains between North Korea and the Soviet Union, including the expulsion of a Soviet reporter in Pyongyang and differences over opening the North to nuclear inspections. Nonetheless, one of Mr. Roh's close aides, Hyun Hong Choo, newly appointed as South Korea's United Nations representative, said he understood that Mr. Gorbachev was ''not in a mood to advertise'' his approaches to the South.
''They wanted to downplay the thing,'' he said. ''They don't want to make an ally angry unnecessarily. But the very fact that the meeting took place cannot be denied, and that has a symbolic meaning.''
 
Pyongyang's Press Is Silent
In the aftermath of the San Francisco session, North Korea's Government-controlled press organizations -the only outlets for information in the country - have ignored the event altogether. The eerie silence, many suspect, arises from the difficulty in divining Mr. Gorbachev's intentions, the same problem that faces Mr. Kim.
In the meantime, most close analysts expect a freeze on the sporadic North-South talks that, along with gradually mounting trade with the Soviets, have been the centerpiece of Mr. Roh's post-Olympics ''Nordpolitik.''
''Everything will stop for a while,'' said a senior Japanese diplomat who has been following the approaches each side has made. ''North Korea has to reach for some of Buddha's enlightenment to cope with the realities of the world.'' Others are not so sure. North Korea has been one of the few Soviet bloc countries to show no signs of a pro-democracy movement; news is so controlled that it is hard to know if the North Koreans have even heard of the happenings along the Berlin wall.
So far, the South Koreans have been so ebullient about the meeting that they have hardly taken notice of the Soviet Union's efforts to play it down. Newspapers in Seoul, and elsewhere in Asia, have heralded a fundamental change in the political order, and are already filled with indications of fisheries agreements and joint ventures.
 
Injured Feelings in Seoul
In a rare sour note, the English-language Korea Times noted today that Mr. Gorbachev absented himself from the news conference after the San Francisco talks and issued statements that made no reference to South Korea. The Soviet President, the newspaper suggested, ''was not faithful to the protocol worthy of a 'historic summit.' ''
Mr. Gorbachev, the paper added, kept Mr. Roh waiting for an hour and then treated him ''as if he was a private economic patron and not the head of state who had flown thousands of miles to confer on crucial matters of mutual concern.''
The photograph of the two leaders that has been splashed across South Korea's press shows a broadly grinning President Roh and a glum, tired-looking Mr. Gorbachev.
Over time, however, Mr. Roh is betting that the Soviets will determine that economic patrons are something to smile at, especially if they bring Samsung video recorders, Hyundai automobiles and jobs. Next month, lower-level negotiations are expected to continue on diplomatic recognition, which would spur even more trade. ''All we need now,'' Mr. Hyun said, ''is time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH KOREA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); NORTH KOREA

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SOUTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR COLD WAR (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; ROH TAE WOO (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S ROH TAE WOO (92%); 



192 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
Interpreters' Lot: Hours of Tedium and Moments of Precision

BYLINE: By DAVID BINDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6

 BODY:
Did Mikhail S. Gorbachev say on Friday that centrally controlled economic planning was ''a vice,'' meaning immoral - or, did he say it was ''a vise'' constricting growth?
While the press, working off a phonetic version provided by a Washington transcription agency, reported the former version, the small band of Soviet and American interpreters who worked the summit know the Soviet leader said ''vise.''
Interpreting is an unusual craft requiring the concentrated attention of a boxer in a championship match, but often for hours on end. Almost the only occasion interpreters get to socialize or work in a relaxed manner is at state funerals, when their services are only scantily employed. 
 
Teams of Interpreters
For the latest Soviet-American summit meeting, between Presidents Bush and Gorbachev and their delegations, the American side deployed 20 interpreters while the visitors brought 15 from Moscow. They interpreted for Presidents Bush and Gorbachev, their wives, Barbara and Raisa, and for Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze.
''I was really amazed at this crew of Soviet interpreters,'' said Harry Obst, head of the State Department's Office of Language Services, who supervised the American end of the interpreting and translation tasks. ''They did really outstanding work, masters of the art.''
The Soviet team was led by Pavel Palazhchenko, a balding, meticulously dressed man in his 40's who, like some of his American counterparts, has had considerable experience interpreting at previous American-Soviet summit meetings.
 
Precision Without Emotion
Mr. Palazhchenko is known in the interpreters' guild as one who eschews any inflections or gestures while delivering an extremely precise English rendition of President Gorbachev's Russian.
''He makes no effort to get emotion across, assuming the words themselves will be enough,'' Dimitry Zarechnak, one of the American interpreters, said of Mr. Palazhchenko. ''He's very precise.'' Among the other Soviet interpreters was Sergei Berezhkov, who handled part of President Gorbachev's breakfast meeting Friday with 12 members of Congress. In response to a question by Sen. George J. Mitchell, Democrat of Maine, about the Soviet economy, the Soviet leader had criticized ''the old command planned system'' as ''a kind of vise on our entire economy.''
 
'Clamp' Becomes 'Cramp'
The Russian word he used was ''tiski.'' Mr. Berezhkov, performing simultaneous interpretation, said ''vise,'' but, then, according to Mr. Obst, realized this could be misheard as ''vice'' and added ''a kind of clamp,'' as a synonym to make clear that act of squeezing. An American transcription agency giving the text nevertheless made it ''vice'' and rendered ''clamp'' as ''cramp.''
Mr. Obst said this was typical of the vicissitudes of simultaneous interpretation, but he complimented Mr. Berezhkov's effort to make the meaning clear with a synonym. He noted that Mr. Berezhkov, who is in his 40's, also has the distinction of being the son of a Soviet interpreter, Valentin M. Berezhkov, who was translator for Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov in his negotiations with Joachim von Ribbentrop on the Soviet-German nonaggression pact of 1939.
The American summit interpreters were led by Mr. Zarechnak, who was born of Russian parents in Czechoslovakia and came to this country at the age of 4, and William H. Hopkins, a native of Storm Lake, Iowa. They have worked summits as a team since 1985, changing off every 20 minutes or so.
 
A Change of Technique
By agreement with the Soviet side, the diplomatic interpreters work from their own language into the language of their counterparts. Until about six years ago, the bulk of the interpreting was done ''consecutively,'' that is, following a fairly lengthy presentation during which the interpreter takes his own form of short-hand notes.
Mr. Hopkins recalled that, beginning with a meeting between President Reagan and Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko in 1984, the interpreting switched to ''simultaneous'' - that is, following the speaker word for word with hardly a perceptible lag.
Simultaneous interpreting seems to induce more dialogue and to discourage lengthy set pieces. Mr. Hopkins said that President Gorbachev now delivers his message in shorter statements. ''He is a lot easier than he used to be,'' he observed.
 
More Scope for Gestures
Asked whether there is a bit of acting in the art of interpreting a foreign statesman, both Mr. Hopkins and Mr. Zarechnak grudgingly acknowledged that being center stage ''in big media events'' might involve some of that. ''I tend to gesture a lot,'' said Mr. Zarechnak, who is 46, and Mr. Hopkins, 48, said he, too, was gesturing ''more and more.''
Mr. Hopkins said: ''You can't upstage the principal. You don't stand up and try to do an imitation of George Bush in Russian. But, going into another language is like getting another personality.''
Mr. Zarechnak said professional interpreters take pride in their contributions to the broadening of languages. It was an American interpreter, Mr. Zarechnak said, who coined ''gumanitarny'' as a Russian translation of ''humanitarian'' in discussions of human rights issues. The term has now been adopted by the Soviet Government. Similarly, he said, an American translator came up with ''zabrasivayemy ves'' to convey the American strategic- arms term ''throw-weight'' to describe the payload-carrying capability of a nuclear missile and that, too, is now standard Russian usage.
 
Backgrounds Are Varied
Some are made interpreters and some are born, said Mr. Obst, who pointed out that only about half of his staff of 23 took college degrees in languages or interpreting. He himself came to the profession by way of translating, Mr. Zarechnak was originally a mathematician, and Mr. Hopkins was an academic.
The Office of Language Services does have facilities for training its own staff in 10 languages. It provides refresher courses for its veterans in a conference room with state of the art electronic equipment. It can also pipe in Moscow's daily main television news broadcast, Vremya, for Russian speakers to practice their simultaneous interpreting.
''What it takes is natural talent, knowledge and personality,'' said Mr. Obst, ''and you don't necessarily get those from school.''
But is it theater? ''I would never go on stage if I had only seen the lines for three minutes before the curtain went up and the role is like Hamlet,'' said Mr. Hopkins.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''I was really amazed at this crew of Soviet interpreters,'' said Harry Obst, center, head of the State Department's Office of Language Services. He discussed the work of last week's summit meeting with fellow State Department interpreters William H. Hopkins, left, and Dimitry Zarechnak. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF LANGUAGE SERVICES (US); STATE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: TRANSLATION; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); 

PERSON: BINDER, DAVID; OBST, HARRY; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE J MITCHELL (51%); 



193 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
Baker Seeks Europe Security Group Shift

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: COPENHAGEN, June 6

 BODY:
In an effort to parry Soviet hopes to have the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe rather than NATO take the leading role in shaping a new Europe, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d today offered his own ideas of how the 35-nation organization should evolve.
As he spoke at a conference meeting in the Danish capital, the Secretary of State addressed attempts increasingly to seize on the conference as a framework for building a pan-European security structure that could replace NATO and the Warsaw Pact, thereby giving Moscow a role equal to Washington's.
Established in 1975, the conference has no permanent secretariat, no home address and no staff. Rather, it has been up to now a floating set of occasional negotiations bringing together 33 European nations and the United States and Canada. 
Its most significant achievement to date is the Helsinki Final Act of 1975 - the last time the organization held a summit meeting -which set some basic standards of behavior in the field of human rights to which the West has held the Soviet Union and the states of Eastern Europe accountable.
Addressing the security conference's foreign ministers meeting in Copenhagen, which was devoted to expanding human rights, Mr. Baker said: ''Czechoslovakia's Charter 77 cited the Helsinki Final Act in defense of their unjustly persecuted countrymen. Now, the Charter's original members -President Havel and Foreign Minister Dienstbier to name only two - are leading the new Czech and Slovak Republic to democracy.''
 
NATO's Prospects for the Future
The security conference, NATO and the European Community, Mr. Baker continued, ''must now play a greater role in deepening and broadening European unity.''
With an eye toward Moscow, though, he quickly added: ''We must insure that these organizations continue to complement and reinforce one another. NATO will continue to serve as the indispensible guarantor of peace - and therefore the ultimate guardian of democracy and prosperity. As President Bush stressed with President Gorbachev at last week's Washington summit, we believe NATO will remain a cornerstone of both military security and political legitimacy in the new Europe.''
In order to head off any potential Soviet move to develop the security conference into an alternative to NATO, American officials understood that they had to take the lead in defining, and thereby limiting, how the pan-European organization should expand.
American officials say they have an interest in seeing the conference become something of an all-European club that would, in particular, give the Warsaw Pact members a sense of belonging at a time when their alliance will likely disappear and NATO will likely continue.
 
Security Conference Expansion
Mr. Baker laid out what he described as several ''ideas on how we can work together to improve C.S.C.E. as a process by reinforcing C.S.C.E.'s organization.'' Those were:
* The United States will press for ''regular consultations'' among the conference states, with foreign ministers meeting at least once a year and senior officials at least twice a year in order to ''invigorate the C.S.C.E. as a forum for high-level political dialogue.''
* The United States will support the holding of security conference meetings to review human rights, economics and security issues once every two years.
* Just as the Helsinki Final Act established a certain minimum standard of human rights, the United States will now push for the security conference to expand those core rights that all member states would have to honor to include the ''principle of free and fair elections, political pluralism and rule of law.''
* The United States will push for the conference to develop mechanisms for conflict resolution between European states and for greater military openness.
* The United States is prepared to begin prepatory work for a security conference summit meeting, the first since Helsinki, to be held in Paris as soon as a conventional-arms reduction agreement in Europe is concluded.
 
Large Group, Unwieldy Process
The notion that security conference could ever put NATO out of business seemed a bit unlikely as the organization was observed in action today. The group has so many members that it had to convene in an airline-hangar-sized conference room outside of Copenhagen, with the 35 foreign ministers seated around a horseshoe-shaped conference table the length of a football field.
It is clearly an unwieldy grouping, in which small states like Malta and the Vatican carry the same voting weight as the United States and the Soviet Union, insuring that concerted action in any direction is always based on the lowest common denominator.
On the United States-Soviet front, a senior Administration official told reporters today that Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze of the Soviet Union told Mr. Baker during their meeting Tuesday that despite President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's recent hint that Moscow would consider halting Jewish emigration if Israel did not prevent Soviet Jews from settling in the occupied territories, the Kremlin actually has no intention of altering its emigration policy.
The official quoted Mr. Shevardnadze as saying that ''we have no plans to change our approach to emigration,'' which is a policy of increasingly free immigration for Jews and other minorities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); DENMARK (92%); FINLAND (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (72%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO); WARSAW PACT (1955); CONFERENCE ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



194 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
Soviets to Repay Lend-Lease After a Trade Accord

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6

 BODY:
Once the Soviet Union gets the lowest possible tariffs from the United States and access to American Government credits, Moscow will start repaying $674 million of World War II Lend-Lease debts to the United States, an agreement appended to the newly signed Soviet-American trade agreement says.
The text of the accord, which was made available by American officials, sheds new light on the financial relationships that are likely to emerge from the trade pact, which was signed Friday by President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union.
For the Soviets, debt repayment is the key to raising money in the American bond market. The Johnson Debt Default Act of 1934 bars credits to countries in default to the United States Government. 
The text was circulated as the Soviet Union's chief trade negotiator, Yuri N. Chumakov, told a group of American business officials at the Soviet Embassy here that there is broad support in the Soviet Parliament for the freer emigration legislation that President Bush has linked to the tariff cuts.
He said the legislation, which is now expected to come up in September, could pass unanimously. ''Everyone in the Parliament is for it,'' he said.
Soviet officials said Tuesday in Moscow that Parliament had not included the bill on its agenda for the session that ends June 14. The Parliament does not convene again until September. No reason for the omission from the current agenda was given.
President Bush has said that he will not submit the accord to Congress until the Soviets complete the legislation, which provides procedures for exit from and entry into the Soviet Union.
 
Severe Economic Straits
Responding to questions from the Americans, Mr. Chumakov, Deputy Minister for Foreign Economic Relations and the man who negotiated the trade agreement, said ''the emigration law was postponed because our economic problems are so pressing.''
The Soviets are trying to transform their system of centralized planning into a market-based economy. Also preoccupying Moscow leaders is the 28th Communist Party Congress, which is expected to take place next month.
The comments of Mr. Chumakov underscored the importance that the Soviets attach to the trade agreement, which would reduce tariff levels and ease two-way trade, which totaled about $5 billion last year.
Congress has added conditions to the trade agreement, signaling that it will not approve it until the Soviet Government stops trying to coerce Lithuania into revoking its declaration of independence.
Today, the House approved, 390-24, a nonbinding resolution calling for an end to such coercion. Its action was similar to a Senate resolution approved 73-24 last month.
The trade agreement contains a number of provisions that would ease two-way trade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (92%); LITHUANIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (56%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (56%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (56%); SOVIET PARLIAMENT (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MOST-FAVORED NATION TREATMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); APPROVALS (76%); POLITICS (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); BONDS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); BOND MARKETS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 



195 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: States Turn to the Courts for Water As the Rain-Starved Missouri Falls

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ROBBINS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PIERRE, S.D.

 BODY:
To hear them talk, both the people who live upriver and those who live downstream on the Missouri River Basin are prepared to be completely reasonable. All they want, they say, is their rightful share of the mighty river's water and its benefits.
But after nearly three years of drought in the upper basin states, only a season of plentiful rain across the thousands of miles of the river's western watershed can resolve interstate tensions that became all too apparent in Federal court hearings in May.
''Do we all have the responsibility to be reasonable?'' said William Janklow, a former Governor of South Dakota. ''The answer is yes. Is everybody acting reasonably? Hell, no.'' 
The specific issue is whether water should be released from reservoirs upstream. And the answer, whatever it is, is worth hundreds of millions of dollars to the economies of the eight states that funnel water into the Missouri.
 
The Course of the River
The 2,315-mile river rises in western Montana, flows north and then southeast through a series of dams in Montana and North and South Dakota, and then south and east past Nebraska, Iowa and Kansas and through Missouri before flowing into the Mississippi. Although the Missouri River does not touch Minnesota, that state is also part of its watershed.
To those in the upper basin states, what is at stake is the future of fishing resources that support a burgeoning recreation industry. From Sioux City, Iowa, south to Kansas City, Mo., and then east to St. Louis, the main interest is the transportation network that supporters say is vital to farming and commercial interests.
The river in that 735-mile stretch, maintained for navigation by the Army Corps of Engineers, supports barge lines carrying about $92 million worth of grain a year downstream and returning with chemicals and fertilizers and other freight worth hundreds of millions of dollars.
In addition, dozens of other groups keep a nervous eye on the river level. These groups include those who use its water to irrigate farms, to generate electricity and to supply the water systems of dozens of cities and towns.
 
The Good and the Bad
''Let's manage this resource so we share the good as well as the bad,'' said Gov. George S. Mickelson of South Dakota as he greeted guests in his office here in Pierre the other day. ''So far, all we have had was the bad.''
Downstream in Kansas City, John Madgett, president of Midwest Terminal Distribution Services, sounded equally reasonable. ''We're willing to share, and we have taken our hits like everybody else,'' he said, referring to reductions in the depth of the river and in the loads that barges can carry.
But he contended that if South Dakota and its allies had won their court battle it would have killed downstream navigation for most of the 1990 season, which has already been shortened because of the water problems.
The reason, Mr. Madgett said, was a complication introduced by two endangered species of birds cited by the Corps of Engineers in its appeal of a district court ruling that barred release of upstream water. The birds, the least tern and the piping plover, nest just above the waterline, the corps said, and if it lowered the water level downstream temporarily, as the plaintiffs wanted, it would have been forced to keep water levels below navigable depths for the entire nesting season, which runs through August.
The navigation season, which normally ends on Dec. 1, is scheduled to close this year on Nov. 1.
 
Restraining Order Overturned
South Dakota, supported by North Dakota and Montana, sued in early May in Federal District Court in Bismarck, N.D., and won a temporary restraining order limiting releases of water from Lake Oahe, which backs up across hundreds of thousands of acres behind the Oahe Dam here and stretches into North Dakota.
Responding to the argument that releases were rapidly lowering the lake level in the critical spawning period of the walleye, a popular game fish, Judge Patrick Conmy ordered the corps to reduce releases until June 1.
But a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit held, in effect, that the lower court should not interfere with the complex management decisions that the corps must make.
As it turned out, nature gave both sides a reprieve. Heavy downstream rains forced the corps to limit the release of water from the dam.
As a long-term solution, Governor Mickelson said he would seek Federal legislation giving the courts clear jurisdiction over the corps's operations, and he has asked other governors of Missouri Basin states to meet with him on June 20 to try to resolve their differences.
Meanwhile, the corps has set up regional conferences seeking comments to help update the Missouri River Master Manual, its guidebook on river operations, in an effort to meet the area's multiple needs.
 
Limited Funds for Irrigation
The conflicts stem from problems of the Missouri basin that Congress tried to solve with the Flood Control Act of 1944. The measure was intended to provide four benefits for the states in the basin: flood control, irrigation, electrical power and navigation.
South Dakota, in particular, says it has given up more than it received. Although the legislation envisioned potential development of more than 900,000 acres for irrigation in the state, Congress never voted money for more than 24,000 acres. But South Dakota gave up 530,000 acres of its best bottomland, about 828 square miles, to be flooded by the impounded waters, Of $85.5 million a year in electrical power generated by the projects, $55 million is generated in South Dakota. But state officials say relatively little of that stays at home.
''South Dakota, which has most of the dams, gets the smallest amount of electricity,'' said Mr. Janklow, the former Governor. ''Even Minnesota gets more electricity from our reservoirs than we do.''
Others relate that disparity to relative sizes. Although South Dakota's land area is almost one-third greater than that of New York State, its population is slightly more than 700,000, about 280,000 less than Rhode Island's.
 
Money From Sports Fishing
South Dakota did develop a recreational fishing industry that attracts anglers seeking salmon, northern pike and walleye. Dr. Michael K. Madden, a University of South Dakota economist, said sports fishing brings in more than $41 million a year for the state and more than $125 million when money spent on boats, trailers and fishing licenses is included.
But resort owners say the reports of receding waters and limits imposed on catches because of the loss of spawn have discouraged many anglers from vacationing in South Dakota.
The stakes are strikingly evident at Spring Creek, about 20 miles north of here, where John and Marlene Brakss built a lakeside marina to cater to fishermen about three years ago. The gasoline pump that then stood at water level now requires a 100-foot fuel hose extension to service boats that pull up.
The water has receded so far that their mooring spaces can accommodate only a fraction of the number of boats that they were developed to handle.
''We built for 150,'' said Mrs. Brakss, as she looked grimly down to the dock. ''We can only get 35 in there now. Break-even is 50. So guess what happens if they keep releasing our water for the barges downstream.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A drought of nearly three years in the upper Missouri River Basin has Montana and North and South Dakota squabbling with other states over water use. John and Marlene Brakss stood on the bank of the river at their marina at Spring Creek, S.D.; gasoline pump was once at water's edge. (Chris Hipple for The New York Times); map showing location of the Oahe Dam and the route of the Missouri River (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (96%); MISSOURI, USA (95%); MONTANA, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PIERRE, SD, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SIOUX CITY NEWSPAPERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MISSOURI RIVER; MONTANA; NORTH DAKOTA; SOUTH DAKOTA; LAKE OAHE (SOUTH DAKOTA)

SUBJECT: WATER; DROUGHT RIVERS (94%); DROUGHT (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); IRRIGATION (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); FERTILIZERS (68%); ENGINEERING (63%); GOVERNORS (56%); ARMIES (52%); 

PERSON: ROBBINS, WILLIAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 



196 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Donations in U.S. Climb, but Worries Linger

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN TELTSCH

 BODY:
Americans gave $114.7 billion last year in philanthropic gifts, an increase over last year, but fund-raisers remain worried about the continuing adverse impact of 1986 tax laws.
Most of the gains came from an 11.7 percent increase in giving by individuals who provided $96.43 billion that went mainly to religious groups.
Giving by foundations and corporations also increased but at a much lower rate, to $6.7 billion and $5 billion, respectively, up from $6.15 billion and $4.8 billion.
The total combined giving by individuals, corporations and foundations in 1989 was 10.4 percent over the previous year, or 5.5 percent when adjusted for inflation, according to the American Association of Fund-Raising Counsel, whose Trust for Philanthropy issued its annual estimates of giving on Monday. 
But fund-raisers were worried that giving to certain areas declined, or barely held its own. For example, giving to education dropped slightly, and gifts to health institutions increased almost imperceptibly. And while donations to arts, culture and the humanities increased 5.4 percent, when adjusted for inflation, gifts to museums did not meet hopes.
''I don't know where that increase is going because it certainly is not coming into the museum community,'' said Edward H. Able, executive director of the American Association of Museums, a Washington-based organization representing 2,500 museums.
 
Problem for Museums
A large measure of museums' financial troubles, Mr. Able maintained, were traceable to the 1986 tax changes, which scaled down incentives to give and particularly reduced the benefits of donating property that had appreciated in value. ''As a consequence,'' he said, ''museums anticipating gifts are seeing potential donors selling their art works, which are going to Japanese and other foreign collectors, and America's cultural patrimony is hemorrhaging.''
The estimates of giving are developed by the association, which represents 32 leading groups engaged in raising money for universities, hospitals and other nonprofit organizations.
 
Optimism Is Questioned
Some analysts questioned this year's optimistic report, called Giving U.S.A. They pointed out that United Way, whose fund raising is regarded as a reliable barometer of giving by individuals, reported an increase in 1989 of only 7.2 percent over 1988.
The fund-raising association concluded that most of the 1989 increase came from a surge in gifts by individuals who contributed more than 84 percent of all giving from private sources.
The growth was attributed to the jump in personal income of almost 9 percent, a 21 percent rise in the prices of stock and also growing public awareness of causes like homelessness, AIDS and the environment. Also, a number of universities benefited from intensive fund-raising campaigns.
''Charities, and especially social service organizations, are increasingly aware they cannot depend on government support for their operating budgets or for expansion to meet the growing needs of clients,'' said Jimmie R. Alford, chairman of the association's Trust for Philanthropy.
Giving in the religious sector totaled $54.3 billion, a 12.9 increase over 1988. Education received $10.69 billion and health, $10 billion. Arts, culture and the humanities together received $7.4 billion. Social action organizations, like environmental or women's groups, received $3.6 billion and a catch-all category including foreign aid received $17.1 billion.
The increase in corporate giving was surprising to some fund-raisers who expected the total to drop in the wake of threatened takeovers.
''Despite all the wolf-crying from charities, corporate contributions have proved remarkably resiliant,'' said Anne Klepper, director of the Contributions Management Institute of the Conference Board, an organization of 2,500 corporate members. ''Corporations are still very much in business and entering the 90's with even higher hopes. Who knows what will happen on the international scene, in Eastern Europe or the Pacific rim?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION (75%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS (54%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); PHILANTHROPY (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); CHARITIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); RELIGION (57%); 

PERSON: TELTSCH, KATHLEEN EDWARD H ABLE (56%); 



197 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Latest Identity Crisis

 BODY:
Once again, Canada is agonizing over a problem as old as the nation itself - the uneasy marriage between its English and French cultures. Antagonism has reached another crisis. There is even talk of Canada breaking apart. That seems unlikely, but the tension creates unwelcome uncertainty in America's closest ally. 
The trigger for the latest rift is a proposed amendment to the 1982 Constitution, which Quebec refused to ratify because it gives the province and its culture no special status.
Known as the Meech Lake Accord, the amendment is designed to mollify Quebec by declaring it to be a ''distinct society,'' permitting it to set its own policy in certain cultural areas. Quebec has already declared French to be its language, defying Canada's national bilingualism. At Quebec's insistence, the accord also gives individual provinces veto power over some national matters.
The accord expires June 23 unless all provinces have ratified it, and there are still two firm holdouts, Manitoba and Newfoundland. In an effort to turn the holdouts around, modifications to the Meech Lake Accord have been proposed. But these proposals have only enraged and strengthened Quebec's separatists, who have revived their threat of secession if the amendment isn't adopted as is. Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, his own popularity severely weakened by the introduction of a national sales tax, has been meeting with the provincial premiers for the past week, searching frantically for a compromise.
The crux of the matter is Canada's identity as a nation. It was created as one country 123 years ago out of a collection of British colonies. It remains an uncertain union of provinces vested with more local authority than the 50 United States have.
Quebec's concern is that, without constitutional protection, the English-language culture will eventually overwhelm the French. Quebec is economically viable; with Ontario, it forms the center of Canadian commerce and industry. But Quebec's birth rate has declined sharply in recent decades, an ominous sign to defenders of the French culture.
Living together as one nation hasn't been easy for Canadians, but the awful prospect of living apart has always saved the marriage. As close allies, principal trading partners, neighbors and friends, Americans can only hope for a resolution that will preserve and stabilize the union.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (95%); NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); MANITOBA, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA)

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CANADA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SECESSION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); VETO (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%); SALES TAX (50%); 

PERSON: BRIAN MULRONEY (55%); 



198 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Pervasive Racism and Boycott of Korean Stores

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I agree with Ji H. Min, writing about the boycott of two Korean stores in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn (''As a Korean, I'm No Longer 'Neutral,' '' Op-Ed, May 19), when he points out that the economic relationship between Korean-Americans and African-Americans is symbiotic. I also agree that there's room for improvement by the merchants, but that the boycott must first end. Yet, as a fellow Korean-American, I am surprised by his naivete on a problem as pervasive as racism.
He suggests the boycotters are motivated by racism. Even if the boycotters themselves deny it, it is plain to many of us. Yet the blame cannot fall on one side only.
My parents, too, are Korean shopowners. And I can say, without disrespect, that they are racists. They are racists like the man from Bensonhurst who so earnestly says into the camera: ''I'm no racist. But I think all black guys are sneaks.''
They are racists like Sonny Carson and C. Vernon Mason, who, while accusing others of racism, say that they are antiwhite. People who like to believe that the only form of racism in America is institutional are sadly mistaken. Because each exquisite and distinctive piece of the mosaic needs clear differentiation from - and subtle denigration of - the cultural and racial other: pro-my group almost always means anti-everyone else.
Yes, racism is everyone's problem. But it is a problem not only because each of us is its potential victim, but because we are its unacknowledged perpetrators.
 
JOHN X. KIM
Closter, N.J., May 21, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: RACIAL RELATIONS; KOREAN-AMERICANS; BOYCOTTS; BLACKS (IN US) RACE & RACISM (91%); BOYCOTTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: JI H MIN (56%); 



199 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: ON MY MIND;
Warmth and Ice

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal

 BODY:
The Washington summit talks did not reveal a great deal new about George Bush, but they did tell us a lot about Mikhail Gorbachev - certainly more than he intended.
The meeting showed us again that President Bush is an intelligent, likable man who handles himself with style but has one important drawback as a player in international affairs. He likes things to be cost-free.
When issues of principle get involved that he thinks may interfere with what he wants, he just dumps them. Like, say, supporting the freedom movement in China or standing up to terrorists. 
At the summit talks it was Lithuania. First Mr. Bush told Mr. Gorbachev a trade agreement had to be linked to Lithuanian independence. Then, after listening to Mr. Gorbachev's pleas for support, out came a trade package for the Kremlin without Lithuania.
A familiar argument can be made for that kind of policy. But who wants to say that this country believes the ends justify the means? So the Administration tends to mumble while we cup our ears.
But there was more to the summit conference than Lithuania, or more precisely, no Lithuania. The arms talks left the Soviet Union with superior military strength on the ground. But the country is falling apart so fast that to use it against the West would demand an overwhelming national desire to commit suicide.
The agreements about reducing nuclear weapons are good for the soul and the pocketbook. But they still leave both sides - yes, there are still two sides when it comes to survival in a nuclear age - in terror of the destruction that has prevented great-power war for a half-century.
On Germany, Mr. Gorbachev hinted he would slowly do what the realistic Germans knew he would do one day -accept unified Germany in NATO in exchange for some face-saving language and a hefty German package of economic gifts and investments.
He has no other choice now. The Soviet Union and the West failed to work out a plan about how to deal with a unified Germany before it was suddenly upon them. After all, they only had 40 years or so.
Emotions count more than documents and speeches, as good diplomats know. The American public made the Gorbachev visit emotionally powerful. Wherever he went, Americans held out, so clearly it could almost be touched, their yearning to put fears and enmities behind them, to relax their neck muscles.
It was not what he said. A certain document contains all the hope and plans for the international common roof he talks about. Remember it, the United Nations Charter? Do we really need to start all over?
No, it was the exhilaration of seeing and hearing a man whom Americans believe is responsible for a new era of hope. They hugged him for that.
But in Washington, in a startling moment of self-revelation, Mr. Gorbachev showed the importance of not tying our destiny to his. He talks democracy, and perhaps even believes in a version of it, but in that moment he showed that he acts and thinks like a dictator.
The Arabs, he told a press conference, had been pressuring him about the immigration of Soviet Jews to Israel. Then came a threat: Unless Israel listens to him and prevents the new arrivals from living in the ''occupied territories,'' he will reconsider allowing them to leave the U.S.S.R.
Since only a handful of Soviet Jews have gone to live in the West Bank, the threat meant Israel had to prevent them from finding apartments in East Jerusalem, part of Israel's capital.
Sitting right there was President Bush. Mr. Gorbachev had promised him Moscow would soon put into law the right of Soviet citizens to leave their country.
The President sat strangely silent, listening to Mr. Gorbachev talk familiar Soviet talk - laws mean what the Communist Party or its boss intend at any given moment. This time Soviet promises about emigration were at stake. The next time, what?
The American public's reaching out to Mr. Gorbachev was a warm moment of history that will remain in the mind. So should the icy moment of self-revelation in Washington.
The truth remains: If we move with heavy foot in support of Mr. Gorbachev, and only Mr. Gorbachev, we can trample the hopes of the Soviet people, who want more freedom -and more food - than he is ready or able to give them.
And we can crush the new Soviet democratic movement, still forming, and its chance to lead the country to freedom - for which so many of its members were once imprisoned, so long and so cruelly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); LITHUANIA (94%); GERMANY (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; GAZA STRIP; WEST BANK; JERUSALEM

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; JEWS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); TERRORISM (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); IMMIGRATION (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



200 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
Turning Boycott Of Greengrocer Into Green Power

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
For almost five months, a chorus of shrill chants has defined the boycott by a group of blacks against a Korean-owned greengrocer on Church Avenue in Brooklyn. Meanwhile the real story behind the boycott was quietly unfolding around the corner.
On Saturdays, volunteers from the Flatbush Frontline Collective, which helped to organize the boycott, have been operating their own sidewalk fruit and vegetable stand under a bright blue canopy between the M & R Meat Market and The Curls Unisex Beauty Salon on St. Paul's Place.
That they are there at all is a largely untold story. Last Saturday the well-stocked, competitively priced operation claimed more customers than the Church Avenue greengrocery, where pickets drove away would-be shoppers by shouting insults and appeals for solidarity. 
Yet the very existence of the part-time market raises a fundamental, but largely unasked question: Where were these potential entrepreneurs before? Why did it take an altercation between a Korean grocer and a black customer accused of shoplifting to galvanize blacks concerned about economic power into taking a constructive stand?
''That's the first thing we hear,'' said Robert (Sonny) Carson, who has made a career of organizing protests, including the Church Avenue boycott. ''Why don't we open our own businesses instead of boycotting? We have seized the time. Now at least we can say that something came out of it.''
Mr. Carson said the stand makes a small profit, which is invested in the collective's other endeavors, including fliers and bullhorns for the boycott. ''They just want to make their money back and get a few pennies for their other expenses,'' he said.
A second stand has been operating Saturdays on Macon Street in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section, around the corner from another Korean-owned greengrocery, which was the target of a boycott in 1988.
''We're trying to set up a role model for other aspirants,'' Mr. Carson said. ''I can't answer why this has never happened before.''
The number of black-owned businesses in New York and the nation has grown, but it remains disproportionately small. Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, regional commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, said that self-employed New Yorkers make up 6.7 percent of the city's total labor force, but only 3.4 percent of working blacks.
The Uptown Chamber of Commerce estimates that 30 percent of the businesses in Harlem are black-owned - down from 35 percent four years before. In central Harlem the figure is about 50 percent. Among the almost 160 members of a Church Avenue merchants' group, about 25 are black.
Black-owned businesses have benefited from corporate purchasing programs that encourage minority suppliers to bid. But Lynda Ireland, president of the Association of Minority Business Enterprises of New York, fears that those benefits will be undermined by Federal court challenges to such programs.
''We're not looking for a welfare situation,'' she said. ''Unfortunately it takes affirmative action sometimes to allow us to compete fairly.'' It also takes working capital, which is the goal of a modest loan program proposed by Borough President Howard Golden of Brooklyn in response to the boycott.
Near the dueling fruit stands the other day, a video store was promoting the Spike Lee film ''Do the Right Thing,'' which presciently captured the resentment behind the boycott.
''I bet you they haven't been off the boat a year before they open up their own place,'' says Coconut, one of three sidewalk philosophers surveying a Korean-owned market across the street. ''They already have got a place in our neighborhood - a good business occupying a building that had been boarded up for longer than I care to remember.'' Coconut suggests that either Koreans are geniuses or his black brethren are dumb.
''It's got to be because we are black,'' says M.L. ''There ain't no other explanation.''
To which Sweet Dick Willie replies, ''Tired of hearing that old excuse.''
Yesterday Mr. Lee said: ''The biggest reason why Koreans are able to do this is not that they come into the country with a lot of money, but they come in as families. That family is very intact. We should use the Koreans as a model.
''As far as the 90's are concerned, black people have to be about economic development,'' Mr. Lee said. ''For too long we've talked about how the white man has kept us down. That's a given. If we're to survive, we have to get into the entrepreneurial way of thinking.''
That change is beginning, but it is not going to happen by chants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC)

SUBJECT: FOOD; KOREAN-AMERICANS; BLACKS (IN US); BOYCOTTS BOYCOTTS (91%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (76%); LABOR FORCE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RELIGION (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (71%); MEAT STORES (71%); SHOPLIFTING (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); STATISTICS (60%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (60%); 

PERSON: LEE, SPIKE; CARSON, ROBERT (SONNY); ROBERTS, SAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

 
