

601 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3224 words

HEADLINE: Very Rich Are Leaving the Merely Rich Behind

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
A decade into the practice of medicine, still striving to become ''a well regarded physician-scientist,'' Robert H. Glassman concluded that he was not making enough money. So he answered an ad in the New England Journal of Medicine from a business consulting firm hiring doctors. 
 And today, after moving on to Wall Street as an adviser on medical investments, he is a multimillionaire.
Such routes to great wealth were just opening up to physicians when Dr. Glassman was in school, graduating from Harvard College in 1983 and Harvard Medical School four years later. Hoping to achieve breakthroughs in curing cancer, his specialty, he plunged into research, even dreaming of a Nobel Prize, until Wall Street reordered his life. 
 Just how far he had come from a doctor's traditional upper-middle-class expectations struck home at the 20th reunion of his college class. By then he was working for Merrill Lynch and soon would become a managing director of health care investment banking. 
 ''There were doctors at the reunion -- very, very smart people,'' Dr. Glassman recalled in a recent interview. ''They went to the top programs, they remained true to their ethics and really had very pure goals. And then they went to the 20th-year reunion and saw that somebody else who was 10 times less smart was making much more money.'' 
 The opportunity to become abundantly rich is a recent phenomenon not only in medicine, but in a growing number of other professions and occupations. In each case, the great majority still earn fairly uniform six-figure incomes, usually less than $400,000 a year, government data show. But starting in the 1990s, a significant number began to earn much more, creating a two-tier income stratum within such occupations. 
 The divide has emerged as people like Dr. Glassman, who is 45, latched onto opportunities within their fields that offered significantly higher incomes. Some lawyers and bankers, for example, collect much larger fees than others in their fields for their work on business deals and cases.
 Others have moved to different, higher-paying fields -- from academia to Wall Street, for example -- and a growing number of entrepreneurs have seen windfalls tied largely to expanding financial markets, which draw on capital from around the world. The latter phenomenon has allowed, say, the owner of a small mail-order business to sell his enterprise for tens of millions instead of the hundreds of thousands that such a sale might have brought 15 years ago. 
 Three decades ago, compensation among occupations differed far less than it does today. That growing difference is diverting people from some critical fields, experts say. The American Bar Foundation, a research group, has found in its surveys, for instance, that fewer law school graduates are going into public-interest law or government jobs and filling all the openings is becoming harder.
 Something similar is happening in academia, where newly minted Ph.D.'s migrate from teaching or research to more lucrative fields. Similarly, many business school graduates shun careers as experts in, say, manufacturing or consumer products for much higher pay on Wall Street.
 And in medicine, where some specialties now pay far more than others, young doctors often bypass the lower-paying fields. The Medical Group Management Association, for example, says the nation lacks enough doctors in family practice, where the median income last year was $161,000.
 ''The bigger the prize, the greater the effort that people are making to get it,'' said Edward N. Wolff, a New York University economist who studies income and wealth. ''That effort is draining people away from more useful work.''
 What kind of work is most useful is a matter of opinion, of course, but there is no doubt that a new group of the very rich have risen today far above their merely affluent colleagues.

Turning to Philanthropy
 One in every 825 households earned at least $2 million last year, nearly double the percentage in 1989, adjusted for inflation, Mr. Wolff found in an analysis of government data. When it comes to wealth, one in every 325 households had a net worth of $10 million or more in 2004, the latest year for which data is available, more than four times as many as in 1989. 
 As some have grown enormously rich, they are turning to philanthropy in a competition that is well beyond the means of their less wealthy peers. ''The ones with $100 million are setting the standard for their own circles, but no longer for me,'' said Robert Frank, a Cornell University economist who described the early stages of the phenomenon in a 1995 book, ''The Winner-Take-All Society,'' which he co-authored.
 Fighting AIDS and poverty in Africa are favorite causes, and so is financing education, particularly at one's alma mater.
 ''It is astonishing how many gifts of $100 million have been made in the last year,'' said Inge Reichenbach, vice president for development at Yale University, which like other schools tracks the net worth of its alumni and assiduously pursues the richest among them.
 Dr. Glassman hopes to enter this circle someday. At 35, he was making $150,000 in 1996 (about $190,000 in today's dollars) as a hematology-oncology specialist. That's when, recently married and with virtually no savings, he made the switch that brought him to management consulting.
 He won't say just how much he earns now on Wall Street or his current net worth. But compensation experts, among them Johnson Associates, say the annual income of those in his position is easily in the seven figures and net worth often rises to more than $20 million.
 ''He is on his way,'' said Alan Johnson, managing director of the firm, speaking of people on career tracks similar to Dr. Glassman's. ''He is destined to riches.''
 Indeed, doctors have become so interested in the business side of medicine that more than 40 medical schools have added, over the last 20 years, an optional fifth year of schooling for those who want to earn an M.B.A. degree as well as an M.D. Some go directly to Wall Street or into health care management without ever practicing medicine. 
 ''It was not our goal to create masters of the universe,'' said James Aisner, a spokesman for Harvard Business School, whose joint program with the medical school started last year. ''It was to train people to do useful work.''
 Dr. Glassman still makes hospital rounds two or three days a month, usually on free weekends. Treating patients, he said, is ''a wonderful feeling.'' But he sees his present work as also a valuable aspect of medicine. 
 One of his tasks is to evaluate the numerous drugs that start-up companies, particularly in biotechnology, are developing. These companies often turn to firms like Merrill Lynch for an investment or to sponsor an initial public stock offering. Dr. Glassman is a critical gatekeeper in this process, evaluating, among other things, whether promising drugs live up to their claims.
 What Dr. Glassman represents, along with other very rich people interviewed for this article, is the growing number of Americans who acknowledge that they have accumulated, or soon will, more than enough money to live comfortably, even luxuriously, and also enough so that their children, as adults, will then be free to pursue careers ''they have a hunger for,'' as Dr. Glassman put it, ''and not feel a need to do something just to pay the bills.''
 In an earlier Gilded Age, Andrew Carnegie argued that talented managers who accumulate great wealth were morally obligated to redistribute their wealth through philanthropy. The estate tax and the progressive income tax later took over most of that function -- imposing tax rates of more than 70 percent as recently as 1980 on incomes above a certain level.
 Now, with this marginal rate at half that much and the estate tax fading in importance, many of the new rich engage in the conspicuous consumption that their wealth allows. Others, while certainly not stinting on comfort, are embracing philanthropy as an alternative to a life of professional accomplishment.
 Bill Gates and Warren Buffett are held up as models, certainly by Dr. Glassman. ''They are going to make much greater contributions by having made money and then giving it away than most, almost all, scientists,'' he said, adding that he is drawn to philanthropy as a means of achieving a meaningful legacy. 
 ''It has to be easier than the chance of becoming a Nobel Prize winner,'' he said, explaining his decision to give up research, ''and I think that goes through the minds of highly educated, high performing individuals.'' 
 As Bush administration officials see it -- and conservative economists often agree -- philanthropy is a better means of redistributing the nation's wealth than higher taxes on the rich. They argue that higher marginal tax rates would discourage entrepreneurship and risk-taking. But some among the newly rich have misgivings.
 Mark M. Zandi is one. He was a founder of Economy.com, a forecasting and data gathering service in West Chester, Pa. His net worth vaulted into eight figures with the company's sale last year to Moody's Investor Service. 
 ''Our tax policies should be redesigned through the prism that wealth is being increasingly skewed,'' Mr. Zandi said, arguing that higher taxes on the rich could help restore a sense of fairness to the system and blunt a backlash from a middle class that feels increasingly squeezed by the costs of health care, higher education, and a secure retirement. The Federal Reserve's Survey of Consumer Finances, a principal government source of income and wealth data, does not single out the occupations and professions generating so much wealth today. But Forbes magazine offers a rough idea in its annual surveys of the richest Americans, those approaching and crossing the billion dollar mark.
 Some routes are of long standing. Inheritance plays a role. So do the earnings of Wall Street investment bankers and the super incomes of sports stars and celebrities. All of these routes swell the ranks of the very rich, as they did in 1989.
 But among new occupations, the winners include numerous partners in recently formed hedge funds and private equity firms that invest or acquire companies. Real estate developers and lawyers are more in evidence today among the very rich. So are dot-com entrepreneurs as well as scientists who start a company to market an invention or discovery, soon selling it for many millions. And from corporate America come many more chief executives than in the past. 
 Seventy-five percent of the chief executives in a sample of 100 publicly traded companies had a net worth in 2004 of more than $25 million mainly from stock and options in the companies they ran, according to a study by Carola Frydman, a finance professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management. That was up from 31 percent for the same sample in 1989, adjusted for inflation. 
 Chief executives were not alone among corporate executives in rising to great wealth. There were similar or even greater increases in the percentage of lower-ranking executives -- presidents, executive vice presidents, chief financial officers -- also advancing into the $25 million-plus category.
 The growing use of options as a form of pay helps to explain the sharp rise in the number of very wealthy households. But so does the gradual dismantling of the progressive income tax, Ms. Frydman concluded in a recent study.
 ''Our simulation results suggest that, had taxes been at their low 2000 level throughout the past 60 years, chief executive compensation would have been 35 percent higher during the 1950s and 1960s,'' she wrote.

Trying Not to Live Ostentatiously
 Finally, the owners of a variety of ordinary businesses -- a small chain of coffee shops or temporary help agencies, for example -- manage to expand these family operations with the help of venture capital and private equity firms, eventually selling them or taking them public in a marketplace that rewards them with huge sums. 
 John J. Moon, a managing director of Metalmark Capital, a private equity firm, explains how this process works.
 ''Let's say we buy a small pizza parlor chain from an entrepreneur for $10 million,'' said Mr. Moon, who at 39, is already among the very rich. ''We make it more efficient, we build it from 10 stores to 100 and we sell it to Domino's for $50 million.''
 As a result, not only the entrepreneur gets rich; so do Mr. Moon and his colleagues, who make money from putting together such deals and from managing the money they raise from wealthy investors who provide much of the capital. 
 By his own account, Mr. Moon, like Dr. Glassman, came reluctantly to the accumulation of wealth. Having earned a Ph.D. in business economics from Harvard in 1994, he set out to be a professor of finance, landing a job at Dartmouth's Tuck Graduate School of Business, with a starting salary in the low six figures. 
 To this day, teaching tugs at Mr. Moon, whose parents immigrated to the United States from South Korea. He steals enough time from Metalmark Capital to teach one course in finance each semester at Columbia University's business school. ''If Wall Street was not there as an alternative,'' Mr. Moon said, ''I would have gone into academia.'' 
 Academia, of course, turned out to be no match for the job offers that came Mr. Moon's way from several Wall Street firms. He joined Goldman Sachs, moved on to Morgan Stanley's private equity operation in 1998 and stayed on when the unit separated from Morgan Stanley in 2004 and became Metalmark Capital.
 As his income and net worth grew, the Harvard alumni association made contact and he started to give money, not just to Harvard, but to various causes. His growing charitable activities have brought him a leadership role in Harvard alumni activities, including a seat on the graduate school alumni council. 
 Still, Mr. Moon tries to live unostentatiously. ''The trick is not to want more as your income and wealth grow,'' he said. ''You fly coach and then you fly first class and then it is fractional ownership of a jet and then owning a jet. I still struggle with first class. My partners make fun of me.''
 His reluctance to show his wealth has a basis in his religion. ''My wife and I are committed Presbyterians,'' he said. ''I would like to think that my faith informs my career decisions even more than financial considerations. That is not always easy because money is not unimportant.'' 
 It has a momentum of its own. Mr. Moon and his wife, Hee-Jung, who gave up law to raise their two sons, are renovating a newly purchased Park Avenue co-op. ''On an absolute scale it is lavish,'' he said, ''but on a relative scale, relative to my peers, it is small.'' 
 Behavior is gradually changing in the Glassman household, too. Not that the doctor and his wife, Denise, 41, seem to crave change. Nothing in his off-the-rack suits, or the cafes and nondescript restaurants that he prefers for interviews, or the family's comparatively modest four-bedroom home in suburban Short Hills, N.J., or their two cars (an Acura S.U.V. and a Honda Accord) suggests that wealth has altered the way the family lives. 
 But it is opening up ''choices,'' as Mrs. Glassman put it. They enjoy annual ski vacations in Utah now. The Glassmans are shopping for a larger house -- not as large as the family could afford, Mrs. Glassman said, but large enough to accommodate a wood-paneled study where her husband could put all his books and his diplomas and ''feel that it is his own.'' Right now, a glassed-in porch, without book shelves, serves as a workplace for both of them.
 Starting out, Dr. Glassman's $150,000 a year was a bit less than that of his wife, then a marketing executive with an M.B.A. from Northwestern. Their plan was for her to stop working once they had children. To build up their income, she encouraged him to set up or join a medical practice to treat patients. Dr. Glassman initially balked, but he was coming to realize that his devotion to research would not necessarily deliver a big scientific payoff.
 ''I wasn't sure that I was willing to take the risk of spending many years applying for grants and working long hours for the very slim chance of winning at the roulette table and making a significant contribution to the scientific literature,'' he said.
 In this mood, he was drawn to the ad that McKinsey & Company, the giant consulting firm, had placed in the New England Journal of Medicine. McKinsey was increasingly working among biomedical and pharmaceutical companies and it needed more physicians on staff as consultants. Dr. Glassman, absorbed in the world of medicine, did not know what McKinsey was. His wife enlightened him. ''The way she explained it, McKinsey was like a Massachusetts General Hospital for M.B.A.'s,'' he said. ''It was really prestigious, which I liked, and I heard that it was very intellectually charged.''
 He soon joined as a consultant, earning a starting salary that was roughly the same as he was earning as a researcher -- and soon $100,000 more. He stayed four years, traveling constantly and during that time the family made the move to Short Hills from rented quarters in Manhattan. 
 Dr. Glassman migrated to Merrill Lynch in 2001, first in private equity, which he found to be more at the forefront of innovation than consulting at McKinsey, and then gradually to investment banking, going full time there in 2004.

Linking Security to Income
 Casey McCullar hopes to follow a similar circuit. Now 29, he joined the Marconi Corporation, a big telecommunications company, in 1999 right out of the University of Texas in Dallas, his hometown. Over the next six years he worked up to project manager at $42,000 a year, becoming quite skilled in electronic mapmaking.
 A trip to India for his company introduced him to the wonders of outsourcing and the money he might make as an entrepreneur facilitating the process. As a first step, he applied to the Tuck business school at Dartmouth, got in and quit his Texas job, despite his mother's concern that he was giving up future promotions and very good health insurance, particularly Marconi's dental plan.
 His life at Tuck soon sent him in still another direction. When he graduates next June he will probably go to work for Mercer Management Consulting, he says. Mercer recruited him at a starting salary of $150,000, including bonus. ''If you had told me a couple of years ago that I would be making three times my Marconi salary, I would not have believed you,'' Mr. McCullar said.
 Nearly 70 percent of Tuck's graduates go directly to consulting firms or Wall Street investment houses. He may pursue finance later, Mr. McCullar says, always keeping in mind an entrepreneurial venture that could really leverage his talent. 
 ''When my mom talks of Marconi's dental plan and a safe retirement,'' he said, ''she really means lifestyle security based on job security.''
 But ''for my generation,'' Mr. McCullar said, ''lifestyle security comes from financial independence. I'm doing what I want to do and it just so happens that is where the money is.''

Gilded Paychecks
 Articles in this series are examining executive compensation. Previous articles can be found at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert and Denise Glassman with sons Jeremy, 8, at right, and Spencer, 5, at their home in Short Hills, N.J. (Photo by Emile Wamsteker for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
ROBERT H. GLASSMAN -- A doctor who left practicing medicine for Wall Street (Photo by Emile Wamsteker for The New York Times)
 JOHN J. MOON -- Managing director of a private equity firm, who had intended to become a teacher (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); LAWYERS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); ETHICS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (54%) Executives and Management; Surveys and Series; Wages and Salaries; Medicine and Health; Medical Schools; Doctors; Executives and Management; Executives and Management

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006



602 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: With the Price Of Copper Up, The Plumbing Can Go Missing

BYLINE: By SEAN D. HAMILL

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
When Mike Roscoe first saw water running along the gangway between his two row houses, he thought he was dealing with a leaking pipe, not the impact of global economic forces. 
 After all, why would thieves -- midnight plumbers as the police call them -- tear out the floorboards, toilets, even the walls of the homes, all in search of copper tubing?
''To go through this effort? I don't get it,'' said Mr. Roscoe, 39, a truck driver and fledgling landlord who discovered the damage Monday when he arrived to do some work to help get his two attached, red-brick houses in the Allentown neighborhood ready to rent. ''You could make more money getting a job at minimum wage.'' 
 Not necessarily. In the last year, a worldwide surge in demand for copper, largely from construction booms in China and India, has pushed up its value. Though the market price has slipped, it is still more than double what it was just over a year ago. 
 Scrap metal dealers in Pittsburgh said they were paying about $2 a pound for No. 2 copper, which by definition has been bent or soldered, more than triple the 65 cents they paid a year ago. That kind of payout makes a copper haul like the approximately 20 pounds taken out of Mr. Roscoe's row houses worth about eight hours of work at minimum wage ($5.15 an hour). 
 Though the news media has reported thefts of copper wire from streetlights, electrical substations and cellphone towers across the country, most of it is taken from abandoned homes or homes under construction, usually by drug addicts looking for quick cash. The theft from Mr. Roscoe's houses was among eight similar thefts in Pittsburgh over a few days this month. About 250 such thefts have been reported in the last year, compared with perhaps a dozen last year, the police said.
 ''It's a problem, a big one,'' said Sgt. Kevin Gasiorowski, who supervises the city's burglary squad. ''It's not going to go away till the price goes down.''
 The surge in thefts has sent scrap metal dealers scrambling to proclaim that they are doing everything they can to catch people trying to sell them stolen copper.
 ''The industry takes this very seriously,'' said Bryan McGannon, a spokesman for the Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries, an association in Washington of more than 1,400 dealers who own more than 3,000 scrap yards. ''But scrap dealers have a difficult situation on their hands: legitimate scrap material and stolen material looks identical.''
 The institute has joined with the National Crime Prevention Council to spread information about specific thefts in a campaign that will use the famous McGruff the Crime Dog logo.
 The institute also put out a list of what it calls recommended practices for scrap dealers in an effort to thwart thieves and help the police. The suggestions include videotaping all transactions and requiring identification from people selling scrap metal. Though Pittsburgh has had an ordinance on its books for decades requiring scrap dealers to get copies of identification of everyone they buy from and forward them to the police after each transaction, enforcement did not start until this year.
 ''I don't know if it's stopped them, but I have a lot fewer customers off the street now,'' said John Sambol, manager of Northside Scrap Metals.
 The exchange of information has led to several arrests, the police say, but most scrap recyclers outside the city do not have the same requirements. Sergeant Gasiorowski said that although scrap dealers say they do not buy suspicious copper, ''the stuff is going somewhere.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Roscoe owns two side-by-side rental houses in Pittsburgh that were stripped by thieves of the copper elements of their plumbing. The Pittsburgh police say about 250 such thefts have been reported in the last year. (Photo by Jeff Swensen for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COPPER MARKETS (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (77%); BURGLARY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); DOGS (72%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (72%); CRIME PREVENTION (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Copper, Brass and Bronze; Robberies and Thefts; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Plumbing

PERSON: Sean D Hamill

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%) Pittsburgh (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006



603 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
KYRIAZES, GEORGE

 BODY:
 KYRIAZES--George, on November 24, 2006, after a long, valiant battle, of complications from a brain tumor. Born in Samos, Greece 1948, son of Kalliope Kyriazes and the late Dr. Dimitrios Kyriazes. 
He graduated from high school in Samos, then attended Mount Herman Preparatory School of Massachusetts in 1967. He attended Columbia School of Engineering, he was an honors student and a star soccer player, and member of the Art Students League, excelling at fine arts drawing and industrial drafting. During his third year of undergraduate studies, George became fascinated with econometrics and the role of computing in business. He changed his major and graduated with a BA in Economics from Columbia College in 1972, and a MBA in Finance from Columbia Business School in 1975. He devoted his entire professional career to CBS, starting as a Financial Analyst in 1975, and held increasingly responsible positions in CBS records, Corporate Finance and the CBS Television Network. In 2001 he was appointed Vice President, Finance, Sales Analysis and Development. In that position through his departure in 2005, George played an integral role in developing CBS Network Television Sales strategy. George was highly regarded for his superb analytical and managerial skills, his vision, planning and execution, and above all his human touch in collaborating with and helping his colleagues as a team member, leader, mentor and friend. An ardent fan of all sports, his New York friends forgave him his preference for the Boston Red Sox. He served for 15 years as a Board MemBer for the Epilepsy Institute. He is survived by his wife Sheila and by his Mother, Kalliope Kyriazes, and he is survived by a large group of family and friends. Funeral Services 9:30 AM from Shook's Cedar Grove Funeral Home, 486 Pompton Avenue, (Route 23), Cedar Grove, NJ 07009. 10:30AM Sts. Helen and Constantine G.O. Church, Orange, NJ. Interment at Prospect Hill Cemetery, Caldwell. Visiting Hours Tuesday 2-4 and 7-9. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); DRAFTING (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EPILEPSY (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); SPORTS FANS (71%); ATHLETES (71%); BASEBALL (71%); SOCCER (71%); FAMILY SERVICES (70%); COMPANY STRATEGY (70%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); SALES PLAN (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CBS BROADCASTING INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (90%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006



604 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Black Friday Turned Green At the Malls Before Dawn

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO; Martin Stolz contributed reporting from Murray, Utah.

 BODY:
The clock struck midnight. Then the mall struck back. 
 Early openings, deep discounts and resurgent department stores appeared to give merchants at the mall an edge over discount retailers during the holiday weekend, a reversal of fortune from 2005.
ShopperTrak RCT, which measures purchases at 45,000 mall-based stores, found that sales for the day after Thanksgiving rose 6 percent from last year, to $9 billion. On the same day last year, sales at stores monitored by ShopperTrak dropped 0.9 percent. 
 Discount chains, with their 5 a.m. openings and $70 portable DVD players, typically dominate the opening day of the holiday shopping season, known as Black Friday, because it was traditionally when retailers started turning a profit, or moved into the black. 
 But Wal-Mart, by far the nation's biggest discount chain, threw cold water on that legacy this weekend, estimating that sales in November -- including Black Friday -- fell 0.1 percent, below its expectations.
 Retail analysts and industry executives credited the strong performance of mall stores to an unusually aggressive posture this holiday season. Badly beaten in 2005, they stole a page from their discount rivals, pushing up their openings by as much as six hours, to 12 a.m., and offering bigger early-morning deals.
 The tactics succeeded in drawing crowds but could come back to haunt the chains if consumers snatched up the bargains and skipped over the full-priced merchandise. 
 Gap offered 30 percent off purchases of $50 or more until noon Friday and the Limited Too promoted a buy-one-get-one-half-off sale. 
 Mall retailers ''turned up the dial a full notch this year,'' said John D. Morris, senior retail analyst a Wachovia Securities, who deployed aides across the country to track business at chains like Gap, Abercrombie & Fitch and Aeropostale. 
 Strong early-morning traffic, he said ''did not drift off around noon. Stores were holding the attention of customer.''
 An experiment with 12 a.m. openings bolstered mall traffic across the country. The crowds swelled to 15,000 at the Fashion Place Mall in Murray, Utah; 20,000 at the Christiana Mall in Newark, Del.; and 50,000 at the Maine Mall in Portland, Me. 
 Wally Brewster, the head of marketing at General Growth Properties, which owns the three malls, said stores that opened at midnight reported ''significantly higher sales'' than those that waited until 6 a.m. 
 Sixty percent of the stores at malls like Fashion Place opened at midnight but, because of the turnout, stores that sat it out were already planning to participate next year, Mr. Brewster said. 
 Emily Spendlove, 35, drove 45 minutes to wait in line outside the Fashion Place Mall on Thursday night, skipping sleep ''to be part of the excitement.'' Once inside, she spent $120 at an athletic clothing store called Fanzz, buying four Chicago Bears football products -- two helmets, a beach towel and a photo montage.
 Ernest Speranza, the chief marketing officer at KB Toys, a mall-based chain, said customers showed up for the discounts but walked out with full-priced merchandise. KB marketed Barbie dolls at 30 percent off, yet thousands of customers still bought higher-priced Bratz dolls. ''I think the customer is in the mood to spend,'' he said. ''They seem very up, very positive.''
 Visa USA said preliminary data, culled from spending by its cardholders, supported its forecast that holiday sales would increase 7.5 percent this year, compared with an 8.3 percent increase last year. Wayne Best, senior vice president of economic analysis for the company, said the average amount spent on Visa-branded credit and debit cards Friday grew 9 percent, compared with the same day last year. 
 Unlike in years past, Visa did not divulge detailed data about spending, but it did report that electronics and home furnishings stores experienced the biggest growth over the weekend. ''They really stole the show,'' Mr. Best said.
 As always, stores outside the mall, like Best Buy, Wal-Mart and Target, drew large crowds by dangling deals like 42-inch flat-screen TVs for less than $1,000. But the November results from Wal-Mart have dampened the outlook for big-box retailers. 
 The chain's troubles are, in part, unique. It has built hundreds of supercenters so close together that individual store sales have dropped and its plans to carry more fashionable clothing have hit a snag.
 But analyst said the success of department stores, which have experienced a revival over the last six months, could not be discounted as a factor. 
 For the first time in years, they said, discounters faced stiff competition from the mall. In its Black Friday circular, J. C. Penney advertised 35 pages of ''doorbuster'' deals that expired at noon, and Macy's put a $10 coupon on the front of its print advertisements.
 J. C. Penney, in a statement, reported ''brisk traffic'' at its stores on Friday, while Terry J. Lundgren, the chief executive of Federated Department Stores, the owner of Macy's, said ''we are off to a strong start.''
 Mr. Brewster, of General Growth Properties, predicted ''it is going to be a very strong season for the mall.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (97%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); THANKSGIVING (90%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (62%); CD & DVD DRIVES (55%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (55%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Christmas; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Shopping Centers; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%); GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Shoppertrak; Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%); GGP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (51%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (51%)

PERSON: Michael Barbaro

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (52%) UTAH, USA (70%); MAINE, USA (52%); DELAWARE, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006



605 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; ADDENDA; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: Miscellany 

 BODY:
Zig, Toronto, owned by MDC Partners, is expanding into the United States by buying a majority stake in Hadrian's Wall, Chicago, which becomes the Chicago office of Zig. Financial terms were not disclosed. Steve Carli and Kevin Lynch, founders of Hadrian's Wall, are taking posts at the Zig Chicago office, Mr. Carli as managing director and Mr. Lynch as partner. 
 HDNet, the high-definition TV channel co-founded by Mark Cuban, signed Patron tequila, sold by the Patron Spirits Company, and the Blu-ray Disk Association as sponsors of ''Dan Rather Reports,'' its investigative news show. The show is being promoted in a campaign by Boone Oakley, Charlotte, N.C.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (90%); DIVESTITURES (88%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (86%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (85%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); INVESTIGATIONS (82%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%) Advertising and Marketing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: PATRON SPIRITS CO (71%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Zig (Ad Agency) ; Mdc Partners; Hadrian's Wall (Ad Agency); Hdnet (Co); Patron Spirits Co; Blu-Ray Disc Association

TICKER: MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (71%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

PERSON: MARK CUBAN (68%) Stuart Elliott; Mark Cuban; Dan Rather

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (78%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006



606 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; A POLICE SHOOTING IN QUEENS: NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Focuses On Dialogue In the Aftermath

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Daryl Khan and Angela Macropoulos contributed reporting.

 BODY:
New York City police officers fire dozens of rounds of bullets, and an unarmed 23-year-old black man is killed. In its simplest terms, the shooting of Sean Bell by police officers in Queens on Saturday morning has inevitably led to comparisons to the case of Amadou Diallo, an African immigrant who died in a hail of police gunfire in February 1999.
 However, as the Queens district attorney and the Police Department investigated Mr. Bell's death and as community leaders, elected officials, and clergy members staked out their positions yesterday, there is much about the principals -- and indeed the city -- that has changed in seven years.
The city's mayor has an established, politically useful record of reaching out to black leaders at times of crisis, and his police commissioner has shown a willingness to publicly question shootings by members of his force. 
 In this case, as well, the racial makeup of the five officers involved in the shooting -- two white, two black and one Hispanic -- reflects a more diverse police force than when Mr. Diallo was shot by four white officers.
 Of course, much about the shooting -- what prompted it, and whether it was justified -- remains to be settled, and nothing will change the fact that a young man, hours from his wedding, lost his life, leaving two children without a father.
 But the first hours of the tragedy appeared to follow a distinctly different script from the Diallo case, as city officials worked to maintain calm. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg plans to meet Queens community leaders today at City Hall to discuss the shooting; he talked to prominent black elected officials and religious leaders throughout the weekend, and has spoken with Mr. Bell's fiancee on the phone.
 In addition, Mr. Bloomberg's police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, has generally received favorable reviews from minority leaders over the course of his two terms at the top of the department. Indeed, hours after a police officer shot and killed a 19-year-old man on the roof of a Brooklyn public housing project in January 2004, Mr. Kelly called the shooting unjustified, a move that many saw as a break from the days when the city seemed to reflexively defend the use of deadly force by its officers.
 Even the one person who is playing a role similar to the one he played in 1999 -- the Rev. Al Sharpton -- finds himself at a different moment in his career, and in a far different relationship with City Hall. Mr. Sharpton, who has said much about the shooting ''stinks,'' and who has called for a thorough investigation, has nonetheless been in direct contact with the mayor.
 The Diallo case in 1999 shook the administration of Rudolph W. Giuliani, who was then the mayor, and led to waves of protests. Mr. Giuliani had waged a successful, but unrelenting and unapologetic war against crime during his first five years in office. All along, he seemed to go out of his way to dismiss people who saw a racial aspect to the department's work, and its use of force. When the Diallo shooting happened, Mr. Giuliani certainly had no reservoir of good will among the city's minority population.
 It clearly, for example, would have been out of character for Mr. Giuliani and Howard Safir, the police commissioner when Mr. Diallo was shot, to reach out to Mr. Sharpton. In fact, it took Mr. Giuliani a month after the shooting to meet with black elected officials to discuss the case.
 Mr. Bloomberg, by comparison, immediately enlisted his administration's highest-ranking black official, Dennis M. Walcott, the deputy mayor for education and economic development as his point person on the case. 
 Mr. Walcott, who lives near the scene of the shooting, went to the scene of the shooting in Jamaica, Queens, Saturday morning, has spoken with Mr. Sharpton repeatedly, and attended a rally and prayer vigil yesterday for Mr. Bell and two other men who were injured in the shooting. At the vigil, Mr. Walcott also spoke with Mr. Bell's mother and relatives of the other men.
 ''Relations between minority communities and the police in the Bloomberg-Kelly years have improved considerably from before,'' said Jerome H. Skolnick, a New York University law professor who has studied the use of excessive force by the police. ''The low point of police-community relations may well have been the Diallo shooting.''
 To be sure, the changed dynamic and cast of characters do not mean the new shooting will less inflammatory and painful than past fatal police shootings have been. And there were some signs yesterday of growing dissatisfaction with Mr. Kelly, who was police commissioner from 1992 to 1994 and again since 2002.
 ''Michael Bloomberg was and is a breath of fresh air since Giuliani,'' said the Rev. Calvin O. Butts III, the pastor of Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem and one of the city's most prominent black clerics. But he added: ''People really believe that the mayor does not have control of his commissioner and that the commissioner is insensitive. He's got the politically correct language, but not the proper back-office training. All that glitters is not gold. Kelly is getting another look.'' 
 Among black elected officials from Queens, however, there has so far been praise for Mr. Bloomberg. 
 State Senator Malcolm A. Smith, a Democrat from Queens, said he spoke with Mr. Bloomberg by phone about the shooting at least four times on Saturday. ''He was very disturbed by the incident and very concerned about the family,'' Mr. Smith said. ''He indicated that he would make sure there would be a clear, impartial investigation that would bring out all the facts, and wherever the chips may fall, they fall.''
 Mr. Smith said he was at the home of Nicole Paultre, whom Mr. Bell was to marry, when Mr. Bloomberg called him on his cellphone. At the mayor's request, Mr. Smith said, he put Ms. Paultre on the phone.
 Mr. Smith said that he believed the mayor was committed to a full investigation.
 David N. Dinkins, who was mayor from 1990 to 1993, said he received a message from Mr. Bloomberg yesterday about the Bell case. ''The difference in the behavior and attitudes of this police commissioner, this mayor, contrasted with Giuliani, is night and day,'' said Mr. Dinkins, the city's first black mayor.
 United States Representative Gregory W. Meeks, a Democrat from Queens, whom the mayor called on Saturday, echoed that comparison. ''This mayor is more open, more inclusive, more honest and less secretive -- as opposed to the former mayor, who basically shut everyone out and refused to meet most of the time and was very combative,'' Mr. Meeks said.
 Stu Loeser, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg, would not say yesterday where the mayor was over the weekend, but said that the mayor was in touch by phone and e-mail messages constantly with his top assistants. The Daily News reported that Mr. Bloomberg had an appointment Saturday at the Mid Ocean Club, an exclusive golf resort in Bermuda. 
 Andrew Hacker, a political scientist at Queens College, cautioned that Mr. Bloomberg will have to walk a fine line between showing sensitivity and giving the police -- for now -- the benefit of the doubt. ''It's always necessary for any mayor to back up his police department; he's done this with Kelly just as strenuously as Giuliani did with Safir,'' Mr.Hacker said. 
 And Mr. Sharpton, who led angry street protests in the wake of the Diallo shooting, took the city to task yesterday, signaling that he will not shirk from confrontation in this case. He compared the death of Mr. Bell to Mr. Diallo and to Abner Louima, a Haitian immigrant who was brutalized in a police station house in Brooklyn in August 1997.
 ''It'll be the first major case of its kind of the 21st century in New York,'' Mr. Sharpton said of the Bell case. ''People are very energized about it. I think the city should be working to suspend those cops and show they're seriously going after some justice here.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Amadou Diallo, an unarmed African immigrant, was killed in a police shooting in February 1999. (Photo by WCBS-TV via Associated Press)(pg. B6)
 Protesters at yesterday's rally at Mary Immaculate Hospital in Queens, above. They included, below from left, Robert Coombs, Stephon Donaldson and Dewan Seabrooks as well as the Rev. Al Sharpton and Nicole Paultre, far right, whose fiance, Sean Bell, was killed. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FIREARMS (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MISCONDUCT (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); RELIGION (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (50%) Police; Police Brutality and Misconduct; Police; Blacks

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); AL SHARPTON (60%) Sewell Chan; Daryl Khan; Angela Macropoulos; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Raymond W (Comr) Kelly; Rudolph W Giuliani; Sean Bell; Amadou (1975-99) Diallo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006



607 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: South Korea's President Sags in Opinion Polls 

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
Bruised by South Korea's cutthroat politics, bewildered by voters' rapidly changing concerns and battered mercilessly in the polls, President Roh Moo-hyun is limping toward the last year of his term.
 But it is not Mr. Roh's engagement of North Korea, or even its recent nuclear test, that has saddled him with a current approval rating of 11 percent. It is the economy.
''The main reason we have lost support is that we were not able to perform well on issues of livelihood,'' said Chun Jung-bae, a senior lawmaker in the governing Uri Party and a close ally of Mr. Roh. ''The overall economy is not bad -- the growth rate is over 4 percent -- but the life of the average person is very difficult.''
 Indeed, even as the North Korean crisis widens the gap between Seoul and Washington, it is nothing like a hot-button issue here among voters. North Korea's nuclear test last month has, if anything, reconfirmed the national consensus that South Korea has no choice but to keep its policy of engaging North Korea. 
 But with Mr. Roh weak and limited to a single five-year term by the Constitution, attention has begun shifting to the next presidential election, in December 2007, and the opposition is focusing on a potentially more resonant issue than North Korea.
 ''The biggest issue in the next election will be the economy, and then the North Korean nuclear issue or other inter-Korean issues,'' said Lee Myung-bak, the former mayor of Seoul and the leading presidential candidate of the main opposition Grand National Party.
 Mr. Lee, like other members of his conservative party, has accused Mr. Roh of coddling the North. But putting the spotlight on North Korea in the next election would expose the fact that, beneath the harsh talk, the opposition's approach to North Korea is not radically different.
 ''I and my party, the G.N.P, feel the engagement policy should be adjusted,'' Mr. Lee said in an interview. ''But we're not saying we should not carry it out or should reject it.''
 Unlike Mr. Roh, Mr. Lee said he would join an American-led effort to inspect North Korean vessels in South Korean waters, but only, he added, if the United States understood that South Koreans wanted to avoid ''military confrontation'' at all cost. He said he would continue South Korea's two main economic projects with the North, a resort and an industrial park.
 It is an indication of how much the political ground has shifted here in the last four years that the debate over North Korea is taking a back seat in the next election. In 2002, Mr. Roh, a relatively little-known human rights lawyer and former legislator who made his name defending students and labor organizers against the military government of the 1980s, swept to victory with promises of engagement with the North, independence from Washington and democratization in his own country.
 As an outsider, Mr. Roh made headway in breaking the collusive relationship between politics and the country's traditional power holders by diminishing the role of the conservative news media and letting prosecutors pursue wrongdoing by the conglomerates. He gave autonomy to the country's prosecutors, tax collectors and intelligence officials.
 ''In the past, every president wielded power through these three offices,'' said Kang Won-taek, a political scientist at Soongsil University here. Yet, he added, President Roh is to some extent a victim of his own success. ''Koreans are now satisfied with the way Korean democracy is working,'' he said. ''People are free.''
 Political analysts say Mr. Roh was too slow in recognizing that voters now want to enjoy the fruits of democratization.
 ''He was elected on ideological issues,'' said Jeong Han-wool, a polling expert and executive director of the independently financed East Asia Institute. ''But voters became exhausted on ideological issues and more interested in economic issues. North Korea did not have much impact on his approval ratings.''
 With South Korea experiencing solid growth and record stock prices, Mr. Roh initially dismissed descriptions of a slumping economy as opposition chatter, experts said. He failed to see that growth was not trickling down to the average voter, who became increasingly frustrated with rising household debts, high education costs and unaffordable real estate prices.
 Because of Mr. Roh's perceived inattentiveness to the economy, his approval rating first dipped below 30 percent two years ago as he lost most of his moderate supporters, Mr. Jeong said. It fell further, into the teens this year, as his young backers also grew increasingly displeased about the economy and the high youth jobless rate, he said.
 Mr. Roh looked increasingly out of touch as he kept his focus on ideological issues, including an attempt to look squarely at Korea's wartime and postwar eras. He set up a Truth and Reconciliation Commission that was authorized to investigate long-covered-up, unpleasant facets of the country's history, like collaboration by some people with the Japanese during colonial rule and violations of human rights by South Korea's military dictatorships.
 ''Looking into the past is something that every society must do,'' said the Rev. Song Ki-in, president of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. ''No voters can deny this. But they do complain there are more immediate issues that need to be taken care of, more bread-and-butter issues.''
 Father Song, a Roman Catholic priest who first came to know Mr. Roh during their pro-democracy struggle, said Mr. Roh did not ''compromise with those who are not righteous.'' 
 ''If his personality was not like this,'' Father Song said, ''he wouldn't be in this trouble right now.''
 With only two terms as a lawmaker before becoming president, Mr. Roh often seemed to lack the political skills to build ties in Parliament, even with members of his own party. After the North's nuclear test, leaders of his party floated the idea of forming a new party as a way to loosen their ties with the unpopular president, the news media reported.
 ''There may have been one or two people who wanted to distance themselves from President Roh Moo-hyun, but it was not a big movement,'' said Mr. Chun, his close ally.
 Around that time, Mr. Roh visited his predecessor, Kim Dae-jung, at his private residence and is said to have asked for his backing.
 In an interview, Mr. Kim -- who received a Nobel Peace Prize for originating the so-called sunshine policy toward the North and still enjoys strong support, especially in his native southwest region -- said the two avoided talking about domestic politics. ''I did not want to intervene or participate in the issues of domestic politics,'' Mr. Kim said.
 Whatever was discussed between them, Mr. Kim's public show of support was enough to quiet the unrest in Mr. Roh's party and to deflect pressure from the opposition and the United States to punish North Korea.
 ''On the issue of the Korean Peninsula,'' Mr. Kim said, ''we both agreed that the sunshine policy, the principles of the engagement policy, should be kept and maintained.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A resort in North Korea is part of the ''sunshine policy'' pursued by President Roh Moo-hyun of South Korea. (Photo by Jonathan Thatcher/Reuters)
 Mr. Roh, limited by South Korea's Constitution to a single five-year term, has an approval rating of 11 percent, according to opinion polls. (Photo by John Kolesidis/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TRENDS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%) Public Opinion; Election Issues; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (79%) Norimitsu Onishi; Roh Moo-Hyun (Pres)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006



608 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Draft Report on Iraq Urges Talks With Iran and Syria
A draft report on strategies for Iraq that will be debated by a bipartisan commission urges an aggressive regional diplomatic initiative that includes direct talks with Iran and Syria, but sets no timetables for a military withdrawal, according to officials who have seen all or parts of the document. A1

Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki said Iraq's politicians were largely responsible for the surge in violence that engulfed the country over the past week, a departure from his previous assertions blaming militants for inciting the mayhem. 
A10

Afghan Mission Tests NATO
NATO is bigger than ever, and is reaching further than ever before, by taking the lead in the war in Afghanistan. But the Afghan mission threatens a rift within the Atlantic alliance between those nations able and willing to participate fully in combat operations in Afghanistan -- and those nations that are not. A11

A suicide bomber walked into a packed restaurant in southeastern Afghanistan and set off his explosives, killing 15 other people and wounding 25, Afghan officials said. The attack came after weeks of relative quiet and raised fears that insurgents were resuming their campaign of suicide bombings. A11

Gaza Cease-Fire Seems to Hold
A cease-fire in Gaza appeared to be holding after Palestinian factions stopped firing rockets at Israel in exchange for an Israeli troop withdrawal from the territory. A3

Shiites Dominate Bahrain Vote
Shiite opposition candidates won 16 of the 17 seats they contested in elections for the lower house of Parliament in Bahrain, the election commission said. The 17th contested seat is set to be decided in a runoff on Dec. 2. A3

Korean Leader Sinks in Polls
Bruised by South Korea's no-holds-barred politics, bewildered by voters' rapidly changing concerns and battered mercilessly in the polls, President Roh Moo-hyun is limping toward the last year of his term. But it is not Mr. Roh's engagement of North Korea, or even its recent nuclear test, that has saddled him with a current approval rating of 11 percent. It is the economy. A6

Correa Likely Victor in Ecuador
Rafael Correa, an urbane economist who has rattled nerves in Washington with plans to limit American military activities in Ecuador and renegotiate its foreign debt, seemed headed to an easy victory on Sunday in the presidential election, according to several exit polls. A8

British Retrace Steps of Spy
The British police sought to retrace the movements of Alexander V. Litvinenko, a former Russian secret agent, before he fell ill from the radiation poisoning that killed him. But the police insisted that Mr. Litvinenko's macabre death remained in the ''suspicious'' category and that they were not treating the case as a murder inquiry. A7

NATIONAL A12-19

The Very Rich Are Leaving the Merely Rich Behind
Three decades ago, compensation among occupations differed far less than it does today. That growing difference is diverting people from some critical fields, experts say. The American Bar Foundation has found that fewer law school graduates are going into public-interest law or government jobs and filling all the openings is becoming harder. A1

New England G.O.P. Thins
The recent midterm elections dealt the already-fading New England Republican an especially strong blow, one that some fear will increase the divide between the two parties nationally by removing a longstanding bridge between them. Now, of 22 members of the House of Representatives from New England, only one is a Republican. A19

Seattle Nears Rain Record
Seattle's official rain gauge at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport has passed 14 inches and is rising. Now some wonder whether this month will break the single-month record for rainfall, 15.33 inches, which was set in December 1933. A1

Copper Price, and Theft, Rise
In the last year, a worldwide surge in demand for copper, largely because of construction booms in China and India, has pushed up its value, making the theft of copper more profitable and more popular. A14

ARTS E1-8

Rejoining of German Museums
With the reopening of the Bode Museum, the Museum Island cultural park in the former East Berlin has taken another step toward recovering its place as one of the world's great centers of art. E1

Important Greek Find
An international project to decipher 1,000-year-old, moldy pages is yielding new clues about ancient Greece as seen through the eyes of Hyperides, a fourth-century B.C. Athenian orator and politician. E1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Officer Accounts Surface In Fatal Queens Shooting
The undercover police officer who fired the first shots at a carload of men in Queens, triggering a storm of police bullets that killed a man on the eve of his wedding and injured two of his friends, suspected at least one of the men had a gun and was intent on returning with it to a nearby strip club, according to a person briefed on the accounts of officers involved in the shootings. B1

Police experts suggested that ''contagious shooting,'' police parlance for gunfire that spreads among officers who believe that they, or their colleagues, are facing a threat, may have played a role in the fatal police shooting. A1

Neediest Cases B4

OBITUARIES A21

Phyllis Cerf Wagner
The socially dynamic wife of two of New York's most prominent men who was always proudest of her collaboration with a former advertising colleague, Dr. Seuss, on a series of landmark children's books, she was 90. A21

Rhodes W. Fairbridge
An early expert of climate change who edited an influential series of encyclopedias covering the earth sciences, he was 92. A21

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

New Path in Heart Research
Recognizing that surgical interventions and drugs have not been enough to prevent tens of thousands of deaths from coronary artery disease, researchers will undertake a program to study fatty deposits called plaque in the hope of devising new treatments. C1

Still Backing a Game Maker
In what should be a golden time for video game makers, the stock of Midway Games has continued to plummet. But Sumner M. Redstone, the 83-year-old media mogul and main shareholder of the video game maker, seems committed to it. C1

Holiday Profits at the Mall
Midnight openings and deep discounts appeared to give merchants at the mall an edge over discount retailers, as a study showed that mall sales for the day after Thanksgiving rose 6 percent this year. C1

A Question of Wi-Fi Ethics
Several new mobile phone devices allow users to make calls over wireless access points in cafes, parks and even homes, raising ethical and legal questions about piggybacking on unsecured private networks. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: When don't smoke means do; a poisoned spy; the test of time; Dorothy Samuels on payoffs to public officials.

Column: Bob Herbert.

Bridge E6
Crossword E6
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E7
Weather A20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (77%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (75%); CONTUSIONS (75%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (75%); MURDER (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); POISONINGS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SYRIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BAHRAIN (92%); ECUADOR (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006



609 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Leftist Candidate in Ecuador Is Ahead in Vote, Exit Polls Show

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Rafael Correa, an urbane economist who has rattled nerves in Washington with plans to limit American military activities in Ecuador and renegotiate the country's foreign debt, seemed headed to an easy victory on Sunday in the presidential election, according to several exit polls. 
 A win by Mr. Correa, 43, could bring Ecuador into a group of Latin American nations with leftist presidents, including Bolivia, Cuba and Nicaragua, which are allied with President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela. Mr. Correa has close ties to Mr. Chavez, whose government is prepared to offer Ecuador assistance to strengthen its national oil company. 
 ''Chavez must be smiling in Caracas,'' said Vicente Albornoz, director of Cordes, an economic research group here. ''But what I'm more worried about is Ecuador going through a period of conflict and instability.'' 
 The results of the runoff election were not certain on Sunday night, though preliminary figures pointed to a strong victory by Mr. Correa. Alvaro Noboa, the banana tycoon who was Mr. Correa's rival, would not accept the exit poll results, setting the stage for days of political tension. Official results were not expected until Tuesday or Wednesday, election officials said. 
 Still, several exit polls by private companies and an early count by the nongovernmental observer group Participacion Ciudadana pointed to a wide margin of victory for Mr. Correa, who promises a ''citizen's revolution'' by convening a constitutional assembly that would diminish the influence of Ecuador's fractious Congress and give greater power to the president. 
 Three exit polls announced on Ecuadorean television and radio gave Mr. Correa about 57 percent of the vote as opposed to 43 percent for Mr. Noboa. The wide commercial avenues of Quito, a stronghold for Mr. Correa, were filled with cars honking their horns as voters began celebrating on Sunday night. 
 Mr. Correa ran as an outsider, portraying Mr. Noboa, 56, a Bible-quoting scion of a Guayaquil family who is Ecuador's richest man, as someone who would use the presidency to advance his economic interests. The race was symbolized by insults, with Mr. Noboa describing Mr. Correa as a ''devil'' and a lackey of Venezuela and Cuba. 
 ''Noboa is a vulgar man who uses God's name to expand his power,'' said Clemencia Pozo, 39, a street vendor here who said he voted for Mr. Correa.
 Mr. Correa also spoke of his Roman Catholic faith during the campaign, but in relatively quiet contrast to Mr. Noboa, who sank to his knees at rallies in an attempt to connect with poor voters. Mr. Correa fiercely criticized President Bush, calling him ''dimwitted'' at one point, while supporting an end to an agreement that allows the American military to use a base on the Pacific coast for drug surveillance operations. 
 In an interview, Mr. Correa said he hoped to maintain cordial relations with the United States, where more than a million Ecuadorean immigrants live, largely in New York, New Jersey and Florida. 
 ''We love the American people and its government, aside from the criticism we might have of that government,'' said Mr. Correa, pointing to the war in Iraq as an obstacle to stronger ties. Mr. Correa said he would welcome the opportunity to shake Mr. Bush's hand, describing him as the ''representative of the American people.'' 
 ''It's nothing personal against Bush,'' he said. ''I just don't agree with his thinking.'' 
 Mr. Correa said he wanted to reconfigure Ecuador's economy with policies inspired by economists wary of overexposing developing countries to market forces, like Joseph E. Stiglitz of Columbia University. Mr. Correa, who got a doctorate in economics from the University of Illinois, added that he was no fan of Milton Friedman, the economist who died this month and whose influential work favored minimizing the role of government in the global economy. 
 Citing the example of Chile, where a state-controlled copper producer contributes much to the country's economic growth, Mr. Correa said he hoped to strengthen Ecuador's national oil company. He positioned a more nationalistic energy policy within a regional project to strengthen ties among South American nations, along the lines of what Mr. Chavez advocates in his ''Bolivarian Revolution.'' 
 ''The dream of Bolivar in the 21st century is more than a dream,'' Mr. Correa said. ''It's a decision of survival.'' 
 In the first election round in mid-October, Mr. Correa appeared to have suffered because of his ties to Mr. Chavez. After Mr. Noboa won that vote, Mr. Correa shifted the emphasis of his campaign to focus on domestic issues like affordable housing and cash subsidies for the poor. 
 It remains to be seen how Mr. Correa will interact with Congress, which ousts presidents with ease in Ecuador. Analysts said much would depend on how quickly he moved to convene a constitutional assembly that would expand his powers. Unlike Mr. Noboa, who has allies in Congress, Mr. Correa has almost none. 
 Equally daunting, analysts say, is Ecuador's reliance on high oil prices to maintain economic stability. Government spending is climbing about 15 percent a year, compared with economic growth of about 4 percent a year, according to private economists here, following policies that Mr. Correa pushed for during a brief stint as finance minister. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of Rafael Correa celebrated in Quito after hearing he was ahead in yesterday's runoff election. (Photo by Dolores Ochoa/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RELIGION (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Public Opinion; Elections; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Simon Romero; Rafael Correa; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Alvaro Noboa

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); LATIN AMERICA (90%) Ecuador; Bolivia; Cuba; Nicaragua; Venezuela; Ecuador

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006



610 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: The Socket Seekers 

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Just when travelers thought they had run out of things to complain about at the airport, their fading laptops and cellphones have signaled yet another problem: a shortage of power outlets.
 Airport concourses, particularly older ones, were never known for their abundance of electrical sockets. But a convergence of factors -- including new wireless Internet access in terminals, stricter airport security measures and the proliferation of power-hungry gadgets -- has added to the deficit of outlets. Airports are rushing to add new ones.
''You can't help but notice business travelers hovering above the outlets at the airport, waiting for their turn,'' said Joanne Paternoster, a former assistant director of customer service for the aviation department of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, and now a consultant for Maritz Research. ''People are arriving earlier at the airport so that they have enough time to make it through security, and there are just not enough outlets to go around.'' 
 Judy Bonghi, a human resources manager in Philadelphia, experienced the plug problem firsthand recently at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. She needed to recharge her DVD player on a stopover, but every outlet in the waiting area was occupied. ''I ended up sitting on the floor at a gate -- not my gate, since nothing was available there -- to plug it in,'' she recalled. ''And I was sitting next to another person doing the same thing with his laptop.''
 Atlanta's airport, the nation's busiest, is adding new outlets to accommodate customers like Ms. Bonghi. ''With today's technology, there's definitely an increase in demand for outlets,'' said Ashraf Demian, chief electrical engineer for Hartsfield-Jackson. 
 How many sockets are enough? Generally speaking, the number of outlets needs to be doubled, from one every 25 feet to one every 12 feet, according to Mr. Demian. But that can be costly. The price for each outlet in a renovated concourse -- like Atlanta's new international terminal, which is expected to open in four years -- is $150 to $200. But in an existing structure, tearing out walls to add sockets can cost thousands per outlet, he said. 
 Atlanta is not the only airport to recognize the energy crisis. Chattanooga Metropolitan Airport recently converted some of its pay phones into free laptop recharging stations. Salt Lake City International Airport has installed new power outlets in its public seating areas and contracted with Smarte Carte of St. Paul to offer a recharging station for mobile phones and hand-held computers, at $3 a charge. And Eppley Airfield, near Omaha, just wired its snack bar in the north boarding area with new sockets.
 But as in Atlanta, most of the new airport power outlets are being added gradually, as part of a renovation. Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport recently remodeled its busy Terminal 4, creating several new areas where computer users can place their laptops on a shelf and plug into an outlet. Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport is currently renovating its A and B Concourses, and plans to add new outlets to the gate lounges.
 Travelers are usually reluctant to complain about the scarcity of outlets. That is because they are unsure if they are allowed to use the sockets, which sometimes appear to be there for the exclusive use of airlines and cleaning crews. (At most airports, passengers are permitted to use the outlets, although they are rarely invited to do so.) 
 And while some domestic business and first-class seats have built-in power ports, most economy-class seats are powerless.
 But for this year's holiday travel period, as travelers arrive at the terminal even earlier to get through the security checkpoints, and with record numbers of passengers expected to use the nation's airports, officials are anticipating a surge in complaints. 
 ''When the terminal is full, and you have a weather delay, and everyone is trying to hook up their cellphones and laptop computers, that's when you hear about it,'' said Fredrick Piccolo, the chief executive of Sarasota Bradenton International Airport in Florida.
 Airports are at least partly to blame for the outlet shortage. For the last several years, they have been busy adding wireless Internet hot spots to their terminals. In effect, these wireless access points have encouraged business travelers to use their laptops and data-enabled cellphones but have not given them the power needed to do so. 
 ''Airport Wi-Fi has gotten a lot of attention from airports,'' said Scott Wintner, a spokesman for Airports Council International-North America, an airport trade group. ''But there hasn't been a lot of discussion about power plugs,'' even as Wi-Fi has created new demand for power in terminals.
 Business travelers are not helping the situation, either. While it is true that more people are traveling with the latest devices, the real power hogs tend to be yesterday's gadgets -- aging laptops and batteries unable to hold a charge. 
 ''My laptop will barely make it through boot-up before the battery is spent,'' said George Armstrong, a sales engineer from Green Cove Springs, Fla., who frequently finds himself with a lifeless laptop at the airport. ''I probably should get replacement batteries. Hopefully, road warrior requests will reach the powers that be in the airports, and they'll accommodate us.''
 Savvy air travelers rely on their instincts to sniff out the nearest power. ''The easiest way to find a power outlet is to think like the cleaning lady,'' said Robert Cowen, a frequent traveler who also publishes a Web site for travelers called InternetTravelTips.com. ''Where do they plug in the vacuum cleaner? The answer to that is where you'll find a power plug. Very often, it's in a pillar or behind a row of seats on the wall.''
 But finders are not necessarily keepers. Christina Zimmel, an education specialist for a hospital in Clawson, Mich., recently witnessed a dispute over a power outlet. ''I actually saw one business traveler get in a shouting match with a maintenance worker who needed an outlet for the vacuum cleaner while he needed it for his laptop,'' she said.
 Edwin Kelley, an engineer from Los Angeles, may have the most sensible interim solution: an extension cord with three outlets and a readiness to ask other travelers to share. ''I've never been refused,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lindsey Reitz, a North Carolina State University Student, found one of the few places to plug in her laptop recently at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); AIRLINES (73%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (72%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (71%); HUMAN RESOURCES (67%); CD & DVD DRIVES (51%) Airlines and Airplanes; Electric Light and Power; Airports; Computers and the Internet; Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones; Batteries

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (70%); MARITZ INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (70%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: Christopher Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (66%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); NEBRASKA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



611 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Ford Pledges Major Assets In Financing

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Nov. 27 

 BODY:
Executives at the Ford Motor Company have insisted they are willing to bet the company's future on a turnaround plan put in place earlier this year.
 On Monday, they essentially did just that, mortgaging nearly all of Ford's domestic assets -- its plants, office buildings, patents and trademarks -- along with stakes in Ford Credit and Volvo, to raise $18 billion.
Ford will use the money, which includes cash and an expanded line of credit, to cover several years of restructuring costs. Under a plan called the Way Forward, Ford expects to eliminate more than 40,000 jobs and close more than a dozen plants.
 While other auto companies -- including General Motors, earlier this year -- have put up manufacturing equipment and other types of collateral over the years to secure loans, Ford has never done so in its 103-year history. 
 For decades, its credit was so good that it could easily borrow without pledging assets. But it is now taking out the corporate equivalent of a home equity loan and in doing so, signals that it expects even more stormy times before its restructuring is complete.
 Analysts said the step, which Ford executives signaled early this fall, could put the company's independence at risk. If management fails to make the ailing company profitable, Ford may be left with little choice but to find a buyer or merger partner or file for bankruptcy protection.
 ''It's a historic moment for the company,'' said Sean Egan of the Egan-Jones Ratings Company in Wynnewood, Pa. ''It underscores the gap between the domestic manufacturers and Toyota, who's sitting with over $80 billion of cash on its balance sheet and a stellar credit rating.''
 Yet, the structure of the debt, which it arranged with J. P. Morgan Chase, Citigroup and the Goldman Sachs Group, signaled that Ford is not planning to sell a stake in Ford Credit, as had been speculated earlier this year, and that it planned to keep Volvo, among the most successful of its foreign brands.
 Others brands, however, are up for sale, including Aston Martin, the maker of high-powered British sports cars. Ford is also expected to seek deals to sell Jaguar and Land Rover.
 The amount Ford is borrowing exceeds the total market value of all its outstanding stock by $2.6 billion. The company said it expected to complete the financing by the end of the year, giving it a total of $38 billion in liquidity to work with.
 Ford, in a statement, said it needed the loans ''to address near- and medium-term negative operating-related cash flow, to fund its restructuring, and to provide added liquidity to protect against a recession or other unanticipated events.'' 
 Company shares fell 36 cents, or 4.2 percent, to close at $8.16.
 ''This refinancing tells us that they see very tough times ahead,'' said John Casesa, an automotive analyst with Casesa Strategic Advisers in New York. ''Either they're incredibly conservative, or they're preparing for an extremely dark outlook.''
 Although Ford said the loans would help it weather a recession, analysts say the company should be more concerned with fending off competitors than surviving a drop-off in sales. 
 Some forecasts, citing a slump in the housing market and lower consumer confidence levels, call for 2007 sales to fall by as many as 400,000 vehicles from this year, when automakers are expected to sell roughly 16.6 million vehicles in the United States.
 Others are not so pessimistic. While 2007 may begin slowly, G.M. contends demand for new vehicles will pick up.
 ''Our forecast says it should be very similar to this year, and we're hoping it will be stronger,'' G.M.'s president for North America, Troy Clarke, said last week. ''It kind of feels a little soft right now.''
 Ron Pinelli, president of the Autodata Corporation, an industry statistics firm in Woodcliff Lake, N.J., said he expected sales to stay fairly steady through 2007, although he acknowledged that they were more likely to decline than to rise.
 ''I don't think it's doom and gloom for auto sales, but it might be a little bit tougher,'' Mr. Pinelli said.
 Two major ratings agencies, Standard & Poor's and Moody's, lowered their ratings of Ford's unsecured debt on Monday, saying the asset pledges would make it more difficult for unsecured lenders to get their money back if the company defaults. Still, Moody's analysts saw logic in the plan from the company's perspective.
 ''It was important for Ford to structure this type of financing plan in order to ensure that it had adequate liquidity as it enters a highly challenging period,'' Moody's automotive analyst, Bruce Clark, said. ''The company still faces daunting competitive and market challenges, but this plan would give it some breathing room over the next two years.''
 An industrywide downturn would increase the pressure on Ford, which is in the midst of its third turnaround in five years. Monday was the deadline for hourly workers in Ford's American operations to decide whether to accept retirement and buyout packages worth as much as $140,000 each. 
 Ford offered the deals to all 75,000 of its union workers but has not predicted how many would accept.
 Nearly 35,000 workers at G.M., which had about 113,000 at the beginning of the year, accepted similar deals, costing that company about $3.8 billion. Ford's program is expected to cost somewhat less than that amount because its work force is smaller and, on average, younger and thus farther from retirement age.
 Ford, which lost about $7 billion in the first nine months, now says it does not expect to earn a profit in North America until 2009 at the earliest.
 The company said last month that it might arrange secured financing for its turnaround because its credit rating, now well below investment grade, makes other methods for borrowing money too expensive and too limiting.
 Of the $18 billion Ford is borrowing, $15 billion will be secured and $3 billion unsecured.
 Ford's chief financial officer, Don R. Leclair, recently called management's willingness to leverage the company's assets ''a measure of the confidence we have'' in the turnaround plan.
 Shelly Lombard, senior high-yield analyst with Gimme Credit, a corporate-bond research service in New York, said the financing plan showed that Ford's ''problems are more serious and may take longer to fix than it initially anticipated.'' 
 ''It's a better alternative,'' she said, ''than running out of cash and filing bankruptcy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); CREDIT BUREAUS (88%); SPORTS CARS (84%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BRANDING (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (75%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (72%); PATENTS (72%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (72%) Automobiles; Finances; Office Buildings; Factories and Industrial Plants; Inventions and Patents; Trademarks and Trade Names; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Shutdowns (Institutional); Automobiles; Credit; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Automobiles; Ratings and Rating Systems

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (83%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; Volvo Ab; Goldman Sachs Group; Citigroup Inc; Morgan, J P, Chase & Co; Aston Martin Division of Ford Motor Co; Jaguar Cars Ltd; Land Rover; Standard & Poor's Corp; Moody's Investors Service

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GS (NYSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



612 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health&Fitness; ESSAY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Success Is Relative, and Height Isn't Everything

BYLINE: By STEPHEN S. HALL. 
Stephen S. Hall is the author of ''Size Matters: How Height Affects the Health, Happiness and Success of Boys -- and the Men They Become'' (Houghton Mifflin).

 BODY:
Tallness has always been viewed as a desirable physical trait -- so desirable that more than a century ago, Sir Francis Galton began collecting measurements of British schoolchildren as a prelude to his dream of breeding genetically superior human beings. Although his eugenics project went nowhere, his obsession with height survives in a word that has become part of every modern parent's vocabulary: percentile. Galton both coined the term and developed the statistics that allowed percentiles to be plotted on a growth chart.
 Since physical size is such an intrinsic feature of basic (not to mention personal) biology, researchers have returned again and again to that fateful intersection of genes, environment and stature. When they throw human qualities like cognition or intelligence into the mix, the combination becomes both fascinating and dangerous, not least because of the half-baked lessons that sometimes make their way from the technical literature to dinner party conversations. 
A group of researchers at the University of California, San Diego recently reported, for example, that mutations in a class of genes dubbed Tweedle -- as in Tweedledee and Tweedledum -- can alter the overall shape of fruit flies; a mutated ''TweedleD,'' the scientists noted, produced ''short and stout'' flies. The good news is that this particular class of genes is found only in insects; the bad news is that it reinforces the Galtonian notion of size as a genetically determined trait that can possibly be manipulated.
 Such manipulation would look more socially attractive if the mere fact of being taller made a person smarter, as some research has suggested since the 1890s. The most recent researchers to venture fearlessly into the height wars are two well-respected economists at Princeton University. Last August, the economists, Anne Case and Christina Paxson, published a paper called ''Stature and Status: Height, Ability and Labor Market Outcomes'' that is still reverberating.
 Economists have long been fascinated by data showing that tall adults tend to earn more money. Using data sets from four long-running studies conducted in the United States and Britain, Dr. Case and Dr. Paxson present evidence arguing that on average taller people earn more because they are, quite simply, smarter. They suggest that the difference in cognitive ability becomes apparent as early as age 3. ''Throughout childhood,'' they write, ''taller children perform significantly better on cognitive tests.''
 If this were as true as it sounds, the news would obviously provoke great consternation in any parent with a child smaller than average -- a status that most of us, thanks to Galton and his percentiles, know by heart. But it turns out that the Princeton story is a bit more nuanced than that, and part of a very long debate.
 As Dr. Case and Dr. Paxson make clear in their paper, many studies have shown that height is not just a matter of genes, but has a lot to do with prenatal development, early postnatal nutrition, and even a family's socioeconomic status. Indeed, the scientists who study human growth have known for almost two centuries that children who have ample early nutrition grow faster and taller than those raised in more deprived circumstances, and well-nourished children also have earlier growth spurts. Good ''nurture'' of this sort, including minimal exposure to disease, produces children more likely to reach their genetic potential in terms of height. And as the Princeton economists stress, ''environmental factors that are thought to influence cognitive development'' affect height.
 When you add it all up, it says something a little more complicated than ''taller people earn more because they're smarter.'' Someone who is 6 feet tall, but might have been 6-foot-2 with better early nutrition, may not have developed as much cognitive ability as someone who was well-formed and well-fed all along but stands 5-foot-6. 
 The more accurate, but much less catchy, formulation would be: all other things being equal, people who reach their growth potential in height, whether taller or smaller than average, are likelier to be smarter than those who don't, probably because they benefited from optimal early development. ''Part of what we are trying to do,'' Dr. Paxson said, ''is to focus on height as a way of getting people to focus on growth.''
 Dr. Case and Dr. Paxson offered their results as an alternative theory to a much-cited paper published two years ago by Nicola Persico and Andrew Postlewaite of the University of Pennsylvania and Dan Silverman of the University of Michigan. These researchers concluded that the ''height premium'' in an adult male's income correlated most strongly with a boy's height at age 16. They speculated that taller teenagers accrued ''human capital'' through athletic and social activities. Dr. Postlewaite said in an interview that he did not know how to reconcile the importance of adolescence in his earlier study to the more recent Princeton findings, where adolescence ceased to be a factor when childhood cognition was weighed.
 Perhaps the two studies do not require reconciliation, but rather illustrate how imperfect our grasp remains of a fundamental issue -- growth and ability -- that researchers have been struggling to understand for more than a century. Our measures of cognition remain tentative, and quantification of emotional or social intelligence does not enter into the formulations at all. While understandable, the economist's focus on income as the key determinant of success reflects a narrow bandwidth of human value; in economic studies of this sort, penniless artists like Vincent Van Gogh or impoverished leaders like Mahatma Gandhi would be examples of bad labor market outcomes. 
 The most misleading term in the entire discussion may be ''on average''-- a fact that Dr. James M. Tanner, the British growth researcher, pointed out 40 years ago. ''Perhaps the best analogy is with accident statistics,'' he said while delivering, of all things, the Galton Lecture to the Eugenics Society in London in 1966. ''No one can tell if he will be killed in a motor accident next week, yet the total number of people who will be killed in this period can be predicted rather accurately. Equally the correlation we are discussing, like road deaths, tells us something of sociological but nothing of individual importance.''
 Dr. Tanner suggested then, as Dr. Case and Dr. Paxson did several months ago, that it might be useful to study how development in the womb and early childhood affects intelligence. It was a good idea 40 years ago, it's a better idea today, and it would help shift the public conversation from relative height, which is burdened with social distraction, to optimal growth, which is about giving all children, small and tall, the best chance to reach their physical and intellectual potential.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Otto Steininger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); LITERATURE (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%) Height (Stature); Books and Literature; Research; Men; Wages and Salaries; Labor; Children and Youth

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

PERSON: Stephen S Hall

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



613 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Whitney's Expansion Plans Are Shifting South, to the Meatpacking District

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
A month after the Dia Art Foundation scrapped its plans to open a museum at the entrance to the High Line, the abandoned elevated railway line that the city is transforming into a public park, the Whitney Museum of American Art has signed on to take its place and build a satellite institution of its own downtown. 
 The Whitney recently reached a conditional agreement on Wednesday night with the city's Economic Development Corporation to buy the city-owned site, at Washington and West Streets in the meatpacking district, officials at the museum said yesterday. Plans call for the new museum to be at least twice the size of the Whitney's home on Madison Avenue at 75th Street, they said, and to be finished within the next five years. 
The deal, which has still to go through a public review process before it is final, puts an end to the Whitney's plan to for a nine-story addition by the architect Renzo Piano that would connect to the museum's original 1966 Marcel Breuer building via a series of glass bridges. It will be the third time in 11 years that the museum has commissioned a celebrity architect to design a major expansion to its landmark building, only to pull out. 
 ''This is a more prudent step to take,'' Leonard A. Lauder, chairman of the Whitney's board, said by telephone yesterday. ''Yet it is an adventurous step. We think the new site will have a big enough impact so that it will become a destination.'' 
 The museum's director, Adam D. Weinberg, said the new museum would not only offer more gallery space but would also be less expensive. ''We know it will be cheaper per square foot than uptown, but we don't know what it will cost,'' he said. (The uptown expansion was expected to cost more than $200 million.) Mr. Piano has agreed to design the new museum. Although no architectural plans have been drawn up, the future museum is loosely estimated to afford at least 200,000 square feet. 
 Kate D. Levin, the city's cultural affairs commissioner, called the agreement ''a wonderful moment'' but cautioned, ''It is a preliminary moment.'' If all goes as planned, she said, ''it will let a museum grow and flourish'' as well as provide an anchor to the city's High Line project. 
 In addition to attracting a broader audience, having a site downtown will allow the museum space to build larger galleries without the constraints of building in a historic district. Sweeping galleries are generally needed to show much of the latest art being produced today. 
 Compared with around 65,000 square feet of gallery space in the uptown Piano addition, the High Line site will have about 100,000 to 150,000 square feet of gallery space, Mr. Weinberg said. The current Breuer building has some 30,000 square feet. 
 Mr. Lauder said: ''The key word here is footprint. We will be able to stage shows horizontally rather than vertically.'' Previous uptown expansions jettisoned by the Whitney include a $37 million addition by Michael Graves canceled in 1985 and a $200 million design by Rem Koolhaas scrapped in 2003. 
 Mr. Piano's project met with heated opposition from preservationists who objected to the elimination of brownstone facades on Madison Avenue, part of the Upper East Side Historic District. After the Whitney agreed to maintain that facade, the project was approved in July by the city's Board of Standards. 
 In addition to a second site the Whitney is also planning to upgrade the Breuer building significantly, with improvements like new, double-glazed windows and a better climate control system, Mr. Lauder said. 
 ''The Breuer building is now 40 years old, and a lot of technology has happened since it was built,'' Mr. Lauder said. ''It is our iconic building, and we are planning to put a lot of money into it.'' While he said it was too early to say just how much ''a lot'' is, he estimated the cost of refurbishing the building at $20 million to $40 million. 
 While taking note of the creation of dual-site museums like the Tate in London and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, Mr. Weinberg said the Whitney was hoping to invent a model of its own. ''We are envisioning both sites will show contemporary and historic art,'' he said. 
 The Whitney will continue to devote itself to American art, he said, but ''it will be American art in the broadest sense seen within an international context.'' In addition to providing room to spread out, he added, the downtown space will allow the museum to keep adding to its collection. 
 Mr. Weinberg said the museum intended to strengthen its performing arts, education and film programs, which will all be based downtown. 
 While Dia had planned to lease the downtown site from the city, the Whitney's deal calls for buying 820 Washington Street and 555 West Street, abandoned shell structures adjacent to each another. The city will charge the Whitney roughly half the appraised value of the two buildings, said Jan Rothschild, a spokeswoman for the Whitney. 
 ''We like the character and the grittiness of the neighborhood,'' Mr. Weinberg said of the meatpacking district. ''We want to keep the museum as low as possible.'' Plans call for about 15,000 square feet of meat market space as well as offices for the High Line in the complex. 
 Rather than dwell on the death blow to the Piano addition, Whitney officials sought to portray the move as a homecoming of sorts. The institution, which began in Greenwich Village in 1918 as the Whitney Studio Club, became the Whitney Museum in 1931. 
 ''We're returning to our roots,'' Mr. Weinberg said. ''So much of the first half of our collection was made around 14th Street and below, and so many artists whose works we have live within a 20-block radius. We see this as reconnecting with the artists' community.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in The Arts on Tuesday about plans by the Whitney Museum of American Art to open a new branch adjacent to the High Line project in Manhattan's meatpacking district misstated the future site. It is at Washington and Gansevoort Streets, not Washington and West Streets.

GRAPHIC: Map of Manhattan highlighting the proposed site of the Whitney Museum: Whitney Museum is planning a branch at the High Line park. (pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); CELEBRITIES (71%) Art; High Line (NYC); Art

ORGANIZATION: Whitney Museum of American Art (NYC); Economic Development Corp (NYC)

PERSON: LEONARD LAUDER (57%); WILLIAM P LAUDER (50%) Carol Vogel; Renzo Piano

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



614 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: 3rd Woman Is Identified Among 4 Victims in Ditch 

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI and NATE SCHWEBER

 BODY:
Investigators yesterday released the identity of the third of four women found dead last week in a ditch near a squalid strip of motels just outside Atlantic City. They noted that like two other victims, she, too, had a history of prostitution arrests. 
 The victim, Barbara Breidor, 42, is believed to have been dumped into the ravine about two weeks before pedestrians discovered the women's bodies on Nov. 20, according to a statement by the Atlantic County prosecutor, Jeffrey S. Blitz.
 The cause of her death, and that of the unidentified victim, have not been determined. But investigators have said that autopsies on the other two victims showed that one, Tracy Ann Roberts, 23, died of asphyxiation and that the other, Kim Raffo, 35, was killed by ligature strangulation.
 All four victims were found in several inches of water behind a $15-a-night motel, barefoot and with their heads facing in the same direction, a few hundred feet apart, Mr. Blitz has said.
 Medical examiners have told investigators that the varying decomposition of the victims' bodies indicates that they had been killed and dumped at different times during the past month, and that the most recent victim had most likely been dead for only two days before she was found. 
 While drug dealing and prostitution have long been commonplace near the rundown strip of the Black Horse Pike where the bodies were found, many residents and business owners have been terrified at the prospect of a serial killer preying upon women who live on the margins of Atlantic City's economy.
 Local authorities have formed a task force with the New Jersey State Police and the F.B.I. to try to solve the killings. Two dozen investigators have been assigned to the case, Mr. Blitz said. 
 Ms. Breidor's friends said they had been worried about her since she disappeared about six weeks ago. She lived in a quiet neighborhood of well-tended homes across the street from the Ventnor Educational Community Complex. 
 Lori Adams, a former roommate, said that despite the problems that led Ms. Breidor to struggle for a living on the tawdry outskirts of Atlantic City, she was bright, upbeat and funny.
 ''She made you laugh every second of every day you were with her,'' Ms. Adams said.
 Ms. Adams became agitated when asked about Ms. Breidor's record of prostitution arrests. ''It's nobody's business what she did with her life,'' she said. ''The things she did she will take to her grave.'' 
 Ms. Breidor was raised in the suburbs of Philadelphia, according to a cousin, Lance Breidor, and lived intermittently along the Jersey Shore during the past two decades. Mr. Breidor, 45, said they spent a lot of time together as children but drifted apart when they became adults. He said he remembered hearing that she had struggled with drug addiction.
 When he last saw Ms. Breidor eight years ago, he said, she was working at a jewelry store at a mall outside of Philadelphia and appeared to have her life in order 
 ''She seemed to be the type that would always be smiling and joking,'' he said. ''Usually when there are people who'd take a bad turn there are signs. But we never saw any with her.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Barbara Breidor, whose body was found near Atlantic City. (Photo by Atlantic County Prosecutor's Office via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PROSTITUTION (89%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (79%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (79%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (79%); AUTOPSIES (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (79%); MURDER (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); POLICE FORCES (72%); SUBURBS (64%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Prostitution; Serial Murders

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%) Federal Bureau of Investigation 

PERSON: David Kocieniewski; Nate Schweber; Tracy Ann Roberts; Kimberly Raffo; Barbara V Breidor; Molly Jean Dilts

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Atlantic City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



615 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Slouching Toward Riga

 BODY:
When NATO leaders gather in Latvia this week, there will undoubtedly be a lot of grand talk about how the cold-war alliance has managed to elude irrelevance, bringing in new members, dispatching humanitarian aid and deploying peacekeepers beyond Europe's borders. 
 But the real issue before the annual summit meeting is that NATO is failing its most significant post-Soviet test: stabilizing Afghanistan. Violence is spiraling as the Taliban and Al Qaeda reassert their power. The economy is addicted to opium production. The pro-Western government in Kabul looks increasingly powerless and irrelevant.
Unless NATO's members commit to sending in more troops and more resources, Afghanistan could go the way of Iraq. There may not be many more chances after this week's meeting. 
 The current 32,000-member NATO force is too small. Some provinces -- including those along the border with Pakistan, where the Taliban have their sanctuaries -- have little or no allied presence. 
 Many of the participating countries have imposed ''national caveats'' limiting how their contingents fight. Some cannot patrol at night, some cannot leave their assigned area, and some cannot mount offensive operations. That makes it much harder for commanders to fight the enemy or even defend their forces, and it leads to an unfair division of labor. Canadian, Dutch, British and American forces in southern Afghanistan are doing most of the heavy fighting, while the French, Germans and Italians patrol relatively quiet northern regions.
 In Riga, President Bush will urge more troops and fewer caveats. But the president can't do much more than cajole the allies. Iraq has deprived him of both international credibility and the military forces to do more. It is now up to the rest of the alliance. All NATO members must acknowledge that the Afghan war is not just some post-9/11 gesture, nor publicity for the New NATO. There is a life-and-death struggle under way against terrorists and extremism that is in all their national interests to win. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); AL-QAEDA (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); OPIUM (56%) Editorials; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); AL-QAEDA (57%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATVIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



616 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Panel Said to Call for Closing 9 Hospitals in State

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and SEWELL CHAN; Michael Cooper reported from Albany and Sewell Chan from New York.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 27 

 BODY:
A state commission plans to recommend Tuesday closing at least nine hospitals across the state -- including five in New York City -- and further cutting the state's mounting health care costs by forcing more hospitals to merge or to cut beds, according to several people briefed Monday on the panel's report.
 The plan -- which is being lauded and dreaded as one of the biggest efforts ever undertaken to overhaul the state's troubled health care system -- is an all-or-nothing proposal that will become law unless the State Legislature or Gov. George E. Pataki acts in December to reject it in its entirety. By the law that created the commission, state officials cannot approve some of its recommendations while rejecting others. 
All told, the panel is calling for cutting about 4,100 of New York State's roughly 60,000 hospital beds, according to two people who were briefed on the report and were granted anonymity because the report was not to be released until Tuesday. The panel, the New York State Commission on Health Care Facilities in the 21st Century, was created by state officials to review health care facilities in New York and recommend changes. The state holds the power to decertify hospitals -- a potent stick it can wield to enforce compliance.
 Five hospitals in New York City are marked to close outright, including two in Manhattan, St. Vincent's Midtown Hospital on West 51st Street and Cabrini Medical Center on East 19th Street; one in Brooklyn, Victory Memorial Hospital; one in the Bronx, New York Westchester Square Medical Center; and one in Queens, Parkway Hospital. 
 The current system is beloved by no one. Hospitals complain that they are struggling financially. State officials worry about the growing drain that health care costs place on taxpayer funds. So there has been a widespread recognition -- even among union officials -- that some hospitals will have to close to allow others to thrive. But closing hospitals can be a politically delicate affair that can arouse neighborhood opposition.
 But some officials and others who were briefed on the plan, and who also were granted anonymity, said Monday night that the closings called for by the report were not as drastic as they had feared.
 Aides to the governor declined to discuss the report before its release.
 While the report speaks of officially closing nine hospitals in the state, they said, several other hospitals would effectively be closed by being forced to shed their beds to become clinics or outpatient facilities. That is the case with a sixth hospital that will effectively close in New York City, the Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital on East 64th Street. 
 Four more hospitals in the state were chosen to be shut down: Millard Fillmore Gates Circle Hospital in Buffalo; St. Joseph Hospital in Cheektowaga, near Buffalo; Bellevue Woman's Hospital in Niskayuna, near Albany; and Community Hospital at Dobbs Ferry, in Westchester. 
 Still, the report is sure to set off a powerful political maelstrom. 
 Kenneth E. Raske, the president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, warned that it could lead to inadequate services. ''The level of restructuring, which goes beyond closure -- the size of the restructuring is astronomical,'' he said after he was briefed on the report. ''The amount of money this will pull out of medical spending in New York will be in the billions. There is going to be service inadequacy and some real difficulty for hospitals.''
 And the political blowback was set to begin immediately. Assemblyman Paul A. Tokasz from Buffalo said that he planned to hold a news conference Tuesday to oppose the proposal to close St. Joseph Hospital. ''I'm not happy,'' he said, warning that the closing would cost jobs in a region with a struggling economy. ''I am prepared to argue that we need to reject this plan.''
 The commission, which is also calling for closing and reorganizing nursing homes in the state, also plans to recommend reconfiguring or merging several hospitals in New York City, an official briefed on the report said yesterday. The official said that the panel intends to call for merging at least three pairs of hospitals in the city: Peninsula Hospital Center and St. John's Episcopal Hospital South Shore in Far Rockaway, Queens, which would allow the creation of a new facility of about 400 beds; North General Hospital and Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan; and New York Methodist Hospital in Park Slope, Brooklyn, and New York Community Hospital in Midwood, Brooklyn.
 The official also said that the commission would urge the conversion of detoxification beds at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan to beds for elderly psychiatric patients; the addition of about 40 surgery beds to Queens Hospital Center, in Jamaica; and the closing of an ambulatory wing at Split Rock Rehabilitation and Health Care Center in the Bronx.
 The panel's recommendations, long a closely held secret, began to emerge Monday night after panel members briefed state officials and players in the health care industry. Some aspects of the plan, including the New York City hospitals marked for closing, were first reported last week by The New York Sun. 
 The panel tried to ensure that there were alternative hospitals available nearby and took into consideration how much health care for the indigent each hospital provided before recommending closing or cutting it. Several people said that the hospitals run by New York City's Health and Hospitals Corporation appeared to be left unscathed. 
 Some recommendations could be difficult to put into place. In upstate New York, for example, the plan calls for merging two privately owned hospitals, and for merging a privately owned hospital with a state hospital. The state has won the promise of $1.5 billion in federal money to help hospitals cover the significant short-term costs of closing, which can be used as an incentive. 
 New York's hospitals have been in crisis for years because of declining demand, pressures from health insurers and their high debt. State officials hope that by closing some hospitals and cutting costs at others, they will allow the healthier hospitals to survive and thrive while reducing the costs of the state's Medicaid program, the government health care plan for the poor, which costs about $45 billion a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); HEALTH CARE (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%) Medicine and Health; Shutdowns (Institutional); Hospitals; Law and Legislation; Medicine and Health; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: St Vincent's Midtown Hospital (NYC); Cabrini Medical Center (NYC); Victory Memorial Hospital (NYC); New York Westchester Square Medical Center (NYC); Parkway Hospital (NYC); Manhattan Eye Ear and Throat Hospital (NYC)

PERSON: Michael Cooper; Sewell Chan; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



617 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Ecuador Vote: Leader Forges Middle Road Among Leftists

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador, Nov. 27 

 BODY:
The walls in the office of Rafael Correa, the economist who seems almost certain to be this oil-exporting country's next president, are decorated with photos of leftist leaders in Latin America whom he admires, including Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and Evo Morales of Bolivia.
 But when Mr. Correa starts talking about his ideas, in rapid-fire Spanish interspersed with tangents in English, French and even the occasional phrase in Quechua, he conveys a more sophisticated image than the nationalists who have risen to power elsewhere in the region out of the armed forces or trade unions. 
 ''Foreign investment that generates wealth and jobs and pays taxes will always be welcome,'' Mr. Correa, 43, said in an interview here, sounding precisely like someone with postgraduate degrees from universities in the United States and Belgium. (His are from the University of Illinois and Catholic University of Leuven, where he met his Belgian wife, Anne Malherbe.)
 Mr. Correa, between declarations of admiration for the American political system and the Democratic Party in the United States, added that investors could look forward to his government, which would ''strictly follow the rule of law.'' 
 Yet the markets wasted little time trying to decipher who the real Mr. Correa may be. Skeptical speculators in New York and London engaged in a sell-off of Ecuadorean bonds on Monday as concern grew that Mr. Correa would carry out promises to renegotiate Ecuador's $10.4 billion of foreign debt.
 And Mr. Correa still seems intent on pressing forward with popular proposals, like limiting American influence by not renewing an agreement, which expires in 2009, that allows the United States military to operate from a Pacific coast base.
 In some ways, Mr. Correa's rise points to how varied, and persistent, the leftist groundswell has become in Latin America. He had 68 percent of the votes cast Sunday, compared with 32 percent for his opponent, Alvaro Noboa, with about half of ballot boxes counted by Monday; final results were expected Tuesday.
 A former finance minister, Mr. Correa wears tailored suits and chats about how North American economists like John Kenneth Galbraith have influenced him. Yet before crowds, he rails against the Bush administration and the International Monetary Fund.
 The competing strands make any hasty judgment on Mr. Correa premature, particularly as he finds his way in the unstable world of Ecuadorean politics, where Congress can oust unpopular presidents with ease. 
 Vying to become Ecuador's eighth president in 10 years, Mr. Correa seemed prepared in recent weeks to moderate his speeches, and perhaps even his ideas, when he fell behind Mr. Noboa, a banana tycoon.
 Stung by Mr. Noboa's description of him as someone who would wreak economic chaos, Mr. Correa reached out to chambers of commerce and the American ambassador, Linda Jewell. Mr. Correa toned down references to a polarizing proposal for an assembly to rewrite the Constitution that could eventually give him authority to dissolve Congress.
 And after losing in the first round to Mr. Noboa, Mr. Correa was also more nimble in his use of new campaign technologies from the United States. For instance, Mr. Correa in the past month adeptly had his supporters post videos of gaffes by Mr. Noboa on the Web site YouTube.
 Though those images reached relatively few Ecuadoreans, they created a cascade of comments, particularly among young voters, and enabled Mr. Correa to bypass the concerns of the news media, which had been hesitant to explicitly criticize Mr. Noboa, Ecuador's richest man with a fortune of $1.2 billion.
 It remains to be seen whether the agility of his campaign was merely a function of tactics, or a reflection of a new kind of leftist leader in the region. Even if the markets were not willing to give Mr. Correa the benefit of the doubt, others were. ''If his campaign was any indication, we'll see a Correa who is more flexible and pragmatic than dogmatic,'' said Hugo Barber, director of Datanalisis, a political analysis firm. 
 Mr. Barber said he expected Mr. Correa to emerge as a moderate leftist more along the lines of President Nestor Kirchner of Argentina than as a leader embracing the militaristic socialist rhetoric of Mr. Chavez.
 Mr. Correa said he looked forward to stronger ties with Venezuela, but unlike leaders in Bolivia or Nicaragua, he does not currently need Mr. Chavez's aid. ''Correa is going to be a friend, not a client of Chavez,'' said Michael Shifter, an analyst for a Washington-based policy institute, Inter-American Dialogue, who was in Quito for the election. 
 Mr. Correa has the luxury of inheriting an economy that is benefiting from a combination of high oil prices, a tax increase on oil companies and the seizure this year of a crucial oil concession held by Occidental Petroleum of Los Angeles, which had been Ecuador's largest foreign investor.
 Together, those factors have given oil revenues a boost of $1 billion this year, according to the credit ratings company Fitch Ratings. Of course, this reliance on oil exposes Ecuador to a crash if oil prices sharply decline; they are already down nearly 20 percent from midyear highs.
 That is what makes some of Mr. Correa's ideas, like rejoining OPEC, strengthening the national oil company Petroecuador, or renegotiating the foreign debt, troubling to some analysts here. Ecuador is supposed to remember the pain, they say, of past oil busts.
 The country left OPEC in the early 1990s when it had trouble paying its dues. Since then, Ecuador has had a debilitating dependence on imported gasoline because of inadequate refining operations.
 Mr. Correa will come to the presidency with virtually no support from a recalcitrant Congress that reflects, however imperfectly, a country whose instability has resulted in two million Ecuadoreans emigrating to the United States and Europe. 
 ''Any government will have difficulty conciliating the demands of a highly mobilized and very volatile public that is impatient for results and now used to bringing pressure and being successful at it,'' said Kenneth Maxwell, a professor of Latin American history at Harvard.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rafael Correa, the expected winner of last Sunday's presidential election in Ecuador, arrived early Monday at a victory celebration in Guayaquil. (Photo by Rickey Rodgers/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (84%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); LABOR UNIONS (55%) Elections; Politics and Government; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%) International Monetary Fund

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%) Simon Romero; Rafael Correa; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BELGIUM (56%) Ecuador; Ecuador

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



618 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 772 words

PERSON: Bebe Moore Campbell

HEADLINE: Bebe Moore Campbell, Novelist of Black Lives, Dies at 56

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Bebe Moore Campbell, a best-selling novelist known for her empathetic treatment of the difficult, intertwined and occasionally surprising relationship between the races, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 56.
 The cause was complications of brain cancer, said Linda Wharton-Boyd, a longtime friend.
Along with writers like Terry McMillan, Ms. Campbell was part of the first wave of black novelists who made the lives of upwardly mobile black people a routine subject for popular fiction. Straddling the divide between literary and mass-market novels, Ms. Campbell's work explored not only the turbulent dance between blacks and whites but also the equally fraught relationship between men and women. 
 Throughout her work, Ms. Campbell sought to counter prevailing stereotypes of black people as socially and economically marginal. Though critics occasionally faulted her characters as two-dimensional, her novels were known for their crossover appeal, read by blacks and whites alike.
 Often called on by the news media to discuss race relations, Ms. Campbell was for years a familiar presence on television and radio. With the publication of her most recent novel, ''72 Hour Hold'' (Knopf, 2005), she also became a visible spokeswoman on mental-health issues. The novel, about bipolar disorder, was inspired by the experience of a family member, Ms. Campbell said.
 Originally a schoolteacher and later a journalist, Ms. Campbell made her mark as a writer of fiction with her first novel, ''Your Blues Ain't Like Mine'' (Putnam), published in 1992. Rooted in the story of Emmett Till, the book tells of a black Chicago youth killed by a white man in Mississippi in 1955. After the murderer is acquitted at trial, the narrative follows his increasing dissolution. 
 ''I wanted to give racism a face,'' Ms. Campbell said in an interview with The New York Times Book Review in 1992. ''African-Americans know about racism, but I don't think we really know the causes. I decided it's first of all a family problem.''
 Reviewing the novel in The Book Review, Clyde Edgerton wrote: ''By showing lives lived, and not explaining ideas, Ms. Campbell does what good storytellers do -- she puts in by leaving out.'' 
 Ms. Campbell's other novels, all published by G. P. Putnam's Sons, are ''Brothers and Sisters'' (1994), written in the wake of the Los Angeles riots of 1992; ''Singing in the Comeback Choir'' (1998), about a black television producer feeling cut off from her roots; and ''What You Owe Me'' (2001), about the friendship between two women, one African-American, the other a Jewish Holocaust survivor, in the 1940's.
 Elizabeth Bebe Moore was born in Philadelphia on Feb. 18, 1950, to parents who divorced when she was very young. Bebe spent each school year in Philadelphia with her mother, grandmother and aunt -- strong, upright women she collectively called ''the Bosoms'' -- who set her on a course of study, discipline and staunch middle-class respectability.
 She spent summers in North Carolina with her father, who had been paralyzed in an automobile accident. There, she was enveloped in a heady world of beer, laughter and cigar smoke. She documented her contrasting lives in her memoir, ''Sweet Summer: Growing Up With and Without My Dad'' (Putnam, 1989).
 After earning a bachelor's degree in elementary education from the University of Pittsburgh in 1971, Ms. Campbell taught school in Atlanta for several years before embarking on a career as a freelance journalist. Her first book was a work of nonfiction, ''Successful Women, Angry Men: Backlash in the Two-Career Marriage'' (Random House, 1986).
 She also wrote two picture books for children, ''Sometimes My Mommy Gets Angry'' (Putnam, 2003; illustrated by E. B. Lewis); and ''Stompin' at the Savoy'' (Philomel, 2006; illustrated by Richard Yarde).
 Ms. Campbell's first marriage, to Tiko Campbell, ended in divorce. She is survived by her husband, Ellis Gordon Jr., whom she married in 1984; her mother, Doris Moore of Los Angeles; a daughter from her first marriage, Maia Campbell of Los Angeles; a stepson, Ellis Gordon III of Mitchellville, Md.; and two grandchildren.
 Despite the subject matter of her books, Ms. Campbell expressed hope about the future of American race relations. In an interview with The New York Times in 1995, she described her motivation for writing ''Brothers and Sisters,'' the story of the friendship between a black banker and her white colleague.
 ''It was my attempt to bridge a racial gap,'' Ms. Campbell said. ''That's the story that never gets told: how many of us really like each other, respect each other.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bebe Moore Campbell in 2005. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (97%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); RACE & RACISM (92%); WRITERS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); BESTSELLERS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); CANCER (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); PUBLISHING (75%); FAMILY (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); MURDER (68%); GENOCIDE (68%); RIOTS (65%); HOLOCAUST (63%); ACQUITTAL (63%); BRAIN CANCER (57%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (51%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (62%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%)

Margalit Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

CATEGORY: Books And Magazines

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



619 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Speed Bump at the Border

BYLINE: By THOMAS B. EDSALL. 
Thomas B. Edsall holds the Pulitzer-Moore Chair at Columbia University. He is a guest columnist this month.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
Democrats preparing to take over Congress appear to have a perfect issue for the party of the left: the rich are getting richer, but sizable productivity gains and rising corporate profits are not paying off for the working and middle classes. All boats are not rising with the tide. 
 The picture is a paint-by-the-numbers portrait of the greedy picking the pockets of the needy. The villains are C.E.O.s, investment bankers and corporate managers who refuse to pass on profits in the form of higher wages. The victims are workers who struggle to deal with an increasingly unreliable and, for many, unrewarding marketplace -- producing more while under the constant threat of job, health care and pension loss. 
The success of candidates attacking outsourcing and trade agreements like Nafta, combined with high Democratic margins among economically pessimistic voters, clearly points to middle-class wage stagnation and growing inequality as significant factors in the election this month. 
 Politically, the result has shifted the balance of power within the Democratic Party in favor of the protectionist wing, and especially in favor of such major unions as the Teamsters, the steelworkers and the autoworkers, all key party supporters with money and manpower.
 The strengthening of the Democrats' protectionist wing is virtually certain to force to the surface a second, and closely related, internal conflict between the party's pro- and anti-immigration wings. This conflict among Democrats remained submerged while President Bush and the Republican House and Senate majorities fought without resolution over the same issue.
 ''Immigration is a difficult issue for the Democrats; it cuts in complicated ways,'' says Stephen Ansolabehere, an M.I.T. political scientist who helped conduct an Internet survey of 37,000 voters. The Democratic Party made major gains in the Mountain West, he says, and many of these voters are ''populist with a lot of nativism,'' firmly opposed to the more liberal immigration policies of key party leaders. 
 A solid block of Democrats who won this month -- Jon Tester, James Webb, Sherrod Brown and Heath Shuler included -- is inclined to put the brakes on all cross-border activity (otherwise known as globalization): trade, outsourcing and the flow of human labor. Nolan McCarty of Princeton, writing with two colleagues, has provided some empirical data supporting the argument that immigration has led ''to policies that increase economic inequality.'' Significant numbers within the Democratic Party agree with this reasoning.
 Globalization ''needs to be controlled and slowed down because of the brutal destruction and vast imbalances of wealth it causes,'' Jeff Faux, a stalwart of the protectionist wing on the Democratic left, writes in Dissent magazine. ''The nihilistic vision of the world as an accelerating treadmill of constant insecurity, jobs with longer hours and shorter pay the triumph of dog-eat-dog competition is a vision of hell.''
 The protectionist wing is likely to hold sway at least in the first few months of the 110th Congress. Over time, however, Faux and his allies are likely to fail. The forces of international competition have proved more powerful than any government, and advocates of aggressive policies to constrain them face a porous, borderless and now highly electronic international economy. Legislation can require American companies to distribute profits to workers, but it will be virtually impossible to enforce as competition razes companies playing by those rules. For the moment, Democratic chances of restoring more equal patterns in the growth of wages are bleak. 
 Barney Frank, representing members of the House who would like to stake out middle ground, has proposed a ''grand bargain.'' If corporate America agrees to equitable wages, Democrats will back free trade and eased regulations. ''What we want to do is to look at public policies that'll get some bigger share of the increased wealth into wages, and in return you'll see Democrats as internationalists,'' he said.
 Even if the deal were cut, the odds are strong that the global economy would prevent American business from keeping its promise. The sooner Democrats realize that they -- and, more important, their constituents -- are up against a wall, the sooner they will seriously focus their attention on how to climb it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); LIBERALISM (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); FOREIGN LABOR (75%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (72%); REFUGEES (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%) International Trade and World Market; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Election Issues; Foreign Workers; North American Free Trade Agreement; Protectionism (Trade); International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%)

PERSON: JON TESTER (59%); JIM WEBB (59%); HEATH SHULER (59%); SHERROD BROWN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%) Thomas B Edsall

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



620 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Where the Appetite for Aircraft Is Big 

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Nov. 27 

 BODY:
Boeing is enjoying heady times in Asia.
 The latest evidence came from Seoul last week, when Korean Air Lines announced an order for 25 jets from Boeing, the largest single order ever from a Korean carrier. The deal is estimated to be worth $5.5 billion at list prices, but significantly less once the discounts typical of such negotiations are taken into consideration. Neither side would disclose the price.
Thanks to fast-growing economies, Asia's airlines have been lining up to buy new planes to feed surging demand for travel. The International Air Transport Association forecasts that traffic in Asia will grow almost 7 percent this year, compared with roughly 5 percent in North America and Europe. 
 ''The Asia-Pacific is faster-growing and therefore an attractive market for the manufacturers,'' said Andrew Herdman, director general of the Association of Asia Pacific Airlines in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. ''Boeing has had an exceptionally strong year.'' 
 While Boeing is soaring, its only significant competitor, Airbus, has suffered a string of embarrassing setbacks that have delayed delivery of its A380 superjumbo jet by more than two years. 
 Analysts say the winds of international politics, crucial to multibillion-dollar aircraft sales, are also blowing in Boeing's favor, thanks to growing security jitters and concerns about possible protectionist moves by a Democratic Congress. 
 The South Korean purchase helps Boeing deflect a recent assault in Asia by Airbus, which last year outsold its American rival in the region for the first time. According to the aviation consultancy Airclaims, two-thirds of all the commercial planes flying in Asia were built by Boeing.
 That revived edge is all the more important now that Asia's growth is helping offset slower sales increases at home. Boeing's sales in Asia rose to 16 percent of its global revenue last year, from roughly 13 percent in 2000. 
 In the next 20 years, Boeing estimates Asia will grow to represent 36 percent of the global aircraft market. China, not surprisingly, is at the forefront. Boeing forecasts that China will spend about $280 billion in the next two decades on aircraft, becoming the world's second-largest plane market, after the United States.
 In mid-October, China's largest carrier, China Southern Airlines, announced that it would buy 12 Boeing jets in an order worth up to $1.8 billion. All told, Boeing has won roughly 100 orders in China this year. 
 It may seem surprising that even more orders have not come Boeing's way, given the troubles at Airbus. The largest customer for the A380, Emirates Airlines of Dubai, has vented its frustration over the delays by canceling a $4 billion order for smaller A340s. 
 Thai Airways International is discussing whether to proceed with its order for six A380s. And Singapore Airlines, the deep-pocketed carrier that expected to receive the first A380 this year, will unveil its new luxurious A380 cabin next month -- on a Boeing 777 instead. 
 Boeing said it would not be stealing Airbus customers, largely because it is struggling just to clear the backlog of orders it already has. ''You don't just turn the switch and overnight increase your production levels,'' said Wade Cornelius, vice president for business development and global strategy for Boeing Commercial Airplanes in Renton, Wash.
 Mr. Cornelius said Boeing's suppliers were stretched to the limit in terms of production, with many experiencing shortages for raw materials like aluminum and titanium. As a result, he said, by the time Boeing could deliver a rival aircraft to an A380 customer, Airbus would probably have already been able to deliver the A380 originally ordered.
 That explains in part, analysts said, why Qantas Airways recently responded to the delays in its A380 deliveries by increasing its order from 12 to 20, taking advantage of the situation to negotiate lower prices. 
 Airlines are also willing to stick with Airbus to maintain competition between the major aircraft makers.
 ''The reality is that this industry needs a highly competitive offering from two established, incredible manufacturers,'' said Stephen Forshaw, vice president for public affairs at Singapore Airlines. ''We rely on -- every time we go to the market -- running a highly competitive process between the two manufacturers and getting the best deal.''
 In addition to traffic growth, high fuel prices are pushing carriers to buy new, more fuel-efficient aircraft. Boeing is also being helped by predictions of long-term growth in demand for cargo out of China.
 The most serious weakness in Boeing's position in Asia, analysts say, is in the rapidly growing market of low-cost carriers, where the Airbus A320 has emerged as the aircraft of choice. The budget airline AirAsia, based in Malaysia, for example, has ordered 100 A320s to expand and update its fleet of Boeing 737s, saying the A320 is a more profitable aircraft to run.
 Mr. Cornelius disputed this analysis, however, saying that Boeing's latest version of the 737 was competitive. 
 Boeing partly credits its long-term relationships with customers for its market lead in Asia. After 50 years in Japan, Boeing says it has an 80 percent market share. Japanese airlines have not ordered any A380s. Korean Air's fleet is 75 percent Boeing. 
 But analysts say diplomacy has also played a major role and that the longstanding alliance of the United States, Japan and South Korea also helps explain Boeing's dominance in those markets. 
 ''These aircraft purchases are always very close to high-level politics,'' said Peter Harbison, managing director of the Center for Asia Pacific Aviation in Sydney, Australia. In China, Beijing still decides what aircraft the country's three largest airlines fly. ''If Beijing says they like Washington today, they buy Boeing,'' said Peter Drolet, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian in Hong Kong. 
 Trade relations can often play a role in determining which company wins an aircraft order. And since aircraft orders are so big, Asian exporters can use them to blunt criticism over yawning trade surpluses. 
 ''They make a big aircraft purchase and, bang, billions of dollars of trade surplus are wiped off the board,'' Mr. Drolet said. Contracts may still coincide with state visits, Mr. Herdman said. ''But behind the scenes,'' he added, ''there are people with sharp pencils and calculators weighing up the options.''
 Reciprocal investment is also important, analysts say. All Nippon Airways is the first customer for Boeing's 787. It is not surprising, then, that many of the aircraft's parts are being made in Japan. 
 Airbus plans to apply that model to China, where it announced last month during a visit to Beijing by Jacques Chirac, the president of France, that it would build an assembly plant in Tianjin. China then announced a $10 billion deal to buy 150 Airbus A320s, the largest single order for the planes so far. 
 Boeing has dismissed the factory as an empty gesture. Assembly represents a relatively low percentage of an aircraft's cost, Mr. Cornelius said. ''Design, production and the integration of all the other components is where the real value is,'' he said.
 Boeing says it is buying an increasing number of parts from China for export to its assembly plants in the United States. Mr. Cornelius said Boeing already had $600 million in supply contracts in China and that major Chinese-made parts could now be found in roughly 34 percent of the 12,000 Boeing planes in service around the world. Analysts say the pressure from China on Boeing and Airbus to base more production in the country is intense. Its reasoning is no secret: China is eager to build its own aircraft industry. ''All China wants is the ability to build large aircraft,'' Mr. Harbison said. ''That's where China is heading.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Boeing has created moving assembly lines for the 737s built in Renton, Wash. (Photo by Peter Yates for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
The Airbus A380 superjumbo jet landed in Hong Kong this month after a test flight. All Nippon Airways is the first customer for Boeing's 787, which is under development and scheduled for delivery in 2008. (Photo by Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg News)
 (Pool photo by Mike Clarke)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Boeing 2006 Asia/Pacific commercial plane orders''Through Nov. 21AIRLINE: Lion AirCOUNTRY: IndonesiaTOTAL: 30AIRLINE: Air ChinaCOUNTRY: ChinaTOTAL: 25AIRLINE: Korean Air LinesCOUNTRY: South KoreaTOTAL: 25AIRLINE: Singapore AirlinesCOUNTRY: SingaporeTOTAL: 20AIRLINE: Hainan AirlinesCOUNTRY: ChinaTOTAL: 19AIRLINE: China Eastern AirlinesCOUNTRY: ChinaTOTAL: 16AIRLINE: Shandong AirlinesCOUNTRY: ChinaTOTAL: 12AIRLINE: China Southern AirlinesCOUNTRY: ChinaTOTAL: 10AIRLINE: Singapore Aircraft LeasingCOUNTRY: SingaporeTOTAL: 10AIRLINE: Cathay Pacific AirwaysCOUNTRY: Hong KongTOTAL: 8AIRLINE: Shanghai AirlinesCOUNTRY: ChinaTOTAL: 8AIRLINE: Air PacificCOUNTRY: FijiTOTAL: 5AIRLINE: Shenzhen AirlinesCOUNTRY: ChinaTOTAL: 5AIRLINE: Xiamen AirlinesCOUNTRY: ChinaTOTAL: 5AIRLINE: Nippon Cargo AirlinesCOUNTRY: JapanTOTAL: 2PLANE MODELS:787777747737(Source by Boeing)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (79%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%); CHINA SOUTHERN AIRLINES CO LTD (83%); THAI AIRWAYS INTERNATIONAL PCL (50%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (50%); EMIRATES GROUP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (83%) Boeing Co; Airbus Industrie; Korean Air Lines; International Air Transport Assn

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); ZNH (NYSE) (83%); K3TD (SGX) (83%); 1055 (HKSE) (83%); THAI (SET) (50%); THAF (FRA) (50%); C6L (SGX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%)

PERSON: Wayne Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (77%) EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (54%); SHANDONG, CHINA (54%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (50%); HAINAN, CHINA (50%) ASIA (99%); CHINA (95%); SINGAPORE (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Europe; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



621 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart's Superstores Gain Entry Into India

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS and SARITHA RAI; Anand Giridharadas reported from New Delhi and Saritha Rai from Bangalore.

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Nov. 27 

 BODY:
Wal-Mart moved closer to cracking open one of the last and potentially most lucrative frontiers for American retailers when it announced a joint venture on Monday with an Indian partner.
 Together with Bharti Enterprises, a leading Indian cellphone operator, the company, the world's No. 1 retailer, will open hundreds of Wal-Mart-branded superstores across India over the next five years, starting in 2007, according to Sunil Mittal, the chairman of Bharti.
 The deal is a large-scale entry into the booming Indian market by a foreign multibrand retailer. Others may have made inroads, but companies like Wal-Mart and Carrefour, which is based in France and is the world's No. 2 retailer, have long been stymied by Indian government rules that some critics say are protectionist. 
 ''It is the last and a very big frontier,'' Mr. Mittal said in an interview at a conference of the World Economic Forum on Monday in New Delhi. ''Brazil is done. China is done. This is the last Shangri-la of retail. Where will Tesco or Wal-Mart get their growth? Here.'' Tesco is the No. 1 retailer in England. In an e-mailed statement, Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Ark., confirmed that a memorandum of understanding had been signed. Wal-Mart has stumbled recently in some of its overseas markets, in part by misjudging local tastes. This year, for instance, it pulled out of South Korea and Germany. 
 The partnership may seem odd, since Bharti has no experience in discount and grocery stores. But Bharti, the No. 1 cellphone company here, has a vast retail distribution network and a knowledge of the buying habits of India's middle class. Moreover, Bharti has a good flow of cash, which could help Wal-Mart expand, Mr. Mittal said. 
 ''Bharti and Wal-Mart make a formidable combination,'' said Arvind Singhal, chairman of KSA Technopak, a retail consultant based in New Delhi. ''One is the world's largest retailer and the other is amongst India's most aggressive companies.'' 
 The Indian retail industry remains largely closed to foreign capital out of domestic fears that Western retailers would devastate mom-and-pop shops, the bread and butter for millions of Indian families. 
 But Wal-Mart has seized upon two loopholes: Foreign retailers are allowed to operate through franchisees, and they are also permitted to invest their own capital in wholesale shops; Metro, the No. 1 retailer in Germany, has already opened wholesale stores here. Mr. Mittal said that the American retailer would open franchise stores owned by Bharti while investing its own money in wholesale outlets. 
 Wal-Mart, with backing of the United States government, has lobbied aggressively to pry open the Indian market, where just 3 percent of consumers shop in large Western-style stores. That compares with 20 percent in China, 30 percent in Indonesia and 40 percent in Thailand, according to KSA Technopak.
 Local critics of Wal-Mart's large-scale operations were unhappy about the announcement. They say that the ranks of the jobless will rise and that pollution will increase as shoppers drive to stores instead of receiving home-delivered produce. Small shops here typically extend credit and make home deliveries. ''The entry of Wal-Mart will be like an economic tsunami in terms of its destructive impact,'' said Vandana Shiva, an environmental campaigner who runs an organic food business.
 Although India has gradually opened to foreign companies since 1991, Ms. Shiva said the latest move was the most radical.
 ''The other reforms touch on one sphere -- opening up banking touches only finance,'' she said. ''But because of the nature of what Wal-Mart does, it will affect the people who grow food, the people who eat it and the people who sell it.''
 Small retailers have resisted government-led attempts to organize the sector and make way for bigger chains.
 Recently, violent protests erupted after a court-ordered shutdown of more than 30,000 small shops that operated illegally in New Delhi's residential neighborhoods. 
 Then in January, the government allowed international companies to set up single-brand retail chains and own up to a 51 percent stake.
 Last month, the largest private-sector Indian company, the petrochemicals giant Reliance Industries, opened the first of 5,500 planned retail stores, in the southern Indian city of Hyderabad. 
 The Indian retail industry is expected to grow from $300 billion a year today to $637 billion by 2015. The share of the overall retail market in India held by large retail stores is expected to grow in the next five years to 18 percent, from 3 percent.
 Industry experts argue that the eventual leaders in Indian retail could each build up to $10 billion to $50 billion in annual revenue within a decade. That's significant even to big players like Wal-Mart, which reported $312 billion in revenue last year. Wal-Mart already purchases $1.6 billion worth of leather goods, textiles and other wares in India and sells them around the world. But it has long argued to Indian officials that if it were allowed to sell as well as buy here, it would use its advanced inventory control and logistics expertise to help spread prosperity by creating new markets for local businesses.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sunil Mittal, chairman of the Bharti Group, the leading cellphone company in India, at a conference yesterday in New Delhi. Wal-Mart confirmed plans to open hundreds of stores in India with Bharti as its partner. (Photo by Manpreet Romana/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); JOINT VENTURES (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); WHOLESALERS (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); TELEPHONE WHOLESALERS (89%); FRANCHISING (86%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); PROTECTIONISM (73%); FRANCHISEES (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%) Retail Stores and Trade; Consumer Behavior; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%); BHARTI ENTERPRISES LTD (94%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%) Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Bharti Enterprises

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC4822 TELEGRAPH & OTHER MESSAGE COMMUNICATIONS (94%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (94%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (94%)

PERSON: Sunil Mittal; Anand Giridharadas; Saritha Rai

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (86%); BRAZIL (79%); ENGLAND (76%); FRANCE (56%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%) India

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



622 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 877 words

 BODY:

REINING IN ORDERS AT BOEING -- Business is booming at Boeing, where airlines are lining up to buy new aircraft while Boeing's chief rival, Airbus, struggles with production delays. Asian countries, in particular, are clamoring for planes to meet their surging air travel demands -- last week, Korean Air Lines ordered 25 Boeing jets. But Boeing is leery of overcommitting itself, a mistake it made -- and paid dearly for -- in the last airline boom. [Page C1.] 


STOCKS TAKE A TUMBLE Concerns about a weak holiday shopping season combined with broader anxiety about an economic slowdown, handing Wall Street its biggest decline in four months. Retailers like Wal-Mart, whose year-over-year sales fell in November, suffered some of the steepest losses. [C1.]

FORD AT BANK, ASSETS IN HAND -- Ford Motor Company essentially mortgaged nearly all of its domestic assets, including factories, office buildings, patents and trademarks, to raise $18 billion to pay for several more years of painful restructuring. Other auto companies have put up manufacturing equipment and other collateral to secure loans, but Ford has never done so. [C1.]

A DECLINE IN AMERICANs' INCOME -- The income that Americans reported to the tax collector in 2004, adjusted for inflation, was below its peak in 2000, government data showed. Average real incomes declined $1,641, or 3 percent, to $53,974. [C1.]

CERTIFYING THE CATCH OF THE DAY -- What makes a fish organic? The Agriculture Department's answer could determine whether Americans will be able to add fish to the growing list of organic foods they are buying, and whether fish farmers will be able to tap into that trend. [A1.]

WAL-MART TO ENTER INDIA -- Wal-Mart announced a joint venture with an Indian partner, Bharti Enterprises, with which it will open hundreds of Wal-Mart-branded superstores across India over the next five years, starting in 2007. [C3.]

RIGHTING AN OLD WRONG -- The Supreme Court took up the question of how to treat a discriminatory action that happened long ago but that has effects that continue to the present day. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has long considered each pay period of uncorrected discrimination as a fresh incident of discrimination. But the Bush administration has disavowed the commission's position, and has entered the case on the employer's behalf. [A20.]

A TEMPLE TO GAZPROM -- Gazprom City, a proposed complex in St. Petersburg, Russia, would include a main tower soaring three or four times higher than the city's most famous landmark, drawing heated protests from the director of the Hermitage Museum and the head of the city's architects' union. But Gazprom, Russia's state-controlled energy company, is determined to press ahead. [A4.]

YOUTUBE ON CELLPHONES, FOR A FEE -- YouTube is coming to mobile phones. But unlike users of its explosively popular Internet service, users of Youtube's phone-based version must subscribe to a $15-a-month Verizon Wireless service, and the videos will be preselected and approved. [C3.]

BROUGHT TO YOU BYMadison Avenue is playing matchmaker to Match.com and the TBS Network for season-long sponsorship of a sitcom, a deal that recalls the brand-name sponsorships of a bygone era. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C8.]

JUSTICES REJECT SMOKERS' APPEAL -- The Supreme Court refused to revive a $10.1 billion award against Philip Morris USA, rejecting an appeal from smokers who said they were misled about the health risks of ''light'' cigarettes. [C3.]

TWO RESIGN IN OPTIONS INQUIRY -- The chief executive and chief financial officer of Affiliated Computer Services resigned after a board investigation into stock option grant practices. The company said the board concluded that ''certain conduct'' of the two men violated its code of ethics. [C8.]

MORE FOR RETIRED DELTA PILOTS -- Delta Air Lines has agreed to give its retired pilots an additional $719 million in unsecured claims in its bankruptcy case to help them recoup losses from the termination of the pilot pension plan. [C4.]

TRUCK CARRIER REBUFFS BID -- The Swift Transportation Company, the truckload carrier, rejected a $2.2 billion takeover offer from its founder and largest shareholder, but said that it planned to explore other alternatives. [C3.]

LAWSUIT OVER BIG DIG IN BOSTON -- Attorney General Thomas F. Reilly of Massachusetts said he would file a civil lawsuit against 12 companies that designed, constructed, managed and oversaw work on a Big Dig tunnel, saying their negligence caused its ceiling tiles to collapse in July, killing a Boston woman. Mr. Reilly, above, accused managers of identifying problems ''very early on,'' but of failing to fix them before turning over the tunnel to the state. [A19.]

ONLINE

GIVING -- A new generation of billionaire business people are trying to harness marketplace forces to do good works. A special report is at nytimes.com/giving.

DIGITAL HOLIDAYS -- Designers and engineers have come up with new devices, scores of which will reach store shelves in time for the holidays. A special report is at nytimes.com/technology/circuits.

HIGH-TECH SNEAKERS -- Nike and Adidas have introduced sneakers that communicate wirelessly with other technology to provide information about a run. A video report is at nytimes.com/technology/circuits.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Ford Motor shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); RETAILERS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); PATENTS (67%); ORGANIC FOODS (64%); AQUACULTURE (64%); FINFISH FARMING (64%); JOINT VENTURES (62%); EMPLOYMENT (61%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); AIRBUS SAS (91%); WAL-MART STORES INC (84%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); BHARTI ENTERPRISES LTD (65%); OAO GAZPROM (63%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); WMT (NYSE) (84%); FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); OGZD (LSE) (63%); GAZP (RTS) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (84%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (65%); SIC4822 TELEGRAPH & OTHER MESSAGE COMMUNICATIONS (65%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (65%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (65%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



623 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: Allure of Islam Signals a Shift Within Turkey

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Sebnem Arsu contributed reporting from Ankara, and Ian Fisher from Rome. Sabrina Pacifici contributed research.

DATELINE: ANKARA, Turkey, Nov. 27 

 BODY:
A short 24 hours before a visit by Pope Benedict XVI to this Muslim country, its prime minister finally agreed to meet him publicly. The venue: the airport, on the Turkish leader's way out of town. 
 The elaborate, last-minute choreography pointed to the deep divide that has festered within Turkish society since the foundation of the modern state. Should Turkey face eastward, toward its Muslim neighbors, or westward, toward Europe?
In the past five years, Muslims here have repeatedly felt betrayed by the West. The United States began holding Muslims without charge at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba; it invaded Iraq and abused prisoners at Abu Ghraib. Turkey's hopes of entering the European Union have dimmed. The pope made a speech citing criticism of Islam. 
 Turkey -- a democratic Muslim country with a rigidly secular state -- is at a pivot point. It is trying to navigate between the forces that want to pull it closer to Islam and the institutions that safeguard its secularism. Turkey's pro-Islamic government is constrained by rules dictating secularism established by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Turkey's revered founder. 
 The extremes jostle on Istanbul's streets, where miniskirts mix with tightly tied head scarves and lingerie boutiques stand unapologetically next to mosques.
 ''There are two Turkeys within Turkey right now,'' said Binnaz Toprak, a professor of political science at Bogazici University. 
 The pope's visit, which begins Tuesday, falls squarely on that fault line, and highlights a slow but steady shift: Turkey is feeling its Muslim identity more and more. The trend worries secular Turkish politicians, who believe the state's central tenet is under threat. In late October, a senior officer of Turkey's army -- which ousted a government it saw as overly Islamic in 1997 -- issued a rare warning to that effect. 
 Others say the threat is overstated, but acknowledge that Turks do feel pushed eastward by pressures on their country from America and Europe. A poll by the Pew Foundation in June found that 53 percent of Turks have positive views of Iran, while public opinion of Europe and the United States has slipped sharply.
 ''Many people in Turkey have lost hopes in joining Europe and they are looking for other horizons,'' said Onur Oymen, an opposition politician whose party is staunchly secular.
 It has been more than 80 years since religion was ripped out of the heart of the new Turkish state, which was assembled from the remains of the Ottoman Empire, the political and economic center of the Muslim world for centuries. But the portion of Turks who identify themselves by their religion has increased to 46 percent this year, from 36 percent seven years ago, according to a survey of 1,500 people in 23 cities conducted by the Turkish Economic and Social Studies Foundation, an independent research organization based in Istanbul. That is a trend that has emerged in countries throughout the Muslim world since Sept. 11, 2001.
 ''I'm here as a Muslim,'' said Fatma Eksioglu, who was sitting on the grass next to her sister in downtown Istanbul on Sunday at a demonstration of about 20,000 people opposing the pope's visit. She did not belong to the Islamic party that organized the gathering, she said, adding, ''When it comes to Islam, we are one.''
 But in a paradox that goes to the heart of modern Turkey, a stronger Muslim identity does not mean that, as in Iraq, fundamentalism is on the rise, or even that more Turks want more religion in their government. Indeed, the number of Turks in favor of imposing Shariah law declined to 9 percent from 21 percent, according to the survey, which was released last week. 
 Perhaps the most powerful factor pushing Turks toward the east has been a series of bitter setbacks in talks on admission to the European Union. To try to win membership, the Turkish government enacted a series of rigorous reforms to bring the country in line with European standards, including some unprecedented in the Muslim world, like a law against marital rape. 
 But the admission talks have stalled. And while the official reason involves the longstanding Greek-Turkish dispute over Cyprus, most Turks say they believe the real reason is a deep suspicion of their country's religion. 
 Indeed, in 2002, Valery Giscard d'Estaing, the former French president, said Turkey's admission to the union would mean ''the end of Europe.'' Nicholas Sarkozy, the French presidential hopeful, has made his opposition to Turkish membership a campaign issue. Even the pope, when he was still a cardinal in Germany, said publicly that he did not think Turkey fit into Europe because it was Muslim. That talk has begun to grate on Turks.
 ''It hurts me that the E.U. expects Turkey to be something it's not,'' said Nilgun Yun, a stylish 26-year-old eating a chocolate muffin in a downtown Istanbul cafe on Sunday. 
 Her position, shared by many of her friends, was simple: ''Accept me as I am. We are Muslim, and we will remain Muslim. That's not going to change.''
 Mr. Oyman, the Turkish opposition politician, said criticism of his country was tougher than ever. ''You cannot believe how they accuse Turkey on Cyprus and other issues,'' he said in a telephone interview from Brussels, where he was attending a meeting of European parliamentarians. ''Our European friends are playing a very shortsighted game.''
 The shift has begun to affect trade. While Europe is still Turkey's largest trading partner, business with other neighbors, including Syria, Iraq and Iran, has picked up substantially in recent years, said Omer Bolat, the head of one of the country's largest business associations, whose members are mostly pro-Islamic. He put the growth at about 30 percent from just 3 percent in 2000. 
 ''It is risky for a country with respect to foreign policy to have dependence on one partner and market,'' he said in English, sitting in a sleek conference room overlooking a bustling trade fair that showcased Turkish goods. ''Now Turkey is opening its muscles, its horizons.''
 The policies of the Bush administration have deeply worried Muslims, he said, before rushing off to speak to the Pakistani ambassador, who had arrived at the fair.
 ''The United States used to be paradigm of freedom and rights,'' he said. ''But since the Republican period, the U.S. policies have been so detrimental in Muslim eyes.''
 In just four years, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has managed to get inflation down to historical lows and growth rates to all-time highs. The growing prosperity has eased the integration of religious Turks into the country's secular society, which is still suspicious of advocates of Islam, as well as of Mr. Erdogan. 
 ''This group of people that was more religious has relaxed,'' said Ms. Toprak, the professor. ''They are now visible. They go to restaurants they would never have gone; they go to posh shopping malls.''
 ''It was a struggle to get a piece of the pie,'' she said. ''Now they have one.''
 Even so, the increased religiosity, or at least identification with religion, could eventually present a serious problem for Turkish society. There are already rumblings. A killing of a judge whose court had ruled that a nursery school teacher could not wear a head scarf, even away from school, alarmed Turkey's secularists. Gen. Yasar Buyukanit, head of the Turkish Army, has referred to a rising threat of fundamentalism on at least four occasions since he took up his position in late August. 
 Mr. Erdogan's closely watched government had attempted to limit liquor consumption in public places, but later backed down. It also tried to make adultery a crime, but relented. 
 Some Turkish officials play down the possibility of real damage to secularism, but say that European suspicion does Turkey no good. 
 The delay with Europe, for instance, ''fans up the disappointment, the disillusionment,'' said Namik Tan, the spokesman for Turkey's Foreign Ministry. ''People say, 'Why are they doing this?' ''
 That is why public officials, including Mr. Erdogan, have shrunk from the visit by the pope, who symbolizes, in the eyes of Turks, a disdain for Islam and the unfair exclusivity of the Western club. A cartoon in a Turkish newspaper last weekend showed two public officials belly laughing at the bad luck of those Turkish officials obliged to meet him. (The senior official appointed to be his formal guide has the portfolio of youth and sport.) 
 But the pope is coming, and the meetings are happening. Despite growing pains, a neglected Kurdish minority in the south, a thin skin for any reference to the Armenian genocide, and failure to scrap a law that makes insulting Turkishness a crime, Turkey stands out as lively democracy in a larger Middle East riddled with restrictions, and its acceptance by the West is a test case for others, officials said.
 Muslim countries, Mr. Tan points out, are watching.
 ''Turkey is a beacon for those countries,'' he said. ''Don't forget, if we fail, then the whole dream will fail.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Istanbul yesterday, women opposing the pope's visit protested at the Hagia Sophia, a Byzantine church converted to a mosque and then a museum. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 A pedestrian street in Istanbul, where women in miniskirts and head scarves mingle. Turkey's traditional secularism is under pressure. (Photo by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (86%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CHURCH & STATE (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); TRENDS (69%); LINGERIE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (51%) Islam; Church-State Relations; United States International Relations; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%) European Union; Roman Catholic Church; Pew Foundation

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (92%) Sabrina Tavernise; Benedict Xvi (Pope); Kemal (1881-1938) Ataturk

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (94%); ANKARA, TURKEY (79%) TURKEY (99%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); CUBA (72%) Turkey; Europe; Turkey; Iran

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



624 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: '04 Income In U.S. Was Below 2000 Level 

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
Despite significant gains in 2004, the total income Americans reported to the tax collector that year, adjusted for inflation, was still below its peak in 2000, new government data shows. 
 Reported income totaled $7.044 trillion in 2004, the latest year for which data is available, down from more than $7.143 trillion in 2000, new Internal Revenue Service data shows.
Total reported income, in 2004 dollars, fell 1.4 percent, but because the population grew during that period average real incomes declined more than twice as much, falling $1,641, or 3 percent, to $53,974. 
 Since 2004, the Census Department has found, the income of the typical American household has grown along with the rise in average incomes but at a slow pace that, until recent months, had barely kept ahead of inflation.
 The tax data, while not as up to date, helps spell out whose incomes were most affected in the recent downturn and why. 
 The overall income declines of that extended era came despite a series of tax cuts that President Bush and Congressional Republicans promoted as the best way to stimulate both short- and long-term growth after the Internet bubble burst on Wall Street in 2000 and the economy fell into a brief recession in 2001. 
 The tax cuts contributed to a big decline in individual income tax receipts, which fell at a rate 14 times that of the drop in incomes.
 In 2004 individual income tax receipts were 21.6 percent smaller than in 2000 -- and indeed smaller than they were in 1997, the new I.R.S. report shows. The government collected $831.8 billion in individual income taxes in 2004, down from $980.4 billion in 2000 and $848.6 billion in 1997.
 Those figures have risen since then, but rather than pay for themselves through economic growth, the Bush tax cuts, at least through 2004, were financed with borrowed money. 
 A White House spokesman, Tony Fratto, said the decline in income through 2004 was a predictable result of ''what we all know now was a bubble economy with inflated asset values, which is why $7 trillion of equity in the stock markets evaporated.''
 Mr. Fratto said that the benefits of lowered tax rates were shown by more recent gains in incomes and tax receipts and the creation of more than 6.5 million jobs since 2003, the year that he contended should be used as the benchmark to assess the value of the Bush tax cuts on incomes, jobs and increased wealth.
 Incomes in 2004 did rise above those in 2003, with an overall average gain of 6.8 percent. The average year-over-year increases from 2003 to 2004 ranged from 1.8 percent for the poorest fifth of Americans to a 27.5 percent increase for the top tenth of 1 percent. 
 But those gains were not enough to make up for the drop in 2001, the further drop in 2002 and the almost unchanged overall income total in 2003, when only the top 1 percent made any significant gains, primarily by selling assets at a profit to take advantage of lowered tax rates on capital gains that took effect that year.
 Analysis of the I.R.S. data by The New York Times found that average reported incomes fell or were virtually flat at the end of the period at every level of income except for the poorest 26 million taxpayers, the bottom fifth. Those impoverished taxpayers made less than $11,166 each in 2004 and had an average income of $5,743, up $135 or 2.4 percent, from the year 2000.
 A taxpayer can be a single individual or a married couple. The poorest taxpayers consist of nearly 48 million adults and about 12 million dependent children. This means that the poorest 60 million Americans reported average incomes of less than $7 a day each.
 The official poverty line in 2004 was $27 a day for a single adult below retirement age and $42 a day for a household with one child. The I.R.S. data does not include the value of government benefits like food stamps, the earned-income tax credit for working families and subsidized medical care. 
 It also excludes unreported income, which the Treasury Department and the I.R.S. have said is a major and growing problem among the highest-income Americans, especially those who own businesses, invest in stocks and have overseas financial interests.
 Incomes after 2000 fell the most among those at the top of the income ladder.
 The top one-tenth of 1 percent, about 130,500 taxpayers, reported their average income fell almost 17 percent, to just under $4.9 million each in 2004. Because of the tax cuts after-tax incomes fell by a significantly smaller amount, 12.1 percent.
 Still, those very top households, which include about 300,000 Americans, reported significantly more pretax income combined than the poorest 120 million Americans earned in 2004, the data show. This was a sharp change from 1979, the oldest year examined by the I.R.S., when the thin slice at the top received about one-third of the total income of the big group at the bottom.
 Over all, average incomes rose 27 percent in real terms over the quarter-century from 1979 through 2004. But the gains were narrowly concentrated at the top and offset by losses for the bottom 60 percent of Americans, those making less than $38,761 in 2004.
 The bottom 60 percent of Americans, on average, made less than 95 cents in 2004 for each dollar they reported in 1979, analysis of the I.R.S. data shows.
 The next best-off group, the fifth of Americans on the 60th to 80th rungs of the income ladder, averaged 2 cents more income in 2004 for each dollar they earned in 1979.
 Only those in the top 5 percent had significant gains. The average income of those on the 95th to 99th rungs of the income ladder rose by 53 percent, almost twice the average rate.
 A third of the entire national increase in reported income went to the top 1 percent -- and more than half of that went to the top tenth of 1 percent, whose average incomes soared so much that for each dollar, adjusted for inflation, that they had in 1979 they had $3.48 in 2004.
 Because of cuts in the tax rate, the top tenth of 1 percent did even better than their rising incomes alone would suggest. For each inflation-adjusted dollar they had after tax in 1979 they had $3.94 left after taxes in 2004.
 For the bottom 60 percent, their income taxes were so small in 1979 that the cuts did little to change their after-tax incomes. While their pretax average incomes fell by a nickel on the dollar from 1979 to 2004, their after-tax incomes fell by a fraction of a penny less.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Still Catching Up''Breaking from a previous trend, the average real income reported by taxpayers fell in the early 2000s, and was still down four years after the peak.Graph shows the AVERAGE OF INCOMES REPORTED ON ALL TAX RETURNS since 1995. (In 2004 dollars.)'04: $53,974(Source by Internal Revenue Service)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX AUTHORITIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%) United States Economy; Income; Stocks and Bonds; Taxation; United States Economy; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%) Internal Revenue Service

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%) Tony Fratto; David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



625 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Warns Georgia on Continuing Deals with Iran

BYLINE: COMPILED BY MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

 BODY:
A summary of the top stories in Russian newspapers on Tuesday. 
 TOP STORIES
VREMYA NOVOSTEI
 UNITED STATES WARY OVER GEORGIA, IRAN RELATIONS: The American ambassador to Georgia, John F. Tefft, appearing on Georgian television on Monday, said the United States understands Georgia's need to buy gas from Iran during the difficult winter months, but said long-term strategic cooperation between the two countries would be unacceptable. The Georgian government announced last week that it planned to sign an agreement with Iran on gas purchases some time in December. Georgia earlier broke off negotiations with Gazprom, its main supplier of gas, accusing the Russian company of unfairly increasing prices.
 GAZETA 
 JEWS TRIUMPH OVER NATIONAL BOLSHEVIKS: A Moscow court on Monday found that the Federation of Russian Jewish Communities had not offended the honor and value of the National Bolshevik Party when it sent a letter to the European Court of Human Rights in August, characterizing the organization's members as anti-Semites and neo-Nazis. In July, lawyers for 39 National Bolsheviks, convicted for occupying a presidential administration building in 2004, appealed to the European Court, claiming Russian authorities had violated their clients' rights. A spokesman for the National Bolsheviks accused the court of succumbing to Kremlin pressure. 
 KOMMERSANT
 REFORMS AND GEORGIA, RUSSIA RELATIONS TO TOP SUMMIT AGENDA: A summit marking the 15-year anniversary of the creation of the Commonwealth of Independent States opened today in Minsk. The newspaper expected delegates to focus above all on increasing the abilities of an organization that some have described as ineffective. At the time of publication, it was still unclear whether a meeting between Georgia's president, Mikhail Saakashvili, and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia would take place. Neither Russian nor Georgian diplomats ruled out the possibility. 
 MULTI-CONFESSIONAL EDUCATION PROPOSED: Classes on the Fundamentals of Orthodox Culture should be removed from schools' curriculums and replaced with a course on world religions, the Public Chamber told the Russian education ministry on Monday. With support from the Orthodox Church and local governments, some schools began teaching the course on Orthodox culture in September this year. The Ministry of Education, which never supported the course, appealed to the Public Chamber after leaders from the Muslim and Jewish communities filed complaints. 
 NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA
 DOLLAR VALUE PLUMMETS: Though the dollar fell to record lows against the ruble on Monday -- 26.366 rubles to $1, the lowest rate in 7 years -- the Russian economy remained stable and might be capable of weathering further dollar devaluation, some experts said. The decline could harm domestic manufacturers, however, by encouraging an influx of imports from dollar zones. Russia's energy sector will most likely not suffer adverse effects because of a recent rise in oil prices. 
 ROSSIISKAYA GAZETA
 BRITISH TO BLAME RUSSIA REGARDLESS OF INVESTIGATION: The state-run newspaper wrote that the British government's concern over the fate of Alexander Litvinenko, the former Russian intelligence officer who died, apparently of radiation poisoning, last Thursday, was astonishing. British investigators have focused primarily on determining the involvement of Russian intelligence agents, the newspaper said. Judging by the actions of investigators, however, even if they cannot establish such a link, they will still consider Mr. Litvinenko's poisoning an act of state terrorism -- with all the consequences for the image of the state in question. 
 NOVYE IZVESTIA
 RUSSIAN WEB SITES ALMOST USELESS: Russian companies have the worst Web sites in Europe, according to a survey released by the Swedish consulting company, Hallvarsson and Halvarsson. On average, Russian Web sites scored 35 out of 100. According to the report, these sites had very little useful information for investors, analysts or other visitors. 
 IZVESTIA
 WEST COMPLICIT IN WWII BALTIC OCCUPATION: The United States and Great Britain supported the Soviet Union's occupation of the Baltic states during World War II to prevent Nazi Germany from gaining control over the whole of Europe, according to recently declassified Soviet intelligence documents. The Western powers continued to back the ''unpleasant but, without a doubt, necessary and timely step,'' after the war, as both a way to gain diplomatic clout with the Soviet Union and to ensure the security in postwar Europe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (85%); CURRENCIES (84%); US DOLLAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); RELIGION (74%); CURRICULA (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); LAWYERS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); DEVALUATION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (71%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (56%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (54%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (71%); GAZP (RTS) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (71%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (71%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (71%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (71%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (78%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); GEORGIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (92%); BELARUS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



626 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Panel Says Australian Company Paid Bribes

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Nov. 27 

 BODY:
A high-level commission investigating corruption in the United Nations oil-for-food program released a long-awaited report on Monday stating unequivocally that a major Australian wheat company paid more than $224 million in kickbacks and bribes to Saddam Hussein's government.
 The commission also found that the company, AWB Ltd., had ''deliberately and dishonestly'' devised a scheme for the payments -- from 1999 until the overthrow of Mr. Hussein in 2003 -- to deceive the United Nations. When the United Nations conducted its investigation in 2005, headed by Paul A. Volcker, AWB withheld thousands of pages of documents and its lawyers made statements to Mr. Volcker that were patently false, the commission found.
The Australian commission's report was the most thorough -- and damning -- investigation of corruption in the United Nation's oil-for-food program. It is certain to have repercussions for politicians in Canberra as well as in Washington, where incoming Democratic Congressional representatives have pledged to hold their own hearings. 
 The program was intended to alleviate the hardships of the Iraqi people while isolating Saddam Hussein's government. Its aim was to allow Iraq to trade some oil for food and other necessities under close United Nations supervision while the country remained under international sanctions. 
 Instead, the report found that both AWB and the Iraqi government used the program for profit.
 In Canberra, the government of Prime Minister John Howard claimed vindication because the commission declared that it found no evidence that any government officials had actual knowledge of AWB's kickback scheme. 
 But the commission's chairman, Terence Cole, a retired state supreme court justice, left open the question of whether Australian officials could, or should, have known about the scheme -- all AWB contracts were submitted to the government for approval -- if they had conducted their own investigation. His mandate from the government for the inquiry did not include that question, he said.
 The opposition leader, Kim Beazley, said that even if the government was not criminally culpable, it was at least negligent and incompetent for not knowing about the kickbacks.
 The scheme AWB and the Iraqi government set up for making the kickbacks involved using a Jordanian trucking company, Alia, which was a front for the Iraqi government, the report concluded. 
 At first AWB paid Alia $12 for each ton of wheat it sold to the Iraqi government, money that went into the pockets of Iraqi officials. Later, the amount was increased by the Iraqi government to $55 a ton, which included a so-called service fee. The money was ostensibly for moving the wheat inland from the Iraqi port. But Alia had no trucks in Iraq. 
 AWB then passed on the cost of the bribes to the United Nations by recovering the inflated payments from the oil-for-food program's escrow account.
 The commission's report -- 2,065 pages in five volumes, costing more than $7 million and taking nearly a year to compile -- was based on the testimony it took from some 70 AWB and Australian government officials during 75 days of public hearings. It also examined more than 1,500 internal company and government documents. (The report can be found at www.oilforfoodinquiry.gov.au).
 When investigated by the Volcker commission, which found that AWB was the largest payer of kickbacks to Iraq under the oil-for-food program, lawyers said that the company had been deceived by Iraq and Alia, and that it did not know Alia was a front for the Iraqi government and had never paid a service fee. 
 AWB lawyers repeatedly denied that the company had any knowledge that the payments it was making to Alia were in fact going to the Iraqi government.
 ''Neither statement was true,'' Mr. Cole concluded, rejecting the claims almost in totality. 
 ''The facts are not now in doubt,'' he said. 
 Mr. Cole was blistering in his criticism of AWB, which has had a monopoly on wheat exports. The illegal payment scheme grew out of a ''lack of culture of ethical dealing'' at AWB, he said. He was also noticeably critical of AWB's lawyers for advising the company on how to hide the payments, and for lying to the Volcker commission.
 The commission recommended that criminal prosecutions be considered against 11 AWB officials, including the general counsel, and against a former officer of BHP Billiton, one of the world's largest mining companies, who, Mr. Cole said, may have ''conspired with or aided and abetted AWB'' in transferring $8 million to the Iraqi government as a part of debt said to be owed to BHP.
 BHP issued a statement on Monday, saying that it had received the Cole Commission report, and would have no further comment until it had reviewed it and completed its own internal investigation.
 The current chairman of AWB, Brendan Stewart, who replaced one of the men who now faces criminal charges, said the company ''deeply regrets'' the manner in which the trade with Iraq was conducted. He said the company would issue a fuller statement in the next few days.
 In Washington, Sen. Tom Harkin, the Iowa Democrat who is slated to become chairman of the Senate Agricultural Committee in January, has indicated that he will hold hearings on AWB's wheat contracts in Iraq. 
 ''The exact form and details of the inquiry have yet to be decided, although the report issued by the Cole Commission should be quite helpful to our efforts,'' Mr. Harkin said in a statement Monday.
 During the commission's hearing here, documents were introduced showing that in 2003, when the allegations of AWB's bribes began to seep out, the Australian ambassador, Michael Thawley, lobbied senior administration officials in Washington on AWB's behalf. It is not clear what, if anything, they did. 
 The ambassador also lobbied Sen. Norm Coleman, a Minnesota Republican and chairman of the investigations subcommittee, who had been a loud critic of corruption in the oil-for-food program, but called off an investigation after being assured by Mr. Thawley that AWB had done nothing illegal. Mr. Coleman later said he had been misled by the ambassador. He said Monday that he would ''review the Cole report with a fine-tooth comb to determine whether U.S. interests were hurt by AWB's gross misconduct.'' A major concern, he said, ''is whether Australian officials were less than honest in their dealings with the subcommittee.''
 Mr. Thawley has said that the representations he made to Mr. Coleman were based on assurances from AWB that it had not made any illegal payments.
 The U.S. Wheat Associates, an organization that promotes American wheat exports, could also claim vindication. In June 2003, it wrote a letter to Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, suggesting that AWB was inflating its wheat contracts and that some of the excess had gone to the Iraqi government. 
 The Australian government called the allegations ''slanderous and outrageous'' at the time and said they were part of an ''insidious campaign'' by AWB's chief competitor in the Iraqi wheat market.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Terence Cole, chairman of an Australian inquiry on pre-Iraq war wheat sales, with its report. (Pool photo by Paul Miller)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); ETHICS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); NEGLIGENCE (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); TRUCKING (60%) Oil-for-Food Program (Un); Ethics; Bribery; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

COMPANY: AWB LTD (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) Awb Ltd; United Nations

INDUSTRY: NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (91%); NAICS111140 WHEAT FARMING (91%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (91%); SIC0111 WHEAT (91%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); JOHN HOWARD (57%) Saddam Hussein; Raymond Bonner

GEOGRAPHIC: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (88%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (58%) AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (92%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (96%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) Iraq; Australia

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



627 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15

U.S. Official Says Hezbollah Trained Some Iraqi Militias
A senior American intelligence official said that between 1,000 and 2,000 fighters from the Mahdi Army and other Shiite militia groups from Iraq had been trained by Hezbollah in Lebanon. A small number of Hezbollah operatives have also visited Iraq to help with training there, the official said. A1

Australia Kickbacks for Hussein 

A high-level commission investigating corruption in the United Nations oil-for-food program released a report stating unequivocally that a major Australian wheat company paid more than $224 million in kickbacks and bribes to Saddam Hussein's government. A14

3 Sent for Poison Test in Britain
Three people in London complaining of symptoms consistent with the radiation poisoning that killed a former Russian spy, Alexander Litvinenko, have been sent to a special clinic here for further tests, the authorities said, cautioning that the danger was minimal. A8

Obstruction Cited in China Trial
A Chinese legal expert who exposed abuses in the country's population control policies began a rare second trial, but his lawyers accused local authorities of preventing them from mounting a vigorous defense. A8

Bush and Aides Travel to Jordan
As President Bush and his top diplomats try to halt the downward spiral in Iraq and Lebanon, they seem intent on their strategy of talking only to Arab friends, despite increasing calls inside and outside the administration for them to reach out to Iran and Syria as well. A15

Israeli's Offer to Palestinians
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, trying to build on a shaky cease-fire in the Gaza Strip, offered Palestinians incentives, including negotiations and a prisoner release, if they turned away from violence. A6

NATIONAL A16-20

Review of Spy Program Is Begun by Justice Dept.
After months of pressure from Congressional Democrats, the Justice Department's inspector general said his office had opened a full review into the department's role in President Bush's domestic eavesdropping program and the legal requirements of the program. A19

Fire at Group Home Kills 10
A fire raced through a group home for the mentally ill and disabled in southwestern Missouri, killing nine residents and one staff member in a blaze that Gov. Matt Blunt called suspicious. A16

Atlanta Policemen Put on Leave
Police Chief Richard J. Pennington of Atlanta placed all eight members of a narcotics investigation team on leave after a confidential informant said they had asked him to lie during the investigation into the death of an 88-year-old woman who was killed by officers during a drug raid. A16

Court Rules Against The Times
The United States Supreme Court refused to stop a federal prosecutor from reviewing the telephone records of two reporters for The New York Times. The records, the newspaper said, include information about many of the reporters' confidential sources. A20

Christian Coalition Leader Quits
The president-elect of the Christian Coalition of America, the Rev. Joel C. Hunter has stepped down saying the group resisted his efforts to broaden its agenda to include reducing poverty and fighting global warming. A18

G.O.P. Wins Ohio House Race
Representative Deborah Pryce, a Republican leader in the House, was named the winner in her Congressional race after the last provisional ballots were counted. But the 1,054-vote margin of victory -- less than one-half of 1 percent -- will set off an automatic recount. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

'Excessive Force' Used In Shooting, Mayor Says
Mayor Bloomberg convened an extraordinary meeting of black religious leaders and elected officials at City Hall to calm frayed tempers over the fatal police shooting of an unarmed black man in Queens, a killing he called ''inexplicable'' and ''unacceptable.'' ''It sounds to me like excessive force was used,'' the mayor said. A1

Plans to Close N.Y. Hospitals
A New York State commission plans to close at least nine hospitals, including five in New York City , in an effort to cut the state's health care costs. The plan is one of the biggest efforts ever to overhaul the state's troubled health care system. A1

Assembly Lists Pet Projects
The New York Assembly made public its full list of pet legislative projects, giving taxpayers the clearest view yet of how lawmakers have spent $85 million a year on thousands of local initiatives that critics have derided as pork-barrel spending. But a lawyer for a newspaper that sued to get the documents said they were unusable. B1

ARTS E1-10

Whitney's Plans Shift South
A month after the Dia Art Foundation scrapped its plans to open a museum at the entrance to the High Line, the abandoned elevated railway line that the city is transforming into a public park, the Whitney Museum of American Art has signed on to take its place and build a satellite institution of its own downtown. E1

OBITUARIES A21

Bebe Moore Campbell
A best-selling novelist known for her empathetic treatment of the difficult, intertwined and occasionally surprising relationship between the races, she was 56. A21

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Stocks Fall on Retail Data
Stocks tumbled in their steepest slide since July, after a weak sales estimate by Wal-Mart spurred concerns about the holiday shopping season and fed broader worries about a slowing economy. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Global warming goes to court; slouching toward Riga; 50 bullets and a death in Queens; holiday defenses breached.
 Columns: Thomas B. Edsall, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E2
Weather D7
TV Listings E9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); POISONINGS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); LAWYERS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (65%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (64%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (93%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); MATT BLUNT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) MISSOURI, USA (79%) IRAQ (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (93%); ISRAEL (92%); CHINA (79%); SYRIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006



628 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 932 words

 BODY:

DIGITAL MOVIES AT WALMART.COM -- Wal-Mart, the country's largest seller of movies on DVD, said it would begin testing a video download service next year over its Web site, walmart.com. [Page C1.] 


PFIZER TO CUT SALES FORCE -- Pfizer said that it would lay off almost 2,400 sales representatives and managers, which is a fifth of its American sales force but only 2 percent of its worldwide work force. The move may indicate the beginning of a wider retrenchment by Pfizer and the rest of the drug industry. [C1.]

TOYOTA'S CHIEF STEPS OUT -- Katsuaki Watanabe, named last year to lead Toyota in what many assumed would be a caretaker role until the great-grandson of the company's founder was to take charge, has been raising his profile, stepping out as the leader of a company that may soon displace General Motors as the world's biggest automaker. [C1.]

CHARGES OF BRIBERY IN CHINA DEAL -- A federal lawsuit contends that Fidelity Information Services, an American software company, bribed two Chinese banking officials and family members with vacations to Hong Kong, Paris, Rome, Las Vegas and the golfing resort of Pebble Beach, Calif. The company says the trips were a legitimate cost of doing business in China. [C1.]

REGULATORY GROUPS TO MERGE -- The New York Stock Exchange and NASD announced plans to merge their regulatory organizations and eliminate duplicative and inconsistent rules, granting Wall Street firms a longstanding wish. [C1.]

A MERGER'S UNUSUAL PROVISION -- A proposed merger of the regulatory operations of NASD and those of the New York Stock Exchange includes an unusual provision that would pay every one of the 5,100 NASD members $35,000 if the merger is approved. The merger cannot be completed unless a majority of those firms vote for it. Market Place. [C6.]

BLACKS HELD BACK AT LAW FIRMS -- Thanks to vigorous recruiting and pressure from corporate clients, black lawyers are well represented now among new associates at the nation's most prestigious law firms. But they remain far less likely to stay at the firms or to make partner than their white counterparts, according to a study. [A1.]

GLOBAL WARMING ON TRIAL -- The Supreme Court will hear oral arguments on the questions of whether the federal government, particularly the Environmental Protection Agency, is authorized and obligated to take action to alleviate global warming. [A22.]

DISCRIMINATION AND THE DOLLAR -- A federal judge ruled that the government illegally discriminated against blind people by printing all of its paper currency on bills of the same size that cannot be distinguished by touch. [A22.]

FED WARNING ON INFLATION -- Signaling that the Fed is not inclined to lower interest rates any time soon, its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said that while economic growth should rebound next year, inflation remained ''uncomfortably high.'' [C3.]

EUROPEAN POWER DEAL -- The Spanish power company Iberdrola announced that it had agreed to buy ScottishPower for $22.5 billion, a move that would create one of Europe's largest utilities. [C3.]

AN 'OBVIOUS' PATENT CASE -- To be eligible for a patent, an invention must not be ''obvious'' to a person of ''ordinary skill'' in the field, according to statute. While the meaning of the term ''obvious'' might appear to be obvious, a lively and surprisingly entertaining Supreme Court argument demonstrated that it is not. [C3.]

RUSSIAN ENERGY PACT -- The chief executives of Rosneft and Gazprom signed a cooperation agreement, mending a rift between the two Russian state energy companies that had been slowing investment in the development of new fields. [C5.]

PARSONS AND POLITICS -- Richard D. Parsons, the chief executive of Time Warner, is often mentioned as a possible candidate to succeed Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. The thought came up again yesterday during a question-and-answer session at a media conference. [B2.]

MARKETS STAND FIRM -- Stocks advanced modestly after Wall Street shrugged off a sharp drop in orders for manufactured goods and took comfort in the first gain in existing-home sales in eight months. [C11.]

ONLINE

TALK TO THE NEWSROOM -- Steven Reddicliffe, the television editor of The Times. is answering questions from readers at nytimes.com.

VIETNAM'S ECONOMIC BOOM -- In a video report, Keith Bradsher, a reporter for The Times, looks at Vietnam, Asia's second-fastest growing economy. His report is at nytimes.com/business.

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

ServiceMaster, the lawn care and pest control company, said yesterday that it was considering putting itself up for sale, sending shares up more than 10 percent. The company, which has a market value of about $3.5 billion, said it was exploring strategic alternatives and had hired Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs as financial advisers and Sidley Austin as legal adviser. The company has faced higher costs while struggling to retain customers. (REUTERS)

Nokia, the world's top cellphone maker, cut its profit margin forecast but remained more upbeat than analysts as it introduced thinner models that will face stiff competition and slower market growth. Nokia cut its target for its group operating profit margin for the next one to two years to 15 percent from an earlier 17 percent. (REUTERS)

ITV, the struggling British broadcaster, raided the top ranks of the BBC on Tuesday and lured away its chairman. Michael Grade, 63, who joined the British Broadcasting Corporation in 2004 on a four-year contract, is defecting to ITV, the country's largest commercial broadcaster. A week ago, ITV spurned a takeover offer from NTL. (IHT)

GRAPHIC: Graph shows Pfizer shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); SALES FORCE (89%); MERGERS (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LITIGATION (87%); LAWYERS (87%); DISCRIMINATION (87%); LEGAL SERVICES (86%); SALES MANAGEMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); BRIBERY (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); CURRENCIES (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); JUDGES (67%); BANKING IN CHINA (66%); APPROVALS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); GOLF (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (93%); PFIZER INC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (93%); PFZ (LSE) (84%); PFEB (BRU) (84%); PFE (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (93%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



629 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: After Monday's Fall, Markets Stand Firm

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks advanced modestly yesterday after Wall Street shrugged off a sharp drop in orders for manufactured goods and took comfort in the first gain in existing-home sales in eight months.
 Investors had little reaction to comments from the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, that he remained concerned that inflation or a steeper-than-expected decline in the housing market could harm an already slowing economy.
The Commerce Department's report that orders for durable goods fell 8.3 percent in October -- the largest drop in more than six years -- stoked early concerns that the economy was slowing at too fast a pace. But a report from the National Association of Realtors showing a slight uptick in home sales last month lent support to the market, even though it also revealed the steepest drop on record in the median selling price. 
 The market's muted response followed its worst session in more than four months on Monday. John Zielinski, a portfolio manager at Neuberger Berman, said the market's plunge was overblown and that investors could be seeing lower-than-usual liquidity given that Thursday is the end of the fiscal year for many brokerage firms.
 ''The moves seem to be a little bit exaggerated based on the data points we're seeing,'' he said.
 The Dow Jones industrial average was up 14.74, or 0.12 percent, at 12,136.45, after falling 158 points Monday.
 Broader stock indicators also rose. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 4.82, or 0.35 percent, at 1,386.72, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 6.69, or 0.28 percent, to 2,412.61.
 Light crude rose 67 cents, to $60.99 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 The markets essentially held their ground yesterday, and that left some investors hoping that Monday's pullback was a healthy consolidation after a sharp run-up in stocks in recent months and not a sign that the economy was fraying. Though unnerving to some investors, Monday's drop still leaves the Dow up about 13 percent for the year, the S.& P. up 9 percent and the Nasdaq up 10.7 percent.
 ''The markets over the last few months have gone pretty far,'' Mr. Zielinski said. ''Sometimes the news doesn't have to be terrible to get people a little skittish.''
 Shares of Bank of America rose 35 cents, to $54.27, lifting the company's market capitalization to $243.7 billion, passing Citigroup for the first time to become the biggest United States bank by market value. Citigroup's shares fell 33 cents to $49.56, for a market value of $243.5 billion.
 ServiceMaster, a provider of lawn care and pest control services, rose $1.25, or 10.5 percent, to $13.15 after it announced it was considering selling itself. 
 Quicksilver Resources gained $2.07, or 5.3 percent, to $41.47 after a Goldman Sachs analyst raised his rating on the independent natural gas and oil producer to buy from neutral.
 The Manitowoc Company, which makes construction equipment, fell $1.77, or 3.1 percent, to $55.80 after its profit forecast disappointed Wall Street.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 2.72, or 0.35 percent, to 774.82. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by about 2 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.58 billion shares, compared with 1.59 billion traded Monday.
 Bonds rose, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note falling to 4.50 percent, from 4.53 percent late Monday. The yield on the 10-year note, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, had fallen to a nine-month low early in the day after the durable goods report. The dollar fell against other major currencies, and gold prices also fell.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of two-year and four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.597
High Rate: 5.170
Coupon Yield: 5.263
Low Rate: 5.140
Median Rate: 5.160
Total applied for: $65,572,067
Accepted: $29,569,089
Noncompetitive: $394,177

The four-week bills mature December 28, 2006.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
High Price: 99.873
High Yield: 4.692
Low Yield: 4.640
Median Yield: 4.670
Accepted at low price: 68%
Total applied for: $64,800,229
Accepted: $24,338,233
Noncompetitive: $893,433
Interest set at: 4 5/8

The 2-year notes mature November 30, 2008.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (68%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (51%); SERVICEMASTER CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (51%); BAC (LSE) (51%); 8648 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS561730 LANDSCAPING SERVICES (50%); NAICS561720 JANITORIAL SERVICES (50%); NAICS561710 EXTERMINATING & PEST CONTROL SERVICES (50%); SIC7349 BUILDING CLEANING & MAINTENANCE SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7342 DISINFECTING & PEST CONTROL SERVICES (50%); SIC0782 LAWN & GARDEN SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



630 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Let's Vote on Securities Rules. Oh, and Here's $35,000.

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Is this a case of vote buying?
 The proposed merger of the regulatory operations of NASD and those of the New York Stock Exchange, announced yesterday, includes an unusual provision:
If the merger is completed, each and every one of the 5,100 NASD members, whether Merrill Lynch or a one-person bond-sales firm in Montana, will receive a $35,000 payment. And it cannot be completed unless a majority of those firms vote for it.
 ''It's not vote buying,'' said Mary L. Schapiro, the chief executive of NASD, in a telephone interview yesterday. ''There are real economic benefits across the board for the industry, and it is appropriate that the industry share in the benefits.'' 
 The announcement said the $35,000 payments would be made ''in recognition of anticipated cost savings that will result from the implementation of the plan.'' 
 But the actual cash -- $178 million -- being distributed will not come out of regulatory savings, or from regulatory fees, Ms. Schapiro said. Instead it comes from the large amount of cash NASD has on hand after selling the shares it had owned in the Nasdaq stock market.
 The planned merger, announced by the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Christopher Cox, would mean that the 200 brokerage firms that are members of the Big Board and do business with the public would no longer face inspections by both the exchange and NASD, whose members include all brokerage firms. ''It will improve the quality of regulation for investors and the industry, while also creating a more efficient regulatory system,'' said Marc Lackritz, the co-chief executive of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, an association of mostly-larger banks and brokerage firms.
 But for most financial firms in the United States, the attraction is less obvious. Of the 5,100 members of NASD, only about 200 are also members of the Big Board and therefore subject to regulation by both bodies and to having to comply with differing rules.
 For the smaller firms, there is the possibility that the combined rules of NASD and the Big Board might end up forcing them to provide more information than they do now, or to bear new costs in complying with combined rules that could differ from current NASD rules. But their vote, expected in January, could block the deal. Each firm, large or small, will have one vote.
 Ms. Schapiro said all firms, small and large, would benefit from more efficient spending on technology as duplicative systems will not be needed by NASD and the stock exchange. Those savings, as they materialize, will be reflected in lower regulatory fees.
 But many votes will be cast by firms for whom $35,000 may be real money. Stephen I. Luparello, NASD's senior executive vice president for regulatory operations, said that 2,400 of the 5,100 members pay the minimum annual fee of $1,200, which is assessed on the basis of revenues.
 He said the 200 largest members pay about 80 percent of NASD's annual revenues.
 Mr. Luparello said that if NASD were going to make such a distribution, it would have to be on the basis of membership, rather than size, because of NASD's not-for-profit status. 
 ''It is a sharing of economic benefits with all 5,100 of our members, even though the most tangible benefits will be reaped by the largest members,'' he said in an interview.
 For smaller members, the only way to get the cash the NASD already has may be to vote for the merger, whether or not they think it is a good idea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); MERGERS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); BONDS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%) Stocks and Bonds; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%) Nasd; New York Stock Exchange

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (79%); CHRISTOPHER COX (58%) Floyd Norris; Mary Shapiro

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



631 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: HOME AWAY: Condo Hotels

BYLINE: By AMY GUNDERSON

 BODY:
Imagine a vacation home complete with 500-thread-count linens on plush mattresses, daily maid service, and a 30-treatment spa. Hotels have rolled out condos at an increasing clip over the last several years, tempting buyers with amenities, hassle-free ownership and the potential for regular rental income, all rolled into one sleek package with a concierge desk. 
 Like the rest of the housing market, however, condo hotels are not immune to the slowdown, and several projects, after splashy sales releases, have quietly curtailed building plans because of sluggish sales and rising construction costs. 
The Hard Rock Hotel's plans for 1,200 condos in Las Vegas ended in February, with developers returning buyers' 10 percent deposits, while Las Ramblas, a condo hotel development that counted George Clooney as a backer, scrapped its blueprints for more than 4,000 condos and hotel rooms off the Vegas Strip. A handful of condo hotels in the works in Orlando and Clearwater, Fla., have also lost momentum before ground was ever broken. 
 But even with setbacks like these, hotels continue to build condos on a more modest scale, and convert existing rooms for ownership. 
 ''Offsetting those cancellations is the expansion of the concept into a lot of small marketplaces which aren't necessarily large resort areas,'' said Patrick Ford, president of Lodging Econometrics, a Portsmouth, N.H., hotel industry research firm. ''It is spreading away from the major markets and into the secondary and tertiary resorts.''
 Of the 168 condo hotel projects in the works, according to Lodging Econometrics, 81 are under construction and 46 are scheduled to start construction over the next 12 months. And the number of projects actually opening for business is on the increase: In the first three-quarters of 2006, a total of 14 condo hotels opened their doors, while in the fourth quarter of this year alone, 15 will open. 
 Although many new projects are in places like Orlando, Las Vegas, Miami Beach and Fort Lauderdale, an increasing number are popping up in less likely places. There are of course the condo hotels like Nicky Hilton's Nicky O South Beach on Miami's Ocean Drive, opening next year, and the Westin St. Maarten Dawn Beach Resort & Spa, opening in December and selling its 99 condos for $895,000 to $2 million. But expect to see more developments in golfing destinations like Arizona and other mountain enclaves. Condo hotels are even popping up near universities and in obscure gaming towns, like West Wendover, Nev.
 Regardless of a condo's location, potential buyers need to look closely at the development, beyond those grand spas, swim-up bars and concierge services. 
 Look at Comparable Condos
 The longer the list of amenities at a hotel, the higher the asking price for units. Jones Lange LaSalle Hotels, a firm that brokers hotel sales, estimates that condo hotel units in areas like Miami, Las Vegas and the California beachfront are nearly twice the price of comparable stand-alone condominiums.
 Get Ready to Research
 Hotels selling real estate are legally limited in what they can share with potential buyers about hotel rates, expected occupancy and just how much an owner should expect to make from a rental pool. In fact, unless the developer files documentation with the Securities and Exchange Commission -- a task that most consider costly and time consuming -- he or she cannot reveal anything about the economic workings of the hotel to a potential buyer. 
 Before buying a one-bedroom condo in the Fontainebleau in Miami Beach last year, Kimberly Hartke looked at other hotels and condo hotels in Miami that were already open for business, and asked for their nightly rates in order to estimate how the Fontainebleau might stack up. She was swayed by the Jerusalem stone tile and soaring ceilings that highlighted the Fontainebleau's interior, but she was equally impressed with its proximity to the convention center and its siting on the Intracoastal Waterway -- an asset during big events like the annual boat show. ''With these annual events, I thought the hotel was likely to sell out,'' she said, noting that her condo now rents for anywhere from $300 to $800 a night depending on the season.
 Understand the Management
 Some condo hotels are made up entirely of condos, while others have a dedicated hotel with a separate area for condos. Regardless of the structure, buyers will want to know how the hotel integrates with the condominiums. Before a purchase, it is important to understand everything -- from the number of days a buyer may use the unit (some have usage restrictions), to how far in advance he or she might have to book the unit, to how the hotel will maintain common areas like hallways and lobby. 
 Jim Butler, a lawyer with Jeffer, Mangels, Butler & Marmaro, a Los Angeles firm that represents hotels in structuring condo hotel contracts, also recommends that buyers reserve 4 to 5 percent of their revenues each year for incidental expenses. 
 Don't Expect to Make a Profit
 The prospect of rental income, and the fact that owners do not have to worry about finding a property manager, is no doubt attractive, but turning a profit may very well be an unattainable goal, according to Dante Alexander, chief executive of the National Condo Owners Association.
 ''Most should not expect to make a profit even with full participation in the rental program,'' Mr. Alexander said. ''The average condo hotel will generate $7,500 a year but cost you $12,000 a year.'' While a unit might rent out for $500 a night, remember that the hotel takes a large slice of that (typically at least 50 percent) and owners still need to pay real estate taxes, homeowner association dues and the mortgage.


GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (Photo by Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESORTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LODGING (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOTEL AMENITIES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); BEACHES (66%); GOLF (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HARD ROCK HOTEL HOLDINGS LLC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (87%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (76%); SAINT MARTIN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



632 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Electricity Markets

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Flaws Seen in Markets for Utilities'' (''Power Play'' series, Business Day, Nov. 21): 
 There is a big difference in saying that electricity markets are not working because the rules are not right versus saying one cannot create a market for electricity.
It is not even clear that electricity markets are not working. Economists have come down on both sides of the issue with conflicting studies in many electricity markets.
 The correct test, where markets have been introduced, is not whether prices have fallen but whether electricity prices would have been lower than those today if the old formula of regulated wholesale prices had remained in effect. That methodology has been shown to penalize efficiency.
 Competition has elsewhere encouraged efficiency and innovation better than regulation. 
 That electricity must be consumed when produced is no different from other time-perishable commodities like airline seats, hotel rooms, movie seats and advertising time on television. No barrier there. 
 The solution is to improve market rules and market oversight.

Branko Terzic
McLean, Va., Nov. 21, 2006

The writer, a former commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, is global and United States regulatory policy leader for energy and resources at Deloitte Services.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); WHOLESALE PRICES (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%) Electric Light and Power; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry 

COMPANY: DELOITTE LLP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%) Deloitte Services

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: Branko Terzic

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



633 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Ten Months or Ten Years

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Here is the central truth about Iraq today: This country is so broken it can't even have a proper civil war.
 There are so many people killing so many other people for so many different reasons -- religion, crime, politics -- that all the proposals for how to settle this problem seem laughable. It was possible to settle Bosnia's civil war by turning the country into a loose federation, because the main parties to that conflict were reasonably coherent, with leaders who could cut a deal and deliver their faction.
But Iraq is in so many little pieces now, divided among warlords, foreign terrorists, gangs, militias, parties, the police and the army, that nobody seems able to deliver anybody. Iraq has entered a stage beyond civil war -- it's gone from breaking apart to breaking down. This is not the Arab Yugoslavia anymore. It's Hobbes's jungle. 
 Given this, we need to face our real choices in Iraq, which are: 10 months or 10 years. Either we just get out of Iraq in a phased withdrawal over 10 months, and try to stabilize it some other way, or we accept the fact that the only way it will not be a failed state is if we start over and rebuild it from the ground up, which would take 10 years. This would require reinvading Iraq, with at least 150,000 more troops, crushing the Sunni and Shiite militias, controlling borders, and building Iraq's institutions and political culture from scratch.
 Anyone who tells you that we can just train a few more Iraqi troops and police officers and then slip out in two or three years is either lying or a fool. The minute we would leave, Iraq would collapse. There is nothing we can do by the end of the Bush presidency that would produce a self-sustaining stable Iraq -- and ''self-sustaining'' is the key metric. 
 In his must-read new book about the impact of culture on politics and economic development, ''The Central Liberal Truth,'' Lawrence Harrison notes that some cultures are ''progress-prone'' and others are ''progress-resistant.'' In the Arab-Muslim world today the progress-resistant cultural forces seem to be just too strong, especially in Iraq, which is why it is so hard to establish durable democratic institutions in that soil, he says. 
 ''Some may hark back to our successful imposition of democracy on West Germany and Japan after World War II,'' adds Mr. Harrison. ''But the people on whom democracy was imposed in those two countries were highly literate and entrepreneurial members of unified, institutionalized societies with strong traditions of association -- what we refer to today as 'social capital.' Iraq was social capital-poor to start with and it now verges on bankruptcy.''
 On Feb. 12, 2003, before the war, I wrote a column offering what I called my ''pottery store'' rule for Iraq: ''You break it, you own it.'' It was not an argument against the war, but rather a cautionary note about the need to do it with allies, because transforming Iraq would be such a huge undertaking. (Colin Powell later picked up on this and used the phrase to try to get President Bush to act with more caution, but Mr. Bush did not heed Mr. Powell's advice.)
 But my Pottery Barn rule was wrong, because Iraq was already pretty broken before we got there -- broken, it seems, by 1,000 years of Arab-Muslim authoritarianism, three brutal decades of Sunni Baathist rule, and a crippling decade of U.N. sanctions. It was held together only by Saddam's iron fist. Had we properly occupied the country, and begun political therapy, it is possible an American iron fist could have held Iraq together long enough to put it on a new course. But instead we created a vacuum by not deploying enough troops.
 That vacuum was filled by murderous Sunni Baathists and Al Qaeda types, who butchered Iraqi Shiites until they finally wouldn't take it any longer and started butchering back, which brought us to where we are today. The Sunni Muslim world should hang its head in shame for the barbarism it has tolerated and tacitly supported by the Sunnis of Iraq, whose violence, from the start, has had only one goal: America must fail in its effort to bring progressive politics or democracy to this region. America must fail -- no matter how many Iraqis have to be killed, America must fail. 
 This has left us with two impossible choices. If we're not ready to do what is necessary to crush the dark forces in Iraq and properly rebuild it, then we need to leave -- because to just keep stumbling along as we have been makes no sense. It will only mean throwing more good lives after good lives into a deeper and deeper hole filled with more and more broken pieces. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); POLITICS (89%); ARMIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); TERRORISM (72%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); LITERATURE (66%); BOOK REVIEWS (63%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Books and Literature; Islam

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Thomas L Friedman; Lawrence Harrison; Saddam Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



634 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: William Diehl -- Novelist, 81

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
William Diehl, the best-selling author of ''Primal Fear'' and other novels, died here on Friday. He was 81. 
 The cause was an aortic embolism, said his wife, Virginia Gunn.
He started on his first novel, ''Sharky's Machine,'' while a juror. Mr. Diehl, then 50, was bored by the trial and started writing fiction on a notepad. The book, published in 1978, became a best seller and, in 1981, a movie starring Burt Reynolds.
 Mr. Diehl was unemployed when he got the news that the book was going to be published, his longtime friend Michael Parver said. When his agent first called to tell him, the phone line went dead: Mr. Diehl hadn't paid the bill, Mr. Parver told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
 Mr. Diehl's other novels included ''Primal Fear,'' a 1993 thriller about a lawyer defending a young man accused of slaying an archbishop, which became a 1996 film starring Richard Gere and Edward Norton.
 Mr. Diehl was writing his 10th novel. It was expected to be published next year, his friends said.
 Mr. Diehl was formerly a writer for The Journal-Constitution and had been a freelance photographer and magazine editor. He also served in World War II as a ball-turret gunner aboard a B-24 bomber.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CELEBRITIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); LAWYERS (70%); PHOTOGRAPHY (67%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (65%); WORLD WAR II (65%); RELIGION (52%) Deaths (Obituaries); Books and Literature; Biographical Information

COMPANY: ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION (69%); SHARKY'S (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%) GEORGIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



635 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Non-Asians Show A Growing Interest In Chinese Courses

BYLINE: By NATASHA DEGEN; Winnie Hu contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
With its booming economy and aspirations to expand its global influence, China may have achieved a victory in American classrooms.
 Take the private Chinese-American International School here, which runs from prekindergarten through eighth grade and offers instruction in all subjects -- from math to music -- half in Mandarin and half in English. The curriculum also includes Chinese history, culture and language studies, and in the 25 years since the school was founded, it has attracted mainly Asian-American children. But in the past few years, it has seen rapid growth in the enrollment of non-Asians.
For example, five years ago, the school was 57 percent Asian-American, but this year it is only 49 percent Asian-American, said Sharline Chiang, its spokeswoman, adding that more non-Asian-Americans have been applying in recent years. Andrew Corcoran, the head of the school, said that in the last three to four years, applications from white and Indian-American families have more than doubled, though he declined to give exact figures. 
 Ms. Chiang also said that this was the first year in which the prekindergarten class had more white children, 36 percent, than Asian-Americans, 32 percent. 
 School officials attribute the changes largely to a growing awareness of China as a global economic force, and to a strong sense among parents that learning Chinese could help their children professionally. As Mr. Corcoran said, studying Chinese ''is looked at as a long-term benefit.'' 
 For similar reasons, Chinese language classes are increasingly popular across the country in public schools. Shuhan Wang, executive director of the Asia Society's Chinese Language Initiative, who has written about the growth of Chinese language studies in the United States, said several states -- including Kentucky, Minnesota, Washington, Ohio, Kansas and West Virginia -- were developing curriculums for public schools.
 Even so-called heritage schools, which have historically provided immigrant children with Chinese language and culture instruction on weekends and after public school, are gaining non-Asian students. For example, until three years ago, all but five or six of the roughly 120 students at the Chinese School of Delaware were Chinese-Americans who spoke Chinese at home, said Tommy Lu, the school's principal. This year, nearly 30 students are non-Chinese, he said.
 At the Lansing Chinese School in Michigan, also a heritage school, officials saw a wave of new interest about five years ago from American couples adopting babies from China, said Dennie Hoopingarner, the principal, so the school opened a preschool and created a curriculum for children who do not speak Chinese at home. Today, a third of the students, half of them non-Asian, take those classes, he said. 
 Mr. Hoopingarner said some non-Asian children attended the school because of ''an ambitious feeling on the part of the parents'' who are ''interested in China's playing an important role in the world.''
 Parents are also starting new Mandarin programs when they cannot find them in their communities. Last year, in Livingston, N.J., Sharon Huang, a former marketing executive, founded Bilingual Buds, a Mandarin-immersion preschool, for her twin sons, who are now 3. Ms. Huang, whose husband is not Chinese, started the school in her home with 10 pupils and has since expanded it to 72 pupils and 7 teachers in a rented space in a church. The school is considering adding a kindergarten class next fall, she said. 
 Judith Carlson, 41, a software consultant who lives in Verona, N.J., pays about $400 a month to send her two-and-a-half-year-old daughter, Victoria, to Bilingual Buds. Mrs. Carlson's older children, Ryan, 15, and Sarah, 13, have been studying Mandarin at their public school since first grade. The children are now teaching their parents to count to 10 and speak basic words in Mandarin.
 ''It's going to be a big advantage for them,'' Mrs. Carlson said. ''I think no matter what you do in life, if you have some kind of specialty that sets you apart from other people, that makes you more marketable.'' 
 When Mandarin, the official language of China, was first offered in Chicago public schools in 1999, about 250 students enrolled, said Bob Davis, director of the Chicago school system's Chinese Connections Program. Today, nearly 6,000 public school students, out of roughly 421,000, study Mandarin, he said, the majority black or Hispanic.
 ''I get calls every day from parents asking how they can get their students in the program, or how their local schools can offer such a program,'' Mr. Davis said, pointing out that ''the bulk of our students have no background or exposure to Chinese language and culture.''
 In Connecticut this year, about 3,000 students, most non-Asian, are studying Mandarin in about 16 public schools, said Mary Ann Hansen of the state's Department of Education, a 10-fold increase from 300 students in 2004. Another half-dozen schools are considering offering Mandarin for the first time next fall, she said. 
 About half the teachers for the program come through a partnership with the Chinese government, Ms. Hansen added. Their salaries are paid by their own government, but school districts cover living expenses. ''We don't have enough Chinese teachers locally,'' she said. 
 Michael Patterson, a high school chemistry teacher, has four children -- ages 6 to 13 -- at the Chinese-American school here. He said the academic program attracted him, but he also noted that ''people say Chinese is going to be a pay-off.''
 Still, having children at this kind of school can be a challenge for a parent. ''We can't help with homework,'' Mr. Patterson said.
 Ms. Chiang, the school's spokeswoman, said parents like Mr. Patterson gamely participated in celebrations like the Mandarin speech festival, public speaking contests in which students read in Mandarin something they have written or an excerpt from a book. ''The parents sit and patiently listen,'' she said, ''supporting their children even though they don't understand a word.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Chinese-American International School, a private school in San Francisco, teaches all subjects half in Mandarin and half in English. Claire Jackson, above, is in a first-grade Chinese class, and Weiwen Yang, top, teaches a third-grade Chinese class. (Photo by Theo Rigby for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASIAN AMERICANS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CURRICULA (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (78%); IMMIGRATION (73%); ADOPTION (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%) Education and Schools; Chinese Language; Culture; Chinese-Americans

PERSON: Natasha Degen; Winnie Hu

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



636 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Newark City Hall Receives Subpoenas Over Land Sales

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
Federal agents investigating the finances of the administration of Newark's former mayor, Sharpe James, have subpoenaed City Hall for records on the discounted sale of city properties to some of his closest supporters, people who have seen documents related to the inquiry said on Tuesday. 
 The subpoena also sought personnel records of a handful of city employees, including Mr. James's son, Elliot. 
Mr. James left office in June after a 20-year tenure during which Newark revitalized some of its most blighted areas, and the mayor, his relatives and many of his political allies made substantial profits in city real estate.
 After announcing in March that he would not seek re-election, Mr. James drew fierce criticism from political opponents and from neighborhood groups that said he was selling city land to some of his business associates and supporters at a fraction of their market value. In May, a judge ordered the sales halted. 
 The subpoenas, which were first reported on Tuesday in The Star-Ledger, sought personnel records of several aides who may have had information about the sales. Among them were an aide to Mr. James who once sat on the planning board and his son, Elliott, a licensed real estate broker who worked for the administration. 
 Neither Mr. James, Elliott James nor Raymond A. Brown, a lawyer and longtime confidant of the mayor, returned calls requesting comment. 
 Since August, federal agents have been investigating Mr. James's use of two credit cards issued to the city, which were paid by the Police Department and City Hall, that he used to cover travel expenses for himself, his bodyguards and other city officials.
 City records indicated that Mr. James charged more than $200,000 to the cards over the years, including tens of thousands of dollars for trips after he announced that he would not seek re-election. 
 In the months after Mr. James announced he was leaving office, he charged more than $48,000 for trips to Brazil and Puerto Rico, city records show.
 Mr. James has defended the travel as a legitimate business expense, saying that he was trying to promote Newark and encourage business development.
 Anthony Fusco, a lawyer representing three of the police officers who accompanied Mr. James, said his clients had agreed to cooperate with investigators, who are interested in determining whether the trips were for pleasure or city business.
 ''These officers were part of a security detail that has accompanied mayors and other city officials for years,'' he said.
 In recent weeks, however, the scope of the inquiry has widened. After subpoenaing the personnel records in early November, federal agents also began asking for information about a wide range of real estate transactions, according to people familiar with the inquiry. 
 Mr. James has been criticized for his close relationship with developers -- particularly the officials at Crown Bank, a financial institution that gave 12 mortgages to the mayor and his relatives at a time when the bank was chosen to hold $5.78 million in city funds and allowed to purchase property at below market rates. 
 Mayor Cory A. Booker, who was fiercely critical of the discounted land sales during the mayoral campaign this spring and went to court to stop them, declined to comment. But his spokeswoman, Desiree Peterkin Bell, said Mr. Booker's administration had been cooperating with investigators by turning over any records. 
 ''The city's position is that all of these sales are invalid because they were sold at a price far below fair market value,'' Ms. Peterkin Bell said.
 Michael Drewniak, a spokesman for United States Attorney Christopher J. Christie Jr., said prosecutors would not comment on the investigation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (79%); POLICE FORCES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LAWYERS (73%); JUDGES (69%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (68%); ETHICS (68%) Finances; Government Employees; Public Property; Mayors; Ethics

PERSON: David Kocieniewski; Sharpe James; Eliot James

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



637 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Staff Members, Lawmakers and Patients Protest State's Proposed Hospital Closings

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS; Rebecca Cathcart, Richard Perez-Pena and David Staba contributed reporting.

 BODY:
There were rallies and press conferences, protests and placards. Across New York State, ''hospital zone'' meant anything but quiet yesterday as many of the hospitals a state commission has marked for closing or consolidation fired the first answering shots in their battle to stay open.
 From New York City to Buffalo, politicians, doctors and patients assailed the commission's plan with promises of a fight in the Legislature, threats of lawsuits and flurries of sound bites. 
''Closing this hospital will cost the city and state more than to keep it open,'' City Councilwoman Melinda R. Katz told a crowd of about 150 people at a spirited protest in front of Parkway Hospital in Queens, one of nine hospitals recommended for closing by the Commission on Health Care Facilities in the 21st Century. 
 Elsewhere, the commission report prompted disbelief or befuddlement. Patients wondered where they would receive medical care, employees pondered their next job and administrators and elected officials considered how best, if at all, to fight the panel's recommendations -- which can be rejected only by a vote of both houses of the Legislature or a veto by Gov. George E. Pataki, who called for the proposal.
 In New York City, where five of the nine hospitals are situated, hospital administrators held town hall-style meetings all day with worried staffs as people in need of medical attention arrived in spurts just after breakfast and at lunchtime. 
 ''There have been two responses,'' said Dr. Alan Sickles, chief medical officer and senior vice president of medical affairs at Cabrini Medical Center Hospital in the Gramercy Park neighborhood of Manhattan. ''The first was truly one of fear, where people feared for their jobs and for their futures. The second, which came later, was one of what I would call righteous indignation.'' 
 Most of the hospitals scheduled for closing are relatively small facilities with about 150 beds and are typically situated within a few miles of other, usually larger, medical centers where the commission said patients could easily find care. 
 Cabrini, a 114-year-old hospital in a particularly dense cluster for medical facilities, had an occupancy rate of just 25 percent in 2004, and had been considering reducing the number of its licensed beds to about 100 from 519, Dr. Sickles said. 
 Another key component shared by most of the nine hospitals is that they do not serve poor populations, and the commission's report said one of its primary goals was to protect health care for the poor. Many are also struggling financially, and at least two -- including Parkway -- have filed for bankruptcy.
 But officials at one profitable hospital in suburban Buffalo, St. Joseph Hospital, complained yesterday at a news conference that the commission had ignored its own guidelines in singling them out. 
 ''You have to be losing money, and that's not happening here,'' said Paul Tokasz, the State Assembly's majority leader, who represents the area around St. Joseph and conceded that fighting the commission would be an uphill battle. The hospital opened an $11.2 million emergency room in May 2005 -- the only one that serves Buffalo's growing eastern suburbs and Buffalo Niagara International Airport. 
 ''The impact on the community would be huge,'' said Dr. Frank Lee, director of the hospital's emergency medicine department. 
 Many hospitals on the closing list, rather than employing doctors proficient in cutting-edge medical procedures, have built reputations by fostering trust with neighborhood residents -- in some cases over multiple generations. 
 At Parkway, which serves a predominantly elderly population in the Forest Hills section of Queens, officials contended that many of its patients would be hurt, and that the hospital also tended to a growing immigrant population. 
 ''There are three high-rise apartment buildings right around here and the Kennedy housing buildings just down the block,'' said Norbert Chwat, co-chairman of the Forest Hills Action League, a neighborhood group that helped organize the rally. ''Where will those people go if they close Parkway?''
 The hospital, which has been in bankruptcy proceedings since June 2005, has been in negotiations over a possible affiliation with Mount Sinai Hospital.
 At New York Westchester Square Medical Center in the East Bronx, a 205-bed facility, administrators had pinned their hopes on merging with New York-Presbyterian Hospital, with which the center has a sponsorship agreement.
 Because the Bronx economy is so dependent on hospital employment -- nearly one of every three Bronx jobs is in the health care industry -- fears about what would happen to the economy if the hospital's 600 employees lost their jobs were as prominent as the loss of the hospital.
 ''This clearly will have a ripple effect,'' said State Senator Jeffrey D. Klein, who had a kidney stone removed at the hospital and led a rally there on Monday. ''We've got high rates of asthma, diabetes and AIDS.''
 The commission report found that the hospital had an unusually high degree of loyalty from patients, who sometimes bypass medical facilities closer to home to be treated by Westchester Square's physicians.
 ''The doctor is the fellow that sees you, treats you and does the operation,'' said Dr. Rudolph H. Nisi, 74, the chief of cardiology, who has worked at Westchester Square since 1962. ''That's not going to happen at a big hospital.''
 A patient at the hospital, Frank Kissel, 68, who suffers from emphysema and pneumonia, has been to the hospital 12 times in the past four years. He said he knows that when he comes to the hospital that he will be treated by his own doctor rather than a medical resident.
 ''I don't want to be a test tube,'' he said, reclining in a hospital bed after experiencing difficulty breathing earlier in the day. ''Here, when they say they are going to follow through, they do that.'' He smiled and added, ''And the food is excellent.''
 Westchester Square's administrators said they were also concerned about what closing the emergency room would mean to the East Bronx. The emergency room receives 24,000 visits annually, and yesterday morning 19 of its 20 beds were taken.
 ''Closing hospitals is not going to contain costs,'' said Alan Kopman, the president and chief executive. ''We have no intent of closing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); VETO (76%); POOR POPULATION (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%) Medicine and Health; Demonstrations and Riots; Organized Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Hospitals; Shutdowns (Institutional); Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: Commission on Health Care Facilities in the 21st Century (NYS)

PERSON: Timothy Williams; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



638 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: In New Bidding, Price Is Right For the Yankees 

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
The Yankees would be ecstatic if they could get twice the pitcher for half the price. Right now, though, they have the poor man's Matsuzaka.
 Not a team to let money burn a hole in its pockets, the Yankees took the $33 million they did not spend on a winning bid for Daisuke Matsuzaka, a 26-year-old right-hander, and used it to bid for another Japanese pitcher, Kei Igawa, a 27-year-old left-hander.
The winning bid, $26 million, pulled the Yankees even with the Red Sox in the new off-season game of post the pitcher. 
 Posting is what a Japanese team does when it wants to increase the balance of trade between Japan and the United States. Japan could not have hoped for anything more economically advantageous than having the Yankees and the Red Sox go head to head in this new game. If they did not understand it already, the Japanese are experiencing first-hand the Yankees-Red Sox rivalry, international version.
 The rivalry is so intense that the Mets can't break into it. They lost out to the Red Sox for the rights to Matsuzaka with a $39 million bid, and they fell short again yesterday on Igawa, bidding $15 million. Omar Minaya, the Mets' general manager, did not return calls seeking comment on his dual strikeouts.
 Minaya's first two off-seasons with the Mets were far better than this one has started out to be, but he has plenty of time to catch up. The Mets will just have to work on their posting game.
 The Japanese teams are the big winners. In fact, so much money will be going to Japanese teams that Major League Baseball may want to study the system and see if there is a less expensive way of doing it.
 The Seibu Lions stand to gain $51.1 million once the Red Sox sign Matsuzaka, which the team's president, Larry Lucchino, is in Japan trying to do. The Hanshin Tigers look forward to getting their $26 million once the Yankees sign Igawa. The Yankees have 30 days to get it done. No contract, no posting payment.
 The Yankees should have an easier time signing their Japanese pitcher than the Red Sox may have getting theirs under contract. 
 The Red Sox are negotiating with Scott Boras, an agent who strikes fear and loathing into the hearts and minds of some general managers. The Yankees will negotiate with Arn Tellem, an old friend.
 Not that Tellem will give the Yankees a discount, but they have a history of successful negotiations. Tellem just negotiated a new two-year contract for Mike Mussina, and he has negotiated two contracts for another Japanese player, Hideki Matsui.
 And there was the Jason Giambi contract five years ago, when Tellem asked the Yankees to remove all mentions of steroids use from the guarantee language, and the team complied to induce Giambi to sign a seven-year, $120 million contract.
 The Yankees don't expect Igawa's contract to be an expensive one, maybe four years at $4 million to $4.5 million a year. That's because he is viewed as being no higher than No. 3 in the rotation, perhaps No. 4. 
 Until they see him pitch against major league hitters in a major league environment, though, the Yankees won't know what they have. Their scouts followed him for three years in Japan, but remember Hideki Irabu? He was going to be a major league star until he pitched in the major leagues.
 Although they didn't get Matsuzaka, who is projected as a No. 1 starter some day, the Yankees feel good about filling one of their rotation spots without committing to a huge contract. Before they sign any free agent these days, the Yankees consider the economic impact. 
 Because the Yankees have been over the luxury tax threshold more times than even George Steinbrenner can count and will be over it again next year, every $1 the Yankees spend on a new contract costs them $1.40. That's their tax rate -- 40 percent. No one else has it.
 The posting game appears to be finished for this off-season. The Tampa Bay Devil Rays won the rights to the third posted player, third baseman Akinori Iwamura. His rights cost only $4.5 million. But notice that all three players are headed for the American League East, so Matsuzaka and Igawa could have plenty of chances to pitch against Iwamura next season.
 An interesting and not unexpected aspect of the Matsuzaka portion of the posting game arose yesterday. It didn't take long for the conspiracy theorists to emerge. What if, they asked, the Red Sox were unable to sign Matsuzaka but negotiated a working agreement with Seibu. Japanese teams have had working agreements with major league teams.
 The Lions could agree through the agreement to take, say, $10 million less from the Red Sox, who would use the money to complete a deal with Matsuzaka. Seibu would receive less money, but $41 million would be better than nothing.
 Not so fast, said Lou Melendez, baseball's vice president for international relations.
 ''You can always conspire to try to beat the system,'' he said, ''but this is a very simple straightforward process, and if there is any question, it would be investigated. Anything can happen, but everybody's looking at that situation very carefully.''
 Everybody knows, of course, that the Yankees and the Red Sox would never do anything underhanded to try to beat each other.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); STEROIDS (60%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (54%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%) New York Yankees

PERSON: Murray Chass; Kei Igawa

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (76%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



639 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Judge Upholds Policyholders' Katrina Flood Claims

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
A federal judge offered a glimmer of hope to the tens of thousands of people whose homes and businesses in New Orleans were flooded in Hurricane Katrina, ruling that insurance companies should pay for the widespread water damage. 
 If upheld, the ruling late Monday by Judge Stanwood R. Duval Jr. of Federal District Court in New Orleans could cost the insurers billions of dollars more than the $41 billion they have already paid to storm victims. But the insurers insist that their policies do not cover flooding, and they said yesterday that they expected an appeals court to reverse the decision. A final ruling could take months, if not years.
Judge Duval's decision centered on the distinction between flooding caused by high winds and heavy rains and flooding caused by human error. Much of the destruction in New Orleans in the wake of Hurricane Katrina in August 2005 was a result of levee failures. 
 He said the language in the insurance policies on flood coverage was ambiguous because it did not ''clearly exclude man-made'' flood disasters. Since the insurers provided the wording for the policies, he said he felt ''constrained to interpret it against the insurers.''
 He made an exception for State Farm and the Hartford Insurance Company, whose policies do not provide coverage for flooding ''regardless of cause.''
 Lawyers for more than a dozen homeowners and Xavier University, which had business insurance, hailed Judge Duval's decision as a victory.
 ''This is a major breakthrough,'' said John N. Ellison, a member of the team of lawyers representing storm victims and a partner at Anderson Kill & Olick in New York. ''Our hope is that this ruling may help get the redevelopment of the houses and the city going so the city can come back to life.''
 The ruling was the first by a court in Louisiana on damage from Hurricane Katrina. It ran counter to rulings by a federal judge in Mississippi that supported the industry's contention that most property insurance policies do not provide coverage for flooding. 
 But the judge in Mississippi, L. T. Senter of Federal District Court, disagreed with the insurers' contention that any damage due to flooding nullified the coverage. He cleared the way for trials early next year to determine how much damage to flooded homes and businesses resulted from high winds.
 The rulings differ, in part, because the nature of the flooding was different. In Mississippi, the storm drove water from the Gulf of Mexico ashore and wiped out tens of thousands of homes unprotected by artificial barriers. In New Orleans, flood waters breached some levees and poured into the city as the storm was moving away. The water lingered in parts of the city for weeks.
 Mr. Ellison, the lawyer for the homeowners, said he believed that the New Orleans case would go to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ''on an expedited basis'' and that deliberations could begin in the spring.
 More than 200,000 homes and thousands of businesses were damaged or destroyed by the flooding in New Orleans. The insurers have refused to pay claims for water damage and the relatively small amounts that homeowners and businesses received for wind damage have been far from enough for most people to rebuild. The federal government has stepped in with promises of several billion dollars in assistance, but little of the money has reached the people who need it. 
 The insurers said that Judge Duval's decision was contrary to decades of case law and state insurance regulation and would turn out to be a short-lived loss for their side.
 ''The judge reached the wrong conclusion,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist at the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. ''The policies clearly exclude flood-related damage under any and all circumstances. We don't believe the decision will be upheld.''
 Randy J. Maniloff, a lawyer in Philadelphia who represents insurance companies, including several of those in the New Orleans lawsuit, said Judge Duval appeared to be overreaching to solve the social and economic problems caused by Hurricane Katrina.
 ''Here is a phenomenon for which there is no insurance, and the court isn't going to allow that to exist,'' Mr. Maniloff said.
 ''The court is finding who is in a better position to bear the loss, and it is coming out in favor of the individual, the policyholder,'' he said. ''This is an aberration.''
 Judge Duval, who was appointed to the federal court by President Bill Clinton in 1994, said in an 85-page decision that the insurers could have made clear ''that 'flood' means water damage caused by negligent acts or omissions.'' But, he said, they ''chose not to do so.''
 Nearly a dozen insurance companies had sought dismissal of the lawsuits over flood losses. But Judge Duval ruled in favor of only two, State Farm, the largest home insurer in Louisiana, with about 20 percent of the market; and Hartford, a unit of the Hartford Financial Services Group, which has a much smaller share. 
 Judge Duval said he cleared the way for an immediate appeal because ''there is a substantial ground for a difference of opinion.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (92%); HURRICANES (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); FLOOD INSURANCE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); JUDGES (90%); WEATHER (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); BUSINESS OWNERS INSURANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (78%); VERDICTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (73%); APPEALS COURTS (71%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods; Levees; Insurance; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

COMPANY: REED SMITH LLP (82%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: XAVIER UNIVERSITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%)

PERSON: Stanwood R Jr (Judge) Duval; Joseph B Treaster

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



640 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: 2nd Group May Make Bid For Biggest Casino Company

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
A second buyout group is considering an offer for Harrah's Entertainment, the largest casino operator in the world, people involved in the negotiations said yesterday.
 It is unclear how seriously the group, led by Penn National Gaming, which owns casinos and racetracks, and D. E. Shaw, the hedge fund, is pursuing Harrah's and how much it is willing to offer. 
Last month, two private equity firms, the Apollo Management Group and the Texas Pacific Group, offered $81 a share for Harrah's, a bid that was later raised to $83.50, or $15.5 billion.
 The latest offer may simply give Harrah's, which operates casinos under the Harrah's, Caesars and Horseshoe names, more negotiating power with Apollo and Texas Pacific. But the private equity firms could also decide to walk away if they think they are being manipulated.
 A spokesman for Harrah's declined comment. Harrah's board acknowledged it was evaluating the offer from Apollo and Texas Pacific.
 Shares of Harrah's rose $1.91, or 2.5 percent, to $78.46 yesterday after the cable channel CNBC reported that Penn and D. E. Shaw were considering a bid. Officials representing the firms visited Harrah's offices in Las Vegas yesterday, the people involved in the talks said. It is unclear how quickly, or even if, they will formally put an offer on the table.
 Gambling is the latest in a series of businesses drawing the attention of private equity firms, who have been on the hunt for ever bigger acquisitions. Including Harrah's $10.7 billion in debt, a sale of the casino operator would be the fourth-biggest buyout announced this year, after Equity Office Property Trust, HCA and Clear Channel Communications.
 Any deal would be complicated by Nevada regulations that require the owners of gambling companies to obtain a license to operate gambling businesses in the state, a requirement that has stymied deals for casino operators in the past. Some previous acquirers have used two classes of stock to divide economic interest from voting rights to try to streamline the regulatory approval process.

A Suitor Approaches EMI
By Reuters
 The EMI Group, the British music company, said yesterday that it had been approached about a possible takeover. 
 An executive close to the negotiations said that the firm that had approached EMI was the private equity firm Permira. Permira declined to comment. EMI, home to artists like Robbie Williams and Coldplay, declined to name its suitor. 
 EMI was locked in a $4.6 billion takeover battle with Warner Music this year. Hopes of a deal ended in June when a European court annulled approval of the 2004 merger of Sony's music division and Bertelsmann's BMG unit, raising doubts about regulatory approval of an EMI-Warner deal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (95%); GAMING (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); APPROVALS (88%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (86%); MERGERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (67%); RECORD INDUSTRY (67%); CABLE TELEVISION (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (57%) Gambling; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Casinos

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (92%); PENN NATIONAL GAMING INC (90%); EMI GROUP LTD (83%); TPG CAPITAL LP (73%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (58%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (57%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); BERTELSMANN AG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Penn National Gaming Inc; Shaw, D E, & Co; Harrah's Entertainment; Apollo Management Lp; Texas Pacific Group

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (92%); PENN (NASDAQ) (90%); APO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (92%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (92%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (90%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (90%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (83%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (73%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%)

PERSON: DAVID SHAW (71%) Andrew Ross Sorkin; Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



641 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: Lawyers Debate Why Blacks Lag At Major Firms

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
Thanks to vigorous recruiting and pressure from corporate clients, black lawyers are well represented now among new associates at the nation's most prestigious law firms. But they remain far less likely to stay at the firms or to make partner than their white counterparts.
 A recent study says grades help explain the gap. To ensure diversity among new associates, the study found, elite law firms hire minority lawyers with, on average, much lower grades than white ones. That may, the study says, set them up to fail.
The study, which was prepared by Richard H. Sander, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, and was published in The North Carolina Law Review in July, has given rise to fierce and growing criticism in law review articles and in the legal press. In an opinion article in The National Law Journal this month, for instance, R. Bruce McClean, the chairman of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, a major law firm, took issue with the study's ''sweeping conclusions'' but not its ''detailed data analysis.'' 
 James E. Coleman Jr., the first black lawyer to make partner at Wilmer Cutler & Pickering, a prestigious Washington law firm now known as WilmerHale, said Professor Sander was overemphasizing grades at the expense of other qualities like writing skills, temperament and the ability to analyze complex problems. 
 ''I don't think you can do what he is trying to do, which is to use purely objective data to explain what is happening in law firms,'' said Professor Coleman, who now teaches law at Duke and is a co-author of a response to Professor Sander called ''Is It Really All About the Grades?''
 Achieving racial diversity at all levels is an urgent issue, law firms say, but they acknowledge that gains among new associates disappear by the time new partners are elected. ''We've seen stagnation and even decline when it comes to race,'' said Meredith Moore, the director of the New York City Bar Association's diversity office.
 The new study proposes an explanation. It found that the pool of black lawyers with excellent law-school grades is so small that firms must relax their standards if they are to have new associates who resemble the pool of new lawyers.
 Professor Sander found that very few blacks graduated from top-30 law schools with high grades.
 Yet grades, according to many hiring partners and law students, are a significant criterion in hiring decisions, rivaled only by the prestige of the law school in question. For instance, Professor Sander found, ''white law school graduates with G.P.A.'s of 3.5 or higher are nearly 20 times as likely to be working for a large law firm as are white graduates with G.P.A.'s of 3.0 or lower.''
 The story for black students appears to be different. Black students, who make up 1 to 2 percent of students with high grades (meaning a grade point average in the top half of the class) make up 8 percent of corporate law firm hires, Professor Sander found. ''Blacks are far more likely to be working at large firms than are other new lawyers with similar credentials,'' he said. 
 But black lawyers, the study found, are about one-fourth as likely to make partner as white lawyers from the same entering class of associates.
 Professor Coleman attributed that largely to law firms' failure to provide minority associates with mentoring, encouragement and good assignments. ''It's such a high-pressure place that places so much emphasis on getting it right that a young associate easily loses confidence,'' he said. ''But to succeed you have to take risks.''
 No one disputes that firms are failing to retain and promote most of the minority lawyers they hired, at salaries that can start at $135,000.
 ''Black and Hispanic attrition at corporate firms is devastatingly high,'' Professor Sander wrote, ''with blacks from their first year onwards leaving firms at two to three times the rate of whites. By the time partnership decisions roll around, black and Hispanic pools at corporate firms are tiny.''
 Less prestigious firms are much less likely to hire minority lawyers with substantially lower grades than white lawyers, Professor Sander said in an interview.
 ''Black associates report experiences at small firms -- in mentoring, job responsibility and contact with partners -- that are generally indistinguishable from the experiences reported by white associates,'' Professor Sander said. Those experiences suggest that minority lawyers at small firms have a good shot at partnership, but Professor Sander said he did not have direct evidence on that point. 
 Critics generally concede the raw numbers. But they offer different reasons for the gap between hiring and promotion. Some point to old-fashioned racism. Others say that firms act institutionally in hiring but leave work assignments to individual partners. Those partners often provide poor training, rote assignments and little mentoring to minority lawyers.
 That should be unsurprising given the credentials gap, said Roger Clegg, president of the Center for Equal Opportunity, which opposes hiring preferences based on race.
 ''If everyone in the law firms knows you're hiring according to a double standard, you actually may end up compromising the confidence that partners and others have in the ability of people hired on the basis of preference,'' Mr. Clegg added. ''It actually reinforces stereotypes.''
 The experience of white female associates provides a series of contrasts. Women at large firms have slightly better grades than men, yet they are also underrepresented in classes of new partners. But women do not report the absence of mentoring and choice assignments that minority associates do.
 ''Strikingly, women's self-reported work experiences -- in terms of mentoring, level of responsibility and access to partners -- are positive and indistinguishable from the self-reports of white men,'' Professor Sander said. ''Consistent with this picture, white women's attrition rates as entering and midlevel associates are nearly as low as those of white men.''
 Associates typically work for about eight years before being considered for partnership. ''As women of all races approach the seventh year of their tenure, and contemplate the compatibility of big-firm partnership with their family and quality-of-life goals,'' Professor Sander said, ''many women pull out of the running for partners and seek out less demanding jobs.''
 Though many supporters of affirmative action question Professor Sander's conclusions, most academic experts say his empirical work is sound.
 ''He makes a good case,'' said Kenneth G. Dau-Schmidt, an authority on the economic analysis of legal problems at the Indiana University School of Law. ''What the data tells him is that there's a mismatch going on and it's hurting black students.''
 In their response to the Sander study, Professor Coleman and Mitu Gulati, another law professor at Duke, wrote that the Sander paper would aggravate the problem it described.
 ''The harm of the Sander article,'' the two professors wrote, ''is that it will contribute to the stereotyping that already undermines the success of black associates in elite corporate law firms.''
 Stephen F. Hanlon, a partner with Holland & Knight, a national law firm, said the Sander study overlooked a positive reason for high attrition rates among minority lawyers. Female and minority lawyers, he said, are often hired away from law firms by corporate law departments, and that will have an impact over time. 
 ''We have trained a very bright generation of women and minority lawyers who have gone to our corporate clients and who now decide whether to hire us,'' Mr. Hanlon said.
 Supporters of affirmative action acknowledge that trend, and add that high rates of minority attrition should be unsurprising given the grinding, mercenary culture of most law firms.
 ''Minorities, when they look at management structures and see that so few make it, they probably give up,'' said Veta T. Richardson, the executive director of the Minority Corporate Counsel Association.
 Even Professor Sander's critics say he has started an important discussion.
 ''We have done our share of stone throwing,'' Professor Coleman and Professor Gulati wrote in their response, ''but that should not take away from the fact that Professor Sander has identified a real problem that needs serious study, and that his study has added considerably to the limited body of available, public research, even though his conclusions are, at best, premature.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard H. Sander, a U.C.L.A. law professor, is the author of a recent study on diversity efforts at corporate law firms that has stirred debate. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A24)Chart: ''Black Experience at Major Law Firms''Research by Richard H. Sander of the U.C.L.A. School of Law found that black law students are aggressively recruited by major law firms (those with more than 100 lawyers) but do not stay at the firms or make partner as often as whites.The supply of new black lawyers with high grades is modest, and blacks hired by major firms have generally lower grades than whites.Median G.P.A. of each group at graduation, compared with entire graduating classWHITES55th percentileBLACKS10th percentileMedian G.P.A. of graduates of top schools at major firmsWHITES75th percentileBLACKS18th percentileA large proportion of blacks report that their race was a factor in being hired, and once at large law firms, black associates report receiving less training and less desirable work.Proportion of midlevel associates at major firms who . . .. . . report ''my race'' as a major factor in their firm's decision to hire themWHITES: 2%BLACKS: 56%. . . view lack of ''mentoring'' as a significant problemWHITES: 49%BLACKS: 70%. . . regularly take meals with partnersWHITES: 49%BLACKS: 29%. . . are involved in formulating strategy in half or more of their casesWHITES: 65%BLACKS: 44%. . . handle some cases entirely on their ownWHITES: 53%BLACKS: 33%A result is that black associates tend to leave large firms at a higher rate than whites, and the number of black partners has not increased as fast as the number of black lawyers.Estimated annual attrition rates at large firms among new and midlevel associatesWHITES: 10%BLACKS: 30%Proportion of blacks and whites among partners at the 100 largest law firms1994WHITES: 97.6%BLACKS: 1.2%2003WHITES: 94.9%BLACKS: 1.6%(Sources by Richard H. Sander, ''The Racial Paradox of the Corporate Law Firm,'' North Carolina Law Review, with additional analyses by Professor Sander. All reported survey differences for blacks and whites are statistically significant.)(pg. A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (92%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (78%); LAW FIRM ATTORNEY RECRUITMENT (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); WRITERS (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); LAW SCHOOL RANKINGS (60%) Legal Profession; Blacks; Affirmative Action; Hiring and Promotion; Women; Hispanic-Americans; Law Schools ; Legal Profession; Grading of Students; Colleges and Universities; Law Schools; Legal Profession

COMPANY: WILMER CUTLER PICKERING HALE & DORR LLP (93%); AKIN GUMP STRAUSS HAUER & FELD LLP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%) Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%)

PERSON: Richard H (Prof) Sander; James E Jr Coleman; Adam Liptak

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



642 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1676 words

HEADLINE: Deeper Crisis, Less U.S. Sway

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS and KIRK SEMPLE

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
When President Bush meets in Jordan on Wednesday with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq, it will be a moment of bitter paradox: at a time of heightened urgency in the Bush administration's quest for solutions, American military and political leverage in Iraq has fallen sharply.
 Dismal trends in the war -- measured in a rising number of civilian deaths, insurgent attacks, sectarian onslaughts and American troop casualties -- have merged with growing American opposition at home to lend a sense of crisis to the talks in Amman. But American fortunes here are ever more dependent on feuding Iraqis who seem, at times, almost heedless to American appeals, American and Iraqi officials in Baghdad say.
They say they see few policy options that can turn the situation around, other than for Iraqi leaders to come to a realization that time is running out. It is not clear that the United States can gain new traction in Iraq with some of the proposals outlined in a classified White House memorandum, which was compiled after the national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, visited Baghdad last month. 
 Many of the proposals appear to be based on an assumption that the White House memo itself calls into question: that Prime Minister Maliki can be persuaded to break with 30 years of commitment to Shiite religious identity and set a new course, or abandon the ruling Shiite religious alliance to lead a radically different kind of government, a moderate coalition of Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish politicians.
 The memo's assessment of Mr. Maliki tracks closely with what his American and Iraqi critics in Baghdad say: that six months after taking office, he has still not shown that he is willing or capable of rising above Shiite sectarianism. 
 These critics say, in effect, that the 56-year-old Iraqi leader has failed, so far, to meet the test set by Mr. Bush when the two men met for the first time in Baghdad in June. At that meeting, the American leader told Mr. Maliki he had come to ''look you in the eye'' and determine if America had a reliable partner here.
 Against these judgments, some key passages in the Hadley memo seem at odds with the reality on the ground, as if the steady worsening of America's prospects here has driven the White House to reach for solutions that defy the gloomy conclusions of America's diplomats and field commanders, not to mention some of Mr. Maliki's closest political associates. 
 Even some powerful figures in the Shiite alliance have spoken recently of Mr. Maliki less as a possible leader of a parliamentary coup against the political movement that nurtured him than as an ineffective and ultimately dispensable figure, much like the man he succeeded in the prime minister's office, Ibrahim al-Jaafari. The United States pressured Mr. Jaafari to step down and endorsed Mr. Maliki's candidacy.
 Shiites in Iraq are riven by factional rivalries, and there may be opportunities for the Americans to exploit those divisions to create parliamentary realignments. Indeed, some Iraqi leaders have started exploring new alliances to break the political logjam, possibly involving a parliamentary coup against Mr. Maliki. But if Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, Iraq's most powerful Shiite cleric, has been clear about anything, it has been that the Shiites must subordinate their differences to the cause of consolidating Shiite power.
 So it is hard to imagine Mr. Maliki approaching Ayatollah Sistani to win approval ''for actions that could split the Shia politically,'' as the Hadley memo suggests. Shiite leaders, who are tiring of Mr. Maliki, appear to be thinking of replacing him with another Shiite religious leader, and not of sundering the alliance and surrendering the power the Shiites have awaited for centuries.
 But if recent interviews in Baghdad with senior American and Iraqi officials are a guide, a bigger problem for the administration in effecting change here may be that the United States, in toppling Saddam Hussein and sponsoring elections that brought the Shiites to power, began a process that left Washington with ever-diminishing influence. 
 One reason for the declining American influence lies in policies that, for various reasons, alienated the political class, most of them former exiles like Mr. Maliki who rode back to Baghdad on the strength of American military power. 
 Many Shiite leaders resent the Americans for compelling them to share power in the new government with the minority Sunni Arabs -- a policy, the Shiites say, that guaranteed paralysis for the government. 
 Sunni leaders still resent the American invasion, and the imposition of an electoral process that ended centuries of Sunni dominance. Just as much, they fume over the pervasive influence of neighboring Iran, which backs the Shiite parties.
 And secular politicians, marginalized by the Shiite and Sunni Islamist politicians who dominate the government, say they, too, have lost faith in the Americans, for failing to protect Iraq's secular traditions. 
 ''Politically, their position is weaker in all aspects,'' Mahmoud Othman, a Kurdish leader, said of the Americans. ''They just got weaker and weaker, and many more people who were supporting them are supporting them less.''
 Meanwhile, the faltering of the latest effort to secure Baghdad has exposed the limitations of American ability to change the military equation. The White House memo raises the possibility of using additional American troops to fill what it calls ''the four brigade gap'' in troops committed to the Baghdad operation in August -- a gap caused by Iraq's new army committing only two of the six brigades it promised.
 That shortfall left Americans providing about two-thirds of the 25,000 troops, halting by mid-October the sweeps to clear districts of insurgents and death squads. 
 But American commanders interviewed said that committing additional American troops could send a signal to Shiites, Sunni Arabs and Kurds that they could continue to quarrel over their share of political and economic power behind an American military shield. 
 In recent days, Mr. Maliki has seemed to heed these American warnings, telling fellow Iraqi leaders on Sunday, three days after bombings that killed more than 200 Shiites in Sadr City, that they have to accept the blame for the surging violence. 
 ''The crisis is political,'' he said, ''and the ones who can stop the cycle of aggravation and bloodletting of innocent people are the politicians.''
 Meanwhile, the political process has almost completely ground to a halt. Mr. Maliki's ''national reconciliation plan,'' intended to reduce violence through dialogue and an amnesty program for militia fighters and insurgents, has stalled.
 Political leaders have also made little progress on promises to review the new Constitution, a document resented by Sunnis, and a plan to draft a new law that will set terms for the divisions of oil revenues that account for 90 percent of Iraq's economy.
 Saleh Mutlak, a Sunni legislator, was blunt in his assessment of the government: ''Do you not recognize that it's going backwards?'' 
 Sectarian rifts between the nation's political leaders have deepened. During a session of Parliament last week, prominent Sunni and Shiite legislators bitterly accused each other of sectarianism and promoting violence. President Jalal Talabani, a Kurd, has warned fellow leaders about the possible collapse of the state. And even the Shiite leaders who control the government have taken to conspiring among themselves, with open jockeying for the succession if Mr. Maliki should fall.
 At the crux of the most difficult decisions facing Mr. Maliki stands the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, whose control of one of the largest blocs in Parliament, several ministries and a large and restless militia, makes him arguably the most powerful politician in Iraq. Mr. Maliki is indebted to Mr. Sadr for providing the votes within the ruling Shiite alliance that made him prime minister.
 But Mr. Sadr's volatile militia, the Mahdi Army, is blamed for many of the Shiite revenge attacks against Sunnis. The White House memo suggests that Shiites might be willing to drop their support of the militia if the Americans continue their military pressure against Sunni insurgents. But Shiites see the militia as their last defense against decimation by Sunni insurgents. 
 For the Iraqi leader, the challenge presented by Mr. Sadr and the Mahdi Army amounts to a zero-sum game. If Mr. Maliki moves too fast against the militia, he risks losing Mr. Sadr's support and splintering the Shiite bloc. If he moves too slowly, he will alienate the Sunni Arabs whose cooperation is crucial to any hope of reining in the insurgency. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Maliki is in a vexed relationship with the United States. The Iraqi government needs the United States for the protection its 150,000 troops afford. At the same time, he has felt compelled to push back publicly against American pressures, partly to gain credibility among those in his power base who oppose the American presence, particularly the staunchly anti-American Mr. Sadr. Among other things, he has demanded effective control of Iraq's new 140,000-man army, which remains under overall American command.
 According to several Iraqi politicians, Mr. Bush may consent in Jordan to arrangements that give Mr. Maliki at least greater nominal authority over the Iraqi forces, something American commanders -- and the White House memo -- agree would be important to Mr. Maliki's credibility. 
 But the Americans will be careful about the practical implications, because of concerns that the Iraqi police and army, overwhelmingly Shiite, could be used as a sectarian militia. 
 Iraqis are growing impatient. ''The government should say they are going to take things into their own hands,'' said Adel Abdul Mahdi, the Shiite vice president and one of Mr. Maliki's rivals for prime minister.
 ''We don't have enough time,'' he continued. ''Iraqis have to deliver. We have to show the world that there is a state.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A young man waited yesterday outside the morgue at Yarmouk Hospital, in western Baghdad, after four people were killed and 40 wounded when two car bombs exploded there. (Photo by Christoph Bangert for The New York Times)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%) John F Burns; Kirk Semple; George W (Pres) Bush; Nuri Kamal Al- (Prime Min) Maliki

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%); AMMAN, JORDAN (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); JORDAN (93%) Iraq; Jordan; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



643 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; HOSPITAL CLOSINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: Details of Hospital Proposal Show Far Wider Cuts

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA; Rebecca Cathcart, Sewell Chan and David Staba contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A long-awaited plan to shrink New York State's hospital industry landed yesterday with force, with proposals that could effectively eliminate 20 or more hospitals and thousands of jobs, and make dozens of other hospitals shrink, merge or take on new roles.
 The recommendations by the Commission on Health Care Facilities in the 21st Century go far beyond the nine hospital closings and downsizings that state officials reported late Monday, after being briefed by the commission. Several other hospitals would cease to exist through mergers or conversion to new uses, and more could be eliminated if they refuse to merge.
 In addition, the commission reached deep into the particular operations of many individual institutions, ordering them to eliminate specific numbers of beds, telling some to eliminate psychiatric, substance abuse or maternity wards, and in some cases directing others to take on those functions.
 The changes would mark an epochal shift in an industry that, person for person, is much bigger in New York than in other states, and traditionally has fiercely resisted shrinkage. But hospitals are also in worse financial shape in New York than in any other state, having lost money for eight consecutive years. 
 Unless they are rejected by Gov. George E. Pataki or by the Legislature next month, the commission's recommendations will have the force of law, and most must be carried out by the end of next year. The law does not allow the governor or the Legislature to accept some recommendations and not others; they must accept or reject the plan as a whole. State officials said they would study the plan, and leaders in the Senate and the Assembly said they would hold hearings on the proposals before deciding what to do. [News analysis, Page B5.]
 In all, the plan would reduce the number of hospital beds statewide by at least 4,200, or 7 percent. It would also close and downsize several nursing homes, mostly upstate, eliminating 3,000 beds, or 2.6 percent of the total.
 The report's release rippled across New York State yesterday, as cities and towns grappled with the possible closings of some of their most dependable employers. From Long Island to Niagara Falls, hospital executives and elected officials denounced the commission's plan and vowed to fight it in the Legislature and in court.
 ''We will do everything possible to defend our ministry,'' said Joseph McDonald, chief executive of the Catholic Health System in Erie County. One of his hospitals, St. Joseph Hospital in Cheektowaga, near Buffalo, is among those marked for closing.
 In Forest Hills, Queens, 150 people, including several politicians, gathered outside Parkway Hospital to protest its planned elimination, despite the hospital's dire financial problems. ''Closing this hospital is the equivalent of treating a head cold with an amputation,'' said Representative Anthony D. Weiner.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and fiscal watchdog groups offered cautious praise for the plan.
 But the reaction from the major hospital and nursing home lobbying groups, and 1199 S.E.I.U. United Healthcare Workers East, the biggest hospital workers' union, was muted. ''They took a year and a half to put it together, so we want to take a few days to go through it and not be flip about it,'' said Dennis Rivera, president of the union.
 The nine hospital closings, with five of them in New York City, have received the most attention, but other elements in the plan could have greater effects. Stephen Berger, the commission chairman, said at a news conference that far more significant were the commission's proposals to reshape dozens of other hospitals through mergers, downsizing, the elimination of some services and the addition of others.
 ''The reason this is a big deal is the 48 reconfigurations,'' he said.
 Industry officials agreed with that assessment, and said they were taken aback by the number and detail of changes that some described as micromanaging. 
 In Buffalo and in Syracuse, government-owned hospitals would merge with privately owned ones, despite different unions and governing structures. In Port Jefferson, on Long Island, one hospital is ordered to drop all of its basic ''medical/surgical'' beds and devote itself only to treatment of mental illness and alcoholism, while its neighbor is instructed to do the reverse. In Auburn, in central New York, a hospital must eliminate its obstetric ward.
 ''The closures could be readily anticipated,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association. ''But the restructuring is so sweeping, I was just flabbergasted.''
 The commission estimated that its plan would increase revenue at the surviving institutions by $720 million a year, as they take on patients from the places that have closed or changed missions. It also predicted that increased efficiency -- in particular, in the form of shorter hospital stays -- would save insurers, including Medicaid and Medicare, $800 million a year.
 The commission said that where possible, hospitals should pay the costs of making the changes -- by selling unused real estate in some cases. But the state has offered $1 billion of its own money, and up to $1.5 billion in federal money, to aid the transition.
 Under the plan, the state could end up with many fewer hospitals through actions that the commission does not label as closings. For example, in the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens, two hospitals would be consolidated into one by building a new site. Eight hospitals, mostly upstate, would cease to be general hospitals, losing all of their medical/surgical beds. Some would still admit patients for specialized services in psychiatry or substance abuse, while others would become strictly outpatient treatment centers.
 The commission said the hospitals and nursing homes marked for outright closing employ 7,000 people, including 4,200 in New York City. A similar number of jobs could be lost in mergers, consolidations, elimination of wings and other steps, mostly upstate.
 But Mr. Berger, who was appointed by Mr. Pataki to lead the effort, and the commission's executive director, David Sandman, said they did not expect there to be any net loss of health care jobs. Some hospitals are eager to hire because of a shortage of workers in fields like nursing, and, they said, surviving institutions would gain patients from the institutions that close, and so would take on new workers.
 Labor and industry officials said they were skeptical of the prediction that no jobs would be lost. Still, Mr. Raske said the downstate hospitals have already pledged to Mr. Rivera that any of his union's members who are laid off because of downsizing will be placed in new jobs within six months.
 Commission members acknowledged that they were tempted to go further in closing or downsizing hospitals, and hinted that another round of reductions would be called for in a few years. Even so, they said, the proposed recommendations would make hospitals more efficient. 
 But Mr. Berger argued that many other changes in health care must be made before further cuts, particularly in the way Medicaid pays for services. ''Additional opportunities to remove excess capacity do exist,'' he said. But ''to try to do more upfront would have been massively destabilizing.''
 Last year, the State Department of Health estimated that of the 63,000 beds New York hospitals are licensed for -- they actually operate thousands fewer -- about 20,000 were unneeded. The Healthcare Association of New York State, a major industry group, put the figure at 7,000, stillfar above the 4,200 the commission seeks to eliminate.
 The commission used six criteria to grade each hospital and nursing home: the amount of service it provides to poor, minority and elderly patients; the availability of alternatives in its area; the quality of care; how heavily it is used; how well it is doing financially; and the local economic impact of closing or shrinking it.
 The hospitals it recommended for closing or conversion to other uses are mostly small, underused, losing money, and near other hospitals that could take their patients, but there are some exceptions. Most are in middle-income districts, not in poorer neighborhoods as some had feared. As expected the academic medical centers that are closely tied to medical schools would not close, and only one, in Syracuse, would shrink significantly.
 Dozens of hospitals have closed in recent years, a few are in bankruptcy, and many more are bleeding cash daily. Mr. Berger warned that failure to trim the industry would leave all hospitals in much worse condition, requiring a much more painful restructuring in a few years.
 He said the crisis sent his mind back more than three decades, recalling his service on a state panel that investigated New York City's finances. ''In 1974, that commission predicted that New York City was going to go broke, and nobody listened,'' he said. ''That is where we are now in the health care area.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Julio Lema, who works at Parkway Hospital. A plan would reduce the number of hospital beds statewide by at least 4,200, or 7 percent.
 In Queens, 150 people, including Representative Anthony D. Weiner, center, gathered outside Parkway Hospital to protest its proposed closing. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); MAYORS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); NURSING HOMES (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (72%); DIVESTITURES (71%); POLITICS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); CITIES (66%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (62%); CITY LIFE (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Shutdowns (Institutional); Finances; Labor; Medicine and Health; Demonstrations and Riots; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: Parkside Hospital (Queens); Commission on Health Care Facilities in the 21st Century (NYS)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (89%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Richard Perez-Pena; Anthony D (Rep) Weiner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



644 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Iran Resolution, Still Not Final, Drops Mention Of Sanctions

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
The six world powers seeking to rein in Iran's nuclear ambitions are circulating a significantly weakened draft for a United Nations Security Council resolution against Tehran's nuclear program, in a bid to keep their fragile coalition from falling apart. 
 The new text under consideration has dropped all mention of sanctions against Iran's first nuclear power plant at Bushehr, according to European diplomats. The United States had initially proposed including Bushehr on the list of programs to single out, but Russia, which has been helping to build the power plant with the Iranians, balked.
Diplomats from the six countries, which also include Britain, France, Germany and China, have been squabbling about the draft resolution for almost three months. There is still no agreement on a final draft.
 Complicating the matter is the steady drumbeat in Washington, from inside and outside the Bush administration, calling on President Bush to initiate talks with Iran over the worsening violence in Iraq. 
 ''This has to be carefully managed,'' said one European diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity under normal diplomatic practice. ''It's important for the U.S. to separate the two issues, because the Iranians would like everything to be combined.''
 It has been six months since the six powers offered Iran a list of incentives to stop enriching uranium and threatened sanctions if Iran did not. In June, at the time of the initial offer, American officials said Iran had ''weeks, not months'' to comply.
 The growing call for Washington to initiate talks with Tehran over Iraq is only one of the complicating factors. Also holding things up is that Russia and China -- but Russia in particular -- dislike like the idea of punitive sanctions, and have been dragged along kicking and screaming, according to diplomats.
 American officials have sought a strongly worded resolution that would prohibit any technical or financial assistance that could benefit Iran's nuclear program, and would impose a ban on visas for any Iranians involved in nuclear activities, according to American and European diplomats involved in the talks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (71%) Atomic Energy; Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Helene Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CHINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN (90%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%) Iran; Bushehr (Iran)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



645 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Underlines His Essential Focus on Inflation

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Signaling that the Federal Reserve was not inclined to lower interest rates any time soon, its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said yesterday that while economic growth should rebound next year, inflation remained ''uncomfortably high.''
 In a speech that offered a wide range of prospects for the direction of the economy -- from an unexpected surge in growth to no growth at all -- Mr. Bernanke painted a generally sanguine picture. So far, he said, the economy had slowed in line with Fed's forecasts, and inflation had ''been somewhat better behaved.''
But Mr. Bernanke said there were ''substantial uncertainties'' about whether prices were starting to settle down and raised the possibility that inflation might pick up strength, particularly if businesses started passing on higher wages to their customers. ''One factor that we are watching carefully,'' he said, ''is labor costs.'' 
 On Wall Street, where traders were still digesting Monday's jarring sell-off, Mr. Bernanke's remarks appeared to have been taken in stride. Stock prices moved up and down through the day, declining on a report that orders for durable goods dropped sharply in October but finishing modestly higher. 
 The dollar's descent against the euro, the British pound and some other currencies also accelerated yesterday. Since late last week, when the euro exceeded $1.30 for the first time in a year and a half, the dollar has fallen broadly in global currency markets. Yesterday, the euro settled at $1.3189; the pound rose to $1.9509. 
 A report on the sales in October of existing homes was one of several economic gauges released yesterday that pointed toward an economy moving into lower gear. The Conference Board's index of consumer confidence for November fell to 102.9 from 105.1 in October, which was unexpected. And figures from the Commerce Department on spending for major purchases last month was taken as a sign that corporate America, too, might be starting to pull back. 
 As growth slows, some economists and Wall Street analysts say, they expect the Fed to lower rates sometime in the first half of next year to prevent the economy from contracting too severely. 
 But uncertainty about inflation would make the Fed reluctant to start easing interest rates. It has not lowered rates since June 2003, and it stopped raising them only in August, after 17 consecutive increases, leaving the benchmark overnight lending rate at 5.25 percent.
 Mr. Bernanke, speaking at a lunch of the National Italian American Foundation in Manhattan, avoided making unequivocal predictions about the economy, instead using broad characterizations full of caveats. He did not stray from his prepared remarks, and he did not answer questions after the speech.
 His comments were regarded by specialists as consistent with a central bank that remained in a wait-and-see mode. ''The message from the Fed,'' said Ethan Harris, chief United States economist with Lehman Brothers, ''is, 'We're on hold unless something serious happens and knocks us into moving.' '' 
 Mr. Bernanke has depicted the current slowdown as stemming largely from corrections in the housing and automotive industries, and this also suggested to many economic specialists that he saw little reason to start cutting rates soon.
 Tom Gallagher, head of policy research at the ISI Group in Washington, said: ''He continues to think the weakness the economy is going through right now is mainly an inventory correction for housing and autos. They don't feel like they have to respond to that kind of weakness because it's a self-correcting type of slowdown.'' 
 Mr. Bernanke cautioned, though, that the tail-off in housing could still ''turn out to be more severe and widespread'' than it now appeared. ''A deeper correction would directly affect economic activity,'' he said. 
 New statistics from the National Association of Realtors showed yesterday that home prices continued to slide in October as the supply of unsold houses grew. 
 The fall in the median price of a previously owned home -- down 3.5 percent from a year earlier, to $221,000 -- was the sharpest year-on-year price drop since the group began keeping records. 
 But falling prices helped provide a slight lift in the volume of sales for the month, which was 0.5 percent higher than in September. Still, compared with a year earlier, sales of previously owned homes remain down by double-digit percentages, the association said.
 Orders for durable goods -- a wide-range of items expected to last at least three years -- declined in October by 8.3 percent, or $19 billion at a seasonally adjusted annual pace, from the month before. The figure contrasted sharply with a rise of 8.7 percent posted in September.
 The biggest drop was in purchases of transportation equipment, particularly commercial aircraft, which shrank by an annualized $10.6 billion. But the slide was also steep for orders of other nonmilitary equipment. 
 The overall drop in durable-goods orders, the biggest in more than six years, was larger than economists had forecast, and it suggested that businesses were beginning to feel and respond to slower economic growth.
 James Knightley, an economist with ING Financial Markets, wrote yesterday in a research note to clients, ''This perhaps suggests that the U.S. economic slowdown is spreading to the corporate sector, adding to worries about the prospects for U.S. growth.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, chatting yesterday at a lunch in Manhattan of the National Italian American Foundation. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); STATISTICS (78%); EURO (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); BRITISH POUND (70%); DURABLE GOODS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (66%) United States Economy; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%) Ben Bernanke; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006



646 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Fables of the Deconstruction

BYLINE: By Chris Beck and Preston Browning. 
Chris Beck is a consultant and Preston Browning is a program manager for Mercy Corps, a humanitarian aid group.

DATELINE: New Orleans 

 BODY:
WITH the midterm elections now over, Americans can refocus their energies on the country's challenges, one of which remains the rebuilding of New Orleans. A simple next step in the city's reconstruction would be to offer a viable alternative to demolition for the thousands of damaged houses.
 Federal policy allows government cleanup funds to be used when a building is bulldozed and the remains are hauled off to the local dump. But the Federal Emergency Management Agency and local officials should also give homeowners the option of ''deconstructing'' their houses -- that is, taking them apart piece by piece and then selling or salvaging the reusable building materials, such as floorboards, roof beams and fireplace mantles. 
Deconstruction preserves our cultural heritage because historic building materials are reused and helps the environment because less debris is tossed into landfills. It also creates jobs by putting locals to work dismantling houses and marketing the salvaged materials. 
 We know deconstruction works. Over the past decade, communities across the country have established successful deconstruction programs.
 In Portland, Ore., the ReBuilding Center has, since 1999, salvaged building materials from more than 600 construction sites and completely deconstructed more than 125 houses -- that's about 4.5 million pounds of materials that have been kept out of landfills each year. And by training and employing local workers, the nonprofit center has helped revive one of the city's lower-income neighborhoods.
 Deconstruction could work in New Orleans, too. As many as 30,000 homes may be demolished here; if just 2,000 of them were deconstructed, that would yield 6 million to 10 million feet of high-quality lumber, along with other usable materials, estimates G. Bradley Guy, president of the Building Materials Reuse Association. Simply demolishing and then disposing of those 2,000 houses would generate 312,000 cubic yards of debris -- equivalent to a 10-story building covering an entire Manhattan block. 
 The environmental benefits of deconstruction are obvious and resonant. Bulldozing houses and then creating more landfills in the Mississippi River Delta to handle the debris will only further undermine the wetlands that are vital to New Orleans's long-term survival. 
 The major objection raised about deconstruction is that it costs more than demolition. It's true that not every building can be dismantled more cost-effectively than demolished, but the resale of valuable materials often offsets any higher labor costs. And with less debris, deconstruction saves contractors dumping fees that demolition can't avoid. 
 In fact, the recent deconstruction of five New Orleans houses by Mercy Corps and a local group, Green Project, cost $6,000 to 10,000 per house -- well within the range the federal government expects to reimburse contractors for demolition.
 Of course, deconstruction does require more labor than demolition, but that's one of its main benefits: it creates long-term, skilled jobs. Establishing a large-scale deconstruction industry to handle the enormous demand would be a potent economic development tool for a city so desperate for innovative sustainable businesses. 
 One potential success is emerging with a few of the city's historic houses. The National Trust for Historic Preservation, Mercy Corps and Global Green, along with local organizations like the Preservation Resource Center and the Green Project, are working with officials to finance the deconstruction of approximately 50 historically significant buildings so damaged they cannot be saved. This is a laudable first step. 
 Deconstruction can help fuel economic recovery in New Orleans, and a new federal policy embracing an alternative to demolition would be a bright spot in the city's sluggish recovery.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by M.K. Perker)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDFILLS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEATHER (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HURRICANES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HISTORIC SITES (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (69%); WETLANDS (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Restoration and Rehabilitation; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (83%) Federal Emergency Management Agency

PERSON: Chris Beck; Preston Browning

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (70%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); OREGON, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



647 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Unbelief and Its Discontents

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Atheists Agonistes'' (Op-Ed, Nov. 27):
Richard A. Shweder, like most who rail against atheism, doesn't address what atheists today actually think.
 One thought is that belief in the Golden Rule and the binding nature of an oath does not require a belief in God and the threat of eternal damnation. Another is that while it may be more pleasant to believe that we live in a world guided by the gentle hand of a supreme being, that does not make it so.
 Assuming Mr. Shweder's premise that the conflicts of the 20th century have had little to do with religion, it is also fair to say that the existence of billions of believers did not keep a lid on the violence. Nor does it today.

Sandra Osborne
San Francisco, Nov. 27, 2006

To the Editor: 
 Richard A. Shweder is astute in observing that ''among the cosmopolites who live in secular enclaves,'' it ''has long been assumed that religion is opposed to science, reason and human progress.''
 Those who reflexively reject anything that can't be quantified or analyzed according to the rules of nature regard the supernatural with distrust and believers with derision. They do not take into account those cases where faith and science have a symbiotic relationship. 
 Two examples: Gregor Mendel, an Augustinian monk who was a founding father of genetics, and Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, a Jesuit priest whose vision of the universe embraced both the mystery of the divine and the clarity of science. 
 Teilhard gave my very rational father the strength to face his own mortality after he received a diagnosis of lung cancer. 
 Atheists might want to consider that in their complete rejection of religion, they approach the blind intolerance of those who condemn Darwin out of hand.

Christine Flowers
Philadelphia, Nov. 27, 2006

To the Editor:
 I'm one of those atheists who Richard A. Shweder says is up in arms these days. Is it because my confidence in Enlightenment thinking is waning, as Mr. Shweder suggests? Actually, it's the opposite: I'm alarmed that the Enlightenment principles embodied in our Constitution are being compromised, distorted and weakened. 
 We have a president who is reported to believe that a god is personally talking to him. President Bush wants to operate as a ''unitary executive,'' with the power to do whatever he wants despite what the law says. 
 Conservative politicians, including the president, use code words to send signals to their fundamentalist Christian base. Evangelicals are trying to rewrite American history, telling us that there is no such thing as separation of church and state and that we live in a Christian nation. 
 The same forces have tried to hijack science classrooms with creationist dogma and place religious commandments in courtrooms. 
 For more than 225 years, through divisive and painful fits and starts, our nation has been advancing individual and economic freedom. Atheists like me are up in arms because we don't want to see our republic become a theocracy.

Jeffrey Zack
New York, Nov. 27, 2006

To the Editor:
 Just as there are obnoxious Protestant, Catholic, Muslim and other fundamentalists at one end of the spectrum, so, too, are there obnoxious atheists at the other. 
 Those atheists misidentify all religious people as ignorant fundamentalists, disdain all religion, regard Unitarians and agnostics as wusses, and place the promotion of atheism ahead of any other interest.
 The reality is that there is a vast middle ground of moderate to progressive Catholics, Protestants, Jews, Muslims, humanists and others who share a wide spectrum of values: protecting democracy, civil liberties, civil rights, women's rights, the environment, planetary sustainability; working for peace; ending poverty, colonialism, racism, homophobia, the growing gap between rich and poor nationally and globally.
 It is important that the vast middle keep both extremes at arm's length and work together on what is important to all of us and our children and grandchildren.

Edd Doerr
Silver Spring, Md., Nov. 27, 2006

The writer is the immediate past president of the American Humanist Association.

To the Editor:
 Atheists can prove that Daniel C. Dennett, Sam Harris and Richard Dawkins wrote their books. 
 Who can prove that there are books ''dictated or co-written by God''? That's what it's all about.

Patricia Berger
New York, Nov. 27, 2006

To the Editor:
 Thanks to Richard A. Shweder for his profound insight that ''if religion is a delusion, it is a delusion with a future, which it may be hazardous for us to deny.'' 
 As a Roman Catholic, whose frequent prayer is, ''Lord, I believe, help thou my unbelief,'' I remember the words of my mother two days before she died of brain cancer: ''It couldn't hurt to pray, but it might hurt not to.''

Barbara F. Byrne
Closter, N.J., Nov. 27, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Grady White)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CREATIONISM (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (74%); CHURCH & STATE (74%); HISTORY (69%); CANCER (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); LUNG CANCER (50%) Religion and Churches; Atheism; Religion and Churches

ORGANIZATION: American Humanist Assn

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%) Sandra Osborne; Christine Flowers; Jeffrey Zack; Edd Doerr; Patricia Berger; Barbara F Byrne; Richard A Shweder

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



648 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Trips As It Changes A Bit Too Fast 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO; Brian Libby contributed reporting from Portland, Ore., and Martin Stolz from Midvale, Utah.

 BODY:
The most wonderful time of the year? Tell that to Wal-Mart.
 The world's largest retailer has long dominated the holiday shopping season, with eye-popping discounts that drew throngs of customers and made life miserable for competitors.
After fresh price cuts this month, few doubted they would own this season, too. But this heartwarming storyline for Wal-Mart has turned into heartburn for the company. 
 Today, the retailer is expected to announce, based on its own estimates, that sales for November fell for the first time in a decade.
 ''In a season of what has been pretty healthy numbers from retailers, Wal-Mart has been lackluster, to say the least,'' said Adrianne Shapira, an analyst at Goldman Sachs. ''Houston, there is a problem.'' 
 But what exactly is the problem?
 At first glance, the stumbles seem to resurrect the perennial question: is Wal-Mart too big for its own good, making it impossible to achieve the gravity-defying growth that Wall Street has counted on for four decades. 
 Yet, what is happening now appears to be more complicated than Wal-Mart hitting a wall. It may simply be changing too fast, acting more like a start-up than a company with 6,000 stores, 1.3 million employees and sales of $312 billion. 
 And that may not be such a bad thing in the long run.
 In the last year, Wal-Mart has introduced a dizzying number of new strategies: it started a line of urban fashion, began renovating 1,800 stores, overhauled its advertising to focus less on price and more on style, rolled out $4 generic drugs, ended its layaway program and imposed wage caps on its workers, to name just a few.
 Given its size, even the slightest misstep is magnified. And this season, Wal-Mart has made several, alienating shoppers with designer-inspired clothing and disruptive store remodeling.
 And when these miscues occur at the same time, as they have recently, they spook not just investors in Wal-Mart -- its shares are down 5 percent this month -- but the broader stock market as well.
 Wal-Mart has little choice but to change, analysts said. The company's formula since 1962 -- pile cheap merchandise high and watch it fly -- is no longer enough. Competitors like Target and Best Buy have stolen shoppers with smarter fashions and sleeker electronics, leaving Wal-Mart to sell Americans mostly everyday products like laundry detergent and socks. 
 And the company's strategy of growing through relentless store openings -- about 300 a year for the last decade -- has begun to hurt the retailer as much as help it by siphoning away sales from other Wal-Marts nearby.
 The problem shows up in a crucial yardstick of its performance: sales at stores open at least a year, like the November figure that rattled investors. 
 Since the beginning of 2006, Wal-Mart's monthly sales have risen 2.4 percent, half as fast as Target, which posted a 4.8 increase. 
 Wall Street has been urging the company to find a solution to the slide. 
 ''They need to take some risks,'' said Christine K. Augustine, an analyst at Bear Stearns, who expressed alarm at the company's November performance. ''I do not fault them for trying new things.''
 But the turnaround effort -- which the company has dubbed ''Wal-Mart Out In Front'' -- is taking longer than investors had hoped. And there is a growing consensus that the rapid pace of change may be one reason why.
 Individually, the strategies can be viewed as healthy fixes to longstanding problems at Wal-Mart. Trendier (and pricier) clothing, for example, will theoretically persuade consumers to spend more at Wal-Mart, rather than, say, Kohl's. Ending layaway plans and capping wages will save the company money. 
 Collectively, however, these measures have created the retail equivalent of cacophony in the stores, temporarily disorienting consumers and employees at a crucial time of year.
 For example, at the same time that Wal-Mart introduced fur-trimmed jeans in the clothing department and 42-inch flat-screen televisions in the electronics section this year, it also began renovating hundreds of stores, ''making it difficult to find all that enticing new stuff,'' Ms. Augustine said.
 ''They are working at cross purposes over a short period,'' she said.
 Wal-Mart executives have conceded that the company's efforts to reinvent itself have hit a few snags. 
 Several weeks ago, H. Lee Scott Jr., the chief executive of Wal-Mart, told analysts that he was ''surprised that the disruption that occurred during the remodels was as extensive as it has been.''
 The new clothing at Wal-Mart created problems, too. After early success with a designer women's clothing line called Metro7 in 600 mostly urban area stores, the company rolled out the fashions across the chain. 
 It did not work. The average Wal-Mart shopper lives in the suburbs, is roughly 5-foot-2 and wears a size 14 -- making them poor candidates for the skinny jeans that were a popular, tight-fitting fashion in urban markets.
 Consumers like Shirley Shepherd, who lives outside Salt Lake City, Utah, balked at the unfamiliar clothes. 
 ''I would never buy dress clothes here,'' said Ms. Shepherd, who shops at the Wal-Mart in Midvale, Utah, twice a week for staples like toothpaste, batteries, underwear and socks. 
 It's not just a simple matter of new fashions not selling well. The new clothes took up space where Wal-Mart stocked reliable sellers like basic blouses and sensible skirts. So the entire apparel department suffered, contributing to the November sales drop. 
 Mr. Scott said the company moved ''too far, too fast'' with the Metro7 clothing line and will now sell it only in its urban stores. 
 By ending layaway plans, which allowed low-income shoppers to make purchases in installments, the chain freed up the store space and employees. 
 But it also upset shoppers like Michele Kahindi, a 30-year-old mother of three who lives in Portland, Ore. 
 Eliminating the program ''hinders a mom's ability to hide stuff from the kids,'' she said. ''I don't get it. Now Kmart is going to get my layaway business.''
 Some of the changes at Wal-Mart have worked. 
 Higher-priced electronics have been a hit. By offering products like flat-panel televisions, cellphones and MP3 players at several prices -- including a $3,000 plasma-screen TV -- Wal-Mart has tripled sales in some stores, proving that consumers will buy upscale products at the chain.
 The way the company manages its work force has also helped its bottom line. For example, it is relying on more part-time workers and asking them to be available at night and on weekends when checkout lines are longest. 
 Sprucing up stores, while temporarily frustrating to shoppers, has improved sales, the company said. 
 But the company's hope for a turnaround in store sales could take at least a year, if not longer, for several reasons.
 It is too late to cancel the latest orders for Metro7, meaning hundreds of stores will be saddled with the slow-selling fashions for months. Renovations, on hold for the rest of the holiday season to make shopping easier, will start up again in January. 
 And Wal-Mart said it is still grappling with the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, which the company has said is skewing its sales figures. 
 Bigger spending by victims of the storm, who received federal funding to rebuild, increased sales at the chain last year, making it harder for the company to improve on last year's performance. (In November 2005, for example, Wal-Mart's monthly sales rose 4.3 percent.)
 Analysts also noted that a separate Wal-Mart strategy should improve the company's fortunes. In October, it said it would begin to apply the brakes on new store growth in part to focus more on improving the performance of its existing outlets. 
 In a small but symbolically important adjustment that will result in enormous cost savings, the company will expand its square footage at a rate of 7.5 percent in 2007, down from 8 percent in the last several years, 
 For now, Wal-Mart's message to investors and customers appears to be the same as the one on the signs in its renovated stores: please excuse our appearance -- and performance -- while we are under construction.
 ''The size of the undertaking,'' said Ms. Shapira of Goldman Sachs, ''should not be overlooked.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Miguel Baez, left, his wife, Rosemarie, and their 3-year-old son Giovanni inquire about a television set.
Diana Castillo, right, and Maria Bravo, both of East Newark, shop at the Wal-Mart in Kearny, N.J. (Photographs by Emile Wamsteker for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Losing Its Edge''For years, Wal-Mart outpaced the general retail industry and its chief rival, Target. But it has faltered lately.Graph shows Annual sales growth since 1990.Note: Data are domestic comparable-store sales change for Target andWal-Mart and annual change in total U.S. retail sales, including food services.(Sources by Goldman Sachs
 Moody's Economy.com)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (94%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); GENERIC DRUGS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%) Retail Stores and Trade; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Public Opinion; Sales; Advertising and Marketing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Wages and Salaries; Retail Stores and Trade; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Target Stores; Best Buy Co

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: Michael Barbaro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (68%) NEW JERSEY, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



649 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Groups Press Vanderbilt to Raise Workers' Wages

BYLINE: By THEO EMERY

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
When Mary Hampton landed a housekeeping job at Vanderbilt University in 2004, she looked forward to the boost that the steady, full-time work and benefits would give her and her two young daughters.
 Instead, she says she now makes $7.92 an hour and brings home less than she did in factory and warehouse jobs. She moved to a shelter for the homeless about seven months ago when her daughters' father stopped paying child support.
The fragile economic state of some of Vanderbilt's union employees like Ms. Hampton and the contrast with university spending elsewhere, like the $6 million renovation of the chancellor's 20,000-square-foot house, has become a point of contention between the administration and a loose coalition of labor, students and community members. 
 A ''living wage'' campaign, which is picking up steam alongside contract negotiations between Ms. Hampton's union and the university, is hardly unusual. There are more than 35 campus-based living-wage campaigns in progress nationwide, according to the Living Wage Action Coalition in Washington.
 What makes Vanderbilt's situation unusual is that Vanderbilt's chancellor, E. Gordon Gee, is one of the highest-paid university executives in the nation, giving the union and its supporters added leverage in their bid for higher pay, said Paul F. Clark, a professor of labor studies and employment relations at Penn State. 
 ''It gives them a significant opportunity to generate community support, to get attention to embarrass the university,'' Professor Clark said. ''I would be surprised if they didn't take advantage of that.'' 
 The coalition calculates that a living wage for unskilled workers in the area would be $10.18 an hour.
 A spokesman for Vanderbilt, Michael J. Schoenfeld, said it paid market wages, as well as generous benefits.
 ''Vanderbilt is committed to and does pay market-competitive wages for all of our job positions,'' Mr. Schoenfeld said. ''In addition, the university offers what we believe is the most comprehensive package of benefits to all employees, regardless of their job classification.''
 In the past six years, Mr. Gee has labored to burnish Vanderbilt's reputation and reshape the university into a prestigious research institution of national stature.
 By many measures, Vanderbilt has succeeded, attracting top scholars, new research money and students from a wider geographic swath. Mr. Gee has been handsomely compensated, almost $1.2 million a year, according to recently released figures on executive pay at universities, making him the third highest paid university president in the nation.
 But as Vanderbilt focused on the national horizon, students and some community members have accused the university of underpaying its lowest-wage employees.
 The university is renegotiating its contract with the Laborers' International Union of North America, the sole union on campus. It represents about 600 groundskeepers, dining hall workers, janitors and other employees. The contract expired in mid-November. 
 The union commissioned a study comparing Vanderbilt's wages with local, state, and national wages from the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. The study found that higher-paid positions like painters, electricians and mechanics earned wages comparable to average wages nationally. 
 But about half the employees in lower-paid positions earned less than average and, in some cases, far less. For example, many assistant gardeners at Vanderbilt earned $7.79 an hour, almost $3 less than the average wage nationally, the study found. 
 ''Vanderbilt, to strive for the role model that it should be, has to accept their responsibility as an employer as well,'' Glenn Farner, the union's regional business manager, said. ''Saying they can't afford it is just not true.'' 
 The chief human resources officer for the university, Kevin Myatt, said the union data was not accurate, because it did not take into account seasonal turnover, which keeps wages clustered at the lower end of the university pay scale.
 Until recently, the campaign by the student group, Living Income for Vanderbilt Employees, has generally been cordial and orderly, with students making their views known with rallies and informational workshops. But this month, students barged into trustees' meeting demanding a comparative wage analysis, garnering a meeting with Mr. Gee in the process.
 Tim Bowles, a senior who was among the students who interrupted the board meeting and later met with Mr. Gee, said the students felt the administration was not taking the wage issue seriously.
 ''This is the culmination of four years of frustration and evasiveness and elusiveness on the part of the administration,'' Mr. Bowles said.
 The campaign for Vanderbilt workers occurs at an awkward time for the university. Mr. Gee has had to respond to what some board members saw as runaway spending. He has said spending on the chancellor's house, for example, was necessary, but he nonetheless agreed to tighter scrutiny of future spending.
 Cliff Buntin, 44, who has worked as a Vanderbilt housekeeper for five years, said some of that money should be spent on employees. 
 ''How can you be a leader if you let workers live in poverty?'' Mr. Buntin said. 
 Mr. Schoenfeld said it was simplistic to argue that university spending could be shifted to pay higher wages.
 ''Any large, complex university, any large institution, any large company,'' he said, ''is going to have to make an almost infinite number of decisions about how to expend resources and what is consistent with the mission.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mary Hampton, above, is a housekeeper at Vanderbilt University. At left, buttons from a group trying to raise wage levels for her and others. (Photographs by Josh Anderson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); LIVING WAGE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (70%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (56%); HOMELESSNESS (56%) Colleges and Universities; Wages and Salaries; Organized Labor; Labor; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (94%); LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA (59%) Vanderbilt University; Laborers International Union of North America

PERSON: Theo Emery; E Gordon Gee

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) Nashville (Tenn)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



650 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Waiting To Be Wooed

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
I've never been a swing voter before. For most of my adult life I've felt the Republicans tended to have the best approaches to expand economic opportunity, meet foreign threats and restore a culture of personal responsibility. But over the past few years I've grown estranged from many Republicans, especially the ones leading the House. I'm one of those suburbanites who thought the G.O.P. deserved to lose the last election, and now I find myself floating out there in independent-land, not a Democrat, just looking for something new.
 It's like being the belle of the ball, because the Republicans really need to woo back people like me. I hope they won't mind if I offer a little advice on how to do it. 
 First, don't listen to your consultants. Over the next few months, pollsters are going to pick out the key demographic groups (left-handed Catholic orthopedists) and offer advice on how to kiss up to those people. Majorities are never built that way. You end up proposing inconsequential micropolicies and selling your soul.
 Don't focus on groups, focus on problems. If you have persuasive proposals to address big problems, the majority coalition will build itself. 
 Second, be policy-centric, not philosophy-centric. American conservatism grew up out of power and has always placed great emphasis on doctrine. Today, in the wake of this month's defeat, Republicans are firing up the old debate among social conservatives, free-market conservatives and others about the proper role of the state. This stale, abstract debate will never lead anywhere and only inhibits creative thinking. 
 The Republican weakness is not a lack of grand principles, it's a lack of concrete policies commensurate with the size of 21st-century problems. If they would shelve the doctrinal debate for a second, Republicans -- while not doing violence to their belief in the market, traditional values or anything else -- could find plenty of policy ideas to deal with China and India, the entitlement crisis and so on. 
 Third, create a Republican Leadership Council. In the realm of ideas, Democrats own the center. Moderate Democrats have the Democratic Leadership Council, the Third Way and various cells within the Brookings Institution, such as the Hamilton Project. Republican moderates are intellectual weaklings. They have no independent identity, so it's no wonder centrist voters prefer Democrats on one domestic issue after another. 
 Fourth, support stem cell research. This has become a symbolic issue denoting fundamental attitudes about science and progress. Moderates can understand why somebody is anti-abortion. But opposing stem cell work seems to close off research that could alleviate human suffering for the sake of a theoretical abstraction.
 Fifth, support free trade, while responding to the downside of globalization. When the industrial age kicked in, many European nations built an elaborate welfare state, but didn't aggressively expand educational opportunity. Americans didn't build as big a welfare system, but, as the blogger Reihan Salam pointed out recently, we spent a lot on schools to foster social mobility. 
 The American way is to help people compete, not shield them from competition. Today that means nurturing stable families in which children can develop the social and cultural capital they need to thrive. (A significant expansion of the child tax credit would ease the burden on young parents.) It means publicly funded, though not necessarily publicly run, preschool programs in which children from disorganized homes can learn how to learn. It means radical school reform: performance pay for teachers, an end to the stupid certification rules, urban boarding schools where educators can set up local cultures of achievement, locally run neighborhood child centers to service an array of health and day-care needs. 
 Sixth, spread assets. Every citizen, from birth, should have an I.R.A.-type savings account. The tax code should encourage personal and employer contributions. These accounts would enhance savings and encourage an investor mentality, and once Americans became comfortable with them, they could be used as tools to reform Social Security and health care funding.
 Seventh, raise taxes on carbon emissions and use the revenue to make the tax cuts on capital gains and dividends permanent. This would spur energy innovation and encourage investment more generally.
 Over the past few years, the G.O.P. has become like a company with a great mission statement, but no domestic policy products to sell. Now's the time to get granular. And the thing to remember is, we disaffected voters are easy. We want to go home with you if you'll give us a reason. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); POLITICS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); ORTHOPEDICS (53%); ABORTION (50%) United States Politics and Government; Election Issues

PERSON: David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



651 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Critical Shopper; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: The Wool Over My Eyes Should Be Cashmere

BYLINE: By Alex Kuczynski

 BODY:
THERE'S a reason I won't set foot in a large store after Thanksgiving Day, and it's not because of Black and Blue Friday. 
 Yes, I might mind the physical horror of being mauled while reaching for a flat-screen television set. But what I really could not bear is participating in the grand cliche of it all -- that my eyes would meet the wild eyes of other shoppers, people who believe with all their heart that if they park outside a Wal-Mart all night in order to buy Dad a slightly discounted flat-screen TV, they will have accomplished something when in fact they have been lured into one of the most breathtaking marketing ploys thrust upon the shopping public.
 It's like watching thousands of farm animals being herded about mindlessly. I simply can't handle that much human pathos around the holidays. 
 So for my last journey of the year to a large store, I chose Uniqlo (pronounced you-KNEE-coo-low), the two-week-old SoHo outpost of the Japanese chain known for its inexpensive cashmere and logo-free clothing. 
 A little more than a year ago, Critical Shopperwrote enthusiastically about the chain's first American store, an 8,000-square-foot emporium in the Menlo Park Mall in New Jersey, and I'm relieved to say that at 36,000 square feet -- larger than the largest Uniqlo in Japan -- the place remains a pleasure: well tended and professionally administered, the interior a vaulted, awe-inspiring matrix of light and glass, the mannequins delicately painted to resemble wood, the lines at the cash registers mercifully brief. 
 Of course, the store opened on Nov. 10, so staff members are still on their best behavior, clerks stationed at every ledge and table with their plexiglass shirt-folders, doomed to fold and refold all day long, eight hours a day, five days a week. Just as Sisyphus was condemned for eternity to roll a giant boulder up a mountain to have it inevitably roll back down into the valley, these clerks wait and watch as shoppers waltz up to the sweaters they have neatly arranged. The shoppers shake them out, hold them up to their bodies, then stuff them back onto the racks and shelves. 
 I did exactly this, dozens of times, and asked one clerk if the ceaseless and seemingly pointless toil bothered her. 
 She shook her head. ''It's my job,'' she said. 
 On a day during Thanksgiving week, I spent two hours in the store and could have stayed longer. I could have spent another half-hour listening to the music at the music station upstairs. Who can resist a rendition of the Knack's ''My Sharona'' by the Japanese artist Towa Tei, with his self-mocking pronunciation of the words as ''My Shalona''? 
 UNLIKE American Eagle or Gap or Abercrombie & Fitch, there are no logos on Uniqlo clothing. Maybe I ought to blame Rene Lacoste, but whoever thought up the meaningless antlered stag that adorns Abercrombie & Fitch polo clothing needs to go on a long vacation. At least Lacoste's alligator originated in some meaning, however small. (In 1927, Lacoste bet an alligator suitcase that he would win a tennis match. He lost, but nevertheless earned the nickname ''the alligator.'' The stag seems to have arrived out of nowheresville.) 
 While Uniqlo is logo-free, it does present itself as a cathedral to the joys of American consumerism, its walls seemingly padded in thousands of its by-now-fabled cashmere sweaters. (Sweaters generally cost $89.50 for women and $99.50 for men; cashmere oversize wraps, which could be used as a shawl or slung over a sofa, are $89.50.) 
 There is not much variety at Uniqlo; the designers tend to stick to the basics. At this new store, there are a few nods to originality, like a women's balloon skirt in parachute nylon, and the dozens of T-shirts designed by Japanese artists, some packaged with toys like Transformers or key chains, are on sale for $15.50. 
 The ultimate test in terms of financial value, I thought, would be women's tights. For $4.90, I expected them to be too small (they weren't) and to fall apart after one wear. So far, they have lasted three wearings. 
 I bought a turquoise cashmere turtleneck sweater (on sale for $69.50), a fleece top for running outdoors ($15.50), a black canvas Tod's-like tote bag with pockets and striped cotton lining and tons of interior pockets ($29.50), the tights and a T-shirt by an artist named Kyotaro, depicting a mother bear and two baby bears, in the style of French mid-19th-century kitsch. And a pair of cashmere gloves for $19.50. Even on Bluefly.com, cashmere gloves cost $30. 
 The secret to Uniqlo's success is that it offers a limited number of styles in a wide variety of colors and fabrics, allowing the company an extraordinary economy of scale. Rather than trying to get the latest look into stores the fastest, it sticks to basic designs. This is fine with me, especially when the basics are so well made and well priced. 
 Whether this approach will fly with American consumers remains to be seen. We're a fickle bunch, always daring our retailers for entertainment, variety and seduction, whether or not we know we are being led by the nose to the cashmere-padded corral. 

Uniqlo
546 Broadway (between Prince and Spring Streets); (917) 237-8800

ATMOSPHERE -- Glass wrapped in cashmere.
SERVICE -- Good, but Critical Shopper cautiously awaits the service deterioration that inevitably afflicts many SoHo megastores.
KEY LOOKS -- As basic and Quaker as Manhattan gets. You add the extras.
PRICES -- Braided leather belt, $19.50; wool cardigan jacket, $49.50; polyester down-filled jacket just like the one that I paid $700 for at Bloomingdale's last year, $99.50.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 7, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The Critical Shopper column last Thursday about Uniqlo, a clothing store in SoHo, referred incorrectly to the logo on Lacoste clothing. Although Rene Lacoste, the company's founder, was nicknamed the Alligator during his tennis career, the logo was intended to depict a crocodile.

GRAPHIC: Photos: KEEP IT SIMPLE -- Uniqlo has cashmere galore, without logos. It sticks with basic designs in a wide range of colors and fabrics. The sales clerks? Patient. The checkout lines? Short. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); THANKSGIVING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%) Retail Stores and Trade

ORGANIZATION: Uniqlo (NYC Store)

PERSON: Alex Kuczynski

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (55%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



652 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Health Care at a Premium

BYLINE: By EVE TAHMINCIOGLU

 BODY:
Entrepreneurs have plenty of things to keep them awake at night worrying: payroll, inventory, pricing, competition. For Jere Smith and her husband, Don Lueders, the main thing is health insurance.
 Many small-business owners struggle with the high cost of health insurance, but it is even more critical for entrepreneurs with ventures less than five years old, the time when a business tries to build its clientele and profits. And because many start-ups typically include few employees, if any, they cannot always take advantage of discounted insurance rates that groups enjoy.
The cost of buying health insurance, experts say, is increasingly rattling start-ups that never anticipated the escalating price tag, and in some cases the expense keeps would-be entrepreneurs on the sidelines, especially those with pre-existing medical conditions.
 ''If Bill Gates had to worry about health insurance would he have started Microsoft? Who knows,'' said Katherine Swartz, an economist at the Harvard School of Public Health and the author of ''Reinsuring Health: Why More Middle-Class People Are Uninsured and What Government Can Do.'' 
 ''I worry about whether these small businesses will be able to survive, and I worry about what the U.S. economy is going to produce, the types of products and services small businesses will be able to produce in the next decade or so,'' Ms. Swartz said.
 Once upon a time, Ms. Smith and Mr. Lueders had generous benefits from their employers and gave little thought to how medical care would be paid. But today, as owners of a consulting firm in Liberty, Mo., and a transmission franchise in North Kansas City, it is a constant struggle. 
 ''When we worked for someone else, life was good,'' she said. ''We had plenty of money and health care. Now we live with the constant fear of something. You never know, you just hold your breath. We will probably have one of us go back and get a full-time job at some point.''
 Premiums for small companies are rising at a faster clip than at larger companies. A Kaiser Family Foundation telephone survey of 2,122 companies released in September found that premiums for small companies rose an average of 8.8 percent this year, compared with a 7 percent rise for larger companies that have more than 200 employees.
 Ms. Smith said her premiums rose 11 percent this year and that she was now paying about $300 a month in premiums for a high-deductible plan. The couple has to meet a $5,000 deductible each before their coverage kicks in.
 Josef Blumenfeld, who opened his own global public relations firm, Tradewind Strategies, two years ago in Natick, Mass., has a more comprehensive plan, he said, with low deductibles, but he is paying $1,346 a month for health coverage for his family, including his wife and two children. That is more than $16,000 annually.
 ''Health insurance has become our second-largest expense behind our mortgage,'' he said. ''It's definitely causing me to consider going back into the job market.''
 According to a 2005 mail survey of more than 600 small businesses by the National Association for the Self-Employed, or NASE, which represents the nation's microbusinesses, 51.1 percent of respondents said they did not or had not planned to offer health insurance coverage for themselves or employees. (The overall margin of error was plus or minus 3.9 percent.)
 In the survey, the smallest companies, grossing less than $50,000 annually, fared worse. About 14 percent of those companies had insurance coverage, compared with 70 percent among those with annual revenue of $500,000 or more. And the smaller businesses pay more, the study found. The small companies spent a median of 18.7 percent of their gross sales on health insurance when they did offer it, compared with 2.3 percent among the higher-grossing firms.
 ''The cost of health insurance is definitely a big factor in the decision to move toward self-employment,'' said Kristie Darien, executive director for NASE. ''Not only is it a huge cost, but it's also very complicated. There's a natural fear among people that you have to do a lot of research and it still can be very confusing.'' 
 Not everyone thinks the trend is keeping people from taking the entrepreneurial plunge. ''I'm not buying that it is a true barrier. It's a hurdle not a wall,'' says Bill Coleman, senior vice president for compensation at Salary.com, the compensation and benefits data site. If the higher price of health insurance keeps you out of the self-employed game, he said, then you might not be cut out to be an entrepreneur. 
 If you want to be an entrepreneur, he says, you have to find ways to make your small company part of a bigger group. He suggested looking at a professional employer organization where a small business enters into a type of co-employment relationship with such a firm that essentially employs your workers like a staffing agency would and provides them health benefits.
 And small-business owners, some insurance experts say, just have to come to terms with the reality of what health plans cost. ''You have Joe who worked for American Airlines and had the richest plan on the face of the earth where everything was covered and now having to start paying for the plan themselves. They are sticker-shocked,'' said Cathy Daugherty, a health insurance broker from Orange, Calif.
 When they calculate their business plan, she added, some entrepreneurs do not appropriately calculate their health insurance expenses. Do not blame the high cost of health insurance if a small-business owner cannot make ends meet, she said. ''Everything has to be put into the budget like Internet access and rent,'' she said. 
 Most states are looking at ways to make coverage more affordable, Ms. Swartz said. Many now offer something called high-risk pools that provide subsidized insurance to people who have pre-existing or chronic conditions. 
 Thomas Sudow, executive director of the Beachwood Chamber of Commerce in Beachwood, Ohio, said his chamber was part of the Northern Ohio Area Chambers of Commerce that includes 130 Ohio chambers with over 40,000 members, all of them with access to a discounted plan through Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield.
 He estimates that the plan can save as much as 5 percent off rates available on the open market to small-business owners but that includes only those companies that have two or more employees.
 He suggested that the first thing a would-be entrepreneur do, especially if he has some sort of health condition, is to sit down with many different insurance agents and come up with a creative plan that fits his needs. And make sure they are experts in small-group and individual policies.
 That kind of collaboration helped Jere Smith find her recent policy. ''The agent was able to discuss directly with the underwriter. They had a long working relationship. So I feel the agent was able to properly represent us to the company,'' she said.
 Ms. Smith loves being an entrepreneur and is happy with her policy right now, although she admits, ''we have had no reason to use the coverage.'' What is worrying her is the uncertainty of future premium rates or whether a major medical issue down the line will be covered.
 ''We've always wanted to be self-employed but health care is the 95 percent reason we might have to go back to working for someone else,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jere Smith, left, and her husband, Don Lueders, own a transmission franchise in North Kansas City, Mo. (Photo by Ed Zurga for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (67%) Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Small Business; Public Opinion; Entrepreneurship; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Kaiser Family Foundation

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (52%) Eve Tahmincioglu; Jere Smith; Don Lueders

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (87%) MISSOURI, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



653 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: The Immigration Answer? It's in Mexico's Classrooms 

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University and co-writes a blog at www.marginalrevolution.com. He can be reached at tcowen@gmu.edu.

 BODY:
Poorly functioning Mexican and Latino educational systems are a central problem behind current immigration dilemmas, and the United States is partly responsible. If the United States took in a higher ratio of legal immigrants, and required more education, the entire North American region would be better off.
 A high school diploma brings higher wages in Mexico, but in the United States the more educated migrants do not earn noticeably more than those who have less education. Education does not much raise the productivity of hard physical labor. The result is that the least educated Mexicans have the most reason to cross the border. In addition, many Mexicans, knowing they may someday go to the United States, see less reason to invest in education. 
Mexican immigrants used to have higher-than-average levels of education, but today the average male Mexican migrant has lower-than-average education by Mexican standards. 
 David McKenzie of the World Bank, and Hillel Rapoport, a lecturer in economics at Bar-Ilan University in Israel, document this shift and show that extensive social networks of fellow countrymen make it increasingly easy for male migrants with little education to find apartments and jobs in the United States (''Self-selection patterns in Mexico-U.S. migration: The role of migration networks,'' at http://siteresources.worldbank.org/DEC/Resources/Self--selection--patterns--in--Mexico--U--S--migration.pdf). Less-educated migrants are more likely to bring crime and social problems, and they are less likely to assimilate.
 In contrast to the men, female arrivals from Mexico still have above-average levels of education for their gender. A woman who migrates is most likely to have eight to nine years of education. 
 It appears that (relatively) educated Mexican women are more willing to break away from their families. Furthermore, Mexican women are less likely to work in agriculture or at hard labor, so education brings a higher wage in the United States. In other words, the dynamic for female Mexican migration is a more positive one. Nonetheless, illegal Mexican immigrants to the United States are usually male, if only because crossing the border is perilous and physically demanding. 
 This gender imbalance worsens the problems of immigration. Large numbers of young Mexican men have scant prospects for marriage or family in the United States. Men who marry tend to earn more money, behave more responsibly, commit less crime and assimilate more readily. Much of the so-called ''immigration problem'' stems from the illegality of immigration rather than from immigration itself. 
 Unfortunately, we cannot expect a wealthier Mexico to resolve migration problems, at least not within the short- or even medium-run. The evidence suggests that good times in Mexico give the poor the means to leave, while keeping the better-educated males at home in good jobs. 
 A better immigration policy would tighten the border, while allowing in more legal immigrants from Mexico and other Latin countries, and require higher levels of education. Young Mexicans would see greater reason to invest in education, to the benefit of all Mexican society, not just those who cross the border. Sixteen percent of the Mexican labor force is working in the United States at any point in time, and, of course, earning higher average wages than laborers in Mexico, so the impact of American policy on Mexico is significant. The less educated Mexicans could be some of the biggest winners from immigration reform. 
 In the United States, employers have a greater incentive to train legal Mexican workers and combine their labors more effectively with capital investment; when the workers are illegal, employers create only the most makeshift of circumstances. The legality and thus physical ease of immigration would also encourage the arrival of more Mexican women, thereby remedying the gender imbalance and encouraging assimilation. In the short run, the greater number of immigrant children would raise costs in the United States for education and health care, but in the longer run those children would produce goods and services and pay taxes.
 Taking in a higher proportion of women would relieve the migration-driven gender imbalance of rural Mexico. It is common for villages to have many unmarried young women, but virtually no young men. The women who are married often go without their husbands for years. The remaining men are more likely to treat their women badly, knowing they can always find another partner.
 Shutting the Mexican border is probably not possible, and it would paralyze American businesses and agriculture. A guest worker program without restrictions on education might be better than doing nothing, but would not solve the negative educational dynamic. Many guest workers would stay on past the expiration of their visas, again shifting the ratio back toward illegal immigration. Furthermore, workers tied to a single job, as is the case for most guest worker programs, are unlikely to put down roots. 
 The United States needs the courage to legalize a higher number of immigrant arrivals. The problems with current illegal migration are real. But most Americans benefit from Latino migration, even of the illegal kind, and they could benefit much more from legal and better-educated arrivals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); FAMILY (72%); GENDER EQUALITY (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); MARRIAGE (66%) Immigration and Refugees; Education and Schools; Illegal Immigrants; Labor; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: WORLD BANK GROUP (74%)

PERSON: Tyler Cowen

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ISRAEL (78%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



654 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Pace of Economy's Growth Is Revised Upward

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The rough patch that the American economy hit in the third quarter was not quite as rough as the government first estimated.
 New figures released yesterday by the Commerce Department showed that gross domestic product expanded at a 2.2 percent annual rate from July through September, notably more than the 1.6 percent reported last month.
But new signs surfaced yesterday suggesting the economy may be headed for a steeper decline during the rest of the year, with corporate inventories bulging and home sales deteriorating further. 
 Economists said that the slide in growth had still not bottomed out on its way down from the lofty 5.6 percent expansion in the first quarter.
 ''Things kind of tailed off in the third quarter, so you entered the fourth quarter without much momentum,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist with MFR, an economic research firm. ''We're not off to a great start.''
 A separate report from the Commerce Department yesterday said that sales of new homes dropped in October for the fifth time in 10 months, falling 3.2 percent from September. Compared with a year earlier, new home sales plunged 25.4 percent. It was the ninth consecutive month of year-over-year declines of more than 10 percent -- the longest such string since 1991.
 The housing sector, by far the biggest drag on growth in the third quarter, wilted at a slightly faster rate in the third quarter than the government initially reported. In all, the contraction in the housing market subtracted 1.16 percentage points from the annualized growth rate, compared with the 1.12 percentage points reported last month.
 Two main factors led to the upward revision in the third-quarter figure: Americans purchased fewer goods from overseas than initially thought, and businesses added to their inventories more quickly.
 On Wall Street yesterday, investors bid stocks upward on news of the stronger growth figures. The dollar, which has declined in recent days because of fears about the United States economy starting to slide, retraced some of its losses.
 While increasing purchases by businesses bode well for the economy in the short term, they could drag down growth in the future if inventories pile up, economists said.
 ''A classic sign of an economy that's going to have trouble is an inventory accumulation,'' said David Kelly, an economist with Putnam Investments. ''If companies don't sell as much stuff as they bought in one quarter, then they don't produce as much in the next quarter.''
 One benefit of the slowing economy has been lower inflation. The revised G.D.P. report showed that the pressure from inflation also eased more than the government first estimated. A broad index of consumer prices rose at a 2.4 percent annual rate, compared with an initial estimate of 2.5 percent. And a gauge of inflation, closely watched by the Federal Reserve, that strips out volatile food and energy prices posted an annualized ''core'' rate of 2.2 percent, compared with 2.3 percent reported last month.
 The figures were consistent with other recent economic reports that have showed price increases starting to slow recently. Yesterday the Federal Reserve released its beige book report, which said that most regions of the country saw prices moderate from the beginning of October through Nov. 20.
 While the Fed has held rates steady since August, its members have repeatedly cautioned that any resurgence of inflationary pressure could prompt it to start raising them again. On Tuesday, the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, warned in a speech in New York that inflation remained ''uncomfortably high,'' signaling that future rate increases have not been ruled out. He identified pressure from rising wages and income as a potential threat because employers could pass their rising labor costs onto customers.
 Indeed, the beige book showed that wages were rising quickly in some parts of the country. It cited ''more rapid'' wage gains in the San Francisco district, especially for skilled workers in health care, finance and construction. And it noted that employers were ''increasingly reliant'' on hiring bonuses to recruit skilled workers. Similar patterns were reported in the New York district.
 The beige book largely depicted an economy that was moderating as the slowdown in housing weakened overall economic growth. ''Most districts cited declining sales and rising home inventories,'' the report said.
 The situation seemed particularly bleak in the San Francisco district, where banks were beginning to report that some builders had been delinquent in repaying loans.
 The unsold inventory of new homes continued to mount, according to the Commerce Department's report. There is now a seven-month supply on the market, compared with 6.7 months' worth in September.
 Even so, median prices for new homes ticked up in October to $248,500, 1.9 percent higher than a year earlier. Economists attributed the price jump to regional variations, and said it was not an indication that prices had bottomed out. 
 ''Mix and location of home sales is clearly impacting the overall median price,'' Stuart Hoffman, chief economist with PNC Financial, said in a research report. 
 Sales in the West, where houses are more expensive on average than elsewhere in the country, actually rose last month. It was the only region of the country where sales increased.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Modest Growth in Most Regions''A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed yesterday. Data is for Oct. 2-Nov. 20.MINNEAPOLISEconomic growth in many industries. Homebuilding and residential real estate weakened. Labor market tightened.SAN FRANCISCO (Includes Alaska and Hawaii)Improved demand reported by retail, service, manufacturing, and agriculture. Pace of wage growth was flat.CHICAGOBusiness activity expanded as consumer spending increased and manufacturing grew. Real estate and construction declined.CLEVELANDFactory production rose, but auto sector restructuring, the housing market and raw material prices ''tempered enthusiasm.''BOSTONDouble-digit revenue increases reported by staffing, software, and technology. Commercial real estate remained strong.NEW YORKManufacturing and retailing led gains. Rental market in New York City tightened, and housing market in northern New Jersey was slow.PHILADELPHIASlight improvement in economic conditions. Small increases in manufacturing shipments were offset by declines in new orders.RICHMOND, VA.Economic expansion was somewhat stronger, though housing market was sluggish and labor markets tightened.ATLANTABusiness conditions, especially in manufacturing, were mixed. Construction declined and retail sales were modest.ST. LOUISSlight increases in retail and auto sales, and gains in services and manufacturing led moderate expansion. Real estate was mixed.KANSAS CITY, MO.Weak auto sales were offset by increased consumer spending, good agricultural conditions and an expanding labor market.DALLASArea ''continued to decelerate from high levels.'' Manufacturing fueled growth. Energy industry remained strong.(Source by Bloomberg News)Map of the United States highlighting cities listed above.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); STATISTICS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (68%) United States Economy; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Gross Domestic Product; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Commerce Department

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



655 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: A College Education Without Job Prospects

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
The job market for Indian college graduates is split sharply in two. With a robust handshake, a placeless accent and a confident walk, you can get a $300-a-month job with Citibank or Microsoft. With a limp handshake and a thick accent, you might peddle credit cards door to door for $2 a day.
 India was once divided chiefly by caste. Today, new criteria are creating a different divide: skills. Those with marketable skills are sought by a new economy of call centers and software houses; those without are ensnared in old, drudgelike jobs.
Unlike birthright, which determines caste, the skills in question are teachable: the ability to communicate crisply in clear English, to work with teams and deliver presentations, to use search engines like Google, to tear apart theories rather than memorize them. 
 But the chance to learn such skills is still a prerogative reserved, for the most part, for the modern equivalent of India's upper castes -- the few thousand students who graduate each year from academies like the Indian Institutes of Management and the Indian Institutes of Technology. Their alumni, mostly engineers, walk the hallways of Wall Street and Silicon Valley and are stewards for some of the largest companies.
 In the shadow of those marquee institutions, most of the 11 million students in India's 18,000 colleges and universities receive starkly inferior training, heavy on obedience and light on useful job skills.
 Students, executives and educators say this two-tier education system is locking millions of people into the bottom berths of the economy, depriving the country of talent and students of the chance to improve their lot. For those who succeed, what counts is the right skills. 
 ''It's almost literally a matter of life and death for them,'' said Kiran Karnik, president of the National Association of Software and Services Companies, a trade body that represents many leading employers. ''The same person from the same institution with the same grades, but not having these skills, will either not get employed at all or will probably get a job in a shop or something.''
 India is that rare country where it seems to get harder to find a job the more educated you are. In the 2001 census, college graduates had higher unemployment -- 17 percent -- than middle or high school graduates.
 But as graduates complain about a lack of jobs, companies across India see a lack of skilled applicants. The contradiction is explained, experts say, by the poor quality of undergraduate education. India's thousands of colleges are swallowing millions of new students every year, only to turn out degree holders whom no one wants to hire.
 A study published by the software trade group last year concluded that only 10 percent of graduates with nonspecialized degrees were considered employable by leading companies, compared with 25 percent of engineers.
 Pratap Bhanu Mehta, a former Harvard professor who recently resigned in frustration from the National Knowledge Commission, which advises the Indian government on overhauling the education system, said, ''The real crisis for me is the place where 70 percent of your graduates are students who do basic science, bachelor of arts and bachelor of commerce.''
 Bijal Vora, a commerce student at Hinduja College here in Mumbai, formerly Bombay, would welcome a redesign of the system. ''We have not done this to become salespeople,'' she said.
 Hinduja is in one of India's richest enclaves, but it is a second-tier, little-known school, and so it exemplifies a middling college experience -- neither the best nor the worst.
 Between lectures there, dozens of students swarmed around a reporter to complain about their education.
 ''What the market wants and what the school provides are totally different,'' a commerce student, Sohail Kutchi, said.
 Kinjal Bhuptani, a final-year student who expects next year to make $2 to $4 a day hawking credit cards, was dejected. ''The opportunities we get at this stage are sad,'' she said. ''We might as well not have studied.''
 The students said they were not learning to communicate effectively, even as the essential job skills evolve from pushing papers to answering phones to making presentations. They said their courses offered few chances to work in groups or hold discussions. And in this supposedly English-language college, the professors often used bad grammar and spoke in thick accents.
 Across India, half of graduates are not taught in English, effectively barring them from the high-end labor market, said Mohandas Pai, director of human resources at Infosys, a leading outsourcing company. And where English is taught, it is not necessarily the kind employers need.
 ''Depreciation nikal diya, assets ko less ho gaya.'' So went a lesson being given by the accounting professor at Dahanukar College in suburban Mumbai -- removing depreciation reduces assets -- an example of the widespread use in supposedly English-language colleges of Hinglish, an amalgam of Hindi and English.
 A lack of communications skills may be the most obvious shortcoming, but it is not the only one. A deeper problem, specialists say, is a classroom environment that treats students like children even if they are in their mid-20's. Teaching emphasizes silent note-taking and discipline at the expense of analysis and debate. 
 ''Out! Out! Close the door! Close the door!'' a management professor barked at a student who entered his classroom at Hinduja two minutes late. Soon after his departure, the door cracked open again, and the student asked if he could at least take his bag.
 The reply: ''Out! Out! Who said you could stand here?'' A second student, caught whispering, was asked to stand up and cease taking notes.
 Then there is the matter of teaching style. At Hinduja and Dahanukar, the mode of instruction at times evokes a re-education camp of some sort. In a marketing class at Hinduja, the professor paced in front, then pressed her chalk to the board. 
 She drew a tree diagram dividing it into indirect and direct marketing, then divided those into components, and those further into subcomponents. As students frantically took notes, she kept going, and before long she was teaching them that each region of Mumbai would have its own marketing representative: eastern Mumbai, western Mumbai, central Mumbai. There was no discussion, and there was little to discuss.
 The professor then led the students in a chant: ''What is span of management?'' 
 ''Span of management is the number of subordinates a supervisor will manage.'' She chanted the refrain four times.
 Rote memorization is rife at Indian colleges because students continue to be judged almost solely by exam results. There is scant incentive to widen their horizons -- to read books, found clubs or stage plays.
 That is not good news for Indian companies, which are hiring these days. Infosys will take on 25,000 people this year from a pool of 1.5 million applicants. The ranks of the rejected are likely to include smart graduates who lack qualities like poise, articulateness and global exposure, Mr. Pai of Infosys said. 
 And even if rigid teaching ways are changed, experts say the rigidity of Indian households will continue.
 ''When we are raising our children,'' said Sam Pitroda, a Chicago-based entrepreneur who is chairman of the Knowledge Commission and was an adviser to Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in the 1980s, ''we constantly tell them: 'Don't do this, don't do that. Stand here, stand there.' It creates a feeling that if there is a boundary, you don't cross it. You create boxes around people when we need people thinking outside the box.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Rajeshwari Govindippa teaching a corporate finance class at Hinduja College. The school, typical of many in India, does not value creativity.
 Students socializing between classes at Hinduja College in Mumbai, a commerce school. During class, the emphasis is on punctuality and discipline. (Photographs by Sam Hollenshead/Polaris, for The International Herald Tribune)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BONDS (71%); ENGINEERING (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (67%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (55%); CALL CENTERS (55%); CENSUS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Stocks and Bonds; Computers and the Internet; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: Anand Giridharadas

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) India; Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



656 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Seeing the Seediness, and Celebrating It 

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Ever since the great suburban exodus of the postwar years, American cities have experienced varying degrees of panic about their identities. One result is that more and more cities have taken on many of the qualities of suburbs to survive. Meanwhile, the once-smooth surface of suburbia has cracked open, revealing a dark underbelly that once seemed to be the exclusive realm of the city.
 The new Museum of Contemporary Art Detroit is a radical rejoinder to this seismic shift. Housed in an abandoned car dealership on a barren strip of Woodward Avenue, it fits loosely into a decades-long effort to restore energy to an area that was abandoned during the white flight of the 1970s. But the design springs from a profound rethinking of what constitutes urban revitalization. Designed by Andrew Zago, its intentionally raw aesthetic is conceived as an act of guerrilla architecture, one that accepts decay as fact rather than attempt to create a false vision of urban density. By embracing reality, it could succeed where large-scale development has so far failed. 
Mr. Zago is uniquely positioned to grasp this context. Born in Detroit in 1958, he has vivid memories of the 1967 race riots that led the exodus of the white middle class. He remembers hearing white neighbors talk of fleeing to the suburbs as black families moved in. After departing with his family to a northern suburb, he saw the city decline to the point where it became a poster child of decay.
 Only later, as a practicing architect in the 1990s, did he begin to see these decrepit neighborhoods as a legitimate landscape for architectural experimentation. ''I didn't want to romanticize it,'' he said during a recent tour of Detroit, ''but the city had a depth of character, a real substance and integrity. And while you want to do away with the problems, you don't want to lose that quality.''
 The museum, known as Mocad, presented his first opportunity to explore the tensions and ambiguities -- between urban and suburban, resilience and decay -- on a meaningful scale. The museum stands midway between the gargantuan Beaux-Arts structure that houses the venerated Detroit Institute of Art -- a haunting symbol of the city's faded civic aspirations -- and a recently completed sports and entertainment district on the edge of the downtown business district. 
 Anchored by Comerica Park, the home of the Detroit Tigers, the entertainment district's gaudy signs, generic bars and trickle of pedestrians will be recognizable to anyone who has witnessed the transformation of America's once-vibrant inner cities into generic shopping malls. It is an ersatz vision of the bustling metropolis, sanitized for visiting suburbanites.
 By comparison, Mr. Zago draws inspiration from the squatters' houses, performance spaces, local bars and grass-roots art projects that have sprouted amid the disturbing stillness of the neighborhoods: a kind of forgotten underworld tucked into ruined houses and storefronts surrounded by lots that have been abandoned for so long that they have become overgrown fields.
 The architect had no interest in smoothing over the scars, which are worn as badges of pride. The gallery floor in what was once the car showroom retains its red octagonal tile; the other floors are raw concrete. Interior walls -- collages of peeling paint, exposed brick and concrete block -- have been left untouched so that you can see the traces of where they have been cut open and patched over during years of crude alterations. (Mr. Zago jokingly calls it his Frankenstein building.)
 To save money, he placed the museum's mechanical systems, typically hidden atop the roof, in a corner of a gallery, wrapped in a chain link fence. Warmth is provided by a series of heat lamps suspended from the ceiling, as they might be in a public parking garage. Art works -- a video by Kara Walker, a towering sculpture cobbled from the broken fragments of an old acoustical tile ceiling by Nari Ward -- are scattered throughout the galleries with refreshing informality.
 The intentionally crude approach echoes museum projects like Frank Gehry's Geffen Contemporary in Los Angeles (1982) and Michael Maltzan's MoMA QNS, which served as a temporary home for the Museum of Modern Art from 2002 to 2004. Like those projects, resolutely informal, Mocad creates a casual and intimate relationship between art and viewer, shrugging off the weighty air of authority and privilege that is typical of so many museums. It takes us back to a time when making art and architecture could be a act of dissent.
 Mr. Zago reinforces that ethos by allowing the art to spill out joyfully onto the sidewalks. Big glass garage doors are set into the Garfield Street facade, which can be rolled up during the summer. For the opening of the museum, the graffiti artist Barry McGee spray-painted the brick facade with bold swirling letters. The graffiti echoes the colorfully painted convenience stores with Lotto signs that have sprouted up around Detroit in former brick bank buildings. (The city's planning department tends to regard the signs as a form of architectural vandalism.)
 But Mocad also sets out to create a genuine community of art. Its three main galleries are arranged around a big room in which an informal bookstore and cafe were conceived as places to exchange ideas rather than a Starbucks for tourists. Its casual disorder affirms what the critic Dave Hickey once described as the social order that sustains any art community -- ''the way people talk about loving things, which things, and why.''
 Museum officials hope to raise $5.5 million for a more elaborate renovation by Mr. Zago that could be completed by 2010. Not surprisingly, his design for this second phase will be more formal than this, but not by much. All of the interior walls will be removed, yielding a big, open, flexible space with a series of small, boxlike galleries embedded along the main facade. A grid of enormous skylights shaped like canted parallelograms will puncture the roof. By projecting some of the skylights down into the space and others up above the roof, Mr. Zago lends character to the interior without creating a maze of walls.
 A series of canted windows will project from the Woodward Avenue facade, evoking the building's previous life as a car dealership. A cafe will push out into the parking lot, which will become a sculpture garden.
 It remains to be seen whether Mr. Zago's strategy will be the seed for similar developments. But Mocad is a powerful reminder that the neat distinction between the sterile suburbs and their urban counterpart is now dead. Mr. Zago finds meaning in the forgotten landscape between the two: a terrain that makes room for renegades and outcasts, as the urban metropolis once did.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Museum of Contemporary Art Detroit is housed in an abandoned car dealership on Woodward Avenue. (Photo by Fabrizio Constantini for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Visitors watch a video by Kara Walker. The museum's interior walls, with their peeling paint and exposed brick, have been left untouched. (Photo by Fabrizio Constantini for The New York Times)(pg. E5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FAMILY (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%); BASEBALL (60%); DRINKING PLACES (60%); NEW CAR DEALERS (55%); RIOTS (51%); RETAILERS (50%) Art; Reviews; Architecture

COMPANY: COMERICA INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Museum of Contemporary Art Detroit

TICKER: CMA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%)

PERSON: Nicolai Ouroussoff; Andrew Zago

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



657 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Illness Fails to Dampen Drive for a Better Life 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
Norma Millan speaks of the days when ''I used to be active,'' and when her excursions through the city were a pleasure. 
 ''I used to walk over the Brooklyn Bridge, one of my joys in summertime,'' said Ms. Millan, 52. ''Now I can't walk two blocks without getting out of breath.'' She cited her many ailments: diabetes, asthma, high blood pressure.
Nonetheless, for the last year, Ms. Millan has been journeying around the city despite her energy-sapping illnesses, panting her way up subway steps and often having to walk much more than two blocks to get to her destination. 
 She lives in a homeless shelter in Harlem with her 15-year-old son, Keenan, and makes the trips in search of a decent and affordable apartment for them. 
 Finding an apartment is her No. 1 priority, Ms. Millan said recently. Improving her health is second. She spoke of reminders of mortality; of her seven siblings, she said, three died of illness. A sister had a heart attack at 53, another sister died from a brain tumor at 41 and a brother died from AIDS at 39. Another brother, 44, has lung cancer.
 Ms. Millan told her story at the Pelham Fritz Apartments, a shelter for homeless families operated by the Children's Aid Society, one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 She and Keenan, the younger of her two sons, who is a student at Automotive High School in Brooklyn, have been living at the shelter since September of last year, after they and Luis, the brother who suffers from cancer, were evicted from their Brooklyn apartment, Ms. Millan said. 
 They could no longer pay the rent, she said, after the landlord raised it beyond what her welfare payments enabled her to afford. She was on welfare because her illnesses kept her from working, she said, and Luis was neither working nor receiving welfare benefits. He is now living in a rehabilitation facility.
 Ms. Millan, who grew up in Brooklyn, said the eviction that left her homeless was not the first dire situation in her adult life. An earlier episode occurred in the 1980s, she said, when she was living in Lawrence, Mass., with her fiance, the father of her older son, Rafael, who is now 26. The man, who veered from low-wage jobs to unemployment, was often despondent and would ''take it out on me,'' she said, telling of beatings he inflicted when he was drunk.
 She left him after they had been together for five years, she said. ''I took Rafael and got on Amtrak and came back to New York to my mother.''
 She began using heroin and cocaine at age 30, during the abusive relationship, she said, and became addicted. She said she conquered the addiction by going through a methadone-maintenance program after she returned to New York.
 Keenan was born after a shorter relationship with another man, she said, adding that Keenan has had no contact in recent years with his father, who does not contribute to his support. 
 Ms. Millan, who is also being treated for depression and bipolar disorder, receives $398 a month in welfare payments and $150 a month in food stamps. Medicaid covers her and Keenan's medical expenses.
 She does not pay rent for their one-bedroom apartment at the shelter, which the nonprofit Children's Aid Society operates with city money. Ms. Millan sleeps in the living room. 
 Her apartment search typifies those of so many by the city's poorest residents. ''I've been trying to get into public housing for 10 years,'' she said. 
 But with low turnover and a long waiting list for such apartments, the city's Housing Authority gives priority to low-income people who have needs that it considers more urgent than those of people like Ms. Millan -- to current victims of domestic violence, for example, and people whose housing conditions directly threaten their lives because of their illnesses or disabilities. That is a category that Ms. Millan says she has not been placed in.
 Hence her trips to privately owned buildings. There was a long subway ride to the Rockaways in Queens, where, she said, the apartment turned out to be nine blocks from the subway station and thus unsuitable for her. Or shorter trips to apartments that were ''like closets,'' and to apartments that were unaffordable because the rent was more than the welfare program's maximum rent payment, and her monthly cash benefit for other living expenses is too little to let her use part of it for additional rent, she said. 
 Cathleen Clements, a spokeswoman for the Children's Aid Society, said the maximum rent that the welfare program currently paid for a two-person household seeking to move from a homeless shelter was $820 a month.
 Meanwhile, Ms. Millan has also had concerns unrelated to housing and health. When the school year started in September, she said, Keenan, who plays on Brooklyn Automotive's football team, was depressed by the condition of his off-the-field wardrobe. 
 ''He said, 'Mommy, I need clothes,' '' she recalled, but she lacked the money to buy him any.
 So Judy Quinones, their social worker at the Children's Aid Society, tapped the Neediest Cases to buy $200 worth of Old Navy gift cards, which Ms. Millan said went for sneakers, slacks, a hooded sweatshirt and other items for Keenan.
 ''When he got the clothes,'' she said, ''he was very excited about it.''

Previously recorded: $2,283,483.73
Recorded Tuesday: $43,007.00
Total: $2,326,490.73
Last year to date: $2,594,258.00

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Norma Millan lives in a homeless shelter in Harlem with her son, at rear, as she searches for an apartment. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (88%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (88%); EVICTION (88%); HOMELESSNESS (88%); CHILDREN (86%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (86%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); AIDS & HIV (72%); FAMILY (72%); HEART DISEASE (71%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); HYPERTENSION (71%); ASTHMA (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); LUNG CANCER (66%); COCAINE (60%); HEROIN (60%); DIABETES (56%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Children's Aid Society

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (50%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (50%)

PERSON: Joseph P Fried; Norma Millan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



658 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Talk of Future Reopens Debate on Empty Nursing Home

BYLINE: BY COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
To many New Yorkers, the Neponsit Health Care Center was the nursing home in Queens that made headlines in 1998 when the city abruptly, and in the middle of the night, emptied the center of its 282 elderly residents and dispatched them to city hospitals.
 Since then, the center has remained fenced off, neglected and deteriorating, brooding on the shoreline while its neighbors in the Rockaways wondered about its future. 
Now, as the city has begun to take steps to determine that future, controversy has returned over one of the most valuable oceanfront parcels in New York.
 The six-acre property is covered by a strict zoning ordinance allowing only a health care center on the site or a conversion to public park land. Local leaders and residents say they are outraged at one proposal: to rewrite state law and rezone the property so that it may be divided into parcels and developed into luxury houses with ocean views.
 City officials would not discuss any specifics about their plans for the property. Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation would say only, ''It's very early in the process.'' But some local elected officials are already proposing development for the parcel. 
 ''Building million-dollar homes or houses of that caliber for upscale buyers would be beneficial for the community and would build the tax base for the city,'' said Assemblywoman Audrey I. Pheffer, who added that any such plan should only be done if the city provided a commensurate parcel of public land nearby for conversion to park land.
 A public hearing was held Tuesday night in the Rockaways by the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation, which has jurisdiction over the city land but has already begun the process of surrendering it back to the city.
 Many residents accused the city of trying to quietly sell the site, whose location off Rockaway Beach Boulevard near Beach 149th Street places it between Riis Park and Neponsit, an upscale beach neighborhood.
 ''They're giving this old hush-and-rush, the same way they rushed the old folks out of there eight years ago,'' said Joseph Hartigan, a local activist who supports preserving the existing building for other uses. ''It should be more thought out, something that promotes tourism for our beautiful beaches. Most cities would kill for this spot.''
 Councilman Joseph P. Addabbo Jr., who represents Queens, said, ''Developers are drooling over this property, and we need to be very cautious about thinking this through.''
 One possibility he suggested was developing the site into a health care facility with public space and some residential units.
 Ms. Pheffer said that with little plans or financing in place for public use of the property, the most sensible option might be to develop the property into luxury housing, an option that would need a special bill approved by the State Legislature and the governor.
 Ms. Pheffer said she would introduce such legislation only if it had broad community support. 
 ''There is no rush to introduce the bill,'' she said. 
 James N. Saunders, a spokesman for the Health and Hospitals Corporation, said the agency was seeking public input about what it might propose to the city for use of the site. 
 ''We want the ultimate use of the parcel to be embraced by the community and beneficial to them as well,'' he said.
 Many local residents said their feeling of distrust toward the city had been exacerbated because they were not properly notified about an earlier public meeting about the site that had been planned in October.
 Local community groups and elected and community board officials learned about that meeting only after a local resident noticed a small classified newspaper advertisement and called the community board. Faced with community outrage, the health agency rescheduled the meeting for Tuesday.
 Mr. Hartigan and others said that any plan for the site should preserve, not demolish, the buildings. They called the center an integral part of Jacob Riis Park and the Rockaways. Riis helped open the center a century ago as a children's tubercular hospital.
 Patients had access to the balconies overlooking the ocean, so that fresh sea air could help their lung ailments. The center was built with the financial help of John D. Rockefeller, Jacob H. Schiff and Andrew Carnegie.
 In September 1998, the city evacuated the buildings without advance notice to patients or their relatives. City officials said a storm had weakened the buildings, making them unsafe, and residents were bused to other health care systems. 
 In June 2003, the city paid $5 million to settle a lawsuit by many former residents charging that the shutdown was illegal. 
 ''The city should not be able to capitalize and make a profit on this facility, just because of the Giuliani administration's wrongful conduct in 1998,'' said April Newbauer, a lawyer who helped negotiate the settlement and who leads the civil office of the Legal Aid Society in Queens. ''This site was specifically designated for a public purpose in the midst of a health care crisis. The city wants to get rid of a property designated for health care.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Some residents want the Neponsit Health Care Center land, in the Rockaways, to become public park land. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); BEACHES (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); ORDINANCES (73%); AGING (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (67%) Housing; Zoning; Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Law and Legislation; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: Neponsit Health Care Center (NYC)

PERSON: Corey Kilgannon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



659 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: City Finances Called Flush But Fragile 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Despite soaring Wall Street profits, the lowest unemployment in 30 years and falling vacancy rates for commercial real estate, New York City's budget still faces threats from the rapidly rising costs of debt service and pension contributions, State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi concluded yesterday in a review of the city's financial plan. The review noted that on Nov. 1, the city modified its four-year financial plan to reflect unforeseen tax revenue and that the city now expects a $1.9 billion surplus for the fiscal year that ends June 30. But substantial deficits could return as soon as the fiscal year that starts July 1, 2008, Mr. Hevesi warned. He also noted that two city entities, the Housing Authority and the Health and Hospitals Corporation, face ongoing financial difficulties. SEWELL CHAN 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (87%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (65%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Government Employees

PERSON: Sewell Chan; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



660 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

THE $100 LAPTOP A nonprofit project to build a $100 laptop for children in the developing world is winning over many skeptics. Five countries have made tentative commitments to put the computers into the hands of millions of students, with production in Taiwan expected to begin by mid-2007. [Page A1.] 


HARD TIMES FOR WAL-MART Wal-Mart is expected to announce next week that sales for November fell for the first time in a decade, leading some industry experts to wonder whether the retailer is changing too fast, acting more like a start-up than a 44-year-old company with 6,000 stores, 1.3 million employees and sales of $312 billion. [A1.]

GAUGING THE IMPACT OF $4 DRUGS Wal-Mart says that its $4 generic drug program is attracting new customers to its stores and starting the nation on a road that will squeeze billions of dollars from prescription drug spending. But two months into the program, it is unclear whether Wal-Mart is meeting its stated goal of making a profit on those drugs. [C1.]

BUYOUTS COSTLY FOR FORD The Ford Motor Company expects to burn through $17 billion -- nearly half of its cash reserves -- by 2009, mostly in the next year as 40 percent of its hourly workers voluntarily leave their jobs. [C1.]

WORRIES OVER KIDNEY DRUGS An expert panel of doctors for the National Kidney Foundation plans to assess whether hundreds of thousands of patients with kidney disease are being dangerously overtreated with drugs for anemia. [C1.]

TROUBLE WITH PATROL BOATS After spending $100 million to renovate eight of its workhorse cutters, the Coast Guard will announce that it is suspending the use of the Florida-based patrol boats because of chronic hull cracking and engine problems. [A22.]

CARBON DIOXIDE ON TRIAL A Supreme Court argument on the Bush administration's refusal to regulate carbon dioxide in automobile emissions offered three intertwined plot lines to the audience that had come to watch the court's first encounter with the issue of global climate change. [A23.]

A NEW CLASS SYSTEM India, once divided chiefly by caste, is creating a different divide by skills. Those with marketable skills are sought for service call centers and software houses; those without are ensnared in drudgery. [C3.]

VERIZON PLAYS HOST Verizon's newest store in Southlake, Tex., lets consumers play the latest video game, practice downloading music or kick back and watch football in high-definition, making Verizon the latest electronics retailer to open an outlet that feels more like an arcade than a phone store. Advertising. [C3.]

EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHERS IN DEAL Riverdeep Holdings, an Irish maker of educational software, agreed to acquire the American textbook publisher Houghton Mifflin for $1.75 billion. [C9.]

AUSTRALIA BALKS AT BIDS A recent flurry of multibillion-dollar takeover bids by international buyers for Australian companies has touched a nationalistic nerve and drawn some calls for a more protectionist government stance. [C13.]

SHARES RALLY Wall Street rallied for a second consecutive session after the government's latest gross domestic product reading showed the economy was in better shape than expected, easing concerns that growth was slowing too sharply. [C15.]

GRASSO REQUESTS JUDGE'S REMOVAL Richard A. Grasso, the former New York Stock Exchange chairman, has asked an appeals court to remove the judge presiding over a lawsuit seeking the return of some of his $190 million pay package from the Big Board. [C15.]

A PROPOSAL TO SCALE BACK RULES An independent committee formed with the endorsement of Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., left, will call today for a sweeping overhaul of securities market regulations, including making it harder for companies to be indicted by the government or sued by private lawyers. [C1.]

SOARING PROFITS FOR INSURERS Auto insurance companies are reaping extraordinary profits from rising premiums in New York City, even as they pay out less in claims, because state regulators have not adequately policed the industry, according to a report released by the city comptroller. [B5.]

ONLINE

DIGITAL HOLIDAYS Designers and engineers have come up with enticing new devices, and scores of them are set to reach the store shelves in time for the holiday shoppers. A special report is at nytimes.com/technology/circuits.

RULES FOR THE ROAD Relocating? Find tips for choosing a moving company at nytimes.com/realestate.

Business Briefing

An article on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

YAHOO HAS REBUFFED Google's attempt to learn more about its efforts to create digital copies of books, dealing Google another setback as it prepares to fight a copyright infringement suit. In rejecting Google's request, Yahoo adopted the same stance taken last month by the Internet retailer Amazon.com, and called Google's request a brazen attempt to pry into its trade secrets. (AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Wal-Mart shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (77%); EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (74%); TAKEOVERS (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (73%); TEXTBOOKS (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (72%); CLIMATE CHANGE (71%); KIDNEY DISEASE (70%); GENERIC DRUGS (70%); MARINE VESSELS (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); ANEMIA (64%); BUILDING RENOVATION (64%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (62%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (62%); EMISSIONS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (60%); CALL CENTERS (60%); INTERNET AUDIO (50%); PUBLISHING (50%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL KIDNEY FOUNDATION (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); VZC (LSE) (81%); VZ (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%); TAIWAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



661 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rally for Second Straight Session

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street rallied for a second consecutive session yesterday after the government's latest gross domestic product reading showed the economy was in better shape than expected, easing concerns that growth was slowing too sharply.
 Major stock indexes held on to gains throughout the session even as oil prices moved to their highest levels in two months.
Providing ballast was the Commerce Department's report that G.D.P. expanded at a 2.2 percent annual rate, topping its previous estimate of 1.6 percent and economists' projections for a 1.8 percent gain. Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve said in its beige book report on economic conditions that growth was moderate in most areas of the United States in the first few weeks of November as consumer spending grew. 
 The reports offset a Commerce Department report released yesterday that showed new-home sales in October suffered their largest drop since July.
 Wall Street appears to be in a consolidation phase after its big rally over the last two months. The fact that it rebounded rather than extended Monday's plunge, when the Dow fell 158 points, indicates that many investors want to keep buying although they are watching closely for any signs of economic trouble.
 ''Soft landings, when we've had them, are great for stocks,'' said Ed Keon, chief investment strategist with Prudential Equity Group. 
 The Dow rose 90.28 points, or 0.74 percent, to 12,226.73. On Tuesday, the Dow rose 14.74 points . Broader stock indicators also advanced. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 12.76, or 0.92 percent, at 1,399.48, and the Nasdaq composite index added 19.62, or 0.81 percent, to 2,432.23.
 Another beneficiary of the healthy economic snapshot was the dollar, which rebounded from a 20-month low against the euro but was mixed against other major currencies. 
 Leading stocks higher were energy companies, which advanced after weekly supply data showed United States inventories fell more than expected. This pushed a barrel of light sweet crude up $1.47, to $62.46, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Exxon Mobil rose $1.87, or 2.5 percent, to $76.03. Transport stocks fell, however, on the potential for higher fuel costs. The trucking company Ryder Systems fell $1.16, or 2.2 percent, to $52.73.
 The jewelry retailer Tiffany & Company helped lead the S.& P. 500 after it reported third-quarter profit grew a stronger-than-expected 23 percent. The luxury goods retailer also raised fiscal 2006 guidance. Shares of the company surged $2.29, or 6.4 percent, to $38.22.
 Pfizer, the world's largest drug maker, rose 2 cents to $27.07 after it announced plans to cut 20 percent of its United States sales force. 
 Ford Motor rose 2 cents to $8.17 after the company said about 38,000 of its hourly production workers had accepted buyouts or early retirement as part of its restructuring.
 Apple Computer fell by a penny, to $91.80, as investors took profits after news of strong Thanksgiving weekend sales sent the stock to a new high of $93.16 on Monday.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was up 9.34, or 1.21 percent, at 784.16. 
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by almost 3 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange.
 Bonds declined, and the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 4.52 percent, from 4.50 percent. Signs of economic strength keep pressure on policy makers to continue lifting interest rates.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of 5-year and 14-day Treasury bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.797
Investment Rate: 5.298
High Rate: 5.215
Low Rate: 5.180
Median Rate: 5.210
Total applied for: $69,635,850
Accepted: $29,000,190
Noncompetitive: $850

The 14-day cash management bills mature December 15, 2006.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.968
High Yield: 4.507
Low Yield: 4.440
Median Yield: 4.473
Total applied for: $34,988,037
Accepted: $17,036,745
Noncompetitive: $181,300
Interest set at: 4 1/2

The five-year notes mature November 30, 2011.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BONDS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LUXURY GOODS (74%); RETAILERS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); JEWELRY STORES (69%); SALES FORCE (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); FUEL MARKETS (66%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (64%); EURO (62%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); TRUCKING (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Credit; Interest Rates; Government Bonds

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (80%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); RYDER SYSTEM INC (51%); PFIZER INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (80%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (53%); R (NYSE) (51%); PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFEB (BRU) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (80%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (80%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (80%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (51%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (51%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



662 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Australia Balks at Bids by Equity Firms

BYLINE: By TIM JOHNSTON

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
A recent flurry of multibillion-dollar takeover bids by international buyers for Australian companies has touched a nationalistic nerve and drawn some calls for a more protectionist government stance.
 It started in March, when Newbridge Capital, the Asia affiliate of the American private equity group Texas Pacific, bought the venerable Myer department store business for 1.4 billion Australian dollars, or $1 billion. Last week, Texas Pacific joined Macquarie Bank of Sydney and other partners in offering an estimated $7.5 billion to $8.5 billion for Qantas Airways.
On Wednesday, the building materials maker Rinker Group formally rejected a $12 billion takeover bid -- the highest cash offer ever made for an Australian company -- by the Mexican company Cemex as ''far too low,'' raising pressure on Cemex to make a better offer. 
 In between, giant private equity funds have taken multibillion-dollar stakes in two of the country's largest media groups, and the Foster's beer company is seen by some as a possible future target.
 All this buyout activity would be business as usual in North America or Britain. But in Australia it is a relatively new and, for many, traumatizing experience.
 Some have compared the influx to a natural disaster. ''Cash tsunami hits our shores,'' a headline in The Australian, the national daily, read last week. 
 ''It is possible to wonder where the rage for private equity takeovers is heading, or whether it is ultimately in the public interest to have such operations buy large, iconic businesses while feeling no loyalty to the brand and tradition behind them,'' the newspaper added in an editorial.
 The reason for the sudden interest in Australian companies is not clear, but John Edwards, chief economist at HSBC, said that with only 1 percent of the world's stocks, Australia has been easy to overlook. 
 Some of the country's largest companies, like the media giant News Corporation, are listed overseas. Adjusted for purchasing power, Australia ranks No. 18 in gross domestic product, far behind China at No. 4, India at No. 6 and even Indonesia at No. 17.
 Private equity firms were first attracted to the Asia-Pacific region by distressed assets in countries that suffered during the Asian financial crisis of the late 1990s, a downturn that largely spared Australia. More recently, Australian companies have been caught up in the China boom, supplying a variety of goods to that surging economy. And some of Australia's new attractiveness has been ignited by a coming change in media laws that relaxed regulations for dual ownership of television and print properties and rules on foreign control.
 Last month, CVC Pacific bought a 50 percent stake in the media assets of PBL, one of the largest Australian television and magazine owners, for $3.5 billion. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company this month set up a joint venture worth more than $3 billion that will control much of the media assets of the Seven Network, a major Australian broadcaster.
 Public sentiment toward such deals still takes the form of vague worries about faceless foreign billionaires. But if the Qantas bid, which comes just ahead of an election year, goes ahead, it is likely to provoke a bigger reaction. 
 Although the company was taken private in 1995, Qantas is still close to many Australian hearts: in such a large country, air travel is an integral part of life. 
 Government regulations limit any single shareholder in Qantas to 25 percent and total foreign shareholding to 49 percent. Prime Minister John Howard said last week that he would not relax that law. But even with these limitations, the notion of putting Qantas largely in the hands of foreign interests could play badly in a country where nationalism is still a potent political force.
 Professor Allan Fels, dean of the Australia and New Zealand School of Government and a former head of the Australian Consumer and Competition Council, said it was unlikely that the government would intervene. But he did not rule it out entirely, because of the coming election. The government is already struggling with issues like rising interest rates and a poor record on the environment.
 Professor Fels says he sees a greater threat to the media deals, which require formal changes in the law. The government has until January 2008 to make the changes official, and Professor Fels said he believed that if foreign ownership became a political issue, the prime minister could move to delay the changes.
 Although Mr. Howard's center-right government has established its credentials as broadly pro-market and anti-intervention, it stepped in to block an attempt in 2001 by Royal Dutch Shell to take over Woodside Petroleum, Australia's largest publicly traded oil and gas company, and more recently to stop the privatization of Snowy Hydro, a major utility company in eastern Australia.
 Australian unions, which are still powerful, have also voiced their unease about recent takeover bids, fearing the loss of jobs in the drive to maximize profit.
 ''Qantas should not be sacrificed to the millionaires club at Macquarie Bank or any other takeover prospect that might move in and slash Australian jobs,'' said Doug Cameron, secretary of the Australian Manufacturing Workers Union, which represents about 1,500 Qantas workers.
 Unions are in an awkward position in the current wave of private equity takeovers, however. Their pension funds have been significant investors in private equity funds, and those investments have earned significant returns for union members.
 Australia has come in at what many believe is the tail end of the exuberant global expansion of private equity funds. Some wonder how long the trend, spurred by cheap capital on open markets, can continue.
 ''Everyone feels private equity is going to end up in tears,'' John Stewart, chief executive of National Australia Bank, the county's largest, told a business group this week. ''The only question is, Do you join in while it is making good money for everyone?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); JOINT VENTURES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); BRAND EQUITY (72%); RETAILERS (72%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS MFG (70%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (67%); BREWERIES (67%); NATURAL DISASTERS (65%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (62%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Protectionism (Trade); Foreign Investments

COMPANY: MACQUARIE BANK LTD (90%); KKR & CO LP (84%); NEWS CORP (64%); QANTAS AIRWAYS LTD (58%); RINKER GROUP LTD (57%); CEMEX SAB DE CV (56%)

TICKER: MBL (ASX) (90%); KKR (NYSE) (84%); NWS (NASDAQ) (64%); NWS (ASX) (64%); QAN (ASX) (58%); CX (NYSE) (56%); CEMEX (BMV) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (64%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (64%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS212321 CONSTRUCTION SAND & GRAVEL MINING (57%); SIC1442 CONSTRUCTION SAND & GRAVEL (57%); NAICS327332 CONCRETE PIPE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327331 CONCRETE BLOCK & BRICK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3272 CONCRETE PRODUCTS, EXCEPT BLOCK & BRICK (57%); SIC3271 CONCRETE BLOCK & BRICK (57%)

PERSON: Tim Johnston; John (HSBC Chief Economist) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); INDONESIA (79%) Australia

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



663 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: For $150, Third-World Laptop Stirs a Big Debate

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
When computer industry executives heard about a plan to build a $100 laptop for the developing world's children, they generally ridiculed the idea. How could you build such a computer, they asked, when screens alone cost about $100?
 Mary Lou Jepsen, the chief technologist for the project, likes to refer to the insight that transformed the machine from utopian dream to working prototype as ''a really wacky idea.''
Ms. Jepsen, a former Intel chip designer, found a way to modify conventional laptop displays, cutting the screen's manufacturing cost to $40 while reducing its power consumption by more than 80 percent. As a bonus, the display is clearly visible in sunlight.
 That advance and others have allowed the nonprofit project, One Laptop Per Child, to win over many skeptics over the last two and a half years. Five countries -- Argentina, Brazil, Libya, Nigeria and Thailand -- have made tentative commitments to put the computers into the hands of millions of students, with production in Taiwan expected to begin by mid-2007. 
 The laptop does not come with a Microsoft Windows operating system or even a hard drive, and the screen is small. And the cost is now closer to $150 than $100. But the price tag, even compared with low-end $500 laptops now widely available, transforms the economic equation for developing countries. 
 That has not prevented the effort, conceived by Nicholas Negroponte, a prominent computer researcher, from becoming the focal point of a debate over the value of computers to both learning and economic development. 
 The detractors include two computer industry giants, Intel and Microsoft, pushing alternative approaches. Intel has developed a $400 laptop aimed at schools as well as an education program that focuses on teachers instead of students. And Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman and a leading philanthropist for the third world, has questioned whether the concept is ''just taking what we do in the rich world'' and assuming that that is something good for the developing world, too.
 Mr. Negroponte, the founding director of the M.I.T. Media Laboratory, said he was amused by the attention his little machine was getting. It is not the first time he has been challenged for proclaiming technology's promise.
 ''It's as if people spent all of their attention focusing on Columbus's boat and not on where he was going,'' he said in an interview here. ''You have to remember that what this is about is education.''
 Seymour Papert, a computer scientist and educator who is an adviser to the project, has argued that if young people are given computers and allowed to explore, they will ''learn how to learn.'' That, Mr. Papert argues, is a more valuable skill than traditional teaching strategies that focus on memorization and testing.
 The idea is also that children can take on much of the responsibility for maintaining the systems, rather than relying on or creating bureaucracies to do so. 
 ''We believe you have to leverage the kids themselves,'' Ms. Jepsen said. ''They're learning machines.'' As an example, she pointed to the backlight used by the laptop. Although it is designed to last five years, if it fails it can be replaced as simply as batteries are replaced in a flashlight. It is something a child can do, she said.
 That philosophy, at the heart of the project's world view, has stirred criticism for its focus on getting equipment to students rather than issues like teacher training and curriculum. 
 ''I think it's wonderful that the machines can be put in the hands of children and parents, and it will have an impact on their lives if they have access to electricity,'' Larry Cuban, a Stanford University education professor, said in an interview. ''However, if part of their rationale is that it will revolutionize education in various countries, I don't think it will happen, and they are naive and innocent about the reality of formal schooling.''
 The debate is certain to enter a new phase when the machines go into full-scale production by Taiwan-based Quanta Computer, the world's second-largest laptop maker. (The manufacturer, unlike the project itself, will make a profit.) Overnight, even though it will not be available to consumers, the laptop could become the best-selling portable computer in the world. 
 The project now has tentative commitments for three million computers and will begin large-scale manufacturing when it reaches five million with separate commitments from at least one country each in Africa, Latin America and Asia. Based on current negotiations, Mr. Negroponte says he expects that goal to be reached by mid-2007.
 It got a significant boost on Nov. 15 when the Inter-American Development Bank signed an agreement to supply both loans and grants to buy the machines.
 ''Several years ago, I thought it was an illusion or a utopian idea,'' said Juan Jose Daboub, managing director of the World Bank and an independent economic-development expert. ''But this is now real and encouraging.''
 Mr. Negroponte said the manufacturing cost was now below $150 and that it would fall below $100 by the end of 2008.
 One factor setting the project apart from earlier efforts to create inexpensive computers for education is the inclusion of a wireless network capability in each machine. 
 The project leaders say they will employ a variety of methods for connecting to the Internet, depending on local conditions. In some countries, like Libya, satellite downlinks will be used. In others, like Nigeria, the existing cellular data network will provide connections, and in some places specially designed long-range Wi-Fi antennas will extend the wireless Internet to rural areas.
 When students take their computers home after school, each machine will stay connected wirelessly to its neighbors in a self-assembling ''mesh'' at ranges up to a third of a mile. In the process each computer can potentially become an Internet repeater, allowing the Internet to flow out into communities that have not previously had access to it.
 ''The soldiers inside this Trojan horse are children with laptops,'' said Walter Bender, a computer researcher who served as director of the Media Laboratory after Mr. Negroponte and now heads software development for the laptop project.
 Each machine will come with a simple mechanism for recharging itself when a standard power outlet is not available. The designers experimented with a crank, but eventually discarded that idea because it seemed too fragile. Now they have settled on several alternatives, including a foot pedal as well as a hand-pulled device that works like a salad spinner.
 Ms. Jepsen's display, which removes most of the color filters but can operate in either color or monochrome modes, has made it possible to build a computer that consumes just 2 watts of power, compared with the 25 to 45 watts consumed by a conventional laptop. The ultra-low-power operation is possible because of the lack of a hard drive (the laptop uses solid-state memory, which has no moving parts and has fallen sharply in cost) and because the Advanced Micro Devices microprocessor shuts down whenever the computer is not processing information.
 The designers have also gambled in designing the laptop's software, which is based on the freely available Linux operating system, a rival to Microsoft's Windows. Dispensing with a traditional desktop display, the software substitutes an iconic interface intended to give students a simpler view of their programs and documents and a maplike view of other connected users nearby. 
 A video-camera lens sits just to the right of the display, for use in videoconferencing and taking digital still photos of reasonable quality. The computer comes with a stripped-down Web browser, a simple word processor and a number of learning programs. For e-mail, the designers intend to use Google's Web-based Gmail service. 
 Only one program at a time can be viewed on the laptop because of its small 7.5-inch display. 
 Mr. Negroponte has been a globetrotting salesman for the project, winning Libya's participation when he was summoned by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi to a meeting in a desert tent on a sweltering August night. But there have also been setbacks. The Indian Education Ministry rejected a proposal to order a million computers, noting that the money could be better spent on primary and secondary education.
 Mr. Negroponte said he had been re-energized by the recent arrival of the first 1,000 working prototypes. The prototypes, he said, will give him new ammunition to convince government leaders that his tiny machines can be a positive force for social development. [On a visit to Brazil on Nov. 24, Mr. Negroponte presented one of the prototypes to President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.]
 He said a program would be created to enable those in the developed world to underwrite a laptop for a child in a designated country and to correspond with the recipient by e-mail as a sort of ''glorified pen-pal program.'' But however attractive the idea of a $100 or $150 laptop, he said there were no plans to make it generally available to consumers.
 ''They should buy Dell's $499 laptop for now,'' he said. ''Ours is really designed for developing nations -- dusty, dirty, no or unreliable power and so on.''
 In his two decades as director of the Media Laboratory, Mr. Negroponte often faced criticism because the institution's impressive demonstrations of technology only occasionally led to commercial applications.
 ''He has spent his whole career being accused of being all icing and no cake,'' said Michael Hawley, a computer scientist and one of Mr. Negroponte's former students. To that kind of scoffing, he said, the laptop's success would be Mr. Negroponte's best retort.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Walter Bender, left, and Nicholas Negroponte working with an early model of the $150 laptop computer in Cambridge, Mass. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)
Michail Bletsas, the chief connectivity officer for One Laptop Per Child, plays with some potential computer users in Nigeria. (Photo by One Laptop Per Child)(pg. C6)Chart: ''Out of the Box''A new laptop designed by the One Laptop Per Child project contains a number of innovations that help keep its cost low -- below $150 -- and make it practical for children in developing countries.WI-FI NETWORKING -- Wi-Fi allows connections between computers, potentially expanding Internet coverage. Two flip-up antennas improve range.AN UNCONVENTIONAL DISPLAY -- Though small, at 7.5 inches, the high-resolution screen has both a low-power monochrome mode -- readable in sunlight, unlike conventional displays -- and backlit color using light-emitting diodes. It also swivels 180 degrees and can be folded over the keyboard to become a tablet.NO HARD DRIVEUsing flash memory instead of a drive eliminates moving parts. Sealed rubber keyboard and rugged construction protect against dirt and water.LOW POWER, HAND-POWEREDMost laptops use an average of 25-45 watts of electricity
 this one averages 2. An external manual generator recharges the battery enough for 10 minutes of use for every minute of exertion.USER INTERFACE -- An intuitive, iconbased interface was developed to give children a simpler view of programs and documents.(Source by One Laptop Per Child)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAPTOP COMPUTERS (92%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CHARITIES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (72%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (71%); PHILANTHROPY (50%) Education and Schools; Computers and the Internet; Third World and Developing Countries; Teachers and School Employees; Education and Schools; Education and Schools

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Intel Corp; Microsoft Corp

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (79%) John Markoff; Mary Lou Jepsen; Bill (William H) Gates; Seymour Papert

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (92%); TAIWAN (90%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); THAILAND (56%) Taiwan

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



664 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Justices' First Brush With Global Warming

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
A Supreme Court argument Wednesday on the Bush administration's refusal to regulate carbon dioxide in automobile emissions offered three intertwined plot lines to the audience that had come to watch the court's first encounter with the issue of global climate change.
 On one level, the argument was about the meaning of the Clean Air Act, which the Environmental Protection Agency maintains does not treat carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases as air pollutants and thus does not give the agency the authority to regulate them.
On another level, the argument was about whether the dozen states, three cities and many environmental groups that went to federal court to challenge the agency's position had legal standing to pursue their lawsuit.
 And on still another level, the courtroom action was an episode in a policy debate that began well before this case arrived on the Supreme Court's docket and that will continue, in the political sphere, no matter what the justices decide. 
 By the end of the argument, that continuing debate appeared the only certain outcome.
 The justices seemed deeply divided on the question of standing. Any plaintiff in federal court must establish standing to sue, by proving there is an injury that can be traced to the defendant's behavior and that will be relieved by the action the lawsuit requests. 
 Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., along with Justices Antonin Scalia and Samuel A. Alito Jr., expressed strong doubts that the plaintiffs, represented by Assistant Attorney General James R. Milkey of Massachusetts, could meet those interrelated conditions by showing that global climate change presented a sufficiently tangible and imminent danger that could be adequately addressed by regulating emissions from new cars and trucks.
 ''You have to show the harm is imminent,'' Justice Scalia instructed Mr. Milkey, asking, ''I mean, when is the cataclysm?''
 Mr. Milkey replied, ''It's not so much a cataclysm as ongoing harm,'' arguing that Massachusetts, New York, and other coastal states faced losing ''sovereign territory'' to rising sea levels. ''So the harm is already occurring,'' he said. ''It is ongoing, and it will happen well into the future.''
 Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Alito both suggested that because motor vehicles account for only about 6 percent of carbon dioxide emissions, even aggressive federal regulation would not be great enough to make a difference, another requirement of the standing doctrine. 
 When Mr. Milkey replied that over time, ''even small reductions can be significant,'' Chief Justice Roberts responded: ''That assumes everything else is going to remain constant, though, right? It assumes there isn't going to be a greater contribution of greenhouse gases from economic development in China and other places that's going to displace whatever marginal benefit you get here.'' At another point, the chief justice said the plaintiffs' evidence ''strikes me as sort of spitting out conjecture on conjecture.''
 On the other side, Justices Stephen G. Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, John Paul Stevens and David H. Souter appeared strongly inclined to find that the plaintiffs had met the standing test.
 Justice Souter engaged Deputy Solicitor General Gregory G. Garre, the lawyer who was defending the administration's position, in a long debate. When Mr. Garre said the plaintiffs ''haven't shown specific facts which should provide any comfort to this court that regulation of less than 6 percent or fewer greenhouse emissions worldwide will have any effect on their alleged injuries,'' Justice Souter demanded: ''Why do they have to show a precise correlation?''
 ''It is reasonable to suppose,'' the justice continued, ''that some reduction in the gases will result in some reduction in future loss.'' It was ''a question of more or less, not a question of either/or,'' he said, adding: ''They don't have to stop global warming. Their point is that it will reduce the degree of global warming and likely reduce the degree of loss.''
 Mr. Garre replied that given the problem's global nature, ''I'm not aware of any studies available that would suggest that the regulation of that minuscule fraction of greenhouse gas emissions would have any effect whatsoever.''
 Then Justice Breyer took on the government lawyer. ''Would you be up here saying the same thing if we're trying to regulate child pornography, and it turns out that anyone with a computer can get pornography elsewhere?'' Justice Breyer asked, adding, ''I don't think so.''
 By the end of the argument there appeared a strong likelihood that the court would divide 5 to 4 on the standing question, with Justice Anthony M. Kennedy holding the deciding vote. His relatively few comments were ambiguous. Early in the argument he challenged the assertion by Mr. Milkey, the states' lawyer, that the case ''turns on ordinary principles of statutory interpretation and administrative law'' and that there was no need for the court ''to pass judgment on the science of climate change.''
 That was ''reassuring,'' Justice Kennedy said. But, he added, ''Don't we have to do that in order to decide the standing argument, because there's no injury if there's not global warming?''
 The justices eventually discussed the substance of the Environmental Protection Agency's position. Mr. Garre said the agency had ''responsibly and prudently'' reached the conclusion that ''Congress has not authorized it to embark on this regulatory endeavor.'' 
 But the government lawyer seemed defensive when challenged by Justice Scalia on the agency's view that carbon dioxide was not an air pollutant within the meaning of the Clean Air Act. Mr. Garre referred several times to ''the conclusion the agency reached,'' an unusual locution that seemed something short of the full embrace that lawyers from the solicitor general's office usually offer the agencies whose positions they defend. 
 The Bush administration's conclusion that the Clean Air Act does not authorize the E.P.A. to address climate change marked an about-face from the agency's previous view of its legal authority.
 The agency's current position is that even if it had authority, it would choose for various policy reasons not to exercise it. That position was upheld in a fractured ruling by the federal appeals court here, a decision that led to the Supreme Court appeal, Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency, No. 05-1120.
 At this stage, even if the plaintiffs survive the challenge to their standing and the court finds that statutory authority exists, it is highly unlikely that the court would order the agency to undertake regulation. It would be a victory, Mr. Milkey agreed, if the justices went so far as to tell the E.P.A. to reconsider its position.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (91%); STANDING TO SUE (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); AIR POLLUTANTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); COASTAL AREAS (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%) Weather; Carbon Dioxide; Suits and Litigation; Law and Legislation ; Automobiles; Air Pollution; Weather; Global Warming

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%) Environmental Protection Agency; Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (78%); ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%) Linda Greenhouse; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



665 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 806 words

PERSON: Smith Hempstone

HEADLINE: Smith Hempstone, 77, Journalist Who Became a Prominent Ambassador, Is Dead

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Smith Hempstone, a journalist who became United States ambassador to Kenya and pushed so forcefully for democracy in that country that its one-party government denounced him as a racist and demanded his recall, died on Nov. 19 in Bethesda, Md. He was 77.
 The cause was complications of diabetes, his wife, Kathaleen, said. 
When international pressures forced Kenya to hold multiparty elections in 1991, Mr. Hempstone's long, loud campaign for a free vote was frequently cited as an impetus. Beyond enduring verbal abuse, he faced threats to his life twice in his campaign, he wrote in ''Rogue Ambassador: An African Memoir'' (1997).
 Mr. Hempstone's circuitous route to ambassador included working as a correspondent in Kenya in its war for independence; as a novelist; as editor of The Washington Star editorial page; as a syndicated columnist; and as executive editor and editor in chief of The Washington Times.
 While sitting on a Maine beach in 1987, the idea that he would be a fine ambassador to Kenya popped into his mind. He approached George H. W. Bush before his election the next year and said he would like the post. President Bush remembered.
 Bashfulness was never a problem for Mr. Hempstone. On his honeymoon in Venice in 1954, he knocked on the door of a hotel suite occupied by Ernest Hemingway, who was only too pleased to converse with the stranger.
 ''Been to Africa?'' Hemingway asked, in Mr. Hempstone's recollection. ''You ought to go. Africa's man's country -- fish, hunt, write. The best.'' 
 Many have suggested that Mr. Hempstone found a role model in Hemingway in more than following his advice about Africa. 
 Beyond commonalities like girth, a white beard and a taste for tobacco and good liquor, Mr. Hempstone affected a Hemingwayesque style, reflected by the .38-caliber pistol he packed.
 Mr. Hempstone was ambassador from 1989 to 1993, a time when Washington was shifting its African policy. Formerly, the United States had supported African governments that opposed Communism. With the demise of Communism, Washington began pushing countries to increase democracy and human rights.
 Mr. Hempstone fought to end the monopoly on power held by President Daniel arap Moi, who in 1982 banned all parties but his. Mr. Hempstone threatened to have aid cut unless democracy blossomed, castigated economic corruption, helped a leading dissident flee and invited government opponents to Embassy parties.
 ''We don't just export Coca-Cola and blue jeans,'' he said. ''We export democracy.''
 Nairobi replied that Mr. Hempstone did not appreciate that open elections would cause the country to break into constituent tribal groups. It accused him of pushing drugs and giving money and liquor to children to protest the government, among other activities. 
 The official newspaper ran front-page cartoons depicting him as a fat pig. One headline said, ''Shut up, Mr. Ambassador.''
 Beyond carrying the gun in case of assassination attempts, Mr. Hempstone told National Public Radio that he learned to take canapes from the back of the tray at diplomatic receptions on the theory that those would be less likely to be poisoned.
 His dream of multiparty elections was realized in late 1992, shortly before his departure. Mr. Moi won with 36 percent of the vote, as other parties split the rest. After winning again in 1997, Mr. Moi retired in 2002. A democratically elected opponent of his party succeeded him.
 Smith Hempstone Jr. was born on Feb. 1, 1929, in Washington, where his maternal grandfather and great-grandfather had been part-owners of The Star. He graduated from the University of the South and served in the Marines in Korea. He went to Africa as a fellow of the Institute of World Affairs.
 After joining The Chicago Daily News as Africa correspondent, he wrote two books on Africa, won a Nieman fellowship to Harvard, wrote two novels and joined The Star as a foreign correspondent. He next wrote a syndicated column with a conservative bent, ''Our Times,'' that 90 newspapers published.
 From 1982 to 1985, he was a pugnacious top editor at The Washington Times. 
 Surviving are his wife of 52 years, the former Kathaleen Fishback; his daughter, Hope, of Baltimore; and a grandson.
 In their obituaries, African newspapers recalled Mr. Hempstone's ''bulldozer diplomacy.'' His predecessor as ambassador to Kenya, Elinor Constable, characterized his support of dissidents and his consequent isolation by his host government as ''very unprofessional'' in a State Department oral history interview in 1998.
 ''He often acts more like a swashbuckling novelist than a diplomat,'' an article in The Washington Post said in 1993.
 In 1990, Mr. Hempstone had already responded to similar criticism in an article in The New York Times. ''I'm not a diplomat,'' he said. The article noted that he chuckled.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 1, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An obituary yesterday about Smith Hempstone, former ambassador to Kenya, misidentified the organization that originally sent him to Africa. It was the Institute of Current World Affairs, currently based in Hanover, N.H., not the Institute of World Affairs, a separate organization based in Washington.
An obituary yesterday about Smith Hempstone, former ambassador to Kenya, misidentified the organization that originally sent him to Africa. It was the Institute of Current World Affairs, currently based in Hanover, N.H., not the Institute of World Affairs, a separate organization based in Washington.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Smith Hempstone, right, with Sharriff Nassir of the Mombasa branch of the governing Kenya African National Union Party in 1990. (Photo by Adam Hussein/Daily Nation, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary(Obits)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); CORRUPTION (65%); DIABETES (57%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (54%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (51%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%)

GEORGE H W BUSH (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (58%) MARYLAND, USA (92%) KENYA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (94%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



666 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Peace of the Weak? Olmert and Abbas Balk

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
Under regional pressure to move the Israelis and Palestinians toward renewed dialogue, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is expected to meet their political leaders in a quick visit on Thursday. But with the Palestinians unable to agree on a new unity government, little significant movement is expected and Ms. Rice is likely to limit herself to public encouragement and private exhortation.
 Weak governments are always in search of new agendas, but they are also prisoners of their weakness. 
As much as the Bush administration would like to show serious progress in the Middle East, as a part of its effort to shore up support in the region for possible economic sanctions on Iran, both the Israeli and Palestinian governments are politically damaged by the summer's conflicts, with Hamas in the Gaza Strip and Hezbollah in Lebanon, and seem unable to make bold moves.
 They have established a shaky cease-fire in Gaza. But they have been unable to agree even on a prisoner exchange, which is regarded as the minimum required before the Israeli prime minister, Ehud Olmert, and the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, can meet.
 Mr. Abbas was said by aides on Wednesday to be fed up with Hamas, the militant faction that controls the government, and to regard negotiations toward a national unity government to be at an end. There was a debate among those around him about whether even to meet with Ms. Rice, since he had made so little progress since their last meeting, on Oct. 4. 
 But he has been there before. On the day of their last meeting, Mr. Abbas, of the Fatah faction, said talks on forming a unity government had collapsed. ''There is no dialogue at this stage,'' he said. Nearly two months later, the situation has barely shifted, with the Western world still waiting for a Palestinian government with which it can do business.
 That would require the resignation of the Hamas government and agreement on a political program that at least can be interpreted to mean an acceptance of the West's three conditions: recognition of the right of Israel to exist, forswearing of violence and acceptance of previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements.
 Mr. Abbas has been making some progress on negotiating the political program, which would commit the new government -- but not the Hamas movement itself -- to those principles. Even so, Hamas does not like parts of the document. Prime Minister Ismail Haniya, of Hamas, says he will not resign until he and other leaders, including the group's exiled political director, Khaled Meshal, are satisfied with it.
 Hamas and Fatah, which controlled the government before Hamas won the Palestinian elections in January, also remain at odds over ministries. Hamas insists on retaining the right to choose the interior and finance ministers and accuses Mr. Abbas of trying to veto its favored candidates for other posts.
 On Tuesday evening Mr. Haniya went off on a monthlong trip to visit Arab allies, meaning that nothing substantive is likely to happen until he returns. 
 As for Mr. Olmert, he has a safe legislative majority but shrinking public support and a continuing conflict with his defense minister, Amir Peretz, the head of the Labor Party. 
 The Olmert government was badly hurt by perceptions of misjudgments made during the war with Hezbollah, and a broad offensive in Gaza did not secure the release of a captured soldier or end rocket fire into Israel until the cease-fire was put together by Mr. Abbas over the weekend.
 Mr. Olmert's main political program, a unilateral pullback of thousands of Israeli settlers who live beyond the current route of the West Bank separation barrier, was suspended after the war. 
 Critics in the center and on the right contend that unilateralism has proved to be a bad idea, with Hezbollah in Lebanon and Palestinian militants in Gaza perceiving Israel's withdrawal from both areas as weakness. Israel's unilateralism in those withdrawals also did nothing to strengthen elected leaders, including Mr. Abbas.
 On Monday, Mr. Olmert again appealed to Palestinians to choose the path of peaceful negotiations, promising numerous concessions. But the speech was judged to contain little new, a repackaging of his old campaign wine in a new, less unilateralist bottle.
 Mr. Olmert said that if the Palestinians could meet international standards, return the captured soldier and end the warfare, he would meet with Mr. Abbas, release prisoners, ease travel restrictions and renew dialogue toward peace, including the withdrawal of an unspecified number of settlers in the West Bank.
 But there were a lot of ''ifs'' in Mr. Olmert's speech, and many hurdles for the Palestinians to leap. So far Mr. Abbas has been unable to push or cajole Hamas into accepting what is required even to qualify for the race.
 While Mr. Abbas talks sometimes of firing Mr. Haniya, the presidency lacks authority under the Palestinian basic law to dissolve the Hamas-dominated Parliament or to call new elections. Any new prime minister would have to be approved by Parliament, making any such exercise seem moot and likely to touch off new fighting between Fatah and Hamas.
 But the Bush administration has been weakened by the Democratic victory in the elections this month. As Mr. Bush and Ms. Rice try to develop their own new agenda for the Middle East, they seem to be understanding a lesson from the Clinton administration: that Israeli unilateralism can be bad for America as well as for Palestinian leaders who favor talking rather than shooting.
 When the United States is seen to be an active participant, pushing its ally Israel to make concessions to the Palestinians, Israeli leaders can deflect domestic criticism by blaming Washington, the United States can earn credit with the Arab world for pushing Israel, and the Palestinians will be seen as an active player at the table, boosting negotiators like Mr. Abbas over the rejectionists of Hamas.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian leader, who arranged a cease-fire in the Gaza Strip with Israel. (Photo by Mohammed Saber/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AL FATAH (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEZBOLLAH (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); VETO (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%) Palestinians; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%); HEZBOLLAH (56%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (91%); EHUD OLMERT (90%) Steven Erlanger; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Ehud (Prime Min) Olmert; Mahmoud (Pres) Abbas; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (79%) Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



667 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Report Says Car Insurers' Profits Soar as Claim Costs Fall

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Auto insurance companies are reaping extraordinary profits from rising premiums in New York City, even as they pay out less in claims, because state regulators have not adequately policed the industry, according to a report released yesterday by the city comptroller.
 Industry groups and the state's top insurance regulator disputed the conclusions and recommendations offered by the comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., but they did not contest some of the central claims of the report: that the industry has had substantial profits since 2003 and that the cost of insurance has been a burden for car owners. 
Auto insurance is ''driving many New Yorkers into a financial ditch,'' Mr. Thompson said during a news conference at the Municipal Building. 
 He described ''premium increases that vastly outpace the rate of inflation,'' especially in the Bronx and Brooklyn, and criticized ''an insurance industry that is essentially picking the pockets of New Yorkers.'' 
 Mr. Thompson said he sent a letter yesterday to Governor-elect Eliot Spitzer, urging him ''to closely review the pricing methods of insurance companies operating in New York as well as the operations of the Insurance Department.''
 The state has the power to regulate insurance rates because car owners are required to carry insurance. Some lawmakers have proposed allowing localities to have some say in the rate-setting process, a power they do not currently have.
 From 2000 to 2005, according to the report, car insurance premiums in the state increased by 28.8 percent, to $10.5 billion a year, while claims payouts, or losses, fell by 20.5 percent, to $5.1 billion. The difference between premiums and losses -- $5.4 billion in both 2004 and 2005 -- was the highest since 1990, the report found.
 The industry's profitability can be measured in other ways. According to the report, the private passenger auto insurance loss ratio -- the percentage of each premium dollar that goes to pay claims -- fell to 48.4 percent in 2005 from 78.3 percent in 2000 and is exceptionally low by national standards. 
 The return on net worth, an indicator of insurer profitability, reached a high of 18.6 percent in 2004 in the state, compared with the national average of 13.2 percent, the report found.
 Mr. Thompson urged regulators to reduce total auto insurance premiums statewide by $1.5 billion a year. He also called for Albany to give local officials the power to petition for rate reductions. Finally, he called for the Insurance Department to improve its consumers' guide to auto insurance and to create a consumer advocate's office that would review rate applications by insurers.
 Howard Mills, the superintendent of the department, said in a statement that his staff had helped reduce losses because of insurance fraud, and that part of those savings had been passed on to consumers. Since late 2004, he said, the department has already reduced premiums for drivers by about $500 million a year. Among some of the largest companies, the increase in premiums appears to be leveling off.
 ''As the industry has transitioned to profitability, we have worked to reduce rates and are working to reduce rates further,'' Mr. Mills said. ''Thirty companies have filed rate reductions this year, and we are in ongoing discussions with other companies to reduce premiums.''
 David F. Snyder, a lawyer for the American Insurance Association, a major industry group, disputed Mr. Thompson's claim that insurers were making extravagant profits. ''The data in the report itself do not support the conclusion that rates are anything other than justified by the underlying changes in the marketplace,'' he said.
 If state officials follow Mr. Thompson's recommendations, insurance costs would grow even more, Mr. Snyder said. ''Instead of more bureaucratic red tape, as the report proposed, they should free rates to move more competitively and more quickly,'' he said. 
 He added: ''Over the long term, you don't have a consistent pattern one way or another in New York. Profits are going to go up and down. Losses are going to go up and down. The market eventually adjusts.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Premium Rates''From 2001 to 2006, average auto insurance premiums for New York State's four largest auto insurers -- Allstate, GEICO, Progressive and State Farm Mutual -- increased in every borough except Staten Island. Bronx and Brooklyn had the steepest rises.BrooklynPREMIUM IN '06: $1,657CHANGE '01-'06: +25%Bronx urban (southern part)PREMIUM IN '06: 1,633CHANGE '01-'06: +51Queens suburban (eastern)PREMIUM IN '06: 1,157CHANGE '01-'06: +16Bronx suburban (northern)PREMIUM IN '06: 1,116CHANGE '01-'06: +26Queens urban (western)PREMIUM IN '06: 985CHANGE '01-'06: +8Staten IslandPREMIUM IN '06: 911CHANGE '01-'06: -1ManhattanPREMIUM IN '06: 836CHANGE '01-'06: +14Note: Premium data are for a 35-year-old male driver. For Allstate, '06 averages were calculated with '05 data.(Source by New York City Comptroller's Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (96%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (93%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (90%); PERSONAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (79%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); INSURANCE FRAUD (73%); PRODUCT PRICING (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); INFLATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (62%) Automobile Insurance and Liability; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: Insurance Department (NYS)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (78%) Sewell Chan; William C Jr (Comptroller) Thompson; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



668 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Takes Up Global Warming Case

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
A Supreme Court argument today on the Bush administration's refusal to regulate carbon dioxide in automobile emissions offered three intertwined plot lines to the audience that had come to watch the court's first encounter with the issue of global climate change.
 On one level, the argument was about the meaning of the Clean Air Act, which the Environmental Protection Agency maintains does not treat carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases as air pollutants and thus does not give the agency the authority to regulate them.
On another level, the argument was about whether the dozen states, three cities and many environmental groups that went to federal court to challenge the agency's position had legal standing to pursue their lawsuit.
 And on still another level, the courtroom action was an episode in a policy debate that began well before this case arrived on the Supreme Court's docket and that will continue, in the political sphere, no matter what the justices decide. 
 By the end of the argument, that continuing debate appeared the only certain outcome.
 The justices seemed deeply divided on the question of standing. Any plaintiff in federal court must establish standing to sue by proving there is an injury that can be traced to the defendant's behavior and that will be relieved by the action the lawsuit requests. 
 Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., along with Justices Antonin Scalia and Samuel A. Alito Jr., expressed strong doubts that the plaintiffs, represented by Assistant Attorney General James R. Milkey of Massachusetts, could meet those interrelated conditions by showing that global climate change presented a sufficiently tangible and imminent danger that could be adequately addressed by regulating emissions from new cars and trucks.
 ''You have to show the harm is imminent,'' Justice Scalia instructed Mr. Milkey, asking, ''I mean, when is the cataclysm?''
 Mr. Milkey replied, ''It's not so much a cataclysm as ongoing harm,'' arguing that Massachusetts, New York, and other coastal states faced losing ''sovereign territory'' to rising sea levels. ''So the harm is already occurring,'' he said. ''It is ongoing and it will happen well into the future.''
 Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Alito both suggested that because motor vehicles account for only about 6 percent of carbon dioxide emissions, even aggressive federal regulation would not be great enough to make a difference, another requirement of the standing doctrine. 
 When Mr. Milkey replied that over time, ''even small reductions can be significant,'' Chief Justice Roberts responded: ''That assumes everything else is going to remain constant, though, right? It assumes there isn't going to be a greater contribution of greenhouse gases from economic development in China and other places that's going to displace whatever marginal benefit you get here.'' At another point, the chief justice said the plaintiffs' evidence ''strikes me as sort of spitting out conjecture on conjecture.''
 On the other side, Justices Stephen G. Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, John Paul Stevens and David H. Souter appeared strongly inclined to find that the plaintiffs had met the standing test.
 Justice Souter engaged Deputy Solicitor General Gregory G. Garre, the lawyer who was defending the administration's position, in a long debate. When Mr. Garre said that the plaintiffs ''haven't shown specific facts which should provide any comfort to this court that regulation of less than 6 percent or fewer greenhouse emissions worldwide will have any effect on their alleged injuries,'' Justice Souter demanded: ''Why do they have to show a precise correlation?''
 ''It is reasonable to suppose,'' the justice continued, ''that some reduction in the gases will result in some reduction in future loss.'' It was ''a question of more or less, not a question of either/or,'' he said, adding: ''They don't have to stop global warming. Their point is that it will reduce the degree of global warming and likely reduce the degree of loss.''
 Mr. Garre replied that given the problem's global nature, ''I'm not aware of any studies available that would suggest that the regulation of that minuscule fraction of greenhouse gas emissions would have any effect whatsoever.''
 Then Justice Breyer took on the government lawyer. ''Would you be up here saying the same thing if we're trying to regulate child pornography, and it turns out that anyone with a computer can get pornography elsewhere?'' Justice Breyer asked, adding, ''I don't think so.''
 By the end of the argument there appeared a strong likelihood that the court would divide 5 to 4 on the standing question, with Justice Anthony M. Kennedy holding the deciding vote. His relatively few comments were ambiguous. Early in the argument he challenged the assertion by Mr. Milkey, the states' lawyer, that the case ''turns on ordinary principles of statutory interpretation and administrative law'' and that there was no need for the court ''to pass judgment on the science of climate change.''
 That was ''reassuring,'' Justice Kennedy said. But he added, ''Don't we have to do that in order to decide the standing argument, because there's no injury if there's not global warming?''
 The justices eventually discussed the substance of the Environmental Protection Agency's position. Mr. Garre said the agency had ''responsibly and prudently'' reached the conclusion that ''Congress has not authorized it to embark on this regulatory endeavor.'' 
 But the government lawyer seemed defensive when challenged by Justice Scalia on the agency's view that carbon dioxide was not an air pollutant within the meaning of the Clean Air Act. Mr. Garre referred several times to ''the conclusion the agency reached,'' an unusual locution that seemed something short of the full embrace that lawyers from the solicitor general's office usually offer the agencies whose positions they defend. 
 The Bush administration's conclusion that the Clean Air Act does not authorize the E.P.A. to address climate change marked an about-face from the agency's previous view of its legal authority.
 The agency's current position is that even if it had authority, it would choose for various policy reasons not to exercise it. That position was upheld in a fractured ruling by the federal appeals court here, a decision that led to the Supreme Court appeal, Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency, No. 05-1120.
 At this stage, even if the plaintiffs survive the challenge to their standing and the court finds that statutory authority exists, it is highly unlikely that the court would order the agency to undertake regulation. It would be a victory, Mr. Milkey agreed, if the justices went so far as to tell the E.P.A. to reconsider its position.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (91%); STANDING TO SUE (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); AIR POLLUTANTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); COASTAL AREAS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (78%); ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2006



669 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: In Estonia, Bush Finds A Tax Actually To His Liking

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: RIGA, Latvia, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
There was much for President Bush to like about Estonia, an efficient little nation of 1.4 million people sandwiched between Russia and the Baltic Sea.
 He liked Estonia's biography, the story of a young democracy that blossomed from a breakaway Baltic republic shedding the yoke of Soviet rule. He liked his Estonian counterpart, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, a reformed reporter (for Radio Free Europe) who favors bow ties and, having been raised in the United States, speaks flawless English -- albeit with a faint New Jersey accent. He liked the country's paperless bureaucracy, which allows citizens to pay parking tickets with their cellphones and file their taxes over the Internet -- a system the president proclaimed ''the envy of all nations.''
But if there was one thing about Estonia Mr. Bush really seemed to like, it was the Estonian flat tax. ''I appreciate the fact that you got a flat tax, you got a tax system that's transparent and simple,'' the president told Mr. Ilves when the two attended a news conferences held, perhaps not coincidentally, at the National Bank of Estonia. Later, toasting Mr. Ilves at a luncheon, Mr. Bush gushed, ''I am amazed to be in a country that has been able to effect a flat tax in such a positive way.'' 
 The flat tax, as it turns out, was the brainchild of the former prime minister, Mart Laar. Mr. Laar was inspired by the only economics book he had ever read, Milton Friedman's paean to capitalism, ''Free to Choose.'' Believing, erroneously, that the flat tax had been put into practice throughout the West, Mr. Laar introduced it to Estonia. This year, the Cato Institute, a libertarian policy organization, gave Mr. Laar its ''Milton Friedman Award of Freedom.''

A Change of Venue
 Presidential trips require the right lighting, the right mix of people, the right backdrops. For the Bush White House, which began sending out advance teams as early as August to create the perfect imagery for the president's NATO summit swing through Estonia and Latvia, that meant a hasty change of venue for a presidential speech here in Riga.
 Mr. Bush was scheduled to give a major address to the Riga Conference, a kind of parallel summit meeting put on by the Latvian government that drew government officials, academics, military leaders and opinion makers from around the world to debate the state of trans-Atlantic relations while the heads of state met separately. 
 The conference was held in Riga's most ornate building, a grand Renaissance affair that in the 17th century was home to the Society of the Black Heads, a group of German merchants whose patron was St. Mauritius, often depicted as a Moor. His likeness is reproduced in statues and paintings throughout the building, named the Black Heads House. The building, which dates to 1334, is a great source of local pride. But its name and scantily clad black figurines proved too much for a White House intent on repairing strained relations with African-Americans. 
 ''They didn't want to speak at a place called Black Heads,'' said Eric Leland, co-chairman of the German Marshall Fund, an American foundation that helped the Latvians organize the event. ''Just walk around here, look at all these statues.'' So the speech was held at the politically neutral site of Latvia University.

Bush's Body Language
 Body language is everything when foreign leaders get together, especially when one of those leaders is Mr. Bush. Though the NATO summit meeting was mostly closed to the news media, the few snippets of video that TV journalists managed to eke out were without speech but, as the old saw goes, worth 1,000 words.
 There was Mr. Bush entering the Olympic Sports Center, the convention hall that played host to the summit meeting, walking with a foreign leader of whom he is not particularly fond, President Jacques Chirac of France. Mr. Chirac is seen speaking animatedly, his right hand moving up and down. Mr. Bush, frowning as he looks in the other direction, appears to be taking a deep breath -- the kind you might take when you are counting to 10 to keep yourself from saying what is really on your mind.
 Later, as the leaders of the 26 member nations gathered, Mr. Bush seemed far more at ease. That, perhaps, was a fluke of the seating chart, which was arranged alphabetically by head of state. Mr. Bush landed next to his good friend Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain. At the official photograph, where leaders were free to arrange themselves, Mr. Bush parked next to another friend, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. Mr. Chirac was four leaders down the line, a safe distance away.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 1, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A Reporter's Notebook article yesterday about President Bush's visit to the Baltics included an incorrect given name for the co-chairman of the German Marshall Fund, which helped organize a summit meeting in Riga, Latvia, about trans-Atlantic relations at which Mr. Bush gave an address. He is Marc Leland, not Eric.
A Reporter's Notebook article yesterday about President Bush's visit to the Baltics included an incorrect given name for the co-chairman of the German Marshall Fund, which helped organize a summit meeting in Riga, Latvia, about trans-Atlantic relations at which Mr. Bush gave an address. He is Marc Leland, not Eric.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%) Taxation; United States International Relations; Flat Tax

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) ESTONIA (96%); LATVIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); BALTIC STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%) Estonia

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006



670 of 670 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: Panel to Urge Rewriting Rules to Aid Companies

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS and STEPHEN LABATON; Floyd Norris reported from New York and Stephen Labaton from Washington.

 BODY:
Saying it is concerned about a loss of American competitiveness, an independent committee will call today for a sweeping overhaul of securities market regulations.
 It recommends making it harder for companies to be indicted by the government or sued by private lawyers, and urges policies to keep the Securities and Exchange Commission from adopting rules that impose high costs on business.
The committee, formed with the endorsement of Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., said the S.E.C. should be required to perform cost-benefit analyses on all rules before they were adopted. It said the S.E.C. should also take steps to rein in private securities litigation and adopt policies to shield corporate directors and auditors from some lawsuits. 
 With Congress soon to be under control of the Democrats, the report recommends changes that can be made without legislation. Even so, it remains unclear how much of the report will be adopted by the Treasury or the S.E.C. While the committee said its recommendations would help investors, they drew immediate criticism from one former member of the S.E.C., who said the recommendations would damage the commission and roll back needed regulation. 
 The report said President Bush should direct the President's Working Group on Financial Markets -- composed of Mr. Paulson and the chairmen of the Federal Reserve, the S.E.C. and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission -- ''to examine the legal and regulatory concerns we raise and to propose whatever reforms it views necessary.''
 That could include permitting the group to review cost-benefit analyses before S.E.C. rules take effect, providing businesses with one more avenue of appeal against new rules they oppose.
 The report also calls for relatively modest changes in the enforcement of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and supports greater shareholder democracy by limiting antitakeover defenses of companies. 
 ''Strong shareholder rights go hand in hand with reduced regulation or litigation, as strong shareholder rights invite greater dependence on shareholders to discipline management and directors,'' the report states. 
 The report was produced by the Committee on Capital Markets Regulation, a group co-chaired by R. Glenn Hubbard, the dean of the Columbia University Graduate School of Business, and John L. Thornton, the chairman of the Brookings Institution. 
 The committee has no official standing, but the identities of its leaders and its formation with an endorsement from Mr. Paulson have created an expectation that it may map out the Bush administration's final two years of strategy in capital markets. President Bush came to office talking of reduced regulation, but the Enron and WorldCom scandals led to passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which tightened regulation and established a new regulator for auditing firms, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
 Mr. Hubbard is a former chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, and Mr. Thornton was president of Goldman Sachs when Mr. Paulson was its chief executive. The committee was directed by Hal S. Scott, a Harvard Law School professor. 
 The Treasury has not indicated what its agenda will be. In a speech last week, Mr. Paulson said the department would set up its own roundtable on the issues next year, an indication he was not yet willing to stake out definitive positions. Nor is it clear if Christopher Cox, the S.E.C. chairman, or the other commissioners will back the proposals.
 The S.EC. analyzes some costs and benefits through its Office of Economic Analysis. But the committee proposes making that more formal, establishing ''an internal staff group of qualified economists and business analysts to perform a systematic cost-benefit analysis as a regular part of the rule-writing process.''
 A draft copy of the report was provided to The New York Times yesterday by a committee member who asked not to be identified because the committee had determined it would not be publicly disclosed until today. The committee also gave reporters an embargoed copy of the report, but this article was not based on that release.
 Although many of the changes could be made without legislation, some of the provisions, like imposing limits on damages against auditing firms -- a major goal of two committee members who are heads of major auditing firms -- would require Congressional action.
 The report calls on the Justice Department to change its policy on corporate prosecutions. That approach is contained in a memorandum by Larry Thompson, who was deputy attorney general when the corporate scandals erupted. At the moment, prosecutors, in determining whether to bring criminal charges against a company, are permitted to consider whether the company waived lawyer-client privileges to aid the government's investigation and whether the company is paying defense costs for current or former executives facing criminal charges.
 Instead, the report said, the Justice Department should prohibit prosecutors from seeking waivers of lawyer-client privilege or the denial of legal fees for company officials. 
 In general, it said, the government should be hesitant to ever indict companies, given possible damage to innocent shareholders and to the economy, and it said the law should be changed to give Washington the power to block state indictments of accounting or financial firms.
 Federal indictments of corporations should occur only ''in exceptional circumstances of pervasive culpability throughout all offices and ranks,'' the report stated. It added that if a state wanted to bring charges against either an auditing firm or a financial firm, the Justice Department should be able to block the prosecution ''on the grounds of national interest.'' 
 A major focus of the report is what the committee sees as a loss of competitiveness for American capital markets, which no longer list the bulk of new initial public offerings. The report concedes that some of the reasons for that change cannot be altered, like improved foreign markets and the fact that some offerings are from companies controlled by foreign governments. But it wants to take action on the rest.
 One way would be to exempt foreign companies from Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires audits of internal controls, if they have something similar in their home markets. For American companies, it said, the S.E.C. and the accounting oversight board should provide guidance to make application of the rule less costly, something they have promised to do.
 Companies whose securities now trade in the United States generally cannot leave unless the number of American shareholders falls below 300. The committee suggested that the S.E.C. change that to omit institutional shareholders from the count, on the theory that it is individual investors who most need protection. That would make it a little easier for such companies to leave the American markets.
 For foreign companies not now registered in the United States, the report suggests that the S.E.C. abandon most restrictions on leaving, so long as American investors are warned before they invest that such a departure is possible. ''If foreign companies know they can leave U.S. markets, they may be more willing to come in the first place,'' the report states.
 A focus of the report is on excessive litigation. It urges the S.E.C. to offer rules and interpretations to raise the standard of materiality needed to make an error important and therefore subject to litigation. 
 It suggests that companies, with shareholder approval, be permitted to divert some complaints to arbitration rather than to court, or to require that such disputes that do go to court be heard by judges rather than juries. It also urges the commission to provide protection from lawsuits for directors who rely in good faith on auditors or on corporate officials. And it suggests Congress consider limiting the liability of accounting firms, to protect them from collapse if they lose a major case.
 When the committee was formed, it did not include any former S.E.C. officials. ''We would not want to put people in the position who had formulated these rules in the past,'' Mr. Scott said. ''They may have a lack of objectivity.''
 But those people may have influence, and at least one of them said yesterday that he was not impressed by the report.
 "The report pays lip service to the need for rigorous enforcement but would dramatically diminish the effectiveness of the S.E.C., of criminal enforcement, of state attorney general enforcement and of private damage actions,'' said Harvey J. Goldschmid, a professor at Columbia Law School who had served as general counsel and as a member of the S.E.C. He said he had seen the final report but declined to discuss or disclose details of it.
 ''The recent drive for accountability and deterrence would be replaced by a world in which almost anything goes,'' he added. ''The committee raised legitimate questions but over all their recommendations are unbalanced and unwise.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher Cox, Securities and Exchange Commission chairman. (Photo by Richard Sheinwald/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); SECURITIES LAW (91%); BONDS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); FUTURES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (89%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); AUDITS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ETHICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LAWYERS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Suits and Litigation; Ethics; Boards of Directors; Accounting and Accountants; Stocks and Bonds; Law and Legislation; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (59%) Committee on Capital Markets Regulation ; Securities and Exchange Commission; President's Working Group on Financial Markets; Federal Reserve System; Commodities Futures Trading Commission; Columbia University; Brookings Institution

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (50%); VZ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); HENRY PAULSON (79%); CHRISTOPHER COX (55%) Floyd Norris; Stephen Labaton; Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson; George W (Pres) Bush; R Glenn Hubbard; John L Thornton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006

 
