

201 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; SHAKE-UP AT HEWLETT: THE DEPARTING CHIEF; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1891 words

HEADLINE: When + Adds Up to Minus

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF; Laurie Flynn contributed reporting from San Francisco for this article and Gretchen Morgenson from New York.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
It came as an icy moment in an already tense news conference last month during the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. 
 Asked to describe her relationship with her board, Carleton S. Fiorina, the Hewlett-Packard chief executive, replied with a single word: ''Excellent.''
 Perhaps she was in denial, or just out of the loop, but Ms. Fiorina's confrontational tenure as chief executive of the world's second-largest computer company was unraveling. 
 Back in the United States, the company's board, which had brought Ms. Fiorina in with great fanfare in 1999, had begun discussing ways to limit her power and give more day-to-day authority to several of the operating executives. She was told point-blank by three directors at a Jan. 12 meeting in San Francisco that she had to change her style. 
 ''The board told her in no uncertain terms that she needed to open up the office of chief executive and share operational responsibilities,'' said Rob Enderle, principal analyst with the Enderle Group, a research firm in San Jose and a longtime Hewlett observer. ''She adamantly refused and drew a line in the sand.'' 
 Concerned about her refusal to budge, directors convened a special board meeting beginning on Sunday evening at a hotel near O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. At the meeting, Thomas Perkins, a former board member and a legendary Silicon Valley venture capitalist, was asked to rejoin the board after discussions with another candidate fell through. 
 The meeting continued into the next day. While she was staying nearby, Ms. Fiorina was excluded from the discussions. On Monday, the board told her that they wanted her to resign. She was stunned, according to one person familiar with the discussions.
 ''I think she made a calculated bet the board would not let her go, but the board was clearly adamant,'' Mr. Enderle said.
 It was an ignominious end to a six-year run that began when Ms. Fiorina was made chief executive -- and the first woman to head one of the nation's 20 largest public corporations -- as part of an effort to shake up a slow-moving corporate culture. 
 Back then, she was the subject of frequent and flattering magazine cover stories, in which she was lauded as a supersaleswoman who had excellent communication skills, was tough as nails and understood technology to boot. 
 Her status blossomed to that of a rock star in the computer world. Ms. Fiorina became the public image of the company, starring in television advertisements showing her visiting the legendary garage in Palo Alto, Calif., where the company began. 
 She also became a globe-trotting evangelist for Hewlett-Packard's leadership in digital convergence, and its drive to be all things to all people. She engineered the Compaq merger against big odds, and then drove Hewlett-Packard into toe-to-toe competition against I.B.M. in corporate services, Dell in personal computers, Kodak in digital cameras and Xerox in copiers.
 Her personality and management style ultimately led to her demise. She used hardball tactics to suppress the opposition to the 2002 Compaq merger by Walter Hewlett, the company's largest shareholder and the son of the founder William Hewlett. 
 She even twisted the arms of fund managers to vote their shares in favor of the merger, leading to regulators fining Deutsche Bank $750,000 to settle accusations that it failed to disclose a conflict of interest related to its role in the merger.
 Last year, when the company's struggling corporate computer division failed to meet its sales growth targets, she fired three top executives in what many people, both inside and outside the company, saw as a public hanging.
 In the end, her superstar status was also her undoing. The board concluded that she was spending too much time on the road, neglecting the nuts-and-bolts execution of her own strategic ideas. According to a person familiar with the board's decision, ''It's all about performance.'' 
 The depth of Ms. Fiorina's crisis became apparent to Davos attendees the day after her press conference. She attended the Information Technology Governors meeting, a panel that includes the world's top technology chiefs, in the afternoon. But Ms. Fiorina skipped the glamorous reception and dinner that followed.
 ''In the past she would always attend and hold court,'' said an executive who was at the event. ''She didn't want to look us in the eye.''
 Though her fall seemed precipitous, a person with knowledge of the board's concerns said directors' worries deepened in the second half of 2004. In September, the board asked Ms. Fiorina to implement a more accelerated strategy for change at the computer maker. Ms. Fiorina resisted. The dispute escalated on Jan. 12 when three board members met with Ms. Fiorina, showing her a document that stressed the entire board's pessimism about the company's performance and its inability to compete with Dell and I.B.M.
 Her dramatic departure mirrors her rapid rise to the position as the number-one woman in American business six years ago. She had been known as a top-notch sales executive at Lucent Technologies, the maker of telephone network equipment, and she brought to Hewlett-Packard a luster and a sense of corporate style the firm was badly lacking at the height of the dot-com era.
 ''This was someone who was planning for the year beyond tomorrow and was not immersed in the here and now,'' said Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, associate dean at the Yale School of Management.
 Today, employees recalled Ms. Fiorina's penchant for holding pep rallies for employees, where she would frequently take over sporting venues and make appearances complete with light shows and celebrities Magic Johnson, like former pro basketball star, or Jeffrey Katzenberg, the Hollywood luminary.
 ''They were like political rallies and they were totally foreign to H.P.'s culture,'' said one employee. 
 The most recent event was in San Diego in December, the headquarters of the company's successful printer decision and the home base of Vyomesh Joshi, a veteran Hewlett executive who recently was given control of the company's combined printer and personal computing. 
 Ms. Fiorina filled the San Diego Convention Center with 1,600 employees and broadcast the event around the world on satellite television, while executives back at corporate headquarters in Palo Alto, fretted about a day of lost productivity.
 Becoming the most powerful female executive in the country brought Ms. Fiorina both immense celebrity and intense scrutiny of her management performance and her role as a woman executive. Within Hewlett, the appointment of a female chief executive was consistent with the company's longtime commitment to promoting women. But her sudden departure raises the inevitable question of whether her gender in a male-dominated Silicon Valley engineering culture was an issue. 
 Industry experts and company employees insist that her gender was not the issue. ''This is a company that for many years has been committed to gender equity,'' said Rosabeth Kanter, a professor at the Harvard Business School and the author of ''Confidence,'' a management book about leadership. Michael Useem, a professor of management at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business, agreed: ''In this era where there is so much demand for results, boards are looking at results. A 'Carl' Fiorina would have been subjected to the same pressures.''
 Ms. Fiorina was the company's chief executive for almost six years, approximately double the average tenure of chief executive officers today. ''Her disposal might have been harsher than what occurs with men,'' said Susan Kalla, senior technology analyst at Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Company in New York, ''but you can make the case that she outperformed all her average male counterparts.''
 A far bigger liability for Ms. Fiorina was the fact that she was an outsider, Ms. Kanter said. ''Ms. Fiorina might have set herself up for failure from the beginning when she put herself in H.P. commercials,'' she said. ''She was an outsider, and that doesn't bode well for building support.''
 Ms. Fiorina's cult of personality was immediately visible to even a casual visitor to the company. In the entryway of the corporate headquarters, her portrait hung boldly adjacent to portraits of the company's legendary and revered founders, William Hewlett and David Packard. 
 ''You either loved Carly or you didn't,'' one mid-level Hewlett Packard manager said. ''There was not a lot of in-between inside the company.'' Ms. Kanter said the fact that powerful forces within the company opposed Hewlett's acquisition of Compaq also contributed to her demise. ''The people who lost the battle continued to oppose her,'' she said.
 When Ms. Fiorina, who is now 50 years old, took the reins at Hewlett, she became the first outsider to ever run the company. Her appointment as chief executive drew attention in part because she was the only candidate for the job without direct experience in the computer business. Rather, her world was that of telephone equipment. At the time, she was group president of Lucent Technologies' Global Service Provider business, a $20 billion business in which her customers were long-distance and local telephone companies, and Internet and wireless service providers.
 Prior to that, Ms. Fiorina had been instrumental in AT&T's 1996 spinoff of Lucent, and in helping create the new company's brand image. Soon she found herself running Lucent's consumer business. She deserved her star status at Lucent, said Ashton Peery, a former company executive who was head of strategy and business development at the time. ''The question is to look at the magnitude of the challenge she took on at H.P.,'' he said. Quite possibly, ''when you attempt to merge two behemoths like H.P. and Compaq, it's an impossible task.''Ms. Fiorina, who grew up Cara Carleton Sneed, came to Hewlett via a circuitous route. After graduating from Stanford University with a degree in medieval history and philosophy, she took a variety of jobs, including as an assistant in a financial services company and as a translator for Italian businessmen traveling in the states. 
 She went to law school, but dropped out after a year, much to the disappointment of her father, an attorney. But she went back to school and earned an M.B.A. from the University of Maryland and eventually a masters in science from Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School. 
 Her first job after business school was a low-level position at AT&T's government sales office in Washington. According to the folklore, she made it clear she didn't intend to stay long. She stayed nearly 16 years at AT&T, and another three at Lucent.
 Although there has been widespread Silicon Valley speculation that Ms. Fiorina's stay as Hewlett's chief executive was only a waystation on her path to a political career, that does not seem to be an option at the moment.
 Today, on a busy e-mail discussion group for former Hewlett employees, the overwhelming consensus was that the board of directors had corrected an error far too slowly.
 ''This is great news,'' one bitter ex-employee wrote. ''Unfortunately for us it really does not matter. We will not get our jobs back. My sense is that Carly has done the damage. I do not think that H.P. will survive what she has done.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photo by Nick Bilton/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 When Carleton Fiorina was asked last month to describe her relationship with Hewlett-Packard's board, she said, ''excellent.'' This week, after six years as chief executive, she was told she had to go. (Photo by Andreas Meier/Reuters)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (74%); CELEBRITIES (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); AIRPORTS (65%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (61%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%) Computers and the Internet; Biographical Information; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Boards of Directors

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%) Hewlett-Packard Co

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: Carleton S Fiorina; John Markoff

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (87%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (91%); SWITZERLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005



202 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Deflects Questions On Fannie Mae's Accounting

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
The Securities and Exchange Commission's top accountant said Wednesday that it may take a year for Fannie Mae, the nation's largest buyer of home mortgages, to restate potentially billions in earnings, but he would not discuss the continuing investigation into its accounting.
 The accountant, Donald T. Nicolaisen, told a House Financial Services subcommittee that Fannie Mae's accounting for derivatives used to hedge against interest rate risk did not comply with accepted standards.
 But he repeatedly declined to discuss how Fannie Mae's accounting problems could have been missed for years by its federal regulator and both internal and external auditors. He said those issues were being investigated by the S.E.C. 
 ''In light of the commission's ongoing enforcement actions, I ask that the subcommittee understand my reluctance to address at this time-specific issues related to Fannie Mae's compliance with federal securities law,'' Mr. Nicolaisen said.
 The S.E.C. said in December that Fannie Mae had misapplied accounting principles and called on the company to restate earnings. Fannie Mae now faces a restatement of potentially $9 billion.
 Mr. Nicolaisen said the two accounting standards that Fannie Mae misapplied are commonly used and complied with throughout the financial world.
 ''I have reason to believe the standards are workable and are being followed,'' Mr. Nicolaisen said, responding to questions from the panel.
 But in response to concerns from some subcommittee members that Fannie's accounting problems may be shared by others in the financial industry, Mr. Nicolaisen said he thought other companies appropriately employ the standards. 
 The House subcommittee hearing was the first of the new Congressional session to consider problems at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. On Thursday, the Senate Banking Committee will hear testimony from the Housing and Urban Development Department on Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's roles.
 A Fannie Mae spokeswoman would not comment on the timing of the company's possible earnings restatement. 
 A Republican lawmaker, Representative Richard Baker of Louisiana, said he planned to introduce by the middle of March a proposal to stiffen oversight of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 He said he was seeking information from the White House on its expectations for any regulatory overhaul and expected the House Financial Services Committee to complete work on the legislation in the spring. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (91%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ETHICS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); CITIES (50%) Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (86%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (96%) Fannie Mae; Securities and Exchange Commission

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (86%)

PERSON: Donald T Nicolaisen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005



203 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; SHAKE-UP AT HEWLETT: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2148 words

HEADLINE: HEWLETT'S BOARD FORCES CHIEF OUT AFTER ROCKY STAY

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN; John Markoff, in San Francisco, and Eric Dash, in New York, contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Carleton S. Fiorina, one of the nation's best-known business executives and perhaps the most powerful woman in corporate America, was ousted Wednesday as the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, the giant computer and printer maker. 
 The move came after she was unable to build Hewlett into a reliable profit machine with the broad heft to challenge I.B.M. at the top of the industry.
 Hewlett's board forced Ms. Fiorina to resign after she and the directors disagreed on how to carry out corporate strategy as the contentious $19 billion purchase of Compaq Computer in 2002 has failed to deliver the results she had promised.
 The company's new leadership insisted that it did not intend any significant retreat from Ms. Fiorina's goal of offering a full range of digital products and computer services to businesses and consumers alike. 
 Some analysts suggested, however, that the move could be the first step toward breaking up a company, founded in 1938, that helped give rise to Silicon Valley as the nation's most important center of technological innovation.
 The resignation brings to a close a rocky five-and-a-half-year tenure for Ms. Fiorina as Hewlett's chief executive. Her charisma and aggressively top-down leadership style made her a highly visible personality both within the industry and on a broader public stage. But her glamorous profile also made her the target of criticism from Wall Street and company insiders who accused her of neglecting the hands-on management tasks needed to carry out her vision. 
 ''While I regret the board and I have differences about how to execute H.P.'s strategy, I respect their decision,'' Ms. Fiorina said in a statement. ''H.P. is a great company and I wish all the people of H.P. much success in the future.''
 Under the terms of her contract, Ms. Fiorina is expected to receive a severance package worth at least $21.1 million, a company spokesman said.
 During her tenure, which spanned the bursting of the Internet bubble and a slow recovery in technology spending, Hewlett's stock price fell more than 50 percent, a far-worse performance than that of I.B.M. or Dell.
 But within an industry characterized by intense competition and rapidly changing technologies, Ms. Fiorina was certainly not alone in struggling to turn Hewlett into a business success. Other Silicon Valley icons, like Sun Microsystems, have been unable to overcome a sharp slowdown in corporate spending on information technology, while only a few computer companies, like Apple Computer, have managed to appeal to consumers with a range of new digital devices.
 Hewlett's board reached its decision after a series of meetings over the last few weeks, culminating in the decision to ask Ms. Fiorina for her resignation. The board reached consensus on her fate after a lengthy board meeting that began among a small group of directors on Sunday and continued on Monday at a hotel near O'Hare International Airport in Chicago.
 Wall Street signaled its approval of Ms. Fiorina's resignation Wednesday, suggesting that investors are expecting new management to improve the company's performance, perhaps by either focusing more on its highly profitable printer business or spinning it off to shareholders. Hewlett's stock price rose $1.39, or 6.9 percent, to close at $21.53 a share in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
 Robert P. Wayman, Hewlett's chief financial officer and a 36-year veteran of the company, was named interim chief executive and was appointed to Hewlett's board. Patricia C. Dunn, a director since 1998, was named to succeed Ms. Fiorina as chairman.
 ''The board has sent a strong message that they were not happy with the status quo,'' said A.M. Sacconaghi, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company who publicly opposed the Hewlett-Compaq merger. ''They clearly are looking for better leadership, as defined by better execution, to try and restore the fabled H.P. to its once-sacred position'' in Silicon Valley.
 The ouster is a remarkable turn of events for Ms. Fiorina, whose prominent position in American business had led to discussions about her joining the Bush administration or perhaps running as a Republican candidate for the Senate from California.
 Speaking last month at the World Economic Forum in Switzerland, Ms. Fiorina characterized her relationship with the board as excellent. She dismissed as pure speculation a report at the time in The Wall Street Journal that suggested that Hewlett's board had doubts about her ability to lead the company.
 Ms. Dunn said in a conference call with industry analysts and investors.: ''This is not a change related to strategy. This is a change based on a desire to accelerate that strategy. We think that requires hands-on execution.''
 She repeatedly used the phrase ''hands-on'' -- a clear signal that she and her fellow board members thought the company needed a new kind of chief executive to maneuver out of a predicament in which Hewlett has been competing across a wide arena, from printers and personal computers to big-ticket corporate data computing systems but failing to gain market share in any of them.
 ''From a style perspective, she was spending too much time talking to large groups and that kind of thing,'' said Steven Milunovich, a Merrill Lynch technology analyst. ''She tended to overpromise in terms of financial results, so both in terms of improving credibility and to get somebody willing to get their fingernails dirtier, they decided to make a change.''
 Even before the dismissal of Ms. Fiorina, there had been talk on Wall Street that Michael D. Capellas, the chief executive of MCI, the long-distance phone company, would be a strong candidate for Ms. Fiorina's job if the board ever contemplated a change. Mr. Capellas, the former chief executive of Compaq, served as Hewlett's president under Ms. Fiorina until resigning in November 2002, six months after the merger was completed.
 The two leading internal candidates, one company insider said, are Vyomesh Joshi and Ann M. Livermore. Mr. Joshi, a star inside Hewlett as the executive vice president in charge of the highly profitable printer and imaging unit, recently took on added responsibility for its personal computer operations. Ms. Livermore, also an executive vice president, oversees the unit that sells large computer systems and consulting services to corporate and public-sector customers.
 Ms. Fiorina has been active in Republican Party politics and was one of a fairly small group of technology executives widely known and well regarded in Washington, said Ralph Hellmann, the lead lobbyist for the Information Technology Industry Council there.
 ''There were people inside H.P. who loved Carly because of her ability to architect a strategy,'' said one midlevel manager, who spoke on condition he not be identified because the company had instituted a strict ban on interviews. ''But then there were the people who thought that she was drawn to all the pomp and circumstance.''
 Because she was fired without cause, the company said, Ms. Fiorina is entitled to severance pay equal to 2.5 times her annual salary and bonus. She will also continue to receive some benefits, including health insurance, for the next two years. That amount totaled about $8.4 million in 2003, the last year that information was disclosed in public filings.
 Ms. Fiorina will also be able to cash out millions of shares of restricted stock along with stock options. And with the abrupt jump in Hewlett's share price, Ms. Fiorina may ''make a million dollars from the market's enthusiasm for her departure,'' noted Lucian Bebchuk, a Harvard Law school professor who is an expert on corporate pay. Ms. Fiorina might also receive about $2 million in pension benefits, Mr. Bebchuk estimated, based on public filings.
 The announcement came only a week before Hewlett is scheduled to announce its earnings for its fiscal quarter ended Jan. 31. During Wednesday's conference call, the company said that its earnings would come in within the range of analyst estimates. The timing of the move struck some analysts as odd, but executives said it reflected weeks of internal debate. 
 ''The discussions that led to Ms. Fiorina's dismissal grew out of a process by which the board continually reviews company performance and leadership,'' Ms. Dunn said. ''The board has been deliberating the company's performance, and the C.E.O.'s performance, for quite some time.''
 One suggestion, first floated by outsiders, was that Ms. Fiorina hire a chief operating officer to tend to the company's day-to-day operations. That would have been one solution had a lack of a focus on operations been the board's only concern, Mr. Sacconaghi said.
 ''I think Carly's true strengths were as a change agent and a visionary, and as a marketer and a communicator,'' Mr. Sacconaghi said. ''I don't think her particular strengths were operations-focused.''
 Ms. Dunn said that no other changes in management were expected immediately and that the company would continue to operate essentially the same way as it had under Ms. Fiorina. ''The board is firmly committed to the business strategy that is in place,'' she said.
 That sentiment was echoed by Mr. Wayman in an internal memo he sent out to all Hewlett employees Wednesday morning. Mr. Wayman, who last year began talking publicly about his desire to retire, wrote that he intended to run the company only for the next few months while the board searched for a replacement for Ms. Fiorina.
 ''I have great confidence in our ability to execute the strategies and plans we have put in place,'' Mr. Wayman wrote in an e-mail message.
 Analysts and others who follow Hewlett-Packard, however, were not so sure.
 ''I have trouble believing that the new management team at H.P. is going to stay the course they're on and just try and execute better on it,'' said Andrew P. McAfee, an associate professor who teaches technology and operations management at the Harvard Business School.
 He noted that Hewlett's chief rival, I.B.M., had sold most of its personal computer unit to a Chinese rival late last year, acknowledging that there was little room for others besides Dell to profit from a commodity-driven product sold more on price than innovation.
 ''It's hard enough to compete in one line of business,'' Professor McAfee said, ''but when you do it in several, it's an extremely tough act to pull off.''
 Mr. Milunovich, the Merrill analyst who has emerged as Ms. Fiorina's most vocal critic on Wall Street, said that even if the company stayed the course in the short run, the pressures to break it up would ultimately prove too strong for the board to resist. For the last year, Mr. Milunovich has been calling on Hewlett to break itself in two and spin off its lucrative printer and imaging business because that would provide financial benefits to shareholders.
 The printer business, about the only aspect of Hewlett's business not changed when the company acquired Compaq, accounts for more than three-quarters of its profit. By Mr. Milunovich's calculations, stock in a stand-alone printer business would be worth roughly $20 a share -- the price of Hewlett's stock at the close of the market the day before the announcement.
 ''Longer term this increases the likelihood of a breakup,'' Mr. Milunovich said. ''The board hasn't been behind a breakup, but the board wants to have better shareholder return. So I don't think they're going to break it up anytime soon, but I think they ultimately will come to that conclusion.''
 Immediately after the announcement, Mr. Milunovich upgraded his rating on Hewlett from neutral to buy.
 One large Hewlett shareholder heartened by the news was Benjamin Rosen, a former venture capitalist and the longtime chairman of Compaq before stepping down from that post two years before Hewlett acquired the company.
 Since the merger, Hewlett has not rewarded shareholders, and that has been disappointing, Mr. Rosen said. ''H.P. is replete with resources -- with people, with technology, with relationships, with products. So the great frustration is that this great potential hasn't been realized.''
 Mr. Rosen drew parallels to Apple, which languished after Steven P. Jobs left the company but has experienced a rejuvenation since his return. ''The board has a similar opportunity here to put in leadership that will take advantage of these assets,'' he said. The company is ''way undervalued in relation to its potential.''
 Walter Hewlett, the son of the company's co-founder and a bitter opponent of the Compaq takeover who nearly prevented it in a proxy fight, echoed that thought. Mr. Hewlett, in a prepared statement, declined to comment on Ms. Fiorina specifically, but said that while the company was facing a number of challenges it was still populated by plenty of talented people.
 ''We all look forward to H.P. fulfilling its promise,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Carleton S. Fiorina was one of business's most powerful women. (Photo by Robert Sorbo/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A1)
Hewlett-Packard competes across a wide arena, from printers and personal computers to big-ticket corporate data computing systems, but it has failed to gain market share in any of them. (Photo by Matt Stroshane/Bloomberg News)
Hewlett-Packard's $19 billion purchase of Compaq in 2002, promoted by this sign in Times Square, was seen as a victory for Carleton Fiorina. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. C6)Chart: ''Changing Faces of Hewlett-Packard''Beyond its merger with Compaq, Hewlett-Packard has made some significant changes in the last several years.NET REVENUE, BY BUSINESS, IN BILLIONS1998Before Carleton S. Fiorina became chief executiveChemical analysis and service -- $1.0Electronic components -- 1.1Medical electronic equipment and service -- 1.4Test and measurement products and service -- 4.2Computer products, service and support -- 39.5TOTAL -- $47.22002Ms. Fiorina in charge
 merged with CompaqServices -- $9.1Financial services -- 1.7Personal systems -- 14.7Imaging and printing -- 20.3Enterprise systems -- 11.4TOTAL -- $57.22004Latest full year before Ms. Fiorina steps downCorporate investments -- $0.4Financial services -- 1.9Personal systems -- 24.6Imaging and printing -- 24.2Technology solutions -- 29.9TOTAL -- $81.0(Source by Company reports)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); DIVESTITURES (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (72%); PRINTER MFG (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (65%) Computers and the Internet; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Boards of Directors; Computers and the Internet; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (73%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Hewlett-Packard Co; Compaq Computer Corp; Sun Microsystems Inc; Apple Computer Inc

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (73%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: Gary Rivlin; Carleton S Fiorina; Robert P Wayman; Patricia C Dunn

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005



204 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Shares Drop on Concerns That Profit Growth Will Slow

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks dropped yesterday as a rally in shares of Hewlett-Packard after the ouster of its chief executive, Carleton S. Fiorina, failed to override concern that earnings growth was slowing. 
 Technology stocks led the decline after Cisco Systems, the maker of computer-networking equipment, forecast its smallest sales increase in six quarters. 
 ''The H.P. news is great, but Cisco came out and those results were a bit disappointing,'' said Patrick Becker Jr., who helps manage $2.2 billion at Becker Capital Management in Portland, Ore. Cisco's outlook ''affects a lot of companies in technology.'' 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 10.31 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,191.99. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 60.52 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,664.11. The Nasdaq composite index fell 34.13 points, or 1.6 percent, to 2,052.55. 
 So far this year, the S.&P. 500 has fallen 1.6 percent amid disappointing profit forecasts from companies like eBay and Qualcomm and higher borrowing costs. The Federal Reserve raised its overnight lending rate by a quarter-point, to 2.5 percent, on Feb. 2 and restated its intention to increase rates at a ''measured'' pace. 
 Hewlett-Packard had the biggest advance in the Dow industrials, jumping $1.39, or 6.9 percent, to $21.53. The company said Robert P. Wayman, the chief financial officer, will be interim chief executive and Patricia C. Dunn will be chairwoman. Ms. Fiorina said she and Hewlett-Packard's board differed on company strategy. 
 Ms. Fiorina was named chief executive on July 19, 1999. Since then, the company's shares had fallen 55 percent through yesterday. Their rally yesterday was their biggest since November 2002. 
 Cisco lost 61 cents, to $17.63. Fiscal third-quarter sales may rise 8 percent to 10 percent from a year earlier, John T. Chambers, the chief executive, said, implying revenue of as much as $6.18 billion. That falls short of the $6.23 billion expected by analysts.
 Profit at S.&P. 500 companies this quarter is expected to rise 8.4 percent, down from 27.4 percent a year ago, Thomson Financial estimates. That would be the slowest pace for quarterly earnings growth since the third quarter of 2002.
 Computer Sciences dropped $2.52, to $49.48. The company said revenue last quarter was $3.52 billion. Analysts had expected $3.96 billion. 
 A group of insurance companies in the S.&P. 500 rose 0.8 percent. Among them, American International Group climbed $1.58, to $69.31. It had fourth-quarter profit excluding changes in the value of investments of $1.17 a share, exceeding the $1.11 average estimate of analysts.
 Aon climbed $1.97, or 8.7 percent, to $24.52. The insurance broker said fourth-quarter profit, excluding discontinued businesses, was 57 cents a share, compared with the average estimate of 46 cents that was expected by analysts. 
 An S.&P. 500 index of producers of raw materials fell 1.3 percent, as 28 of its 32 members declined. International Paper fell 71 cents, to $37.27, after a Goldman Sachs analyst, Richard Skidmore, cut his rating on the paper maker to in line from outperform. 


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INSURANCE (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); BONDS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (72%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (92%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (87%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); BECKER CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (57%); QUALCOMM INC (55%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (92%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (87%); AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (87%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (87%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (57%) OREGON, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005



205 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: Foes Dig In As Wal-Mart Aims for City

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
''Wal-Mart is eager to make New York City its next frontier,'' said the company's eastern region spokeswoman, but many New Yorkers seem ready to welcome Wal-Mart as enthusiastically as a frontier town welcomes a desperado.
 Small businesses, union leaders, City Council members and even some mayoral candidates are gearing up to prevent Wal-Mart from setting foot in town, now that the world's largest retailer has acknowledged it wants to open its first New York City store, planned for Rego Park, Queens, in 2008.
 Vornado Realty Trust, the developer whose proposed shopping complex would include a 132,000-square-foot Wal-Mart, has filed a land-use application with the city, and the approval process is expected to take seven months. But Wal-Mart's opponents plan to pressure every government body that will consider the application -- the community board, the City Planning Commission and the City Council -- to reject it. 
 The fight seems likely to become the biggest battle against a single store in the city's history, because the labor movement sees Wal-Mart as Public Enemy No. 1 since it is so anti-union, and because many small businesses fear that tens of thousands of Wal-Mart-loving consumers will flock to the store, taking millions of dollars in business with them. 
 ''There will never be a more diverse and comprehensive coalition than this effort against Wal-Mart,'' said Richard Lipsky, spokesman for the Neighborhood Retail Alliance, an anti-Wal-Mart coalition in New York. ''It will include small-business people, labor people, environmental groups, women's groups, immigrant groups and community groups.''
 One factor that will make the fight unusually intense is that labor has decided that frustrating Wal-Mart's New York ambitions is pivotal to its new, nationwide campaign to pressure the company to improve the way it pays and treats its workers.
 ''Wal-Mart has come to represent the lowest common denominator in the treatment of working people,'' said Brian M. McLaughlin, president of the New York City Central Labor Council, the umbrella group of more than one million union members. ''Wal-Mart didn't build its empire on bargains. They built it on the backs of working people here and abroad.''
 Wal-Mart -- which says it is looking at more sites in New York -- has faced opposition elsewhere, most notably in Chicago and Inglewood, a Los Angeles suburb. Last May, the Chicago City Council voted to allow a Wal-Mart on the city's West Side, but blocked one proposed for the South Side, while in Inglewood voters rejected a Wal-Mart, 60 percent to 40 percent, in a referendum last April.
 Nonetheless, company officials seem surprised by the hostility they have encountered here, especially because the city has more than a dozen big-box discount stores.
 ''I hope we'll be given a fair chance,'' said the Wal-Mart spokeswoman, Mia Masten, corporate affairs director for the eastern region. ''We are interested in New York City. With the population there, it would be a wonderful opportunity for us in terms of reaching a customer base we haven't reached yet.''
 In all this early skirmishing, one not inconsequential group seems largely forgotten: New York's consumers. Many of them love Wal-Mart's low prices.
 ''I like Wal-Mart,'' said Sheila Richardson, a correction officer who lives in Corona, Queens, and was shopping last week at the Sears mall across 62nd Drive from the planned Wal-Mart site, which would be a block from the intersection of Queens Boulevard and the Long Island Expressway.
 ''I'm a shopaholic,'' she said, ''and once a week I drive to Wal-Mart in Hempstead or Westbury and even where I grew up, in Albany. It would be good to have a Wal-Mart nearby.'' 
 Danielle Sweetman, a receptionist for Catholic Charities, agreed, saying a Wal-Mart in Queens would spare her the 40-minute drive to the Wal-Mart in Hempstead. ''I'm looking forward to Wal-Mart coming,'' she said. ''It has better bargains, and I can get almost anything there.''
 Steven Malanga, a senior fellow with the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research organization, said Wal-Mart's opponents unfairly want to deprive consumers of greater choices. ''The nature of the debate is whether New York gets to have the broadest shopping opportunities that exist elsewhere,'' he said. ''Mark Green always did studies showing that stores in New York were ripping off the poor, and then the City Council tries stopping big-box stores. So why do people get ripped off? Because we're restricting competition.'' Mr. Green was the city's public advocate.
 The store is already becoming an issue in this year's mayoral campaign. Two Democratic candidates, Anthony D. Weiner, the congressman who represents Rego Park, and Gifford Miller, the Council's speaker, have voiced opposition to the Wal-Mart store. Mr. Weiner said recently that ''Wal-Mart has blazed a path of economic and social destruction in towns throughout the U.S.'' 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a Republican, appeared to support the Wal-Mart project in his initial comments on the plan, but now mayoral aides say it is by no means a given that he will support it.
 ''You can't sit there and just say these big stores should not be allowed to be built in this city,'' he told reporters recently, voicing concern that the city was losing shoppers, jobs and sales tax revenues to big stores in the suburbs. 
 Wal-Mart executives say they have not signed an official deal with Vornado, and some city officials say that if the heat grows too intense, Wal-Mart may walk away from the project or Vornado may ask it to drop out, hoping to find another tenant that provokes less opposition. Vornado declined to comment.
 Officials in the city's planning department are doing an initial review of Vornado's application to see whether all the necessary papers, including a preliminary environmental impact filing, have been submitted. Vornado's application calls for a three-story shopping complex, two 25-story apartment towers and 1,400 parking spaces. The Wal-Mart store, occupying the first floor, would not include a supermarket.
 Various approvals, including changes to a previous land-use plan for the site, are needed, planning officials explained, because of the height, the residential use and the expiration of approvals from 1986 for a mall at the site.
 Once all the papers are filed, Rego Park's community board is to hold a hearing and submit a recommendation to the planning commission. The Queens borough president can also hold a hearing and make recommendations. After the borough president weighs in, the City Planning Commission must hold a hearing and has 60 days to approve, modify or reject the application. If the commission approves it, the Vornado application goes to the City Council's zoning and franchise subcommittee, then to its land-use committee and then to the whole Council. 
 The community board and the planning commission are supposed to consider 20 land-use issues, including effects on traffic, air quality and neighboring shopping districts. They are not supposed to consider whether Wal-Mart is antiunion, but the Council's politicians are expected to be mindful of such arguments.
 For the community board and city planners, one fear is that Wal-Mart's presence could badly undercut one of the borough's best-known shopping districts, Austin Street in Forest Hills, one mile away.
 Lenny Karp, whose family has run Austin Shoes since 1942, voiced fears that Wal-Mart's low prices, high volume and huge name would drive many storeowners under. ''I'm a small retailer. How can I compete with them?'' he said. ''They can devastate a community. We've seen that happen elsewhere. The small-business owner is no match for them.''
 A customer interrupted to say Mr. Karp's customers would remain loyal, but Mr. Karp said newcomers to the neighborhood might never even visit his store because they might go right to Wal-Mart. ''Right now, I work seven days a week now to support my family,'' he said. ''I just don't think it's fair if they come.''
 Sung Soo Kim, president of the city's Small Business Congress, with 130,000 members, said: ''There's a myth that local businesses can be competitive with megastores. Those megastores are category-killing. They cannibalize existing retail merchants.''
 Perhaps the strongest opposition to Wal-Mart will come from organized labor, which has told City Council members that Wal-Mart pays low wages, provides health insurance to fewer than half its workers, is vehemently antiunion and faces a huge sex-discrimination lawsuit.
 Wal-Mart's Ms. Masten said the new store would create over 300 jobs. She said Wal-Mart stores in cities paid $10.38 an hour on average; union officials put the figure around $9.25. She said Wal-Mart offers profit-sharing, a 401(k) plan and affordable health benefits, starting at $40 a month for individual coverage and $155 a month for family coverage.
 Noting that Wal-Mart employs 1.2 million Americans, she said, ''People wouldn't stay with a company that wasn't providing opportunities and competitive wages and benefits.''
 Helen Sears, the council member who represents Rego Park, said she had cautioned Wal-Mart officials about their labor practices. 
 ''I've said to them, they are the biggest daddy of all, and if they want to do big things, if they want to do work in our Big Apple, their policies absolutely need to be reviewed,'' she said. ''They have to put something in place that's a little different from what they have now.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 21, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 10 about opposition to plans for a Wal-Mart in Queens referred imprecisely to the location of a Long Island store. It is in Uniondale, a community in the Town of Hempstead; it is not in the Village of Hempstead.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A 132,000-square-foot Wal-Mart, New York City's first, is planned for 2008 on this parking lot in Rego Park, Queens, but labor union leaders, small-business owners and some mayoral candidates plan to oppose it.
 Lenny Karp, left, whose family runs Austin Shoes, is not happy about Wal-Mart's plans. ''How can I compete with them?'' he said. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B10)Map of Queens highlighting the Wal-Mart site location. (pg. B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (92%); RETAILERS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); APPROVALS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (64%); REFERENDUMS (60%); HISTORY (52%) Retail Stores and Trade; Labor; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries; Election Issues; Mayors; Elections; Retail Stores and Trade; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); VORNADO REALTY TRUST (71%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Vornado Realty Trust; City Planning Commission (NYC)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%); VNO (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%)

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005



206 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Nearly Triples Tsunami Aid Pledge, to $950 Million

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
President Bush on Wednesday increased the United States tsunami relief pledge to $950 million, nearly tripling America's contribution.
 The additional $600 million would put the United States, which was criticized initially as reacting slowly to the disaster, ahead of Australia, which has pledged $750 million, and Germany, which has pledged $680 million, among the top donors. 
 The administration will include the new aid in the $81 billion supplemental bill that it is expected to submit to Congress next week to cover the costs of fighting in Iraq and in Afghanistan.
 Since the tsunami disaster seven weeks ago, nearly $6 billion in aid has been pledged from public and private sources, according to the United Nations. The United States' pledge is now the largest for a single disaster in the country's history, according to Andrew S. Natsios, the administrator of the United States Agency for International Development. 
 Already the United States has spent $101 million on aid and another $101 million for the American military's role in the relief effort.
 In his announcement, the president praised the United States military and the Agency for International Development for their life-saving efforts in Indonesia, Thailand, Sri Lanka and the other countries. And he said the money would ensure the success was not squandered.
 ''We will use these resources to provide assistance and to work with the affected nations on rebuilding vital infrastructure that re-energizes economies and strengthens societies,'' Mr. Bush said in a statement.
 The new spending request includes millions to replenish money already used for the relief efforts, easing some lawmakers' concerns that the administration would deplete funds originally intended to help other desperate nations.
 More than half of the $600 million in the request will be spent on construction projects like roads, schools and water distribution systems, a reflection of the changing nature of the work from emergency relief efforts to longer-term rehabilitation.
 Explaining the size of the increase at a press briefing, Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy secretary of defense, said, ''Having achieved an enormous humanitarian success we have a very large stake in making sure that this success does not go to waste.'' 
 Indonesia and Sri Lanka will be the major recipients of the new aid, as India and Thailand have said they do not need other governments' aid.
 In his announcement, the president also singled out his father and former President Bill Clinton for their efforts as his representatives in raising private donations; Americans have given $700 million to charities for the relief effort.
 The Congressional reaction to the president's announcement increasing government aid was favorable. 
 Representative Jim Kolbe, Republican from Arizona and chairman of the foreign operations subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee, which oversees this assistance, said that the request reflected the United States' ''dedication to humanitarian efforts around the world.''
 But Congress could alter how the money is spent. In addition to construction projects, the administration earmarked $35 million for a tsunami and typhoon early warning system; $62 million to provide technical help to governments for planning reconstruction and following good-governance practices; and $168 million to help victims return to their communities by offering money for new housing, education, food and employment. 
 Knowing of concerns among lawmakers about potential waste and corruption, Mr. Natsios said that all of the money Congress appropriated would be well spent with ''very high levels of accountability.''
 Mr. Wolfowitz emphasized the geopolitical importance of helping Indonesia, which has the world's largest Muslim population. The tsunami aid is already said to have improved the image of the United States, which had plummeted in Indonesia especially after the start of the war in Iraq.
 ''It has had quite an impact that we were there and able to help and ready to help,'' Mr. Wolfowitz said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A ruined port last month in Banda Aceh, Indonesia. World pledges in tsunami relief amount to $6 billion. Paul D. Wolfowitz, deputy defense secretary, says America's image in the Muslim land is improving. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); CHARITIES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); HISTORY (54%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) Earthquakes; Tsunamis; Foreign Aid; United States Armament and Defense; Earthquakes

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (82%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%) Agency for International Development (Aid)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (74%) Elizabeth Becker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); THAILAND (93%); GERMANY (88%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Indian Ocean; Germany; Australia; Indonesia; Thailand; Sri Lanka

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005



207 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Chamber of Commerce Asks U.S. to Crack Down on Chinese Copyright Violations

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
The largest American business association is asking the administration for the first time to take legal action at the World Trade Organization against China to put an end to the piracy and counterfeiting that the group says have cost American industry over $200 billion a year.
 Chamber of Commerce officials said on Wednesday that they were submitting a request to Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, to bring China to the global trading body for consultations to devise a new strategy for ending what they called blatant and worsening piracy of American copyrighted property.
 This public appeal also signals a willingness on the part of the administration to increase pressure on Beijing, especially in light of the growing United States trade deficit with China, which is expected to exceed $160 billion when annual trade figures are released on Thursday.
 ''China is public enemy No.1 when it comes to theft of intellectual property rights,'' said Myron A. Brilliant, vice president for Asia at the Chamber of Commerce. ''The Chinese made some great promises last year but the situation has only worsened.'' 
 The move by the Chamber of Commerce is a major shift for the business community. When Democrats in Congress and domestic manufacturers called on the administration to bring China to the W.T.O. over its currency practices, the Chamber of Commerce sided with the administration and its go-slow approach. It also rejected labor's call for action against China over its abuse of workers' rights.
 This change in attitude, what Mr. Brilliant called a newfound ''passion'' about unfair Chinese trading practices, grew out of China's refusal to keep its promise to crack down on piracy last year. 
 Mr. Brilliant said that rather than arrest and prosecute the companies involved in the manufacture and distribution of counterfeit or pirated automobiles, software and music, among other consumer goods, China had allowed the situation to deteriorate.
 Several other business groups, including those representing the recording and movie industries, joined the Chamber of Commerce on Wednesday in its call for action against China. 
 Some of the business associations are part of a global effort started by the chamber to coordinate their antipiracy efforts with countries in Europe and Asia.
 The administration said on Wednesday that it welcomed this new cooperation, and it was asking industry to document specific cases of China's infringement of intellectual property rights as part of the trade representative's review of China's entire system for enforcing intellectual property laws.
 The Chamber of Commerce's request is the latest in a series of efforts to force China to adhere to global trade laws and international standards -- efforts that have had mixed results.
 Critics have complained over the last year that President Bush has failed to protect American industries and American jobs from unfair trading practices by China, most recently in the textile industry after global quotas were removed this year.
 During the presidential campaign last year, Democrats blamed China's trading practices, especially its practice of keeping its currency pegged to the dollar, for the loss of some 2.8 million jobs in the United States.
 Top administration officials including the secretaries of Treasury and Commerce visited China last year to press for a revaluation of the Chinese currency, without success. 
 In a prominent visit to Washington last year, the vice president of China, Wu Yi, made several trade concessions but the Chinese government has failed to fulfill her central promises to improve the enforcement of intellectual property rights.
 Thea M. Lee, the senior trade adviser for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said ''good for the Chamber of Commerce,'' for raising the issue, but added that the labor movement had given up on the administration ''ever really pushing China to keep its word.''
 ''Our trade relationship with China is in a ridiculous state,'' Ms. Lee said, ''with China ignoring international laws covering everything from workers' rights to intellectual property rights, but the administration continues to be happy with unmet promises.'' 
 Dan Glickman, the president of the Motion Picture Association of America, urged the administration to bring China to the W.T.O. for consultations to ''significantly reduce widespread piracy in China.''
 In the report it is sending to the trade representative, the Chamber of Commerce said China should resolve some of its biggest intellectual property cases, including one covering patents held by Pfizer and a trade-secrets case brought by General Motors.
 The Recording Industry Association of America also sent a report to the administration citing in detail how China had failed to comply with ''multiple agreements'' to protect copyrights.
 Besides accusing it of pirating the work of the industry's artists, the association complained that China continued to erect trade barriers to its domestic markets that also violate global trading laws.
 By limiting the import of legitimate recordings, the Chinese government leaves a demand ''that is currently primarily met by Chinese pirates,'' said Neil Turkewitz, executive vice president of the association. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (92%); COUNTERFEITING (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); PROPERTY CRIMES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); RECORD INDUSTRY (62%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%) International Trade and World Market; Copyrights; Counterfeit Merchandise ; Suits and Litigation; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BUSINESS ASSOCIATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%) United States Chamber of Commerce; World Trade Organization

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (78%) Elizabeth Becker; George W (Pres) Bush; Robert B (Trade Rep) Zoellick; Myron A Brilliant

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005



208 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Rice Hopeful of Getting More NATO Help to Train Iraqis

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN and ERIC SCHMITT; Steven R. Weisman reported from Luxembourg for this article, and Eric Schmitt from Nice, France.

DATELINE: LUXEMBOURG, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld lobbied European allies on Wednesday for more help in training Iraqi security forces, and the secretary general of NATO suggested that more aid would be forthcoming soon.
 Before flying to Luxembourg to meet European Union officials, Ms. Rice said she was increasingly confident that all 26 countries in the military alliance would commit to some form of training for Iraqis before President Bush visits Brussels on Feb. 22.
 Mr. Rumsfeld, in Nice, France, to meet NATO defense ministers, said the administration would seek to capitalize on the perceived success of the Iraqi elections to encourage reluctant European allies to help do the training. 
 ''I think we'll find that countries recognize that Iraq is on a path where they have a very good crack at making it successfully as a peaceful, representative system,'' Mr. Rumsfeld told reporters in Nice. ''Since the elections, it is correct to say that some countries have in various ways indicated their desire to be supportive in Afghanistan and Iraq.''
 Ms. Rice, at a lunch of NATO envoys in Brussels, said there were ''a number of countries that immediately agreed to contribute and a number of others that said they intended to contribute.''
 United States officials have made clear their disappointment at the lack of help in what they consider a major challenge in Iraq. Last week the deputy defense secretary, Paul D. Wolfowitz, told a Senate committee in Washington, ''The numbers are not where we'd like them in terms of NATO contribution.''
 In Brussels the secretary general of NATO, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, said he was trying to persuade all members to take part in training in some way -- inside or outside Iraq, or by putting up money -- by Feb. 22.
 Mr. de Hoop Scheffer said he believed that the foreign ministers had made progress toward that goal. An administration official said about 20 countries were currently helping with training. NATO has already pledged to train 1,000 Iraqis a year, but Mr. de Hoop Scheffer said he thought that pledge would be increased. 
 In separate efforts, France and Germany have committed to training 1,500 Iraqi security or police forces each, but not in Iraq. Germany intends to do the work in the United Arab Emirates; France has not selected a location. In a continuing irritant to the United States, neither country will do the work in Iraq because of opposition to the war.
 Nearing the end of her weeklong visit to Europe and the Middle East, Ms. Rice seemed ready to proclaim success in her efforts to narrow trans-Atlantic differences. She was enthusiastic about the NATO lunch, calling it ''the best discussion of Iraq that we have had as an alliance since the Saddam Hussein regime fell, and in fact before that.''
 Despite the feel-good atmosphere, there remained significant areas of disagreement. Ms. Rice suggested, for example, that Britain, France and Germany needed to a better job of persuading Iran to drop its suspected nuclear weapons program if it wanted to avoid having the issue sent to the United Nations Security Council for possible sanctions. And Ms. Rice caused jaws to drop Wednesday at a breakfast in Paris when she suggested that Iran had become a ''totalitarian'' state.
 In an interview on Fox News, Ms. Rice suggested that in the nuclear negotiations, the Europeans might not have conveyed the message strongly enough to Tehran that it risked sanctions at the Security Council if it did not comply with their demands. 
 There were also indications of differences over American opposition to Europe's plans to lift an arms embargo it imposed on China in 1989 after the crushing of a demonstration at Tiananmen Square in Beijing.
 Washington has worried that lifting the embargo might help China update its military abilities. But Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, said Europe would limit the transfer of sensitive high technology by adopting a ''code of conduct'' for exports, and Ms. Rice said she appreciated that the Europeans were taking account of American concerns. 
 Offering further details of the shortage of trainers for Iraqis, an American defense official said of the 144 training positions that NATO had agreed to fill with non-Americans, 50 remain unfilled. Mr. Rumsfeld expressed irritation that some officers assigned to NATO were barred by their countries from serving in Iraq. He did not identify the countries, but Germany, France, Belgium, Greece and Spain have said they would not send officers there. 
 Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American and trainer in Iraq, is attending the alliance meeting in Nice, partly to help work out differences with alliance members, defense officials said.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Iran Repeats Claim to Technology
 (By The New York Times), TEHRAN, Feb. 9 -- President Mohammad Khatami on Wednesday reiterated his country's right to acquire nuclear technology, saying Iran would not give up its program based on what he called illegitimate demands. 
 Mr. Khatami, speaking at a meeting with Iranian diplomats, said Iran considered uranium enrichment its right and had suspended it voluntarily to show its good will, the news agency IRNA reported. 
 ''We give our guarantee that we will not produce nuclear weapons because we are against them and do not believe they are a source of power,'' he said. 
 Iran, which says its nuclear effort is for peaceful purposes, agreed to suspend its enrichment program during talks with Britain, France and Germany in return for economic concessions and assistance in its nuclear technology. 
 In a parallel development, Japan rebuffed requests from Iran for more investment, citing the nuclear dispute. Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi, who is visiting Japan, was told by Foreign Minister Nobutaka Machimura that such investment was not possible ''because of uneasy relations between the U.S. and Iran and nuclear concerns,'' Agence France-Presse reported, quoting a Japanese official. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); POLICE FORCES (58%) Foreign Aid; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (93%); JAAP DE HOOP SCHEFFER (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Steven R Weisman; Eric Schmitt; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Jaap (Sec Gen) De Hoop Scheffer

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (94%) PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (79%) IRAQ (97%); EUROPE (95%); BELGIUM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); LUXEMBOURG (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; France; Iraq; Germany

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005



209 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: The French Are Charmed And Jarred by 'Chere Condi'

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Steven R. Weisman and Helene Fouquet contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice stood before the audience at the Institute of Political Studies on Tuesday afternoon and rewrote cold war history, to the consternation of many in the highly sophisticated audience.
 In an answer to a question from the floor, she told her audience that in 1947 Greece and Turkey had suffered through civil wars. Greece, yes, but Turkey?
 ''It was a glaring mistake,'' said Guillaume Parmentier, director of the French Center on the United States, an independent research organization at the French Institute of International Relations. ''She's smart, yes, but I don't think she is as knowledgeable as one would expect with a career like hers.'' 
 Ms. Rice was applauded and criticized, flattered and cross-examined during her maiden voyage to Paris as secretary of state. During her 24-hour visit, the former national security adviser and Stanford University provost and professor charmed her hosts with her gushing praise for France but alarmed them with her ideological zeal -- which included branding Iran a totalitarian state.
 ''Let me thank the people of France for being such perfect hosts,'' she said in opening her speech on Tuesday.
 The left-leaning daily Liberation ran a headline that read, ''Condi's Great Game: To Seduce Paris.'' The article noted that in her ''pumps and navy blue suit accessorized with a belt and large strand of pearls, she gave a speech in her own image: impeccable and soignee, seductive but without overdoing it.''
 President Jacques Chirac kissed her hand twice when she entered and when she left Elysee Palace on Tuesday evening and twice complimented her on her speech, saying he had watched part of it on television. Foreign Minister Michel Barnier called her ''Chere Condi'' during their news conference afterwards. She called him ''Michel.''
 But Ms. Rice, who was once called ''the princess warrior'' by the weekly magazine Le Point, is still regarded with a degree of suspicion here.
 ''Can We Trust Rice?'' asked the popular daily France-Soir. Jacques Lang, the Socialist former culture minister, told France Inter radio that while he recognized Ms. Rice's ''charm and seduction,'' she is still the ''Madame Hawk of yesterday'' who had been ''aggressive and fanatical'' on ''Iraq in particular.''
 On Wednesday, Le Monde ran a cartoon of Ms. Rice perusing a menu in a restaurant as the waiter asks, ''We can also heat up some French fries for you.'' It was a not so subtle reminder of moves in the United States to rename the fried potatoes ''freedom fries'' to protest France's opposition to the war in Iraq.
 Indeed, at a private breakfast on Wednesday with six French intellectuals at the American ambassador's residence, Ms. Rice revealed her steely, deeply ideological side.
 She shocked at least some of her guests by branding Iran a ''totalitarian state,'' said four of those who took part. She added that the free world was wrong to accept the Soviet Union on its terms during the cold war and must not make the same mistake now with Iran, they added.
 A number of guests challenged her assertion, but Ms. Rice is not the type to back down. She called her characterization of Iran deliberate. A year ago, she said, she would have called Iran's Islamic Republic authoritarian. But after flawed parliamentary elections last spring that produced a conservative majority, she said, it moved toward totalitarian, a term that historians tend to use restrictively to define violently absolutist regimes that govern through terror.
 ''I tried to explain that Iran was not like the Soviet Union, that the mullahs were deeply unpopular but unlike their predecessors over the last 150 years they were not in the hands of the British or the Russians or the Americans,'' said Francois Heisbourg, director of the Foundation for Strategic Research in Paris. ''She gave no proof that Iran was totalitarian, because she didn't have any. It was scary. Unless there is some give on the American side we are heading for a real crisis.''
 Ms. Rice also expressed deep skepticism about the European-led initiative to persuade Iran to abandon its uranium enrichment programs in exchange for economic and political rewards, participants said. 
 France, Britain and Germany, Iran's negotiating partners, know that any meaningful benefits for Iran depend on American support, something that Ms. Rice made clear would not be forthcoming. Such an approach, she said, would only help sustain the hard-liners' grip on power. 
 ''I told her that it is my sense that public opinion in Europe, and maybe even elected officials, are ready to accept the idea that Iran may have some kind of nuclear weapons capability with some limitations,'' said Nicole Bacharan, an expert on the United States at the Institute of Political Studies. ''She was startled. She wasn't quite aware of what she is up against.''
 For his part, Mr. Parmentier said he told her, ''We in Europe believe that it is more likely the regime would fall if we are opening up to Iranian society rather than closing off.''
 The American Embassy in Paris declined to comment on the breakfast or even to identify the guests, saying it was a private event.
 While most of the discussion focused on Iran, Ms. Rice was much more willing to absolve Pakistan's military-led government of any tyrannical tendencies. When Mr. Parmentier called Pakistan ''the most dangerous country there is,'' Ms. Rice acknowledged that the country was dangerous but said it was ''on the right track'' and ''improving,'' participants said.
 ''We were all skeptical about how much the Pakistani military and intelligence could be trusted,'' said Alexandre Adler, a foreign policy expert and columnist for Le Figaro.
 Ms. Rice, who almost became a concert pianist but chose Soviet studies instead, had an easier time at the Hector Berlioz Conservatory on Wednesday. There she attended a class of 7- to 9-year-olds who were learning to read music and listening to the teacher play the piano.
 ''I learned to read music from my grandmother when I was 3 1/2 years old,'' she told them, even before she could read. She later said: ''Keep working hard,'' and ''Practice and practice and practice.''
 She left Paris with a gift from Richard Descoings, the director of the Institute for Political Studies: a letter signed by Berlioz to a friend thanking him for visiting. Mr. Descoings said he bought the letter for $1,500 from a dealer on the chic Rue Bonaparte just hours before Ms. Rice delivered her speech.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 11, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about mixed reaction in France to the visit of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice misstated the given name of the Socialist former culture minister who said on France Inter radio that Ms. Rice was charming but still the ''Mme. Hawk of yesterday.'' He is Jack Lang, not Jacques.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sophie Jouve-Ganvert, left, and her pupils at the Hector Berlioz Conservatory yesterday presented Secretary Rice with a musical score. (Pool photo by Philippe Wojazer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); COLD WAR (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); HISTORY (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); LIBERAL MEDIA (66%); RESTAURANTS (62%) United States International Relations; Uranium; Atomic Weapons; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (94%); JACQUES CHIRAC (55%) Elaine Sciolino; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) FRANCE (95%); TURKEY (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GREECE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%) Iran; Germany; France; Great Britain; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005



210 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Governor Opposes Stem Cell Work

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: BOSTON, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Setting up a political battle over stem cell research, Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts said this week that he would propose legislation to outlaw a type of embryonic stem cell research that is being planned by laboratories at Harvard University and other institutions in the state.
 The governor's remarks came as Democratic lawmakers were introducing legislation that would promote embryonic stem cell research, partly in an effort to keep the state's large stable of research scientists and biotechnology companies from moving to California or other states that are providing support or financial incentives for such research.
 The president of the Massachusetts Senate, Robert E. Travaglini, a Democrat, introduced such a bill on Wednesday, saying he wanted ''to send a clear message that we are going to authorize this kind of research.'' 
 His bill would change a 30-year-old law that made it harder to conduct stem cell studies because it required the approval of county district attorneys, and would embrace research on stem cells derived from embryos. Future bills may offer scientists financial incentives, Mr. Travaglini said.
 Many proponents of the bill have assumed they would have the backing of Mr. Romney, a Republican whose wife, Ann, has multiple sclerosis, a disease that could potentially be helped by the research. Mr. Romney had previously said he supported stem cell research in general, but had not elaborated.
 But in an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Romney said that he was strongly against a type of embryonic stem cell research that many scientists consider extremely promising: research that involves creating human embryos specifically for scientific experimentation.
 The governor said he would oppose any bill, like the one Wednesday, that would allow that method. And he said he would propose his own legislation that would establish criminal and civil penalties for research like that being planned by labs at Harvard University and Children's Hospital.
 ''Some of the practices that Harvard and probably other institutions in Massachusetts are engaged in cross the line of ethical conduct,'' Mr. Romney said.
 He added: ''My wife has M.S., and we would love for there to be a cure for her disease and for the diseases of others. But there is an ethical boundary that should not be crossed.''
 Stem cells derived from embryos are controversial because, unlike stem cells obtained from adults or from umbilical cords, the only way to obtain them is to destroy the embryo. Those stem cells, which are taken from what is essentially a clump of cells that constitutes an embryo that is a few days old, are considered the most promising because they have the potential to develop into any kind of cell.
 The embryos can come from two sources: fertility clinics that have leftover embryos from in-vitro fertilization and embryos created solely for the purpose of research, known as therapeutic cloning. Scientists say fertility clinics would provide a limited number of embryos because many couples choose to store them rather than give them up.
 Unlike some other social conservatives, including President Bush, Mr. Romney said he did not object to scientists' obtaining stem cells from fertility clinic embryos because those would probably be discarded anyway and because they were created with the intention of helping couples generate life.
 Mr. Romney said he would allow research on embryos obtained from fertility clinics as long as the couples who created the embryos gave written permission, were not paid and were offered the options of rejecting research in favor of storing the embryos or giving them up for adoption.
 But Mr. Romney said he objected to therapeutic cloning because ''creation for the purpose of destruction is wrong.''
 The governor's position runs counter to the actions that many other states are considering. After California's decision last year to invest $3 billion in embryonic stem cell research, at least seven other states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, are considering steps to encourage researchers in the field or provide economic incentives.
 Dr. Douglas A. Melton, co-director of the Harvard Stem Cell Institute, has plans to start research with embryos created explicitly for that purpose. He is interested in creating stem cells with a particular disease, such as Alzheimer's or diabetes, so that scientists can try to understand why some people develop these diseases, how they develop and how they can be treated.
 ''It is the only method that I can think of now to get at the root causes of these diseases,'' Dr. Melton said.
 Were Mr. Romney's proposal to become law, he said, ''that would be not only disastrous, it would set science back significantly if they did that.''
 ''Essentially what we would be saying,'' he said, ''is we do not want to let scientists get at the root causes of these diseases.''
 Mr. Romney said he met with Dr. Melton to gather information to help him formulate his position.
 If the governor's proposal passes, ''some of the things he's doing would be decidedly against the law,'' Mr. Romney said of Dr. Melton.
 Republicans make up only about 15 percent of the legislature, and Mr. Romney may not have the political muscle to get his proposal passed, even if he wins over the sizable number of conservative Democrats in this heavily Roman Catholic state.
 Indeed, his effort may be more calibrated to a national stage. While he is seeking re-election in 2006, Mr. Romney is often said to have national political ambitions, and some political analysts believe he emphasizes his conservative social views, which are out of sync with the majority of his state, to earn points with Republicans at the national level.
 Still, Mr. Romney's input on the issue in the state cannot be completely discounted. Many lawmakers in both parties are wrangling with the complexities of the research.
 Senator Jack Hart, a Democrat who is co-chairman of the committee handling the Travaglini bill, said that he was opposed to abortion, as is Mr. Romney, and that he questioned the creation of embryos solely for research purposes.
 ''The concern I think that the majority of the people have out there is if, all of a sudden as a result of stem cell research, there's creation en masse of human embryos for the sake of research,'' Mr. Hart said.
 In the last legislative session, a measure to endorse stem cell research overwhelmingly passed the 40-member Senate, but did not come to a vote in the 160-member House because the speaker, Thomas M. Finneran, a conservative Democrat, blocked it. 
 Mr. Finneran stepped down last fall. His replacement, Salvatore F. DiMasi, supports the research, so many believe the measure has a better chance of passing this year.
 Mr. Travaglini, whose bill bans the cloning of humans for reproductive purposes and requires all research to be approved by an ethical review board, said he favored both kinds of embryonic stem cell research because of ''the potential for medical breakthroughs.''
 He said he expected resistance from legislators opposed to abortion, who are outnumbered by legislators who favor abortion rights.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts wants limits on where to get cells. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEM CELL RESEARCH (96%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (96%); GOVERNORS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); ETHICS (89%); BIOETHICS (89%); CLONING (89%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (89%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (87%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (85%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HUMAN CLONING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (73%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (72%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%) Medicine and Health; Stem Cells; Fetal Tissue; Law and Legislation; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%) Harvard University

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%) Pam Belluck; Mitt (Gov) Romney

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) Massachusetts; California

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005



211 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; PRO BASKETBALL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Jordan Would Like to Be Like No Other N.B.A. Owner

BYLINE: By CLIFTON BROWN

 BODY:
Michael Jordan wants to own an N.B.A. team, but until that happens, he is finding other ways to remain close to basketball.
 Jordan was in Manhattan yesterday to talk about the Jordan Classic, a high school basketball game that will be played at Madison Square Garden on April 16 and will feature many of the country's top seniors. Although Jordan looked forward to the event, he said, he also looked forward to the day when he would run an N.B.A. franchise.
 ''I'm being patient, waiting for the right situation,'' said Jordan, who had a disappointing departure from the league in 2003, when he was fired from the front office of the Washington Wizards by the team's owner, Abe Pollin. ''Basketball is still my passion. If the right situation comes up, it will happen.'' 
 Robert Johnson, the league's only African-American owner, talked with Jordan last year about a front-office position with his expansion team, the Charlotte Bobcats. But Jordan decided against that because he wanted to be a majority owner of a team, he said, so he could have the final say on all decisions.
 Jordan is believed to have pursued several ownership opportunities, and Commissioner David Stern has said he will welcome Jordan as an owner. The league would obviously benefit from having Jordan back. When he was winning six championships with the Chicago Bulls, Jordan became the world's biggest sports star and helped elevate the league's popularity to levels it has not enjoyed since.
 ''I'm not afraid of an existing situation,'' Jordan said. ''I'm not afraid of an expansion situation. Financially it has to fit, and economically it has to be worthwhile. You have to look at how it benefits you, as well as what you can provide for that team.''
 Watching how the league has changed since he last played, Jordan said he was against the trend of players' skipping college to turn pro right after high school.
 ''That's not what I would do, but they have their own minds to make up,'' said Jordan, who played three seasons at North Carolina before turning professional. ''It's a tough road. Some guys are mentally ready for it, some guys are not.''
 When asked about speculation that Phil Jackson, his former coach with the Bulls, would be the Knicks' next coach, Jordan smiled. ''Whatever Phil does, I support Phil,'' he said.
 Jordan also said he had no idea whether Jackson would return to coach the Los Angeles Lakers. An acrimonious relationship with the Lakers star Kobe Bryant was a factor in Jackson's decision to resign as Lakers coach after last season. Many people doubt that Jackson and Bryant could work together again, but Jordan preferred not to speculate. 
 ''I had a great relationship with Phil,'' Jordan said. ''I really don't know what went on between them.''
 Jordan said he hoped that the Jordan Classic would be a showcase for future talent and that the experience of playing in New York would help the high school players develop. The event will be a doubleheader, with a regional game followed by a national game. Among the players who have previously participated in the Jordan Classic are LeBron James, Carmelo Anthony and Amare Stoudemire. Jordan had held the game in Washington for three years, but he decided that the Garden would be a fitting location; it is an arena where he enjoyed some of his most memorable games.
 ''I've always enjoyed coming to New York, and the people have treated me well,'' said Jordan, who grew up in North Carolina but was born in Brooklyn. ''It will be a great experience for these kids.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Jordan wants to own an N.B.A. team to have the final say on all decisions. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (92%); BASKETBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (78%); ATHLETES (73%); TRENDS (73%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); DISMISSALS (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (56%); CHARLOTTE BOBCATS (55%); CHICAGO BULLS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (94%); KOBE BRYANT (58%) Clifton Brown; Michael Jordan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005



212 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Antiques; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1077 words

BYLINE: By Wendy Moonan

 BODY:

Vintage Riches Beyond France
 Fair organizers are worried that young people consider antiques so out of fashion that they won't attend shows. Now one group has created a show that doesn't even use the word antiques in its title.
 The New York Design Fair made its inaugural appearance yesterday at the Seventh Regiment Armory on Park Avenue at 67th Street and continues through Sunday. Forty-six dealers are selling everything from antiquities to contemporary wares.
 Meg Wendy, a member of the Wendy family management team that has organized fairs for decades, said this new one would address the current trend of mixing furniture and objects from various periods. ''Great design, like great style, is not from one period or one look,'' she said. ''Buyers are encouraged to mix and match from a variety of periods and price points.''
 This approach is why the dealer Anthony G. Victoria is participating here, his first fair in six years. He has been exhibiting only at top New York shows like the International Fine Art and Antique Dealers Show in October and the Winter Antiques Show in January.
 In 2000, Mr. Victoria, an expert on French decorative arts, began selling other kinds of antiques, including English Arts and Crafts, German Art Nouveau, Art Deco and Scandinavian modern, at Chez Soi, his shop in Bridgehampton, N.Y.
 ''I buy what I love, in part because to come home to things I felt were boring would be the closest thing to hell that I could imagine,'' Mr. Victoria said. ''My decision to open new premises in Bridgehampton freed me to search all periods and schools for items that brought a response from my eye and heart.''
 Mr. Victoria grew up at Frederick P. Victoria & Son, a Manhattan gallery of top-quality French decorative arts that his father founded in 1933. A few years ago, after his father's death, he sold the five-floor gallery and its rarefied stock.
 ''Having spent 30 years at the headily rich decorative art table set by France in the 17th and 18th centuries, I haven't so much changed my taste as broadened it to encompass much more,'' he said. ''This new fair will allow me to show those who may have known me just how much my eye has evolved.''
 Among other offerings, he plans to exhibit an Art Nouveau side table from Nancy, France, a Swedish sterling silver coffeepot from about 1910 and an important Secessionist desk box with inlaid brass designs by Erhard & Sohne of Germany, from around 1905.
 ''I go to Europe three or four times a year,'' Mr. Victoria said. ''I'm now beginning to see great things in Belgium and Germany.''
 His most fetching piece may be a German Art Nouveau mahogany bench with brass decorations that resembles an ancient Roman bridge. It dates to about 1900 but has none of the excess of contemporary pieces from Austria.
 Mr. Victoria's fine editing of objects reflects his decades in the trade. The bench recalls the sleek Biedermeier style so popular in Austria 75 years earlier.

Influx of German Pieces
 German antiques, not often seen in America, are beginning to appear more often, especially at Palm Beach! America's International Fine Art and Antique Fair, which closes on Sunday in West Palm Beach, Fla.
 One of the first things sold was a German Empire mahogany center hall table of about 1810 with legs carved to look like palm tree trunks. Instead of capitals, its legs terminate in resplendently carved, gilded palm fronds. The dealer, Iliad Antik of Manhattan, did not reveal the price or the buyer.
 ''Because the economy is bad in Germany, people are selling their noble houses -- or the contents of them,'' said Erik J. Paol, a dealer from Amsterdam. ''As for the families that retrieved their former houses in East Germany, well, they are now loaded with debt.''
 Bernard Steinitz, a veteran Paris dealer, said he sold German antiques because ''I have a few good German clients who buy only German things.'' He has a set of four white and gilded Louis XV-style armchairs from Munich, from around 1750.
 Asked what distinguished them from similar French chairs, he said that the feet on French chairs swung out beyond an imaginary vertical line from the chair's top to the floor. ''French feet go outside,'' he said ''German feet go inside. It must be a psychological thing.''
 He also has a pair of carved and gilded early-18th-century tables with faux marble tops and hoof feet from Schillingsfurst Castle in Bavaria. The carving on the apron and legs between scrolls of acanthus leaves resemble sheep's wool.
 ''Such carving is too strong and heavy to be French,'' he said. 
 Another table, a German oak console of about 1720 with an Italian marble top, has more delicate decorations, with a pierced cartouche on the apron. Oak is famously difficult to carve, but this table is covered with intricate motifs. Each corner boasted the smiling face of the devil.
 ''The quality and nervousness of the carving are typically German,'' Mr. Steinitz said. ''It is more expressionistic than French carving.''
 Lars Bolander, a dealer specializing in Swedish antiques, has a six-foot-tall carved and gilded mirror made for the Royal Palace in Stockholm in the early 1700's.
 ''The carving is on a Neptune theme, with swirling waves, seaweed and sea creatures,'' he said. ''It was made by a German. After the royal castle in Stockholm burned down, a lot of foreign craftsmen were brought in, including Erhart Gotel, who made the mirror. The king loved it so much he took it to his summer castle.'' 
 Mr. Paol, the Amsterdam dealer, has a one-foot-tall silver-gilt rigged galleon on wheels (1624-30) at Fijnaut & Paol, which was made as a table decoration by Abraham Winterstein of Augsburg.
 That city was a center of gold and silver workshops, and these richly wrought silver ships, called nefs, were often made for the nobility and the clergy.
 ''This is a ceremonial drinking vessel meant for use at official dinners,'' Mr. Paol said. ''It's really a conversation piece.'' 
 Equally grand is a multicolored agate and gold box from 1780, at John Jaffa Antique and the Enamel Company of London. Set with 86 different colors of agate, each numbered, the box is signed by Johann Christian Neuber of Dresden.
 ''It's the Rolls-Royce of snuff boxes,'' Mr. Jaffa said. ''Only one person ever made boxes like this, and it took him a year to do each one.''
 Its splendor makes a pair of Meissen porcelain swans with ormolu candelabra at Zaras Antiques of Palm Beach, once owned by Mrs. John Hay Whitney, look simple.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An Erhard & Sohne inkwell with inlaid brass motifs, made in southern Germany around 1905, is among the pieces Anthony G. Victoria plans to show this weekend at the inaugural New York Design Fair. (Photo by Frederick P. Victoria & Son) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); VISUAL ARTS (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (78%); ART DEALERS (76%) Antiques; New York Design Fair

PERSON: Wendy Moonan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); LORRAINE, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (58%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



213 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Darcy and Lalita, Singing and Dancing

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
The pitch meeting for the new British movie ''Bride and Prejudice'' must have been a killer: ''Jane Austen's novel 'Pride and Prejudice' -- you know, the dead chick that wrote that Gwyneth Paltrow movie 'Enya,' 'Emma,' whatever -- done like a Bollywood musical, only shorter.'' 
 Then again, because the director Gurinder Chadha knows how to sell multiplex multiculturalism -- her last feature was ''Bend It Like Beckham'' -- the actual pitch was probably cannier, something along the lines of: ''Jane Austen's 'Pride and Prejudice' recontextualized as a Bollywood musical (only shorter) and set against the backdrop of the new global economy. I think we can get Ashanti for one of the numbers.''
 Whatever the case, ''Bride and Prejudice'' -- which transposes Austen's 1813 novel to 21st-century India, with layovers in swinging London and sunny Los Angeles -- is as high concept and rife with cliche as anything ever churned out by Hollywood, but with worse production values and a load of sanctimonious political correctness. Think ''My Big Fat Sari Wedding'' tricked out with putatively exotic locales and clumsy song-and-dance numbers, and delivered with much finger-wagging about cultural tolerance. The kicker here being that the wagging finger belongs to the story's heroine, originally called Elizabeth, here called Lalita (the Bollywood star Aishwarya Rai, radiantly beautiful but inert), and the object of her reflexive high-mindedness is none other than a wealthy American hotel heir, Will Darcy (Martin Henderson, just inert). 
 For those who have never read Austen's satiric comedy of manners or watched one of the many large-and-small-screen adaptations, including the 1940 charmer with Greer Garson and Laurence Olivier, the story involves two lovers who don't at first know they were made for each other. In the screenplay written by Ms. Chadha and Paul Mayeda Berges (her husband), Lalita takes an almost instantaneous dim view of Darcy following some strategic miscommunication. Given that Darcy does little initially other than ooze hauteur, her prejudice against his pride seems justifiable. But the more this petulant beauty finds fault with her would-be love interest, the less sympathetic she seems, largely because such complaints ring hollow from a woman who wears her own entitlement as casually as a silk wrap.
 Although she doesn't appear to have a job, Lalita does have a gaggle of marriageable sisters, an unsuitable suitor (Nitin Ganatra) and a talent for emotional complication. Alternately intrigued and irritated by Darcy, Lalita parries and thrusts, and even scores a few bloodless hits. (''I thought we got rid of imperialists like you!'') Midway through all this romantic storm and stress, a challenger materializes (Daniel Gillies), rising up from the ocean without a shirt or portfolio. And, of course, every so often, someone breaks into ragged song and dance.
 Depending on your appetite for kitsch, the highlight or nadir of Ms. Chadha's attempt to pay homage to Bollywood is an accidental showstopper featuring the singer Ashanti and some oiled musclemen who bring a little Las Vegas magic to the beaches of Goa.
 A few years ago, Ms. Chadha managed to squeeze a modest winner from ''Bend It Like Beckham,'' an ingratiating trifle that made it to the big screen through a timely combination of girls' soccer, a salable vision of multiculturalism and the fact that the film's co-star, Keira Knightley, has lips as protuberant as the front bumper on a 1955 Chrysler station wagon. Since then, Ms. Knightley has gone Hollywood, while Ms. Chadha has delivered yet another movie with unassailable ideas (tolerance good; money, too) and an unfortunate absence of discernible filmmaking talent. With ''Bride and Prejudice'' Ms. Chadha also manages to make hash of a classic of literature and one of the world's leading film genres, which is almost as neat a double trick as a heroine who can have her sanctimony and eat her wedding cake, too.
 ''Bride and Prejudice'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). The film contains some chaste romancing, some naked and ripped male torsos and a Harvey Weinstein cameo.

'Bride and Prejudice'
Opens today in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Boston, Dallas, Washington, Detroit, Houston, Seattle, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Denver and San Diego.

Directed by Gurinder Chadha; written by Ms. Chadha and Paul Mayeda Berges, based on Jane Austen's ''Pride and Prejudice''; director of photography, Santosh Sivan; edited by Justin Krish; music by Anu Malik and Craig Pruess; choreographer, Saroj Khan; production designer, Nick Ellis; produced by Ms. Chadha and Deepak Nayar; released by Miramax Films. Running time: 111 minutes. This film is rated PG-13.

WITH: Martin Henderson (William Darcy), Aishwarya Rai (Lalita Bakshi), Daniel Gillies (Wickham), Naveen Andrews (Balraj), Nitin Ganatra (Mr. Kholi), Namrata Shirodkar (Jaya Bakshi), Indira Varma (Kiran), Anupam Kher (Mr. Bakshi) and Ashanti (as herself).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Aishwarya Rai and Martin Henderson in ''Bride and Prejudice.'' (Photo by Miramax Films) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); FILM GENRES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); DANCE (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: GWYNETH PALTROW (58%) Manohla Dargis; Gurinder Chadha; Aishwarya Rai; Martin Henderson; Jane (1775-1817) Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



214 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: After a Quick Killing, a Drawn-Out Search for Justice

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:

'Desire Street'
''A True Story of Death and Deliverance in New Orleans''
By Jed Horne
343 pages. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $25.
 The 1984 murder trial of Curtis Kyles looked like an open and shut case. Several eyewitnesses were on hand to testify that they saw him approach Delores Dye in a supermarket parking lot on Gentilly Road in New Orleans, struggle with her briefly and then shoot her in the head. Mr. Kyles then, according to witnesses, calmly slipped behind the wheel of Dye's red Ford LTD and drove off.
 The police quickly found the murder weapon, a .32-caliber revolver, hidden under the stove in Mr. Kyles's apartment on Desire Street. Dye's purse and credit cards turned up in some trash bags outside the house. Inside the Ford was a grocery-store receipt with Mr. Kyles's fingerprints on it. It was the 150th murder of the year in New Orleans, and Harry Connick, the city's newly re-elected district attorney, badly wanted a quick conviction, especially given the racial tensions the case generated: the defendant was black and the victim white.
 After one mistrial he got it, and the death penalty. But the open-and-shut case would eventually go through five trials, at one point reaching the Supreme Court and becoming, in the author's words, ''one of the most thoroughly adjudicated in history.'' With the executioner's clock ticking, a dogged and highly unlikely team of defense lawyers uncovered a pattern of sloppy police work and concealment of evidence that in the end freed Mr. Kyles after 14 years in prison.
 Jed Horne, the city editor of The Times-Picayune of New Orleans, follows each twist and turn of Mr. Kyles's legal ordeal, relying on a mountain of court transcripts and interviews with many of the people involved in the trial, including Mr. Kyles. As a purely legal drama, the story is fascinating. Time and again, pure coincidence and strange bits of luck, both good and bad, influence the life-or-death outcome for the defendant, things as small as the difference between ''on sale'' and ''for sale.'' 
 At his second trial, Mr. Kyles, a casually employed bricklayer who dealt drugs and fenced stolen goods in a small way, was asked to explain why he happened to have newly purchased cans of the same cat food that Dye had bought just before being shot. Mr. Kyles testified that he had bought the cat food because it was on sale. The store's manager testified that no cat food was on sale that day. It later turned out that Mr. Kyles had simply misinterpreted the meaning of the price tags on the store shelves, but to the jury, it seemed that he had been caught in a damning lie. 
 It was both good luck and bad luck when George W. Healy III, a maritime lawyer, was pressured into taking on the Kyles case pro bono by his white-shoe firm, Phelps Dunbar. Mr. Healy, a staunch proponent of the death penalty, believed that his client was, as he put it, ''guilty as sin.'' But his methodical habits and painstaking research, an approach developed over decades of civil-law cases, began uncovering flaws and inconsistencies in the prosecution's case. Signed and dated interviews with witnesses had not been turned over to the defense team. Most puzzling was a tape, not given to the defense team, with a conversation between the police and an informant named Beanie Wallace, whom several of Mr. Kyles's friends had seen driving Dye's car right after the murder. The Wallace thread would eventually lead to a tangled web of police duplicity.
 Even with the Supreme Court thrown in, the Kyles case does not really add up to more than a local story, but Mr. Horne's total-immersion approach yields unexpected dividends. Fact by fact, interview by interview, he creates a vivid picture of life at the bottom in one of America's poorest cities, jumping back and forth between the endless appeals and hearings and the events that shaped Mr. Kyles's life and the neighborhood around him. Mr. Horne is particularly good at explaining the economics of Desire Street, the dodges and shifts that make it possible for a semiliterate man like Mr. Kyles to support a common-law wife and several children. 
 He also takes a close look at the code of the streets, the rules according to which males establish respect and save face. When Beanie Wallace cheated Mr. Kyles of $150 in a drug deal, Mr. Kyles's hand was forced. He would have to hunt Wallace down and kill him. ''I was scared to death,'' he tells Mr. Horne. ''I really didn't want to do it, but I knew the code.''
 Gunplay was averted only when Mr. Kyles's mother-in-law, who raised Wallace like a son, summoned both men to her house. After delivering a tongue-lashing, she turned her purse over and emptied $50 onto a table. Wallace took the hint and came up with $22, giving Mr. Kyles just under half of the disputed money. Honor was saved, and peace restored. ''I came up short, but that was cool,'' Mr. Kyles says. ''I didn't really want to kill nobody.''
 Mr. Horne takes a novelist's license with description, and his taste for the tabloid turn of phrase can lead him into lurid territory. The prosecuting attorney at Mr. Kyles's first trial, Mr. Horne writes, was ''a man particularly hungry for blood, or at least for the smell of it coagulating in the veins of a man with 50,000 volts of electricity passing through his body.'' 
 The humidity down in New Orleans can give even hard-boiled city editors a bad case of fever. It's when Mr. Horne cools off that ''Desire Street'' heats up. The facts speak for themselves in this compelling portrait of life, death and the justice system at the bottom of the social scale.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jed Horne (Photo by Farrar, Straus & Giroux) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (91%); EYEWITNESSES (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); WRITERS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); JURY TRIALS (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (77%); MISTRIAL (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); LAWYERS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); LITERATURE (64%); TRANSCRIPTS (62%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (61%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: William Grimes; Jed Horne

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



215 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: County Adds Its Support to Pataki Casino Plan

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: MONTICELLO, N.Y., Feb. 10 

 BODY:
After years of efforts to attract gambling to the Catskills as a way to revive the sagging local economy, the Sullivan County Legislature officially threw its support Thursday behind a proposal by Gov. George E. Pataki to allow up to five Indian casinos. 
 The legislature voted 6 to 3 at a packed hearing that drew dozens of impassioned speakers who weighed in both for and against the casinos.
 The hearing followed months of mounting debate among residents over the costs and benefits of building several Las Vegas-style casinos in this once-famous resort region, where spectacular mountain scenery now forms the backdrop of shuttered diners and faded billboards. 
 Last week Mr. Pataki sent the State Legislature a bill that would resolve the major Indian land claims in the state and allow five casinos. Previously, the State Legislature authorized three casinos, but in recent months the governor pushed to raise the number to five, one per tribe. 
 ''We can't just say that we're two and a half hours from New York and that's a good enough reason to come up here anymore,'' said David Rosenberg, an architect and county native who favors the casinos. ''To me, this is the last best chance we have to be special again.'' 
 While the county's approval is not binding, it is sure to send a strong message of support to state legislators, who must now vote on the land claims and casino bill. 
 A spokesman for the governor, Todd Alhart, said the county's approval would ''help pave the way for the State Legislature to act expeditiously on this landmark legislation.'' 
 For years, residents, business owners and local officials hungered for permission to build casinos. They viewed them as an antidote to the dying network of resort hotels and bungalows that thrived in the 1950's and 60's and earned the region its borscht belt name for their predominantly Jewish clientele. 
 But in recent months, as the governor proposed two more casinos and moved with unexpected speed to settle the tribes' land claims, many residents have begun to question the impact of that much gambling in a county that is still largely undeveloped. Among their concerns are increased traffic, environmental degradation, more crime and strained family relationships prompted by compulsive gambling.
 Before the vote, the legislators one by one explained their positions. Kathleen LaBuda, who represents a handful of towns in the southern part of the county, rejected the proposal. ''Yes, there will be jobs; yes, some employment of local residents will occur,'' she said, ''but are they good jobs? Are they the kind of jobs we want our children to strive for?''
 A traffic report released this week by the Natural Resources Defense Council, a leading environmental group, said the development of five casinos would generate backups of nearly seven miles and would almost double the volume on key stretches of Route 17, the region's main artery. 
 There were calls by some politicians, environmental advocates and editorial writers to delay the vote to consider testimony from hearings the Assembly and Senate have said they will hold. But a motion to postpone was defeated. 
 For his part, Mr. Pataki has embraced the casinos as a way to create thousands of jobs, bolster the economy and raise money for state programs. He points to a state task force's report that estimated the five casinos would attract more than 31 million visitors annually to the Catskills region and generate about 48,500 new jobs, including those outside the casinos. 
 The legislation before the Assembly and the Senate would provide up to $50 million for an environmental fund to pay for regional land preservation, transportation improvements and water-quality upgrades, among other things.
 The bill would set aside $10 million in casino revenue to treat compulsive gamblers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); COUNTIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); GAMING (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); RESORTS (77%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%) Gambling; Casinos; Indians, American

PERSON: Lisa W Foderaro; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State; Sullivan County (NY); Catskills (NYS Area)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



216 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Dell Revenue Sets Record, But Tax Charge Hits Profit

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
Dell Inc. said on Thursday that an increase in sales to corporations led to record revenue in the fourth quarter, although profit slipped slightly because of a one-time tax charge. 
 ''The quarter represents continued record performance by our team around the world,'' the chief executive, Kevin Rollins, said. 
 Dell, the leading personal computer maker, earned $667 million, or 26 cents a share in the quarter, compared with $749 million, or 29 cents a share, in the period a year ago, including a one-time tax charge of $280 million. Excluding the charge, Dell earned 37 cents a share, topping estimates of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial, who had forecast a profit of 36 cents a share. 
 Dell said the tax charge was taken in anticipation of repatriating foreign earnings at a lower tax rate, a provision of the Bush administration's American Jobs Creation Act. 
 Revenue climbed 17 percent to $13.46 billion, from $11.51 billion a year ago. Dell forecast first-quarter earnings of 37 cents a share on sales of $13.4 billion, while analysts estimate earnings of 36 cents a share on revenue of $13.5 billion.
 While Dell shares closed up 58 cents, at $41.57, before the company issued its report, they fell as much as 3 percent in after-hours trading. 
 Mr. Rollins said purchases by business customers increased 19 percent, an indication that ''it's a healthy sector of the economy.'' Sales of servers and storage systems were particularly strong, climbing 20 percent over last year. Sales rose 22 percent in Europe in the fourth quarter, and 21 percent in Asia. 
 While Dell had robust sales to corporations, sales to consumers were ''a little off,'' Mr. Rollins said. Consumer sales rose 10 percent, a market that has become a smaller part of Dell's business.
 According to figures from the market researcher IDC, the personal computer industry grew 13.7 percent worldwide in the fourth quarter, in large part because of corporate purchases. 
 ''Dell has set a very high bar for itself,'' said Brent Bracelin, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities. ''Certainly people had higher expectations.'' Mr. Bracelin said he was concerned not just that Dell's revenue growth missed analysts' targets slightly, but that the personal computer industry was not expected to grow as much in 2005 as it did in 2004, posing a challenge for the company, the No. 1 computer maker. 
 Mr. Rollins said the company expected product shipments to increase 21 percent in the first quarter, which would lead to quarterly revenue of about $13.4 billion, up 16 percent from the previous year, and earnings of about 37 cents a share, up 32 percent from the year-earlier period. 
 Not all analysts saw Dell's report as a disappointment.
 ''I would say the quarter was sensational given the environment,'' said Charles R. Wolf, an analyst at Needham & Company, which owns Dell stock. ''They continue to grow faster than the market.'' 
 Mr. Wolf said Wall Street appeared to be discounting Dell's aggressive move into the printer market, which is led by Hewlett-Packard.
 There was speculation yesterday that the ouster of Carleton S. Fiorina as chief executive of Hewlett-Packard could provide Dell with an opportunity to grab market share. With its acquisition of Compaq in 2002, Hewlett overtook Dell to take the role of market leader. But during 2004, Dell won back the No.1 spot as Hewlett stumbled. 
 News of Ms. Fiorina's departure Wednesday came two months after I.B.M. announced the sale of its unprofitable PC division to the Lenovo Group, China's largest personal computer business.
 Mr. Rollins said the departure of Ms. Fiorina ''probably'' represents an opportunity for Dell, though he did not provide details about how the company might try to take advantage of it. ''Certainly, I think there might be things we can do with customers,'' he said. 
 Mr. Rollins said Dell was on course to reach $60 billion in annual sales by the end of 2005, and is focusing on annual sales of $80 billion, though he declined to provide a timetable for achieving that goal. In 2005, revenue increased to $49.2 billion from $41.4 billion.
 For the year, Dell earned $3.04 billion, or $1.18 a share, compared with $2.65 billion, or $1.01 a share, in 2003. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY REVENUES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SHIPMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); NETWORK SERVERS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (68%) Company Reports

COMPANY: DELL INC (94%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Dell Inc

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%)

PERSON: Laurie J Flynn; Kevin Rollins

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (69%); ASIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



217 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 651 words

PERSON: Edward R. Dudley

HEADLINE: Edward R. Dudley, 93, Civil Rights Advocate and Judge, Dies

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Edward R. Dudley, a retired New York judge and former borough president of Manhattan whose manifold career took him from civil rights advocacy to an ambassadorship in Africa, died on Tuesday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 93 and lived in Harlem.
 The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. 
 He also was a teacher, a lawyer for the N.A.A.C.P., a Democratic county chairman and the first African-American to run for statewide office on a major-party ticket in New York. (He was the Democratic-Liberal candidate for attorney general in 1962 but was beaten by the incumbent Republican, Louis J. Lefkowitz.) 
 Edward Richard Dudley was the son of a dentist in South Boston, Va. During his student years he worked as a bellhop, waiter and real estate clerk in an uncle's office, enrolling as a pre-dental student at Johnson C. Smith College in North Carolina and graduating in 1932 with a B.S. degree.
 He taught black children in a one-room school in Virginia and, as he recalled later, soon learned about discrimination in pay. His salary came to $60 a month. White teachers got $115. 
 After a year at Howard University on a scholarship in dentistry, he moved north and became close to his politically connected uncle, Edward A. Johnson, a real estate developer. He worked odd jobs and signed on with a public works theater project, serving as stage manager for its unit director, the young Orson Welles. The experience may have led to the deep-voiced, deliberate and somewhat dramatic manner of speech of his later career. 
 After the theater project ended in 1938, he enrolled in law school at St. John's University, received an L.L.B. in 1941 and went into private practice for a brief time.
 Encouraged by his family connection, he joined the Carver Democratic Club in Harlem. He became a precinct activist and got a job as an assistant state attorney general that ended when Thomas E. Dewey was elected governor in 1942.
 Mr. Dudley went to work for the growing Pepsi-Cola company, drumming up sales at Army camps. Thurgood Marshall, the future Supreme Court justice, persuaded him to join the N.A.A.C.P. legal team in 1943. As an assistant special counsel, he wrote briefs and prepared cases seeking the admission of black students to Southern colleges, equal pay for black teachers and an end to discrimination in public transportation.
 He was executive assistant to the governor of the Virgin Islands from 1945 to 1947 and then spent five years as President Harry S. Truman's ambassador to Liberia. It was a key diplomatic post in Africa; he also helped oversee Truman's Point Four program of economic assistance for third world countries. 
 Returning home in 1953, he practiced law and directed the N.A.A.C.P.'s Freedom Fund. In 1955, Mayor Robert F. Wagner appointed him a justice on the Domestic Relations Court. 
 He resigned in 1961 when he was elected by the City Council to serve as Manhattan borough president, after a fellow Harlemite, Hulan E. Jack, had to quit the position amid a conflict of interest scandal. Mr. Dudley served the remainder of Mr. Jack's term, and he won election to the post later that year. 
 As borough president he made moderate-cost housing a priority, to keep the taxpaying middle class in the city. At the same time, he headed the New York County Democratic Committee.
 He left the borough presidency at the end of 1964 after winning election to a vacancy on the State Supreme Court. He was re-elected in 1978 and served past the usual retirement age, until 1985. Beginning in 1967, he was administrative judge of the Criminal Court of the City of New York. In 1970, he became administrative judge of State Supreme Court for Manhattan and the Bronx. 
 Mr. Dudley is survived by his wife of 63 years, Rae Oley Dudley; a son, Edward R. Jr. of Scarsdale, N.Y.; two brothers, Dr. Calmeze Dudley of Los Angeles and Dr. Hubert Dudley of Chicago; and three grandchildren.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward R. Dudley was sworn in as Manhattan borough president by Mayor Robert F. Wagner in 1961. He served until the end of 1964. (Photo by Arthur Brower/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); DENTISTRY (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RACE & RACISM (76%); CHILDREN (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); THEATER & DRAMA (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); HOTEL STAFF (68%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (61%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (60%); PROSTATE CANCER (57%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%); ARMIES (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: PEPSI-COLA CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (57%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (84%)

Wolfgang Saxon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (90%); LIBERIA (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (53%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



218 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: From a Woman in Front of the Curtain To One Preferring to Work Behind It

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; Riva D. Atlas and Gretchen Morgenson contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
At Hewlett-Packard, another woman executive is now in the spotlight.
 Like Carleton S. Fiorina, she is known as a smart strategic thinker, a brilliant communicator, and an effective saleswoman.
 Yet the executive, Patricia C. Dunn, who has taken over as chairwoman with the ouster of Ms. Fiorina, has shunned the role of celebrity as much as Ms. Fiorina sought it out. 
 ''Carly is interested in being outfront and in the limelight, and Pattie is not that person,'' said Lewis E. Platt, who recruited both Ms. Dunn as a director and Ms. Fiorina to succeed him when he stepped down as Hewlett's chairman and chief executive in 1999. Ms. Dunn ''is quite happy to get the job done without the spotlight on her,'' he said.
 Ms. Dunn no longer has a choice. In the announcement of Wednesday's shake-up, she was the Hewlett-Packard director who was front and center, explaining on a conference call to industry analysts and investors the company's new direction. ''This is not a change related to strategy,'' she said. ''This is a change based on a desire to accelerate that strategy. We think that requires hands-on execution.''
 She repeatedly referred to the need for a hands-on leader -- a description that others have used to describe her. Ms. Dunn, 53, is known for her ability to connect with people and persuade them with big ideas.
 As the head of Barclays Global Investors, the British bank's asset management arm with over $900 billion invested, she pressed executives to let her division move into the exchange-traded funds business in 1999. It was a somewhat risky move but it has since greatly improved the company's bottom line. 
 ''She's a good salesperson, but also in B.G.I. fashion, she did thorough analysis,'' said Thomas Taggart, a Barclays Global managing director and spokesman. ''But it was her courage and sales skills that allowed us to jump into that business.'' 
 The challenge for Ms. Dunn now is to lead the board in selecting a new chief executive and deciding how to improve profitability. While the change at the top may have improved morale, the company faces difficult choices amid a cutthroat personal computer market.
 Ms. Dunn has had experience in managing pressures. She successfully juggled the ambitions of Barclays, and kept its employees happy, while at the same time pleasing its corporate parent in London, said Matthew R. Barger, deputy chairman at Hellman & Friedman, a private equity firm based in San Francisco. 
 While Ms. Dunn voted for the $19 billion acquisition of Compaq Computer in 2002 as a Hewlett board member, at Barclays she resisted efforts to integrate her unit more closely with the British parent, a person with direct knowledge of the situation said. ''She simply wouldn't have it because she didn't want to be told what to do by a bunch of guys in London,'' this person said.
 Colleagues describe both Ms. Fiorina and Ms. Dunn as charming and outgoing; both women never lacked doubts or confidence. But while Ms. Fiorina, 50, is charismatic, Ms. Dunn is seen as caring and aware of her weaknesses. 
 ''Neither of them is pretty strong at execution, but Pattie surrounded herself with good executors; she hired people who were skilled at looking at the details and managing the execution,'' said Richard Hag-berg, the chairman of Hagberg Consulting, who advised Ms. Fiorina at Hewlett and Ms. Dunn at Barclays. ''That is one of the areas where Carly fell short.'' 
 Ms. Dunn joined Hewlett's board in 1998, a year before Ms. Fiorina arrived, and was recruited to help the board better understand the needs of the large customers the company wanted to land. Even without a technology background, Mr. Platt said, she was a quick study and within two board meetings played an active role in shaping Hewlett's strategy. 
 ''I was always impressed that she caught on to the markets that we were in and products and services we were developing,'' Mr. Platt said, recalling the discussion over whether or not to spin off Agilent Technology. ''She would ask fairly tough questions about strategy that would cause you to stop and think, and sometimes rethink the strategy.''
 During the board's heated battle over whether to merge with Compaq, she said at the time that she was skeptical about whether Hewlett could come up with an effective integration plan. Ms. Dunn was sold on the deal only after she saw how both Hewlett and Compaq executives were planning for the merger. 
 ''It's been: make tough decisions, make clear which way we are going, and then get on with it,'' she said in an interview with The Associated Press. ''I think they can pull it off.'' 
 And more recently Ms. Dunn was one of three longtime Hewlett directors who confronted Ms. Fiorina in early January with a four-page document outlining how she and the company must change.
 People who have worked with Ms. Dunn say she is patient, low key and a good listener. ''She's always been one of those people that is very good at synthesizing the issues to their essential elements,'' said Pat McGurn, chief counsel at Institutional Shareholder Services, an investor advisory firm in Rockville, Md., that counts Barclays as a customer. Barclays is the third-largest investor in Hewlett, with a 4 percent stake. ''She's typically in a role of listening more than talking. You meet a lot of good speakers in this business, but it's also nice to see people who listen and think.''
 The daughter of a vaudeville actor and Las Vegas showgirl, Ms. Dunn attended the University of California, Berkley. After graduating with a degree in journalism and economics, she had ambitions to be a foreign correspondent. But when her mother became sick, she took a job as a temporary secretary in Wells Fargo's asset management division in 1976. 
 Nearly 20 years later, she rose through the ranks of that group to become its chairman and chief executive, all the while raising four stepchildren, who are now grown. 
 These days, however, Ms. Dunn's day-to-day involvement at Barclays seems to have slowed. In 2002, she stepped down as chairwoman as she battled breast cancer and melanoma; she is now a Barclay's vice chairwoman. Friends and colleagues say her health has improved, and Ms. Dunn and her husband have been spending a lot of time at a winery they own in Australia. 
 ''She is not part of the San Francisco social scene,'' Mr. Barger said. And though she ranked 10 places behind the top-ranked Ms. Fiorina among Fortune's list of powerful businesswomen, Ms. Dunn has said it takes a lot for her to be recognized in even a local publication. 
 ''I would have to jump off a building naked to get any coverage in The San Francisco Chronicle,'' Ms. Dunn told The Financial Times in 1999. ''And it wouldn't be because I am a fund manager. It would be: Stupid Lady Jumps Off a Building.''
 That headline might read differently now.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about Patricia C. Dunn, the new chairwoman of Hewlett-Packard, misstated her age. She is 51, not 53.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patricia C. Dunn, the new chairwoman. (Photo by Darcy Padilla) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); WOMEN (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (68%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (66%); WORKPLACE MORALE (64%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%) Computers and the Internet; Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Computers and the Internet; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Computer Printers; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS NA (54%); HELLMAN & FRIEDMAN LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Hewlett-Packard Co; Hewlett-Packard Co; Xerox Corp; Eastman Kodak Co

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: Eric Dash; Patricia C Dunn; Carleton S Fiorina; Carleton S Fiorina; Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED KINGDOM (68%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



219 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Data and Earnings Lift Dow to'05 High

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks rose yesterday, closing at a high for the year to date, as healthy earnings and promising economic data lifted the mood on Wall Street.
 But broader indexes improved more modestly, and technology shares barely rose.
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 85.50 points, or 0.8 percent, at 10,749.61. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 5.02 points, or 0.42 percent, closing at 1,197.01. The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index was up 0.55 point, or 0.03 percent, at 2,053.10. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization stocks rose 1.10 points, or 0.18 percent, to 626.81. 
 On the New York Stock Exchange, advancing issues outnumbered those declining by about 5 to 4, while on Nasdaq, decliners outnumbered advancers by 8 to 7.
 Trading was active with 1.55 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, up from 1.51 billion on Wednesday, and above last year's daily average of 1.46 billion shares. 
 After the market closed, Dell, the leading seller of personal computers, reported quarterly revenue a little below Wall Street analysts' expectations. In after-hours trading, its shares fell $1.34, or 3.2 percent, to $40.23. During the regular session, Dell was up 58 cents, to $41.57.
 A $1.64 jump in the price of crude oil, to $47.10 a barrel for next-month delivery, buoyed the share prices of energy companies. Exxon Mobil rose 80 cents, to $56.34; ChevronTexaco advanced $1.24, to $57.40; and ConocoPhillips rose $2.61, or 2.7 percent, to $99.47, a 52-week closing high.
 ''The oils are extremely strong,'' said Peter Boockvar, equity strategist at Miller Tabak. ''But we are seeing two different markets, as the Nasdaq is doing nothing and technology is doing nothing.''
 In economic news, the United States trade deficit narrowed in December, and the number of Americans claiming initial jobless benefits fell unexpectedly last week. The monthly deficit, at $56.4 billion, was slightly below the average estimate of Wall Street analysts.
 The market's strength, even if selective, reversed some of Wednesday's slide, which was set off by disappointing quarterly revenue at Cisco Systems, a technology bellwether. Cisco eased 5 cents further yesterday, to $17.58. 
 American International Group, the world's largest insurer by market value, helped push the Dow industrials higher, after it said that its fourth-quarter profit rose 11 percent. A.I.G. shares advanced $3.28 yesterday, or 4.7 percent, to $72.59.
 Aetna rose $5.43, or 4.2 percent, to $133.98, after it posted better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings, raised its forecast, declared a 2-for-1 stock split and doubled its dividend.
 Insurers were also helped by Senate passage of a bill aimed at curbing class-action lawsuits. The measure, sought by business and some professional groups, is a favorite of President Bush, who has campaigned for it around the country.
 Big companies often file insurance claims for awards in civil suits, so legislation restricting lawsuits, if passed by both houses of Congress, would presumably save insurers money.
 ''Talk about the class-action reform in Congress could help a lot of the property and casualty stocks,'' Mr. Boockvar said. 
 Among technology issues, American depository receipts of Ericsson of Sweden fell $2.56, or 8.1 percent, to $28.83, after the company reported fourth-quarter profit margins that were below forecasts.
 Shares of Hewlett-Packard, which ousted Carleton S. Fiorina as chief executive on Wednesday, eased 5 cents, to $21.48.
 Winn-Dixie Stores, the regional supermarket chain, fell $1.25, or more than 35 percent, to $2.25, in trading of nearly 17 million shares. It reported a fivefold quarterly loss compared with a year earlier, casting new doubts on the company's prospects. A spokesman denied that Winn-Dixie planned to file for bankruptcy protection. 
 In the bond market, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 25/32, to 10112/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.08 percent from 3.98 percent on Wednesday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of 10-year notes:
 (000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.600
High Yield: 4.049
Low Yield: 3.910
Median Yield: 4.000
Total applied for: $29,948,916
Accepted: $15,211,916
Noncompetitive: $85,704
Interest set at: 4%
The 10-year notes mature Feb. 15, 2015.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields''Graph tracks the average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly from Oct. 2004 - Jan. 2005.30-year: 5.07%15-year: 4.60%(Source by F.H.L.M.C.)Graph: ''Tax-Exempt Yields''Graph tracks the average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly from Oct. 2004 - Jan. 2005.Revenue bonds: 4.79%General obligation bonds: 4.27%(Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph: ''10-Year Treasury Notes''Graph tracks high yield in quarterly refunding auction from 2001 - 2004.(Source by Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); INSURANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); STOCK SPLITS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (82%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (74%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (62%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%); CHEVRON CORP (54%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (82%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (74%); AIG (NYSE) (62%); 8685 (TSE) (62%); XOM (NYSE) (54%); CVX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (82%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (82%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (82%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (82%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (74%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



220 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 15560 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:

Theater

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy Broadway, Off Broadway and Off Off Broadway shows this weekend. Approximate running times are in parentheses. * denotes a highly recommended show.
+ means discounted tickets were available at the Theater Development Fund's TKTS booth for performances last Friday and Saturday nights. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.

Broadway

+'BROOKLYN BOY' One of the mortifications of middle age is being forced to admit the truth in those extra-mossy cliches that you mock when you are young and arrogant. The past always catches up with you; blood is thicker than water; be careful what you wish for. These are among the stale-but-true bromides that are acknowledged by the title character in Donald Margulies's sincere but doggedly unsurprising new play about the midlife crisis of a suddenly successful novelist (Adam Arkin). While this comic drama is steeped in an admirably humble and often touching spirit of acceptance, it seldom does what Mr. Margulies has achieved repeatedly before: make the familiar seem fresh. Polly Draper and Ari Graynor stand out in an excellent cast, smoothly directed by Daniel Sullivan (2:20). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $26 to $79.
BEN BRANTLEY

+'FIDDLER ON THE ROOF' From the moment it sounds its first word in David Leveaux's placid revival, the voice of Harvey Fierstein (who has replaced Alfred Molina in the central role of Tevye) makes the audience prick up its ears. Heard not so long ago issuing from the plus-size form of Edna Turnblad in the musical ''Hairspray,'' Mr. Fierstein's voice is one of the most distinctive in theater, variously evoking a kazoo, a congested saxophone, wind in a bottle and echoes from a crypt. It is, in a way, its own multicolored show. Whether it fits comfortably into the little Russian village of Anatevka is another issue. But at least it brings a bit of zest to Mr. Leveaux's abidingly bland production (2:55). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (212)307-4100. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $35 to $100.
BRANTLEY

+'GOOD VIBRATIONS' Even those who believe that everything on this planet has a purpose may at first have trouble justifying the existence of ''Good Vibrations,'' the singing headache that manages to purge all catchiness from the surpassingly catchy hits of the Beach Boys. But audience members strong enough to sit through this rickety jukebox of a show will discover that the production, directed and choreographed by John Carrafa, does have a reason to be. ''Good Vibrations'' sacrifices itself to make all other musicals on Broadway look good. As the show's washboard-stomached performers smile, wriggle and squeak with the desperation of wet young things hung out to dry, you feel their pain. It is unlikely, however, to be more acute than yours (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $76 to $101; a limited number of $25 student rush tickets are available at the box office on the day of the show.
BRANTLEY

+'LITTLE WOMEN' Sutton Foster never merely walks when she can scamper in this perky, sketchy adaptation of Louisa May Alcott's classic novel of a Civil War-era New England girlhood. Portraying Jo the tomboy, Ms. Foster creates a dizzyingly hyperkinetic creature who, were she living in the 21st century, would probably be on Ritalin. Ms. Foster (a Tony winner for ''Thoroughly Modern Millie'') shows a gift for fresh, comic line readings. But her energy is often less infectious than exhausting. The same can be said of the show, directed by Susan H. Schulman and featuring a book by Allan Knee, with songs by Jason Howland and Mindi Dickstein. Watching the production is rather like speed-reading Alcott's novel. And the cast members, who include the mellow-voiced Maureen McGovern, mostly bring to mind 1860's-themed editions of the American Girl series of dolls (2:20). Virginia Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $60 to $100.
BRANTLEY

Off Broadway

+'BELFAST BLUES' The ''Belfast Blues'' of Geraldine Hughes's solo show aren't the kind you'd expect. Yes, the ''troubles'' between Roman Catholics and Protestants that have roiled Northern Ireland for decades do cast an emotional shadow over this heartfelt and funny if unexceptional stage memoir, descriptively subtitled ''one wee girl's story about family, war, Jesus and Hollywood.'' But Ms. Hughes's title more directly refers to her big, inquisitive and exceptionally expressive eyes, which helped secure that wee girl a ticket to a happier life. ''Belfast Blues,'' which recounts her experience growing up amid poverty and violence in Belfast in the 1970's and 80's, does not bring any groundbreaking insights to familiar territory. But Ms. Hughes is a bright, inviting presence, and the surprising agent of her deliverance from the troubled atmosphere of her youth gives the show a modestly refreshing twist (1:25). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, (212)307-4100. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 4 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 4 p.m. Tickets: $45; a limited number of $20 student rush tickets are available at the box office one hour before the performance.
CHARLES ISHERWOOD

'THE CHERRY ORCHARD' In this stunningly powerful production, an intriguing balance arises between Lopakhin, the bourgeois former serf, and the aristocratic family that owns the cherry orchard and whose fortunes are all but dried up. The landowner Lyubov Ranevskaya (Petronia Paley), returning penniless from her life abroad, is as elegant as she is self-delusional. Against her beauty and her dignity, Lopakhin (Wendell Pierce), the archetype of the small-minded arriviste, is a hard man to like. But this production brings out their shared past in subtle but forceful gestures that complicate the audience's sympathies (2:00). Harlem School of the Arts Theater, 645 St. Nicholas Avenue, near 141st Street, (212)868-4444. Wednesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $25.
CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

'COUNSELLOR-AT-LAW' Entertainment in abundance radiates from the Peccadillo Theater Company's new production of the old Elmer Rice drama ''Counsellor-at-Law.'' Starring the Tony Award-winning John Rubinstein, ''Counsellor-at-Law'' is a drama that throbs with New York life and brims with touchstones of another time, like ''George White's Scandals'' and the Court of General Sessions. But it also retains relevance to ambition and success in the 21st century. It has a hero worth rooting for, a healthy dose of sacred and profane love, some sharp jabs at class difference, villains who merit a hearty hiss and plenty of New York attitude and humor (2:45). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212)868-4444. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $55; $20 student rush tickets available at the box office 15 minutes before the performance.
LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

+'SABINA' Once a forgotten ghost in the annals of psychoanalysis, Sabina Spielrein is proving to have surprising staying power. A patient of Carl Jung and an acquaintance of Sigmund Freud who ultimately became a psychoanalyst herself, Spielrein has a history that has provided material for two movies and two plays. The first of these was Willy Holtzman's ''Sabina,'' first produced by Primary Stages in 1996 and now in revival as part of the company's 20th-anniversary season. The new production, directed by Ethan McSweeny, is hampered by an unsatisfactory performance from Marin Ireland in the title role. But the history of Spielrein's relationships with the founder of psychoanalysis and his protege turned apostate is nonetheless engrossing. It provides a provocative window into the much-studied relationship between Freud and Jung. Peter Strauss gives an admirably understated performance as a paternalistic Freud, and Victor Slezak, as Jung, gives persuasive dramatic life to a now-mythic figure. (2:15). Primary Stages, at 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212)279-4200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays though Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $55.
ISHERWOOD

'SHYLOCK' Deconstructing Shakespeare is a dangerous sport; it's impossible to be more imaginative or clever than the playwright himself, even if you are Harold Bloom. Gareth Armstrong gives it a game try, but ''Shylock,'' his 80-minute dissertation on the evolution of one of Shakespeare's most memorable characters, although deftly performed, is no exception. While his pocket synopses of anti-Semitism, Elizabethan England, Marlowe's ''Jew of Malta'' and even a Baedeker of famous actors' renditions of Shylock are edifying, they are not sufficiently enlightening or entertaining. The most riveting lines of Mr. Armstrong's monologue belong to Shakespeare himself (1:35). Perry Street Theater, 31 Perry Street, Greenwich Village, (212)868-4444. Wednesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $55; a limited number of $20 student/senior rush tickets available at the box office 30 minutes before the performance.
PHOEBE HOBAN

+'SLEEPING BEAUTY' Trust a British ''Sleeping Beauty'' to pivot on a fairy's flatulence. Yes, that surefire laugh trigger in old Blighty plays an unexpectedly large role in Rufus Norris's murky new version of the familiar fairy tale for the Young Vic Theater Company. Mr. Norris, a talented young British director whose Broadway-bound production of ''Festen'' snapped up many London theater awards, isn't interested in pretty pictures. His vigorously staged, grotesquely comic ''Sleeping Beauty,'' which unfolds in smoky darkness beneath a queasy yellow moon, is entirely in tune with the current vogue for teasing out thickets of disturbing subtext in children's literature. The production's eccentric designs accentuate the predominantly eerie air (2:00). New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, (212)239-6200. Tonight at 7; tomorrow and Sunday at 1 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $10, $20 and $30.
ISHERWOOD

+'TEXAS HOMOS' Often in theater, the provocativeness of a play's title correlates with quality, and not in a good way. But ''Texas Homos'' is a pleasant exception. The title's tone does serve a purpose: it signals that the language in this show is far filthier than some theatergoers might care for, but the play is artfully constructed and convincingly acted, especially by Reed Birney and Richard Bekins in the central roles. Cecil (Mr. Birney) and Jim Bob (Mr. Bekins) have been caught engaging in gay sex in a police sting at a public restroom in Tyler, Tex. Since one is the town doctor and the other a preacher, and since both have wives and children, this creates more than a few problems. ''Texas Homos'' is not really about gay men at all. It is about everyone who has a secret life, and the nightmare that envelops such people once they are discovered. Mr. Birney's portrait of desperation and defiance feels dead on, and so does Mr. Bekins's of resignation and surrender (2:00). June Havoc Theater, Abingdon Theater Complex, 312 West 36th Street, (212)868-4444. Tuesdays through Fridays at 7:30 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 7:30 p.m.; Sundays at 3. Tickets: $25.
NEIL GENZLINGER

*'THOM PAIN (BASED ON NOTHING)' Is there such a thing as standup existentialism? If not, Will Eno has just invented it. This monologue, which runs just over an hour and requires minimal stagecraft, is as unassuming in its means as it is astonishing in its impact. It's one of those treasured nights in the theater -- treasured nights anywhere, for that matter -- that can leave you both breathless with exhilaration and, depending on your sensitivity to meditations on the bleak and beautiful mysteries of human experience, in a puddle of tears. Also in stitches, here and there. Mr. Eno and his performer, the actor James Urbaniak, hereby reinvent that seemingly moribund theatrical genre, the solo show. They are immeasurably aided by the work of the director Hal Brooks. Mr. Eno's voice, or the voice of the narrator/protagonist/master of ceremonies played by Mr. Urbaniak, is alternately lyrical and affectless, ecstatic and flat, sardonic and sincere. Standup-style comic riffs and deadpan hipster banter keep interrupting the corrosively bleak narrative: Mr. Eno might be called a Samuel Beckett for the Jon Stewart generation. Let's try that again, minus the conditional: Mr. Eno is a Samuel Beckett for the Jon Stewart generation (1:10). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 6 and 9 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7 p.m. Tickets; $45.
ISHERWOOD

*'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' This lovably inconsequential, entirely adorable new musical brings to the stage the culture's current mania for celebrating that most revered of American virtues, the will to victory. A mock spelling bee, it pokes serious fun at its twitchy tween contestants -- in the loopy spirit of the movies ''Waiting for Guffman'' and ''Best in Show'' -- but also pays affectionate tribute to these quirky young spelling titans. William Finn's nimble, upbeat score provides the emotional underpinning for Rachel Sheinkin's more satirical -- indeed often riotously funny -- book. The director James Lapine, Mr. Finn's collaborator on ''Falsettos,'' is also in impeccable form, managing to transform into virtues two of the theater's most reliable pitfalls, namely audience participation and the usually ghastly conceit of adult actors' playing kids (1:45). Second Stage, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212)246-4422. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $75.
ISHERWOOD

'WASTED (THE MYSTERY/HISTORY OF PUBLIC EDUCATION IN THE UNITED STATES AND HOW IT GOT THAT WAY)' In ''Wasted,'' the Irondale Ensemble Project tries to answer a very difficult question: How do you make a play about the history of the public school system in American without being terribly boring? While they came up with a number of solutions, none were satisfactory. History is reduced to good guys and bad guys, who both talk in slogans: should school teach kids to think for themselves or prepare them for the workforce? The decline of the school system is told simply as a story of dark conspiracies motivated by corporate greed. In the end, you get the sense that this show is made by people who have spent little time reflecting on the ideas of the other side (2:00). Theater for the New City, 155 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212)352-3101. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m. Tickets: $25; $15 for seniors, students and New York City Public School teachers; on Thursdays pay what you can afford.
JASON ZINOMAN

Off Off Broadway

'THE CONFESSIONS OF PUNCH AND JUDY' The anarchist Punch and his wife, Judy, have been beating each other senseless for centuries, but while the famously warring married couple is usually performed by puppets, two real-life actors do the quarreling in ''The Confessions of Punch and Judy,'' a rigorously performed modern update with a surplus of energy and a deficit of direction. Ker Wells and Tannis Kowalchuk, who wrote the drama with the director Raymond Bobgan, play the pair in this pedestrian production, which mixes mime, ballroom dance, first-person monologues, puppetry and naturalistic acting. The play has few original thematic or design ideas and never reinvents the stock characters in an interesting way. In the end, it has no insight that you won't learn later this year in the revival of Edward Albee's ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?'' (1:10). Here Arts Center, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212)868-4444. Wednesdays through Sundays at 7 p.m. Tickets: $15.
ZINOMAN

'DAY OF RECKONING' This play about the anarchist and labor reformer Lucy Parsons is unevenly paced and clumsily staged, but it has this saving grace: unlike some other theatrical efforts associated with Black History Month, it is not shallow hero worship. Parsons was a decidedly flawed hero, and Melody Cooper, the playwright, leaves those flaws in plain sight. As a young woman, Parsons, played by Ms. Cooper, called herself Lucy Gonzalez and tried to pass as Mexican and American Indian, chafing at any suggestion that she was black. And in her militant-labor phase, with her white husband, Albert, she exhorted followers, ''Learn to use explosives.'' When the Parsonses' domestic bliss is shattered by the Haymarket Riot of 1886, Lucy loses her bearings, and her son pays an appalling price. Ms. Cooper's recounting of this fascinating life could benefit from a large infusion of understatement, but still, Parsons's story is one that deserves to be told, especially at a time when those with radical ideas are again under intense scrutiny (1:50). All Stars Project's Performing Arts and Education Center, 543 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212)941-1234. Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $15.
GENZLINGER

'THE FLID SHOW' With the drug Vioxx making headlines because of its recent recall over adverse side effects, Richard Willett's play ''The Flid Show'' gains an unsettling topicality. The play traces the history of Thalidomide, the sleeping pill widely distributed in Europe in the late 1950's and early 60's that caused birth defects when taken by pregnant women. Mat Fraser, a seasoned and charismatic British actor who was himself a ''Thalidomide baby,'' stars as Duncan, a lounge singer coming to grips with the anger and resentment fueled by his lifelong struggles. In Mr. Willett's fanciful dramatic scheme -- borrowed from a certain Dickens holiday favorite, as he acknowledges -- Duncan's psychological scars are healed by a series of ghostly visitors who sweep him through time and space. The documentary aspects of the play are absorbing and often poignant (particularly Amy Staats' monologue as a bereaved Belgian mother), but Duncan's personal story, centering on his rocky romance with a doctor and a reconciliation, in spirit at least, with his dead mother, is crudely drawn and cliched. The director Eliza Beckwith's production is also on the clunky side, with most of the acting not up to the standard set by Mr. Fraser in the central role (2:15). Medicine Show Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212)352-3101. Fridays, Saturdays and Mondays at 8 p.m. Tickets: $15; $30 for a special benefit performance on Feb. 24.
ISHERWOOD

Last Chance

+'THE HOUSE OF BERNARDA ALBA' The role of Bernarda Alba has not changed in this production: she is still the tyrannical widowed mother of five daughters who are burning to free themselves from her stifling house. But here it's Poncia (Joanne Camp), the maid, who sets the tone. Poncia's world-weariness instills the play with an earthy, prosaic feel rather than a poetic one. Gone is the passion, and gone, too, is the terror when the tragic consequences of Bernarda's tyranny are revealed. Gone, in other words, is the heat that permeates the play. In its place is a comfy warmth, a fireside instead of an inferno (1:45). Pearl Theater Company, at Theater 80, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212)598-9802. Tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets: $50 for tomorrow evening and Sunday; matinee tomorrow, $40.
ROBERTSON

*'A NUMBER' Since the 1970's, Caryl Churchill has produced studies of a world quaking under constant siege, in which style somehow always uniquely mirrors content. In this stunning, elliptical play about a father's experiment with genetic engineering, this invaluable dramatist considers a threat to the very cornerstone of Western civilization since the Renaissance: the idea of human individuality, a subject she manages to probe in depth in a mere 62 minutes of spartan sentences and silences. Every word, gesture and pause in this dramatic fugue for two actors -- meticulously directed by James MacDonald and performed by Arliss Howard and Dallas Roberts -- sets off echoes of multiple meaning. The play trenchantly makes the point that we no longer have the apparatus, verbal or psychological, to accommodate the changes in a time when science is moving faster than society. It is hard to think of another contemporary playwright who combines such economy of means and breadth of imagination (1:05). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212)239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $65.
BRANTLEY

Movies

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'ALIENS OF THE DEEP' Directed by James Cameron and Steven Quale. (G, 48 minutes). When the director James Cameron proclaimed himself ''king of the world'' on winning the Oscar for ''Titanic,'' who knew that he also had designs on the rest of the solar system? His newest film, ''Aliens of the Deep,'' is a grandiose hybrid of undersea documentary and outer-space fantasy that begins on our planet's ocean floor and ends many miles under the ice crust that covers Europa, the second moon of Jupiter. The movie's sneaky transition from undersea documentary to speculative fantasy of a journey yet to be undertaken is so seamless that you could easily mistake the last portion of the film for the record of an actual space voyage. Mr. Cameron's theory, supported by astrobiologists, is that the life forms found at the deepest levels of the ocean where no light from the sun penetrates may hold clues to the nature of possible life in outer space. Filmed in Imax 3-D, it is a visual adventure worthy of that much-degraded adjective, awesome.
STEPHEN HOLDEN

'ASSISTED LIVING' Starring Michael Bonsignore and Maggie Riley. Directed by Elliot Greenebaum. (No rating, 77 minutes). As nursing homes go, Meadow View, the site of this hard-headed comedy that feels like a documentary, is a far cry from the hellholes we sometimes read about, where the elderly are dumped and treated like prisoners. The rooms are clean and the staff efficient. Life there is viewed through the institution's scruffy 27-year-old janitor (Mr. Bonsignore) who regularly sneaks off to smoke pot, is careless about punctuality, and plays affectionate pranks on the residents to relieve his boredom. The wisp of a plot follows Todd's relationship with a patient (Ms. Riley) suffering from early Alzheimer's disease. ''Assisted Living'' may be a comedy, but its images of physical frailty are inescapably unsettling.
HOLDEN

'THE AVIATOR' Starring Leonardo DiCaprio. Directed by Martin Scorsese (PG-13, 169 minutes). The famously eccentric and reclusive empire builder Howard Hughes was born alone and died alone -- two times when he was no different from anyone else. For the rest of his life, the high-flying Hughes seemed to have drifted in from some distant aerie, where exotic birds hatch far from everyday worries. At the age of 18, he was both an orphan and a millionaire, and while he could never be called ordinary, in the following two decades his wealth and all that it afforded brought him a very American kind of celebrity. It is that celebrity, fueled by money, stoked by matinee looks and playboy style, that preoccupies ''The Aviator,'' Mr. Scorsese's visually sumptuous if disappointingly hollow account of Hughes's early life. Written by John Logan, the story principally covers the late 20's through the 40's, when Hughes, played by Mr. DiCaprio, was gadding about both Hollywood and the aviation world.
MANOHLA DARGIS

'BOOGEYMAN' Starring Barry Watson. Directed by Stephen Kay (PG-13, 86 minutes). There are a lot of close-ups of doorknobs and water faucets in Mr. Kay's would-be horror film. There is a supernaturally speedy killing accomplished with heavy-duty plastic wrap. There is frequent whooshing and rapid camera movement. Despite all of that, it isn't scary. Mr. Watson, of ''Seventh Heaven,'' plays Tim, a grown man who has been afraid of the boogeyman ever since he was 8, when something creepy sucked his father into a closet and out of this life. After his mother's death, Tim vows to spend a night in his childhood home to allay his fears, but, sure enough, the boogeyman is back and after him and everyone he cares about (well, an uncle and two girlfriends). The house is very creaky; so is the movie.
ANITA GATES

'COACH CARTER' Starring Samuel L. Jackson, Rob Brown, Robert Ri'chard, Rick Gonzalez, Nana Gbewonyo and Antwon Tanner. Directed by Thomas Carter (PG-13, 137 minutes). In this solid, unsurprising inspirational-coach drama, Mr. Jackson plays Ken Carter, who returns to his old high school in the tough Northern California city of Richmond to turn a squad of underachieving misfits into winners, both on and off the court. Based on a true story, the movie combines sports-picture suspense with heroic-educator uplift when Carter, dismayed that his players are slipping academically, padlocks the gym in the midst of an undefeated season. Mr. Carter (the director, not related to the coach) infuses this sentimental warhorse with some flourishes of realism, which are bolstered by the hip-hop soundtrack and by the performances of the younger cast members, especially Mr. Brown as a talented forward struggling with his responsibilities, Ashanti as his girlfriend, and Mr. Gonzalez as a player sliding toward a life of crime.
A.O. SCOTT

*'HEAD-ON' Starring Birol Unel, Sibel Kekilli, Catrin Striebeck and Guven Kirac. Directed by Fatih Akin (Not rated, 118 minutes). In German and Turkish, with English subtitles. Love doesn't just hurt in the jagged German romance ''Head-On''; it cuts and bleeds and even kills. A story about a lonely man and a still-lonelier woman fighting against their worlds and what often seems like their own best interests, the film has caused a stir in Germany for the murky, troubling light it sheds on the lives of the country's Turkish immigrants. Its popularity made it a fleeting social phenomenon and a minor cultural footnote. But it doesn't explain why this film about two strangers with suicidal tendencies and a deep commitment to self-aggrandizing drama is the first very good movie of this very young year. One of the truisms about romances, even those shaded pitch black and set to banging rock music, is that you have to fall in love with the characters when they're falling for each other. It takes a long time for Cahit (Mr. Unel) and Sibel (Ms. Kekilli) to get inside each other's heads, much less anywhere else, but it doesn't take us long to care about these two perfectly imperfect beings.
DARGIS

'HIDE AND SEEK' Starring Robert De Niro, Dakota Fanning, Famke Janssen, Elisabeth Shue, Amy Irving, Dylan Baker and Melissa Leo. Directed by John Polson. (R, 105 minutes). In the downbeat, sufficiently unsettling ''Hide and Seek,'' Mr. De Niro plays a New York City shrink, David, who's married to a somnolent type (Ms. Irving), whose love for their daughter, Emily (Ms. Fanning), can't disguise her unhappiness. Soon after the story starts, violence descends on the family, and David and Emily move to the country for some healing. Once there, things go from lousy to worse, as Emily starts staring blankly into the surrounding woods and palling around with a sinister invisible friend called Charlie. Blood drips into the story; then it pours. One of the most gifted child actors around, Ms. Fanning has both chops and a preternaturally intense screen presence; even when you don't believe the setup, you buy what she is selling. That's a good thing when it comes to this horror-thriller hybrid, which was written by Ari Schlossberg and needs all the help it can get from its actors.
DARGIS

*'HOTEL RWANDA' Starring Don Cheadle, Sophie Okonedo, Joaquin Phoenix and Nick Nolte. Directed by Terry George (PG-13, 121 minutes). This wrenching political thriller, based on fact, performs the valuable service of lending a human face to an upheaval so savage that it seemed beyond the realm of imagination when news of it filtered into the West. The movie certainly isn't the first screen depiction of a nation consumed in ethnic strife. But its vision of the slaughter of 800,000 Tutsis by the ruling Hutu tribe in Rwanda during a hundred-day bloodbath in 1994 offers a devastating picture of media-driven mass murder left unchecked. The story is based on the real-life experiences of Paul Rusesabagina (Mr. Cheadle), the soft-spoken Hutu manager of the Hotel des Mille Collines, in Kigali, who with his Tutsi wife, Tatiana (Ms. Okonedo), and children, narrowly escapes death several times. Mr. Rusesabagina was directly responsible for saving the lives of more than 1,200 Tutsis and Hutu moderates by sheltering them in the hotel and bribing the Hutu military to spare them. The movie, which is squeamish about showing the full extent of savagery, hammers every button on the emotional console.
HOLDEN

'IN GOOD COMPANY' Starring Dennis Quaid, Topher Grace and Scarlett Johansson. Written and directed by Paul Weitz (PG-13, 106 minutes). This gently revisionist fairy tale about good versus evil is set on the battlefield of contemporary corporate culture, a site of our leading blood sport. Mostly, though, the movie is about men. The two men at the story's engaging center are Carter Duryea (Mr. Grace), a young executive who has been promoted beyond his abilities to run the advertising department of a magazine with the resonant name of Sports America. The man whom Carter is meant to make redundant is the 51-year-old Dan Foreman, a ruggedly appealing adult who brings out the best in everyone. Dan has a picture-perfect family and is the kind of unabashedly old-fashioned masculine type that Mr. Quaid has been slow-cooking to perfection over the years and which, on American screens at least, has lately gone missing.
DARGIS

'LOST EMBRACE' Starring Daniel Hendler. Directed by Daniel Burman (not rated, 100 minutes; in Spanish, with English subtitles). Set in a shabby Buenos Aires shopping mall, this antic, melancholy comedy gives a Latin American twist to a story of young, male Jewish identity crisis that will be familiar to fans of Philip Roth, Neil Simon and Woody Allen. Ariel (the fast-moving, nervous-looking Mr. Hendler) is a young man in a hurry, without much of a sense of direction. He carries on an anxious affair with an older woman, pines for his former girlfriend, and fantasizes about emigrating to Poland, from which his family fled two generations before. Mostly, though, he is haunted by the absence of his father, Elias, who abandoned him as a baby to go to Israel to fight in the 1973 war. The film, while busy and diffuse, is also touching and funny, and its modesty and haphazardness are among its charms.
SCOTT

'MEET THE FOCKERS' Starring Robert De Niro, Ben Stiller, Dustin Hoffman, Barbra Streisand, Blythe Danner, Teri Polo and Owen Wilson. Directed by Jay Roach (PG-13, 114 minutes). Like ''Meet the Parents,'' the follow-up new comedy ''Meet the Fockers'' hinges on the well-traveled idea that there's something comic about being Jewish in America. Not the Philip Roth, take-no-prisoners funny, in which Jewish identity is good, bad, happy, sad, a historical chip on the shoulder, a sign of radical difference. Rather, the post-Borscht Belt funny of the genial sitcom Jew whose difference is amorphous enough to be thoroughly unthreatening; the Jew as an ethnic accessory that non-Jews on both sides of the camera can enjoy without anxiety, like the cute cabala string Madonna likes to wear. And so, just as Bernie loved Bridget, and Rhoda loved Mary, so does Greg Focker (Mr. Stiller) love Pam Byrnes (Ms. Polo). And because Greg loves Pam, Pam's father, Jack (Mr. De Niro), doesn't love Greg. Not because no man could ever be good enough for his daughter, but because Greg doesn't look like Pam's old squeeze, the fair-haired Kevin (Mr. Wilson).
DARGIS

*'THE MERCHANT OF VENICE' Starring Al Pacino, Jeremy Irons, Joseph Fiennes and Lynn Collins. Directed by Michael Radford (R, 127 minutes). Shakespeare's most problematic play -- at least with respect to modern sensitivities -- receives an intelligent interpretation from Mr. Radford and a superb cast. Mr. Pacino, showing welcome restraint after a series of overdone stage and screen performances, emphasizes Shylock's grief and estrangement, turning him into a fragile monster. But his villainy, however much it smacks of blood libel, cannot be discarded without compromising the play's complex ideas about justice and duty, and Mr. Radford does not try to wash away the stain of anti-Semitism that is woven into the heart of his source. He does remind us how much more is going on in the play, and along with his talented production designer and cinematographer, he renders Venice as a series of Renaissance paintings -- tableaus that in evoking Velazquez, Rembrandt, Titian and Vermeer immerse us in the ferment of early modern Europe. Mr. Irons is quietly mesmerizing in the title role, a creature of mysterious melancholy whose soul seems at once pure and rotted. The movie really belongs to Ms. Collins, who gives Portia her rightful wit and charisma, and makes her the play's cruel and lovely moral center.
SCOTT

*'MILLION DOLLAR BABY' Starring Clint Eastwood, Hilary Swank and Morgan Freeman. Directed by Mr. Eastwood (PG-13, 135 minutes). Mr. Eastwood takes what appears to be a conventional boxing-melodrama plot about a crusty old trainer whose heart is melted by a spirited young fighter and turns it into a glowing, somber meditation on friendship, ambition and death. The picture's scale is small, and its pacing leisurely, which gives you a chance to savor three lovely performances: from Ms. Swank as the young boxer, Mr. Freeman as a world-weary former contender and Mr. Eastwood as the trainer, Frankie Dunn. At 74, Mr. Eastwood has achieved a level of mastery that leaves him with nothing to prove, and so, unafraid of sentiment and willing to risk cliche, he has made a graceful, lyrical, devastating masterpiece -- the best film released by a major Hollywood studio in 2004.
SCOTT

*'NOBODY KNOWS' Starring Yuya Yagira. . Directed by Hirokazu Kore-eda (PG-13, 141 minutes; in Japanese, with English subtitles). Based on the true story of four children abandoned by their mother in a small Tokyo apartment, Mr. Kore-eda's fourth film is at once harrowing and tender, an urban horror story with overtones of fairy tale. Restricting himself to the children's point of view, the director creates an almost unbearable sense of dread in the audience; you can't help suspecting that, at every moment, something terrible is about to happen. But at the same time, because the children themselves do not perceive the full terribleness of their situation, the terror is mitigated by a sense of wonder and adventure. The keys to this meticulous and deeply humane film are Mr. Kore-eda's deft camera sense and the remarkable performance of the 12-year-old Mr. Yagira as Akira, the oldest of the four siblings, who must somehow preserve his own innocence while protecting his more vulnerable brother and sisters.
SCOTT

'A VERY LONG ENGAGEMENT' Starring Audrey Tautou, Gaspard Ulliel, Jean-Pierre Becker, Dominique Bettenfeld, Clovis Cornillac and Marion Cotillard. Directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet (R, 133 minutes; in French, with English subtitles). If you like battleground carnage delivered with aesthetic brio, the kind that ensures that when a soldier explodes into confetti, his flesh will dapple a trenchmate as decoratively as pink rosettes on a cake, this new French film will serve you nicely. Set during World War I and its immediate aftermath, and directed by the cult favorite Jean-Pierre Jeunet, it follows the adventures of a young woman, Mathilde (Ms. Tautou), who holds fast to the hope that her young soldier fiance will return home from his apparent grave. Even when death seems to part them, the cord of her love remains unbroken. Best known for ''Amelie,'' a modern fairy tale also starring Ms. Tautou, Mr. Jeunet possesses a distinctive visual style that's part Rube Goldberg, part F.A.O. Schwarz, and generally enjoyable for about 15 minutes.
DARGIS

'THE WEDDING DATE' Starring Debra Messing and Dermot Mulroney. Directed by Clare Kilner. (PG-13, 90 minutes). Either Ms. Kilner or Dana Fox, her screenwriter, must have adored ''Four Weddings and a Funeral,'' because their new romantic comedy struggles from beginning to end to capture that earlier film's charm and ebullience. Their efforts are largely unsuccessful. Ms. Messing stars as Kat Ellis, a New Yorker en route to London for her younger half-sister's wedding. Since there is no man in Kat's life, she turns to the classified ads for male escorts. In a fantasy worthy of ''Pretty Woman,'' the male prostitute she hires turns out to be a hunk (Mr. Mulroney) with beautiful manners and a degree in comparative literature from Brown. Both stars are highly appealing, despite a shaky script with aphorisms that don't quite deliver. After rowdy parties in London, everyone heads for the glorious English countryside for family-bonding activities. ''The Wedding Date'' proves that there is nothing inherently magical about a group of adults frolicking on a lawn with an old pop-music hit in the background. What charms it does have would be far more enjoyable if the movie weren't so in love with its own supposed cuteness.
GATES.

'THE WOODSMAN' Starring Kevin Bacon. Directed by Nicole Kassell (R, 87 minutes). Ms. Kassell directs this story of a paroled child molester struggling to re-enter society after 12 years in prison in a lean, unassuming style, which suits the subject matter and gives the fine cast room to explore their complicated, unhappy characters. The story is not always plausible, and the atmosphere sometimes feels programmatically grim, but the film is a serious, compassionate attempt at psychological realism, anchored by Mr. Bacon's precise, unsettling performance as a man trying to untangle his decent impulses from his destructive, predatory urges.
SCOTT

Pop

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy rock and pop concerts in the New York metropolitan region this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended concert. Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

APOLLO SUNSHINE, Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)599-5103. The tunefulness of folk-rock and the Beatles goes joyously off the rails in the songs of this Boston band, which tends to get more raucously enthusiastic somewhere around the second verse. Tonight at 9, with Falcon and Brian Bonz opening; admission is $10.
JON PARELES

*NEKO CASE, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111. In one of her songs, Neko Case declares, ''I'm a dying breed who still believes, haunted by American dreams.'' Her songs look back to the era when country music addressed death, sin and heartbreak. She sings honky-tonk and torch songs in a voice that's intimate with tragedy and desire. Sunday and Monday nights at 8, with the Sadies sharing the bill; tickets are $20, $18 in advance.
PARELES

C.J. CHENIER, Satalla, 37 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 576-1155. C.J. Chenier, the son of Clifton Chenier, who was the undisputed king of zydeco, picked up his late father's accordion and his Red Hot Louisiana Band in the 1980's, carrying on the family tradition of bayou dance music laced with blues. Sunday afternoon as part of the Let's Zydeco series, with dance lessons at 1:30 and music at 2; admission is $22.
PARELES

SANDRA COLLINS, Avalon, 662 Avenue of the Americas, at 20th Street, Chelsea, (212)807-7780. Ms. Collins tends toward clean, energetic progressive-house tracks, letting misty atmospherics and grand synthesizers glide over precise rhythm tracks. Tomorrow night after 10, with Pete Tong, Eyal Hen and Eddie Lee; admission is $30.
KELEFA SANNEH

*BO DIDDLEY/GENYA RAVAN, B.B. King Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42d Street, (212) 997-4144. When Bo Diddley plays his namesake beat and growls the metaphysical boasts of ''Who Do You Love,'' it's easy to hear the fire and syncopation that made him a rock pioneer. Behind them is a profound education in the blues. Genya Ravan, who sang with the band Ten Wheel Drive and was a pioneering female rock producer, opens the show. Tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $30 in advance, $35 tomorrow.
PARELES

*THOMAS FEHLMAN, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212)358-7503. Mr. Fehlman, a German producer, has been tinkering with electronic beats since the 1980's. Last year he released ''Lowflow'' (Plug Research), a warm CD full of minimalist pulses and languid breakbeats. Tonight at midnight; admission is $5.
SANNEH

*HEART & SOUL VALENTINE'S CONCERT, Roseland Ballroom, 239 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212)247-0200. This is the kind of concert where the audience seems likely to outperform the performers. Not that there's anything wrong with the veteran R&B acts scheduled to appear. The lineup includes Harold Melvin's Blue Notes, Ted Mills (formerly of Blue Magic), Meli'sa Morgan and, perhaps best of all, Staten Island's Force M.D.'s, who were combining smooth R&B with bumpy hip-hop long before it was as popular (or, as the members probably know all too well, as lucrative) as it is today. Still the real thrill will probably be the crowd full of quiet men and notably unquiet women, clutching roses and drinks and -- if the singers are doing their job right -- one another. Tomorrow night at 9; tickets are $45, and you might as well obey the fliers and ''dress to impress.''
SANNEH

*NORMAN JAY, APT, 419 West 13th Street, West Village, (212) 414-4245. One of Britain's most popular D.J.'s comes to this cozy (that's a euphemism) nightclub in support of ''Good Times 4'' (Resist), a laid-back double-disc compilation put together by Norman Jay and his brother, Joey Jay. Expect a night of elegant funk, in the broadest sense -- the compilation includes appearances by everyone from the reggae act Zap Pow to the big band overseen by the British electronica producer Matthew Herbert. Tomorrow night after 10, with Citizen Kane; tickets are $8.
SANNEH

KOOL KEITH, B.B. King Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212)997-4144. Kool Keith is hip-hop's definition of multiple personality syndrome, from his days with the Ultramagnetic M.C.'s to more recent metamorphoses into Dr. Octagon and Reverand Tom. Depending on his chosen role, he could be rapping comedy, science or smut. Tonight at 11; tickets are $20.
PARELES

KITKA, Satalla, 37 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212)576-1155. The drones, dissonances and eerie beauty of Eastern European women's vocal music are the province of Kitka, which has been singing them since 1979. Tonight at 7:30; tickets are $20.
PARELES

*JENS LEKMAN/THE IMPOSSIBLE SHAPES/PARKER & LILY/THE SILENT LEAGUE, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212)260-4700. Pop gets twisted in highly personal ways on this quadruple bill. Jens Lekman, a Swedish songwriter whose lyrics are in English, writes wistful ditties that can be wry or depressive. The Impossible Shapes look back to the psychedelically warped pop of the late 1960's, while Parker & Lily sing slowly and quietly about the wreckage of romance in reverberant arrangements. Brian Wilson's legacy shimmers through the songs of the Silent League, which uses a handful of musicians to create grandly expansive orchestral pop. Tomorrow night at 8:30; tickets are $10.
PARELES

LOSER'S LOUNGE TRIBUTE TO QUEEN: NO TIME FOR LOSERS, Fez (downstairs at the Time Cafe), 380 Lafayette Street, at Great Jones Street, East Village, (212)533-2680. Joe McGinty and his coterie of songwriting connoisseurs first applied themselves to the mixture of hard-rock grandiosity and campy arrogance that was Queen five years ago. They're back at it, with ingenious ways to reinterpret the multitracked splendors of songs like ''Bohemian Rhapsody.'' Tonight at 8; admission is $25. Tomorrow night at 7, admission is $25; tomorrow night at 10:30, admission is $20.
PARELES

*ENRIQUE MORENTE/TOMATITO, Carnegie Hall, 881 Seventh Avenue, at 57th Street, (212)247-7800. This concert brings together two musicians who combine flamenco's austere tradition of volatile, smoldering passion with the urge to reinvent it. Enrique Morente is a singer who has reached back to old styles and also looked outside the tradition for forms and texts, from a flamenco Mass to rock fusions. This time, he will be in a more traditional format, collaborating with the remarkable guitarist Tomatito, whose improvising vocabulary includes both the deepest flamenco and the harmonies of jazz. Tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $22 to $69.
PARELES

ERICK MORILLO, Crobar, 530 West 28th Street, near 10th Avenue, Chelsea, (212)629-9000. This veteran house producer may still be best known for producing the huge 1993 hit ''I Like to Move It,'' but since then he's established himself as one of New York's most popular D.J.'s, known for raucous, clattering sets that sometimes gesture toward his love of Latin music. This party celebrates his new release, a four-disc set called ''The 2 Sides of My World'' (Subliminal), which includes both original productions (one track, ''Dance I Said,'' features P. Diddy) and D.J. mixes. Tonight after 10; tickets are $30 in advance, more at the door.
SANNEH

JOHNNY PACHECO/LA SONORA PONCENA/TITO ROJAS, Copacabana, 560 West 34th Street, (212) 239-2672. The flutist and bandleader Johnny Pacheco was born in the Dominican Republic but fell in love early with Afro-Cuban music. He has been a prime mover in New York Latin music since the 1960's, when he helped start Fania Records; he went on to lead the Fania All-Stars, the band that defined New York salsa. La Sonora Poncena has been one of the cornerstones of Puerto Rican salsa since it was founded in 1954. Its arrangements are at once transparent and propulsive, with pinpoint horns, percussion and keyboard behind ardent vocals; they have urged more than one generation of dancers into motion. Tito Rojas has been one of the leading Puerto Rican salsa singers since the 1980's, making hits with both ballads and dance tunes. Tomorrow night from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m.; admission is $25.
PARELES

*SMOKEY AND MIHO/CHOCOLATE GENIUS, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212)358-7503. Miho Hatori sang and wrote songs for the funk-rap-lounge band Cibo Matto; Smokey Hormel has played guitar with Tom Waits and Beck. Leading a band, they delve into -- what else? -- Brazilian music. They're joined for this show, a benefit for Tonic, by the percussionist Cyro Baptista and the drummer Billy Martin from Medeski, Martin and Wood. Marc Anthony Thompson, aka Chocolate Genius, writes desolate, telling, unsparing songs about goodbyes, from doomed romances to senile parents. With his husky voice and the backup of Marc Ribot on guitar, he'll have twilit ballads and, probably, some droll comments in between. Tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $20.
PARELES

MARCO ANTONIO SOLIS/ANA GABRIEL, Madison Square Garden, 33rd Street and Seventh Avenue, Manhattan, (212)465-6741. Latin pop lives for love songs, and this pre-Valentine's Day ''Concierto del Amor'' presents two Mexican ballad singers who wholeheartedly revel in romance. Marco Antonio Solis is suave and earnest in his yearning songs, while Ana Gabriel pours drama into songs with a streak of tragedy. Tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $59.50 to $99.50.
PARELES

SOULIVE, Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, at Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)230-0236. Soulive is an organ-guitar-drums trio that harks back to the 1950's and 1960's, playing meaty, blues-centered jazz for dancers who like straightforward funk. Lately, it has been hooking up with a little hip-hop. Tonight at 9; tickets are $25.
PARELES

SUPER DIAMOND, Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212)777-6800. A tribute to the songs of Neil Diamond, particularly his triumphal 1970's material. Smirking is optional. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $26.
PARELES

*KEITH SWEAT, Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212)496-7070. For the not-getting-any-younger slow-jam specialist Keith Sweat, every other weekend of the year must be merely preparation for this one -- no matter what else happens (or doesn't happen) in his career, he'll probably always be a big draw around Valentine's Day. Expect an audience full of longtime fans to scream and whoop for a set full of plaintive (but never, ever wimpy) love songs, sung by a man who knows how to find a balance between tenderness and rakishness. Sunday night at 7:30, with Atlantic Starr and Meli'sa Morgan; tickets are $53.50 to $73.50.
SANNEH

Cabaret

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy cabaret shows in Manhattan this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended show. Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

RUTH BROWN, Le Jazz au Bar, 41 East 58th Street, (212)308-9455. This rhythm-and-blues legend has weathered one personal disaster after another, but misfortunes that might have silenced a less determined performer have only added dimension to Ms. Brown's already larger-than-life musical personality. Exhibiting a flamboyant showmanship that recalls her peer James Brown, she proudly presents herself as an indomitable member of royalty and stylistic descendant of the Queen of the Blues herself, Dinah Washington. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30 and 9:30, and Sunday night at 8. Cover: $50; no minimum.
STEPHEN HOLDEN

BARBARA CARROLL, Oak Room, Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, (212)419-9331. The Lady of a Thousand Songs is back in the Oak Room for Sunday brunch and evening performances. This elegant red-headed musician and singer is a poised entertainer whose impeccable pianism belongs to the school of jazz that maintains a sense of classical decorum at the keyboard. Even when swinging out, she remains an impressionist with special affinities for Thelonious Monk and bossa nova. Vocally, she belongs to the conversational tradition of Mabel Mercer, with a style that's blase but never cold. Sunday at 2 and 8 p.m. Cover: $55 at 2, including brunch at noon; $42 at 8, with a $15 minimum. (An $80 dinner-and-show package is available.)
HOLDEN

*BLOSSOM DEARIE, Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212)265-8133. To watch this singer and pianist is to appreciate the power of a carefully deployed pop-jazz minimalism combined with a highly discriminating taste in songs. She remains the definitive interpreter, at once fey and tough, of the pop-jazz satirist Dave Frishberg, as astute and unforgiving a social critic as exists. The songs -- her own and other people's -- date from all periods of a career remarkable for its longevity and for Ms. Dearie's stubborn independence and sly wit, which have never gone stale. Tomorrow night at 7; Sunday night at 6:15. Cover: $25, with a $15 minimum; a $54.50 dinner-and-show package is available.
HOLDEN

UTE LEMPER, Cafe Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, (212)570-7189. This imperious, Dietrichesque cabaret singer, who is performing with a pop quartet through Feb. 26, lends the entire nightclub enterprise a German Expressionist seriousness. If her latest show is entirely different from the program of original songs she performed last year at Le Jazz au Bar, its attitude is similar. Most of the material doesn't deal directly with politics, history and literature, like the sprawling topical broadsides of the earlier show. But she still invests it with a ferocity that infuses the art (and artifice) of cabaret with an unrelenting dramatic intensity. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8:45 and 10:45. Cover: $65; $40 at the bar; no minimum.
HOLDEN

Jazz

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy jazz concerts in the New York metropolitan region this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended concert. Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

ERIC ALEXANDER QUARTET, Smoke, 2751 Broadway at 106th Street, Manhattan, (212)864-6662. A young tenor saxophonist with a beautiful sound, centering in the Coltrane-ish lower-middle register; if he is a little unabashedly entranced by a particular area of jazz's past, around 1955 to 1965, he does well by it. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 9, 10:30 and midnight; cover charge is $25.
BEN RATLIFF

RASHIED ALI QUARTET, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626. Best known as John Coltrane's drummer in his last few years and his foil on the duet album ''Interstellar Space,'' Mr. Ali has never stopped collaborating with up-and-coming musicians. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 8, 10 and midnight; cover charge is $20 and there is a $10 minimum.
RATLIFF

J.D. ALLEN TRIO PLAYS THE MUSIC OF BUTCH MORRIS, Louis, 649 East Ninth Street, at Avenue C, East Village, (212)673-1190. J.D. Allen, an able young tenor saxophonist who has played with Betty Carter, Cindy Blackman, Eric Revis and others, is doing his part in Butch Morris's month-long ''Black February'' series of nightly performances. He's playing in most of the large improvising ensembles conducted by Mr. Morris through the month, and he's also playing this weekly gig with his own trio. On the music stand will be Mr. Morris's own compositions going back to the 1970's, which graced a number of old David Murray albums. They're powerfully appealing melodies; it's been too long since they've been heard. Tomorrow night at 8:30 pm; free admission.
RATLIFF

COOPER-MOORE/WILLIAM PARKER, Clemente Soto Velez Cultural Center /LES Gallery, 107 Suffolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4080. The multi-instrumentalist Cooper-Moore needs no special context to be understood: he plays as if he is trying to grab the attention of pedestrians on a busy street. He'll play boogie-woogie piano, pushing form into abstraction; stamp out a rhythm with hand percussion; play beautiful ballads with home-made harps, or bark out a blues on the harmonica. This performance celebrates a Cooper-Moore boxed set, on the 50 Miles of Elbow Room label, which includes five seven-inch records and a booklet inside a small cedar box. It includes solo performances by Cooper-Moore and and William Parker on bass, and a duet between the two musicians. Sunday from 3 to 6 p.m; admission is $6.
RATLIFF

GOLD SPARKLE BAND, Zebulon, 258 Wythe Avenue between Metropolitan and North Third Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)218-6934. The Gold Sparkle Band has been in New York since the late 80's; it channels the East-Coast jazz avant-garde of the mid-1960's. Sunday night at 10; free admission.
RATLIFF

LEE KONITZ TRIO, Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, midtown, (212)581-3080. Lee Konitz, the alto saxophonist, was one of Lennie Tristano's closest associates in the late 1940's and early 50's; that experience left a permanent impression on his subsequent career, in terms of repertory, instrumentation and many other things. Even so, he is as original a player as there is in jazz, with a sound that has remained limpid and innocent and an emphasis on melody that makes him always easy to follow. He plays this weekend with the brothers Ed and George Schuller, on bass and drums. Sets tonight and tomorrow are at 9 and 11; cover charge is $30 and there is a $10 minimum.
RATLIFF

JASON LINDNER GROUP, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, South Village, (212) 242-1073. Jason Lindner, a smart, rhythmic pianist who brings together bop, Cuban and all sorts of progressive influences, has become a regular feature at this club; this particular group includes the bassist Reggie Washington, the drummer Tony Escapa, and as guests, the saxophonist Jimmy Vass and the singer Baba Israel. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 9 and 10:30; admission is $15 per set.
RATLIFF

SERGIO MENDES, Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212)475-8592. Three decades before Bebel Gilberto could be heard in restaurants all across the country, Sergio Mendes was the populist face of Brazilian music, making albums that souped up bossa nova for international audiences. Sets tonight and tomorrow night at 8 and 10:30; cover charge is $40 at the tables, $30 at the bar, with a $5 minimum.
RATLIFF

*BUTCH MORRIS, Zebulon, 258 Wythe Avenue between Metropolitan Avenue and North Third Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)218-6934; Belt Theater, 336 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (212) 563-0487; Bowery Poetry Club, 308 Bowery, East Village, (212)614-0505. Butch Morris has set up performances every night during February; he's calling it ''Black February,'' and this month officially celebrates 20 years of Mr. Morris's ''conductions,'' performances in which he conducts groups of improvisers, jazz or otherwise, with his own language of signals and baton movements. He's playing with different ensembles each night, and here's the weekend schedule: with Butchlandband at Zebulon, tonight at 10 and midnight; free admission; with the 18 piece Free Zone/Sound Infusion Orchestra tomorrow at 4 pm at the Belt Theater; admission is $10; with the New York Skyscraper Ensemble Sunday at 5 and 6 p.m., at Bowery Poetry Club; admission is $12. Check his Web site, www.conduction.us, for further information on these and other performances.
RATLIFF

HOUSTON PERSON QUARTET, Lenox Lounge, 288 Lenox Avenue near 125th Street, Harlem, (212)427-0253. A veteran tenor saxophonist who keeps things pleasurable. His background is in the 1950's, when a good deal of jazz was completely submerged in rhythm and blues, and he is one of the few mainstream jazz performers today who can routinely find access to the deep language of pleasure from that time. Mr. Person has an elastic, sequential solo-building style that links him to Sonny Rollins and occasionally a fat, breathy tone that links him to Ben Webster. Enjoy him. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 8:30, 10 and 11:30; cover charge is $20 per set, and there is a one-drink minimum.
RATLIFF

*BEN RILEY'S MONK LEGACY SEPTET, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Broadway at 60th Street, 5th Floor, (212)258-9595. Led by the drummer Ben Riley, who played regularly with Thelonious Monk through the 1960's, this seven-piece band will do something unusual: play new arrangements of Monk material with no pianist. Since Monk's songs bear up beautifully through any number of reinterpretations, and since Mr. Riley is a lovingly sensitive drummer, it should be a worthwhile week. Sets through Sunday night are at 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum at the tables, $5 at the bar.
RATLIFF

*JIMMY SCOTT, Iridium, 1650 Broadway at 51st Street, midtown, (212) 582-2121. This singer of sepulchral jazz songs keeps rolling along, with the cracks and crevices in his voice seeming either more authentic or more disturbing, depending on your point of view. But he is also one of the old-school jazz performers who know how to hold audiences tightly from beginning to end. Sets through Sunday night are at 8:30 and 10:30; cover, $35, and there is a $10 minimum.
RATLIFF

JOE WILDER WITH MICHAEL WEISS TRIO, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue at 38th Street, Manhattan, (212)885-7125. Mr. Wilder, a marvelous trumpeter who played with big bands in the 1940's and 50's and finally went full time into studio and television work, plays a kind of tabula-rasa swing language: there's very little slang in there to clog the music. Sets are tonight at 9 and 10:45; cover charge is $15, and there is a $10 minimum.
RATLIFF

BUSTER WILLIAMS QUARTET, Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212)255-4037. Mr. Williams, an agile bassist with a liquid tone, has been setting up bands stocked with the best players in New York. This one includes the saxophonist Steve Wilson, the pianist George Colligan and the drummer Lenny White. Sets through Sunday night are at 9 and 11; cover charge is $30.
RATLIFF

MATT WILSON'S ARTS AND CRAFTS, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232. Regardless of who's in his band -- and membership has changed several times over the last few years -- the jazz drummer Matt Wilson is a plenty good enough draw all by himself. Influenced by the late Billy Higgins, among others, Mr. Wilson's style swings with a fairly light touch; but he is fiendishly attentive to what his sidemen are doing, and he uses every bit they give him, playing off their gestures, stoking their furnaces in turn. He has a sense of play that's hard to miss. Sets through Sunday night are at 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow; cover charge is $25, and $20 on Sunday.
RATLIFF

Classical

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy opera and classical music events this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended event. Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

Opera

'ARIANNA IN CRETA' With first-rate production values as well as musical ones devoted to professional revivals of virtually unknown works, the Gotham Chamber Opera can claim to be the pre-eminent small opera company in New York. This season is practically mainstream by the company's standards as it jumps onto the bandwagon of the current Handel fad with a work from the composer's prime (1734), the first in a planned series of Ariadne-themed operas. The cast includes some notable young singers, Caroline Worra and Hanan Alattar among them; the conductor is the company's founder, Neal Goren; Christopher Alden will direct. Tomorrow night at 7:30, Henry Street Settlement, 466 Grand Street, Lower East Side, (212)279-4200. Tickets: $30 to $60.
ANNE MIDGETTE

'LA BOHEME' It's been some time since the Metropolitan Opera's crowd-pleasing production of Puccini's ''Boheme'' has held much interest for adventurous opera buffs. But this season's revival offers an impressive and intriguing cast. The golden-voiced coloratura soprano Ruth Ann Swenson continues her exploration of the rich lyric soprano repertory as she sings the role of Mimi, with the hardy tenor Roberto Aronica as Rodolfo. The vibrant soprano Patricia Racette sings Musetta, with the robust baritone Dwayne Croft as her off-again, on-again boyfriend Marcello. Daniel Oren conducts. Tomorrow at 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000. Sold out; returned tickets may be available at the box office.
ANTHONY TOMMASINI

Classical Music

AMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA Leon Botstein and his American Symphony Orchestra keep coming at us with irresistible repertory. Sunday afternoon brings the orchestra's latest adventure into French opera: ''Le Roi Malgre Lui'' by Chabrier. This comedy for the opera stage will be performed at Avery Fisher Hall, and anyone interested in the byways of this strain of opera should try to go -- either for love or just curiosity. Sunday at 3 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212)721-6500. Tickets: $25 to $53.
BERNARD HOLLAND

BARGEMUSIC There are few better places to hear chamber music in New York than this floating concert hall on the Brooklyn side of the East River. Once a coffee barge, it offers the intimacy that chamber music demands, as well as a wonderful view of lower Manhattan through the bay windows that make up the back wall of the stage. This weekend, Mark Peskanov, the violinst and Bargemusic's executive and artistic director, presides over performances of two Mozart Divertimentos -- those in B flat (K. 287) and D (K. 334). The performers, along with Mr. Peskanov, include Aaron Boyd, violinist; Miranda Sielaff, violist; Eric Jacobsen, cellist; Timothy Cobb, bassist, and Wei-Ping Chou and Brad Gemeinhardt, hornists. Tonight and tomorrow nights at 7:30, and Sunday at 4 p.m., Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718)624-2083. Tickets: $40; $25 for students.
ALLAN KOZINN

CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER Ravel was a big admirer of jazz and couldn't understand why more American classical composers did not integrate it into their music. The composer himself suggested how it might be done in his catchy jazz-tinged Violin Sonata, to be performed at this concert by the fine French violinist Philippe Graffin and the pianist Andre-Michel Schub. Paul Neubauer (viola) and Gary Hoffman (cello) join for the remainder of the French-themed program, including music by Faure and Saint-Saens. Tonight at 8 and Sunday at 5 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, (212) 875.5788. Tickets: $27.50 to $48.
JEREMY EICHLER

COLUMBIA SINFONIETTA This ambitious group was founded in 2000 to address a perceived dearth of larger scale New York ensembles devoted exclusively to contemporary music. The group closed up shop after one season but it has recently re-formed under its previous director, the conductor and percussionist Jeffrey Milarsky, to pick up where it left off presenting both ''classic'' works of recent decades that are rarely heard in New York, and new compositions. In the former category this weekend will be Messiaen's ''Oiseaux Exotiques,'' an important piece from the mid-1950's that is derived, like so much of the composer's music, from bird songs. Also on the program will be a 1979 percussion work by Michael Finnissy as well as more recent music by Carlos Sanchez-Gutierrez, David Rakowski and Eric Chasalow. Sunday at 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212)501-3330. Tickets: $10.
EICHLER

*SHARON ISBIN Guitarists typically build their performances around either solo works, concertos or chamber music. Sharon Isbin, one of the finest guitarists performing now, both technically and interpretively, will draw on all three repertories in her concert on Sunday. She opens with Vivaldi's Concerto in D (RV 93), and closes with a chamber score, the Boccherini Quintet in D (G. 448). Between them, she offers an arrangement by John Duarte of the Albinoni Adagio, Mr. Duarte's own ''Joan Baez Suite'' in its New York premiere, Falla's ''Siete Canciones Populares Espanolas'' and Rodrigo's ''Aranjuez ma pensee.'' Ms. Isbin's collaborators include Catherine Cho and Soovin Kim, violinists; Cynthia Phelps, violist; Carter Brey, cellist, and Daniel Druckman, percussionist. Sunday at 3, 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212)415-5500. Tickets: $40.
KOZINN

MET CHAMBER ENSEMBLE A few seasons ago, Dawn Upshaw joined James Levine and the Met Chamber Ensemble -- players from the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra -- in remarkably sensual, eloquent rendering of Schoenberg's ''Pierrot Lunaire.'' Ms. Upshaw returns to sing the work again with Mr. Levine and company in an all-contemporary program that also includes Luigi Dallapiccola's ''Piccola Musica Notturna,'' Elliott Carter's ''Luimen'' and Schoenberg's own chamber arrangement of his Five Pieces (Op. 16). Sunday at 5, Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800. Tickets: $48 to $64.
KOZINN

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC In his last years with the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra of Amsterdam, an ensemble with a great Mahler tradition, Riccardo Chailly was becoming a formidable Mahlerian. Now, in the first of his two weeks with the New York Philharmonic, an orchestra with its own personal connection to the composer, Mr. Chailly conducts Mahler's Seventh Symphony. And a fuller exposure to Mr. Chailly as a Mahlerian can be had in a recording of the Ninth Symphony with the Concertgebouw Orchestra, released late last year by Decca. Today at 2 p.m., tomorrow at 8 p.m. and Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212)721-6500. Tickets: today, $22 to $74; tomorrow and Tuesday, $25 to $90.
JAMES R. OESTREICH

JOSE VAN DAM Both in opera and in the song repertory, the Belgian bass-baritone Jose Van Dam has been among the most vocally splendid and artistically refined singers of our time. A few seasons back, as Mr. Van Dam turned 60, his voice, understandably, showed signs of decline. But in the last two years he has gained new-found vocal vitality, most recently as Golaud in the Metropolitan Opera's production of Debussy's ''Pelleas et Melisande.'' At 64 he is singing with uncanny freshness and incomparable artistry. His recital, the first of two programs for Lincoln Center's ''Art of the Song'' series, should be marvelous. With the pianist Maciej Pikulski, he will sing French works by Faure, Debussy, Massenet, Berlioz and Bizet. (The second program is on Wednesday) Sunday at 2 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212)721-6500. Tickets: $48.
TOMMASINI

'GAY VALENTINE MUSIC CELEBRATION' Tomorrow night Canticorum Virtuosi, the nonprofit organization that oversees the activities of two respected area choruses, the New York Virtuoso Singers and the Canticum Novum Singers, presents an elaborate and eclectic concert to honor ''same-sex love and affection,'' to quote the presenters. The distinguished and varied roster of performers includes the composer and pianist David Del Tredici, the Paul Taylor Dance Company, the tenor John Wesley Wright, the Gay Gotham Chorus, the Ambassador Singers of the New York City Gay Men's Chorus, a roster of cabaret performers and Harold Rosenbaum directing the Canticum Novum Singers and the New York Virtuoso Singers. The program is a benefit for Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS. Tomorrow night at 8, Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212)307-7171. Tickets: $20 to $100.
TOMMASINI

NIKOLAI MEDTNER This Russian pianist and composer, who died in 1951, is no longer a household name, but his passionate supporters during his lifetime included Rachmaninoff, who in 1912 labeled him ''the most talented of all the modern composers.'' Medtner's late-Romantic solo and chamber works are the focus of a program tonight that, with David Dubal as host, features a selection of piano miniatures or ''Skazki'' (''fairytales'') as well as his Piano Quintet in C, among other works. Tonight at 8, Renee Weiler Concert Hall, Greenwich House Music School, 46 Barrow Street, West Village, (212)242-4770. Tickets: $15; $10 for students and 65+.
EICHLER

ORLANDO CONSORT Among the challenges of performing very old music are, first, figuring out how it went and, second, making it come alive. Both challenges are grist for the mill of this male vocal quartet, founded in 1988 (but recently joined by a new tenor), celebrated for its performances of music written before 1500, and supported by musicologists in preparing varied programs like this weekend's, which includes music from their latest album, devoted to the 15th-century composer Antoine Busnois. Other star composers -- stars, at least, to specialists in this particular area -- are Hayne van Ghizeghem, Walter Lambe and Henry VIII. Tomorrow night at 8, Low Library Rotunda at Columbia University, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212)854-7799. Tickets: $35; $21 for students.
MIDGETTE

TOKYO STRING QUARTET The Tokyo String Quartet is currently in residence at the 92d Street Y, and the theme of the series of concerts it has been performing is immigrant composers. Tomorrow's program consists of the ''Rider'' Quartet from Haydn's Op. 74, Zemlinski's Fourth Quartet and Hanns Eisler's Septet No. 2 with added flute, piccolo, clarinet and bassoon. Viewing Haydn as an immigrant stretches the point. The Op. 74 may have coincided with his famous visits to London, but that is all. Still Haydn is always welcome regardless of passport status. Zemlinski and Eisler, who ended up back in East Germany, are legitimate topics. Tomorrow night at 8, 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212)415-5500. Tickets: $35.
HOLLAND

Dance

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy dance events this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended event. Full reviews of recent dance performances: nytimes.com/dance.

BEIJING MODERN DANCE COMPANY A troupe founded in 1995 and one of the principal forces in contemporary Chinese dance makes its New York debut in ''Rear Light,'' an evening-long work to music by Pink Floyd that reflects the struggle of a young Chinese generation to reconcile traditional culture with influences from abroad and a thirst for intellectual freedom. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)242-0800. Tickets: $34.
JACK ANDERSON

AKIM FUNK BUDDHA The ever-exuberant Mr. Buddha (or is it Funk Buddha?) specializes in dance-theater that combines unblinking stillness, storytelling, tap and Mongolian throat-singing. He adds martial arts, breakdancing, beat-boxing, and Japanese, Zulu and urban English talk to the mix in his new ''Amazulu: Dance as a Weapon: the Hip-Hop Circus -- Part I.'' Tonight and tomorrow (and next Thursday through Saturday) at 10 p.m.; Sunday (and next Sunday) at 5:30 p.m. La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, west of Second Avenue, Manhattan, (212)475-7710 or www.lamama.org. Tickets: $15.
JENNIFER DUNNING

'BUTTER MELTS AWAY MY LETTERS' Choreographed by Stephanie Rafferty and conceived and directed by Gian Marco Lo Forte, this theater-dance piece visits a group of young runaways to New York City who cannot quite shrug off the past. Tonight and tomorrow (and Thursdays through Saturdays through Feb. 26) at 8 p.m.; Sunday (and Sundays through Feb. 27) at 2:30 and 8 p.m., La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street west of Second Avenue, Manhattan (212) 475-7710. Tickets: $15; TDF vouchers accepted.
DUNNING

*FLAMENCO FESTIVAL The festival closes with ''Flamenco at the Crossroads,'' in which the dancer Rafaela Carrasco will join traditional and new-style flamenco singers in an exploration of this age-old Gypsy art. Sunday at 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, 57th Street and Seventh Avenue, Manhattan, (212)247-7800. Tickets: $22 to $69. And for those who wish to continue the exploration, there is a free series saluting the great Spanish filmmaker Carlos Saura and his flamenco films, many made with Antonio Gades, ending on Feb. 23 with Mr. Saura's classic, all-encompassing ''Flamenco.'' Wednesdays beginning at 6 p.m. Instituto Cervantes, 211-215 East 49th Street, Manhattan, (212)308-7720 or www.cervantes.org.
DUNNING

'I LOVE TANGO' This ''tango musical'' boasts four dancers and live string, bandoneon, piano and vocal music. Tonight (and Thursdays and Fridays through March 25) at 8 p.m.; tomorrow (and Saturdays through March 26) at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays (through March 27) at 4 p.m., Thalia Spanish Theater, 41-17 Greenpoint Avenue, Sunnyside, Queens, (718)729-3880 or www.thaliatheatre.org. Tickets: $30; $27 for students and 65+; $25 (on Thursdays).
DUNNING

MARK JARECKE A choreographer who has studied philosophy as well as dance and whose creations often have an architectural quality offers ''Dendron,'' an in-the-round piece during which the audience is free to move around the performance area. Theatergoers are also encouraged to bring portable radios with earphones to savor the shifts in the sound environment by Chris Peck and Jon Moniaci. Tonight, tomorrow and Sunday at 8:30, Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, Second Avenue at Tenth Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194. Tickets: $15.
ANDERSON

CLEO MACK DANCE PROJECT Ms. Mack and her New Jersey-based company specialize in modern dance that she describes as ''highly choreographed life.'' The program includes new and recent dances that explore emotional states and one in which a 30-foot long skirt is a character. Tomorrow and Sunday at 8 p.m., Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, at Washington Street, Manhattan, (908)561-5454. Tickets: $15.
DUNNING

MOISEYEV DANCE COMPANY Russia's most famous folk-dance troupe makes its only New York appearance this season. Founded in 1936 by Igor Moiseyev, who at 98 continues to choreograph, the company is known for its spirited acrobatic dancing, theatrical flair and a repertory of works from Russia and many European and Asian nations. The dancing world travelers also perform American jazz and rock pieces. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts, Brooklyn College, near Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, Brooklyn, (718)951-4500. Tickets: $45, $40.
ANDERSON

PARSONS DANCE COMPANY The program includes four modern-dance pieces by David Parsons, a former Paul Taylor star, and music by the Ahn Trio, a group of three Korean-born sisters. Tonight at 8, Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, C.W. Post Campus, Long Island University, Route 25A, Brookville, (516)299-3100 or www.tillescenter.org. Tickets: $38, $50 and $60; $35; $47 and $57 (65+).
DUNNING

ROCHA DANCE THEATER This program of modern-dance choreography by Jenny Rocha and the guest artist Kelli Wicke Davis, explores hidden human behavior, in part to music by Marty Beller. It includes -- we like this -- a piece with interactive newspaper costumes. Tonight through Sunday at 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, between Houston and Prince Streets, Manhattan, (212)334-7479. Tickets: $15.
DUNNING

THUNDERBIRD AMERICAN INDIAN DANCERS Dances of the Cherokee, Choctaw, Inuit, Hop and Pueblo peoples will be included in this 30th annual Pow-Wow, along with a new modern-dance piece by Tom Pearson, a Creek Cherokee. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 5 p.m., Theater for the New City, 155 First Avenue at Tenth Street, Manhattan (212) 254-1109. Tickets: $10; $1 for children under 12 accompanying ticket-bearing adults on Sunday.
DUNNING

'WAVE OF HUMANITY' This four-part, eight-hour dance event, a benefit for tsunami relief efforts, features nearly 40 individuals and companies chosen by nine dance institutions. Participants include Earl Mosley, Amanda Loulaki and Short Mean Lady, Ivy Baldwin Dance, Noemi LaFrance, Clare Byrne, Erica Essner Performance Co-Op, 3rd Rail Dance and House Dance Project. Tonight from 6 to 8 p.m.; 8 to 10 p.m.; 10 to 11:30 p.m., and 11:30 p.m. to 2 a.m., New Dance Space Center, 280 Broadway at Chambers Street, Manhattan, (212)625-8369 ext. 55 or www.dancespacecenter.org. Tickets: $20 (first through third parts); $15 (fourth part); $60 for all four; $100 VIP tickets for all four.
DUNNING

Art

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy art, design and photography shows at New York museums and galleries this weekend. At many museums, children under 12 and members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free unless noted. * denotes a highly recommended show. Full reviews of recent shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

'CONTEMPORARY VOICES: WORKS FROM THE UBS ART COLLECTION.' Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400, through April 25. What's wrong with this picture? The Museum of Modern Art, the most visionary museum of the 20th century, is inaugurating the temporary-exhibition galleries in its 21st-century home with an exhibition of gifts from a corporate collection. It is an ambitious, carefully selected corporate collection, but that doesn't keep the ensemble from feeling corporate, monotonous and by-the-book. The 40 (of 64) works given or promised to the Modern are nearly all by white, male artists and they are all already represented in the collection. There's nothing wrong with the individual works by artists like Philip Guston, Jasper Johns and Vija Celmins that won't be cured by integrating them into the Modern's collection, but the ensemble effect is dispiriting. With an emphasis on a narrow swath of the 1980's mainstream, the show feels like an excessively edited letter in a bottle from an art world that no longer exists. Hours: Saturdays through Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; closed Tuesdays. Admission: $20; $16 for 65+; $12 for students. Free on Fridays from 4 to 8 p.m.
ROBERTA SMITH

'RUTH DUCKWORTH, MODERNIST SCULPTOR,' Museum of Arts and Design, 40 West 53rd Street, (212)956-3535, through April 3. A sculptor whose basic medium is clay, Ms. Duckworth makes everything from tiny, delicate vessels to monumental outdoor sculptures. Though her work fits in -- but not too neatly -- with the modernist tradition, her eye has roamed everywhere, resulting in a bewildering variety of styles and influences, from Brancusi to a beef bone found in her soup. Sometimes the influences combine awkwardly, making her work seem a little strained and quirky, but often enough her venturesomeness pays off, producing images of eloquence and power. Hours: Daily 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Thursdays: 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $9; $6 for 65+ and students. Thursdays from 6 to 8 p.m. is pay what you wish.
GRACE GLUECK

*'FROM FILIPPO LIPPI TO PIERO DELLA FRANCESCA: FRA CARNEVALE AND THE MAKING OF A RENAISSANCE MASTER,' Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212)535-7710, through May 1. The Italian Renaissance artist-priest known as Fra Carnevale was an art-world somebody in his day, but a shadowy figure to modern historians, known primarily for two extraordinary paintings of tiny figures in fantastic architectural settings. Both paintings are in this intricate think-piece of a show that tries to reconstruct his career by bringing his known paintings together. At the same time, it uses his work, along with that of major figures like Filippo Lippi and Piero della Francesca, to explore larger ideas about self-created professional identity in a cultural epoch far more diverse than it is sometimes thought to have been. A few of the paintings mustered as evidence are pretty strange; many are glorious. Hours: Sundays, Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $15; 65+, $10; students, $7.
HOLLAND COTTER

'IMAGES OF DON QUIXOTE: THE ART OF ILLUSTRATION AND PRINTMAKING,' the Hispanic Society of America, 613 West 155th Street, (212)926-2234, through Feb. 20. A few years back, a poll of international writers voted ''Don Quixote'' the greatest book of all time. This year Cervantes's novel is four centuries old, and the Hispanic Society of America is celebrating the occasion with this exhibition of illustrations of the story printed from the 17th through 20th centuries. Despite its small size, the show demonstrates how attitudes toward the book changed in different eras, from raucous comedy to Romantic tragedy. And in designs by artists like John Vanderbank, Fragonard and Gustave Dore, there are fascinating images and ideas to consider. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Free.
COTTER

'I WANNA BE LOVED BY YOU: PHOTOGRAPHS OF MARILYN MONROE,' Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718)638-5000, through March 20. Monroe was one of the great movie stars of the 20th century, but does that make her a good subject for a museum show? Fans might enjoy the almost 200 photographs from a private collection presented in this exhibition, but though many are by famous photographers, including Richard Avedon, Cecil Beaton and Henri Cartier-Bresson, the show as a whole is like a walk-in special issue of People magazine: diverting but superficial and enervating. Hours: Wednesdays to Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (to 11 p.m. on the first Saturday of every month). Admission: $8; students and 65+, $4.
KEN JOHNSON

Galleries: Uptown

MIQUEL BARCELO, C&M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, (212)861-0020, through March 5. Paint as a natural force is the consuming interest of Mr. Barcelo, a Spanish artist steeped in a grand realist tradition. His feeling for the past includes an admiration for the lush Spanish still lifes known as bodegones. But his abstract-figurative use of paint, in thick impasto crusts and slathers, is also indebted to the dense pigment-plus canvases of post-World War II idols like Jackson Pollock, Antoni Tapies, and Jean Dubuffet. His surfaces are often bulked up with vegetative matter, sand and other materials to suggest natural surfaces like the sea and its inner life.
GLUECK

Galleries: 57th Street

'LEON POLK SMITH: FORMS AND FUNCTIONS,' Washburn, 20 West 57th Street, (212)397-6780, through March 5. Spaces and their boundaries fascinated this hard-edge abstractionist (1906-1996) and in this show of his biomorphic paintings from the 1950's his elegantly calculated contrivance of one space impinging on another pleasingly asks the eye to tease out figure-ground relationships. In ''Over Easy,'' a large, partly heart-shaped figure of mauve thrusts on to a black ground at an angle; or is it the curvy black space that cuts into the aggressor? Smith's clean, flat surfaces, each restricted to two colors, are shown with examples of sleek, minimal contoured furniture by front-line designers of the period, Charles and Ray Eames and Isamu Noguchi among them. The biomorphic shapes of the furniture and their colors play nicely off Smith's snart, snappy formats.
GLUECK

'VIEW EIGHT: A FEW DOMESTIC OBJECTS INTERROGATE A FEW WORKS OF ART,' Mary Boone, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212)752-2929, through Feb. 26. This canny show of artworks and objects of design includes Josiah McElheny's curvy mirrored coffee table bearing mirrored blobby objects; beautiful blobby ceramic sculptures by Ken Price; delicate, biomorphic hanging lights by Lionel Theodore Dean; a twisted, retro-futuristic orange bench by Sachio Hihara; and, like the nightmare that domestic utopianism tries to insulate us from, one of Lee Bontecou's early, scarily militaristic reliefs.
JOHNSON

Galleries: SoHo

*'LOG CABIN,' Artists Space,38 Greene Street, (212)226-3970, through Feb. 26. Given the cultural climate, wedding bells won't be playing ''Over the Rainbow'' any time soon, and men and women won't be coming out of the closet and going into the Army. So what can Log Cabin Republicans, gay supporters of the ruling party, be thinking? This is one of the questions posed, however indirectly, by the 33 participants in a snappy, discursive group show that serves as field report on what art with queer identity as a theme is looking like these days. As surveyed by the curator, Jeffrey Uslip, it's looking good and heterogeneous: ambisexual, interracial and multigenerational, though short on lesbian artists, who are making some of the best work anywhere.
COTTER

'WHO IS THE PROTAGONIST?' Guild & Greyshkul, 28 Wooster Street, (212)625-9224, through Feb. 26. This engaging exhibition about approaches to storytelling includes a life-size space station interior handmade by Lisi Raskin; a Modernist theater environment with a mysterious sci-fi video called ''Moon Colony'' by Ohad Meromi, the show's organizer; a short, strange sci-fi story written by Halsey Rodman; a storyboard for a film about a father and his young son by Guy Ben-Ner; and a Pop-Cubist head of cut and painted paper by Ryan Johnson.
JOHNSON

Galleries: Chelsea

KNUT ASDAM: 'FILTER CITY,' Gasser & Grunert, 524 West 19th Street, (212)807-9494, through Feb. 19. This Norwegian artist who has exhibited extensively in Europe presents a slow, enigmatic, 21-minute film about two young women -- one small and white, the other tall and black -- who, between long pauses, emit oracular, world-weary utterances about social issues and obscure personal concerns. It is well-produced and nice to watch, though it borders inadvertently on a parody of pretentious avant-garde filmmaking.
JOHNSON

SANTE D'ORAZIO: 'PAM: AMERICAN ICON,' Stellan Holm, 524 West 24th Street, (212) 627-7444, through March 5. Pamela Anderson -- yes, that Pamela Anderson -- in all her pneumatic, mostly unclothed glory is the subject of large and surrealistically vivid photographs that were originally commissioned but not published by Playboy magazine. Students: discuss criteria for judging the value -- aesthetic and otherwise -- of these artworks.
JOHNSON

JOHN LURIE, Roebling Hall, 606 West 26th Street, (212)929-8180, through Feb. 26. The stream-of-consciousness notational ink drawings and radiant gouaches of the musician John Lurie have precedents in the work of Jean-Michel Basquiat and William Wegman's early Conceptual drawings and maybe the cartoons of Roz Chast, but they have their own sense of wiry line and texture, wordplay, sexual bluntness and radiant color.
SMITH

NATARAJ SHARMA, Bose Pacia, 508 West 26th Street, (212)989-7074, through Feb. 19. The first New York solo exhibition of this Indian painter who has exhibited internationally is too diverse to give a clear picture of what he is about, but the best works have an intriguing allegorical resonance. They are made in a neat and orderly style combining Pop, photo-based realism and hints of Indian traditionalism. Most impressive is the large picture in which a naked man peeps into a temple filled with an semiabstract orgy of interpenetrating pink bodies.
JOHNSON

Other Galleries

MATTHEW ANTEZZO, Maccarone, 45 Canal Street, (212)431-4977, through March 13. Among works by the artist known for deadpan copies of art magazine ads are nondescript penciled copies of photographs of feminist heroines like Bella Abzug and Gloria Steinem; copies in pencil of news photographs of American Indian protest events that took place in 1975; and a painting of an ancient statue of Diogenes of Sinope titled ''Cynic.'' What it all means could keep an undergraduate seminar busy for some time.
JOHNSON

NEW YORK'S FINEST, Canada, 55 Chrystie Street, Lower East Side, (212) 925-4631, through March 5. This exhibition of paintings by 19 mostly young and emerging artists has an eclectic, anarchic spirit. The common ground includes an interest in material, be it the store-bought fabric with which Joe Bradley conjures up a Minimalist seaman, or the Expressionist effusions of Anke Weyer and Wallace Whitney. Variations on a knowing but unjaded Pop-Expressionism prevail, mixed in varying ratios by Katherine Bernhardt, Brendan Cass, Bill Saylor, Carrie Moyer and Josh Smith, who has lately abandoned paper for canvas to good effect. ''Laissez-faire, but mean it!'' might be the collective rallying cry.
SMITH

Last Chance

'THE AZTEC EMPIRE,' Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212)423-3500, closing on Sunday. When a big survey of Aztec art opened in London in 2002, everybody flipped out. It was one of the hottest ancient-art events since Tutankhamen. Now an expanded version of the London show is at the Guggenheim, and it's a stunner. Objects from pre-Aztec Mexico set the stage, but it is material from the bloody-minded, deity-besotted Aztec culture that fills the museum's darkened ramps. Set on jutting platforms and dark recesses are a skull-headed earth goddess in a skirt of writhing snakes, a warrior metamorphosing into a bird and a god of spring and fertility shedding his skin. Funky clay images of domestic life alternate with ultrasophisticated gold jewelry. Hours: Saturdays through Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $18; $15, students and 65+.
COTTER

'COMIC GROTESQUE: WIT AND MOCKERY IN GERMAN ART, 1870-1940,' Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212)628-6200, closing on Monday. The horrors of World War I are usually credited with inspiring the dark, often scathing humor that was used to comment on and combat some very unfunny developments in Germany in the first four decades of the century. But the Neue Galerie's splendidly multimedia revisionist show takes a broader view. It identifies paintings by Arnold Bocklin from the 1870's as a point of origin and then sweeps forward in a selective yet encompassing manner, touching on painting, poetry, graphic design and popular entertainment. It places artists like Lionel Feininger and Alfred Kubin in context. It culminates in the films of the great Karl Valentin, a star of stage, screen and cabaret who was Germany's Charlie Chaplin. Hours: Saturdays through Mondays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. Admission: $10; students and 65+, $7.
SMITH

CORY ARCANGEL, Team Gallery, 527 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-9219, closing tomorrow. In one of the season's best debuts, the collaboratively inclined Cory Arcangel and his cohorts create quasi-interactive sound and video pieces of startling and subversive beauty by commandeering various electronic or digital staples including music videos, karaoke tunes, video games, the Internet and even a long phone message. The sense that anything man-made is grist for personal expression is exhilarating.
SMITH

'ONE-ARMED BANDIT,' D'Amelio Terras, 525 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212)352-9460, closing tomorrow. This three-artist show is notable mainly for its playful installation. Presented in groups of three with each artwork framed by red tape applied to the wall, Polly Apfelbaum's gridded drawings of cartoon blossoms on white velvet, Tony Feher's flattened, glitter-covered found boxes and Joanne Greenbaum's buoyant abstract pictures are displayed in various permutations like slot machine icons.
JOHNSON


GRAPHIC: Photos: MOVIES, POP AND ART -- Kitaura Ayu, far left above, and Shimizu Momoko in ''Nobody Knows,'' Hirokazu Kore-eda's new film about four children abandoned by their mother in a small Tokyo apartment. Page 26. The singer Neko Case will perform at the Bowery Ballroom on Sunday and Monday. Page 26. Karin Davie's ''Alterations in Pink With Mirror'' is part of an exhibition at the Mary Boone Gallery through Feb. 26. Page 28. (Photos by Kawauchi Rinko/IFC Films [''Nobody Knows'']
Rahav Segev [Neko Case]
 Mary Boone Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (70%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (67%); THEATER (59%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



221 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: '04 Trade Deficit Sets Record, $617 Billion

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
The American trade deficit broke the $600 billion barrier in 2004, soaring to $617.7 billion, the Commerce Department reported on Thursday, but the gap narrowed in December in part because sharply lower oil prices cut the cost of energy imports. 
 The deficit now accounts for more than 5 percent of the American economy, a level that adds further pressure to forces pushing down the value of the dollar and increases the amount of debt held overseas.
 For December, the gap between American exports and imports of goods and services fell 4.9 percent, to $56.4 billion, down from a revised deficit of $59.3 billion in November. The November deficit was originally reported at $60.3 billion. 
 Domestic manufacturers, labor unions and many Democrats say the huge trade deficit reflects the erosion of the American manufacturing base and a concurrent loss of jobs. The annual report showed that the United States lost ground last year, not only in manufacturing but also in advanced technology products and services, two of the country's strongest sectors.
 The deficit in technology products grew to $37 billion last year while the surplus for services, including banking, insurance and investment, shrank to $48.5 billion, the lowest since 1991.
 The Bush administration, by contrast, views the deficit through a different lens. Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said through a spokesman that the report showed that the American economy was growing faster than the economies of other advanced industrial nations. The imbalance, he said, reflects the ability of American consumers to buy more imports.
 Officials also contend that the gap has widened because foreigners are eager to invest in the United States; the extra funds flowing in are one consequence of the growing dollars flowing out to pay for imports.
 ''We are importing more than those other economies, because we are creating more disposable income than they are,'' said Rob Nichols, chief spokesman at the Treasury Department. The annual deficit with China set a record at $162 billion, becoming the largest trade imbalance ever recorded by the United States with a single country. Democrats in Congress seized on the figure to repeat their demands that the administration push China to revalue its currency, which is blamed for the poor performance of American exports.
 ''I am tired of watching ships arrive at the Port of Baltimore filled with cargo for U.S. consumers and then leave empty,'' said Representative Benjamin L. Cardin of Maryland, the ranking Democrat on the trade subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee.
 He said that five out of six ships delivering goods to the United States from China return home empty. And those with cargo are often carrying waste material, scrap metal or recyclable paper that are among the fastest-growing American exports to China.
 American textile manufacturers and the biggest business organizations have asked the administration to bring China to the World Trade Organization for unfair trading practices that they say are adding to the trade deficit. 
 Peter Morici, professor of business at the University of Maryland, said the deficit was the ''single most important tax on U.S. growth and burden on American working families.''
 Most of the other advanced industrial economies, including Germany, Japan and Canada, have overall trade surpluses, according to figures compiled by the International Monetary Fund. To help bring global trade into better balance, economists said, these wealthy nations would need to buy more American goods and services. At the same time, adjustments in the value of the dollar, especially with China, which fixes its currency against the dollar, are required to ease that process, they said.
 As for the narrowing trade gap in December, some economists said the decline was mostly a result of the declining volume and cost of imported oil that month, while others pointed to the fall of the dollar, which makes American exports more attractive overseas.
 ''There is hope,'' said Joel L. Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors. ''We could be seeing some narrowing in the deficit this year and that should add to growth.''
 Dan Griswold, director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, dismissed what he called ''alarmist concerns about the size of the trade deficit.''
 He saw welcome news in the increase in exports in 2004 to $1.146 trillion, a figure that surpassed the previous peak set in 2000. Imports into the United States hit $1.764 trillion, or 54 percent more than exports.
 But the recent decline in the dollar also indicates that private foreign lenders may be less willing to supply new credit to underwrite the deficit.
 The 2004 deficit is 24.4 percent deeper than the gap in 2003, which had set the previous record with a deficit of $496 billion.


GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Port of Long Beach, Calif. The trade deficit narrowed in December, but went past $600 billion for the year. (Photo by Ric Francis/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); IMPORT PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); TEXTILE MILLS (69%); FABRIC MILLS (69%); TEXTILE MFG (69%); LABOR UNIONS (54%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%) International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy; Computers and the Internet; Foreign Investments; Records and Achievements; International Trade and World Market; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department

PERSON: BEN CARDIN (50%) John W (Sec) Snow; Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (51%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%) China

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



222 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Unexpected Drop In Jobless Claims

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell 13,000 last week, to the lowest level in more than four years, the Labor Department reported yesterday.
 Jobless claims declined to 303,000, the lowest since Oct. 28, 2000, from 316,000 the week before, according to the report. 
Claims had been forecast to rise to 325,000 in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
 The four-week moving average of unemployment claims, a less volatile measure, dropped to 315,500, also the lowest since 2000, from 331,500. 
 ''The labor market is strong and is getting stronger,'' said Bill Mulvihill, an economist at Griffin, Kubik, Stephens & Thompson in Chicago, adding, ''Productivity has been strong, but even so, we believe this economy is going to lead to job growth.''
 Still, the number of people continuing to collect jobless benefits rose to 2.737 million in the week ended Jan. 29 from 2.69 million the week before. The four-week average of continuing claims increased to 2.734 million from 2.712 million. ''Continuing claims kind of went in the wrong direction,'' said Wesley M. Beal, chief United States economist at IDEAglobal in New York. ''We would like to see that fall.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance

COMPANY: GRIFFIN KUBIK STEPHENS & THOMPSON INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



223 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Ms. Fiorina's Fatal Operating Error

 BODY:
The Monday-morning quarterbacking about Hewlett-Packard's decision to ignominiously dump Carleton Fiorina, its chief executive, has pushed three possible lessons to the forefront: (1) The perils of discrimination against women -- do the ones who have to claw their way to the top alienate all and sundry by insisting on running things their way? (2) The perils of the chief-executive-as-rock-star -- what was she doing in Davos among the likes of Angelina Jolie, anyway, when she had a ticked-off board back home? (3) The perils of megamergers, and companies' biting off more than they can chew. 
 We pick No.3. 
The beheading at Hewlett is really a story of a bad merger: the company's $19 billion acquisition of Compaq in 2002. Ms. Fiorina failed to turn the combined company into anything remotely able to challenge I.B.M. or Dell. Instead, one Hewlett-Packard executive recently told Fortune magazine that the acquisition might require a write-down. 
 Wall Street is littered with the carcasses of companies that got too big. Just before the Internet bubble burst, America Online acquired Time Warner in a deal judged historic at the time. But hindsight deems it a mistake, given the collapse of the technology boom, and it added to the culture clash between the two behemoths. Qwest Communications' $56 billion takeover of U.S. West Inc. in 1999 has left a company smothered by $17 billion in debt. 
 Hewlett's board says it isn't considering retreating from Ms. Fiorina's goal of offering a smorgasbord of high-tech goodies to businesses and consumers. Let's hope that's just machismo. The best thing Hewlett could do would be to get rid of the bells and whistles Ms. Fiorina acquired, and focus on its core -- and enormously profitable -- business: printers and cartridges. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); TAKEOVERS (74%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); DIVESTITURES (69%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (66%) Computers and the Internet; Editorials; Boards of Directors; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (84%); U S WEST INC (66%); CENTURYLINK INC (55%); AOL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Hewlett-Packard Co

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (84%); CTL (NYSE) (55%); AOL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (66%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (55%) Carleton Fiorina

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



224 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: SENATE APPROVES MEASURE TO CURB BIG CLASS ACTIONS

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
Handing President Bush a significant victory, the Senate overwhelmingly approved a measure on Thursday that would sharply limit the ability of people to file class-action lawsuits against companies.
 The measure, adopted 72 to 26, now heads to the House of Representatives, where Republican leaders say it will be approved next week and sent to the White House for Mr. Bush's signature.
 The measure would prohibit state courts from hearing many kinds of cases they now consider, transferring them to federal courts. Experts say many cases will wind up not being brought because federal judges have been constrained by a series of legal precedents from considering large class actions that involve varying laws of different states. 
 The legislation also makes it more difficult for class-action lawsuits to be settled by payments of coupons for goods and services instead of cash by the defendants, a practice that has been heavily criticized by Democrats and Republicans.
 The measure does not affect pending cases. 
 Mr. Bush issued a statement praising the vote, his first legislative victory of his second term. 
 ''Our country depends on a fair legal system that protects people who have been harmed without encouraging junk lawsuits that undermine confidence in our courts while hurting our economy, costing jobs and threatening small businesses,'' the president said. ''The class-action bill is a strong step forward in our efforts to reform the litigation system and keep America the best place in the world to do business.''
 The legislation has long been promoted by large and small businesses, particularly manufacturers and insurance companies, and failed by a single vote in the Senate in 2003. It could have an especially significant effect on cases involving accusations of defective products, like drugs and cars; plaintiffs in such cases have had success in bringing large class actions in state courts. Automakers and drug makers have worked for years with manufacturers and insurers to press Congress to adopt the bill. 
 The business groups have asserted that the legislation is necessary to curtail frivolous litigation that benefits lawyers more than plaintiffs. They have said it is important to eliminate the unfair practice of lawyers' shopping for state courts that were more favorable to plaintiffs. 
 ''This is a modest bill which will help reform a class-action regime that many times serves no one but the lawyers who bring these class-action lawsuits,'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, who was the chief sponsor of the measure and who introduced a version of it eight years ago. ''Out-of-control frivolous filings are a real drag on the economy. Many a good business is being hurt by these frivolous claims.''
 But the measure has been attacked by civil rights organizations, labor groups, consumer organizations, many state prosecutors and environmental groups, who say it would sharply curtail important cases and provide new protections for unscrupulous companies. Many federal and state judges and state lawmakers have also criticized the bill, saying it would strip states of an important role in judging such contests and could add a considerable number of cases to already burdened federal dockets.
 ''This bill is one of the most unfair, anticonsumer proposals to come before the Senate in years,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the minority leader. ''It slams the courthouse doors on a wide range of injured plaintiffs. It turns federalism upside down by preventing state courts from hearing state law claims. And it limits corporate accountability at a time of rampant corporate scandals.''
 In the vote on Thursday, 18 Democrats joined 53 Republicans and the lone Senate independent, James M. Jeffords of Vermont, in supporting the measure. Democrats cast all 26 dissenting votes. Two Republicans, Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania and John Sununu of New Hampshire, did not vote.
 Republicans say they hope the vote will provide momentum for two other major bills overhauling the tort law system, one on asbestos litigation, the other on curbs on medical malpractice lawsuits. Critics of these bills say that part of the effort by the White House is to attack trial lawyers, a vital financial base of support for the Democratic Party. They have also said that like Social Security and the war in Iraq, tort law problems have been exaggerated by the Bush administration, and that proposed solutions go much further than necessary.
 The legislation approved by the Senate would prohibit state courts from hearing most of the kinds of class actions that have most troubled corporate America -- those in which the class consists of many consumers or employees from around the nation who assert significant injuries of one sort or another. It precludes state courts from considering cases involving claims of more than $5 million and having a member of the class living in a state different from the defendant's.
 Critics of the legislation say that since the Supreme Court and several appeals courts have imposed limits on the ability of federal district judges to consider cases involving the varying laws of multiple states, the legislation will deter the filing of meritorious lawsuits.
 Some experts in civil procedure and class actions said they believed that the fight would now move to federal courts and that some federal judges might become more receptive to hearing such claims now that they know that their dismissal would mean that no one else would hear them.
 ''The assumption of business interests was that federal courts will continue to dismiss them blindly, ignorant of the fact that there is nowhere else for these cases to go,'' said Samuel Issacharoff, an expert on civil procedure at Columbia Law School who is the main author of a coming treatise on different kinds of cases involving many parties, including class actions, for the American Law Institute, an influential organization of lawyers, academics and judges. ''I think more highly of federal courts,'' Mr. Issacharoff said, ''that they will realize that they stand between justice and the breach.'' 
 Stephen B. Burbank, an expert on class actions and civil procedure at the University of Pennsylvania School of Law, also expects federal judges to try to find ways to hear the cases.
 ''Don't underestimate the ability of federal judges to find ways around this if they can,'' Professor Burbank said. 
 But he said lower federal courts would remain constrained by the precedents set by the Supreme Court and appeals courts that sharply limit their ability to hear cases involving the differing laws of multiple states. 
 Professor Burbank, who recently completed a study on the sharp decline in the trials of all civil cases, said he feared that one impact of the legislation would be a further reduction in such cases, particularly since federal judges must give priority to criminal cases and already have heavy dockets. Class-action lawsuits rarely make it to trial but require considerable time because judges are called upon by lawyers from both sides to rule on a variety of pretrial motions. 
 Prof. Arthur R. Miller of Harvard Law School, a longtime critic of the legislation who in previous years worked with organizations that tried to soften the measure, said that the legislation could lead to the balkanization of class-action litigation by encouraging plaintiffs' lawyers to file smaller suits in different courts, rather than a single large nationwide action. 
 ''This will clearly have a dampening effect on class actions,'' Professor Miller said. ''But accomplished law firms will figure out how to work with it.''
 He also said that the vague language of the new legislation was certain to spawn a significant amount of new litigation over the law's terms.
 ''This is not neat and crisp like the Ten Commandments,'' he said. 
 Lawyers at several firms specializing in class actions said they had not begun to think about what legal maneuvers were possible to get their highly profitable class actions heard. One lawyer at a prominent class-action firm said that part of the reason plaintiffs' lawyers had not prepared a strategy yet was that many lawyers had expected the legislation to take longer to adopt as Senate and House members wrangled over terms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (97%); CLASS ACTIONS (92%); APPROVALS (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LAWYERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); JUDGES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); INSURANCE (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (64%) Suits and Litigation; Law and Legislation; Suits and Litigation; Suits and Litigation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%) Stephen Labaton; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



225 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: North Koreans Say They Hold Nuclear Arms

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE and DAVID E. SANGER; James Brooke reported from Tokyo for this article, and David E. Sanger from Washington. Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Beijing, and Steven R. Weisman from Luxembourg.

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
North Korea declared publicly on Thursday for the first time that it possessed nuclear weapons and would refuse to return to disarmament talks. That left China, the United States and its allies to debate whether diplomacy could still persuade the North Koreans to give up the nuclear option. 
 American officials played down the importance of the declaration, while acknowledging that they were surprised by the announcement; they and Asian officials had believed North Korea was about to return to the negotiating table after a hiatus of eight months. 
 The officials said American intelligence agencies had for years worked on the assumption that the North probably possessed nuclear weapons. Just last week, two White House officials traveled to Asia with assessments that North Korea's arsenal had probably enlarged and with evidence that the country had probably sold partly processed nuclear fuel on the black market. 
 In Washington, intelligence officials were scanning satellite imagery for any evidence that North Korea might be preparing a nuclear test, but so far have seen none, officials said. 
 Five months ago, senior Bush administration officials warned that they suspected that North Korea might be preparing a test ahead of the American presidential election; the activity they had detected slowed soon after Washington's disclosure, and China, Russia, Britain and the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, all called on North Korea to re-engage with the negotiations. 
 In Luxembourg on Thursday, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, winding up a tour of Europe and the Middle East, called the North Korean announcement ''an unfortunate move, most especially probably for the people of North Korea, because it only deepens the North Korean isolation from the rest of the international community.'' 
 But the administration's message seemed mixed. While Ms. Rice and the White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, said the United States would simply follow the same course of trying to lure the North back into talks, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld gave public voice to the administration's growing concern. 
 ''One has to worry about weapons of that power in the hands of leadership of that nature,'' he said in Nice, France. ''I don't think that anyone would characterize the leadership in that country as being restrained.''
 Several current and former administration officials, declining to speak for attribution, said the announcement would be very likely to bolster some arguments in the administration that Washington should press to cut off North Korea's remaining trade and financial flows, in hopes of squeezing the country and perhaps destabilizing the government of President Kim Jong Il. 
 Vice President Dick Cheney ''has always argued that 'time is not on our side,''' said one former senior official who argued for deepened engagement with North Korea. ''Kim's just made life easier for the hard-liners.''
 In Beijing -- where the negotiations have taken place and the Chinese leadership has used the talks to enter a new diplomatic role in the world -- the government gently urged North Korea late Thursday night to come back to the table. But the Chinese said nothing, at least in public, about the North's claim to have nuclear weapons, a stance that underlined China's diplomatic predicament.
 Chinese leaders have tried for years to find middle ground between the United States and North Korea, not wanting a nuclear neighbor, but also not wanting the North Korean government to collapse, sending out a flood of refugees. They have consistently urged the rest of the world, especially the United States, to show more patience with North Korea.
 They had also contended that it was unclear that North Korea had developed nuclear weapons, despite American intelligence that it had.
 The Japanese prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, told reporters in Tokyo, ''We will have to continue to persuade North Korea that it is to their benefit to scrap nuclear weapons.'' 
 In its statement, North Korea specifically attacked Japan for ''toeing the U.S. line.'' 
 Tokyo has been struggling with mounting popular pressure for economic sanctions against the North. On Tuesday, Mr. Koizumi personally received a petition calling for sanctions, signed by five million people.
 In the past, North Korea has publicly boasted that it possesses an unspecified ''deterrent force'' and, on the sidelines of six-nation negotiations, warned American officials that it had nuclear capability. 
 But it had stopped short of a formal announcement that its nuclear fuel had been placed into weapons, perhaps because retaining ambiguity on the point helped China. The announcement from North Korea was clear, however. It said it had ''manufactured nukes for self-defense to cope with the Bush administration's undisguised policy to isolate and stifle'' it, and that it would ''bolster its nuclear weapons arsenal.'' 
 The statement said North Korea had decided to suspend participation in disarmament talks because it had concluded that the Bush administration would pursue the ''brazen-faced, double-dealing tactics'' of both dialogue and ''regime change.'' 
 It was unclear, Asian and American officials said, whether North Korea was definitively slamming the door to talks or merely trying to raise its price for returning to them.
 ''The question is how they came to the calculation to make their nuclear declaration now, and to pre-empt the Chinese effort to get them back in the talks,'' said Charles Pritchard, who was a central figure in the Bush administration's negotiations with the North until he left in a disagreement over how the administration was pursuing its strategy. ''It runs the risk of alienating the Chinese.'' 
 He speculated that the administration's recent efforts to show Asian nations evidence that the North had sold nuclear material to Libya -- raising the possibility it could be involved in nuclear exports to other countries as well -- ''may have led them to the conclusion these would be uncomfortable talks.''
 In June, facing a stalemate in the talks that involve the United States, North and South Korea, China, Russia and Japan, the Bush administration published its first serious proposal to the North. The deal promised gradual investment in the country in return for an agreement for complete disarmament -- involving both of the country's suspected nuclear weapons programs -- and highly intrusive inspections. The North has yet to respond.
 Two groups of members of the American Congress who visited Pyongyang, the capital, last month said North Korean officials had hinted at an imminent return to the negotiating table. 
 Some indicated the North was listening last week for signals in Mr. Bush's State of the Union address, in which the president avoided the confrontational rhetoric branding North Korea as member of an ''axis of evil,'' the words he used in his 2002 address. 
 This time, in his only reference to the North, he merely said he was ''working with governments in Asia to convince North Korea to abandon its nuclear ambitions.'' 
 But in Thursday's statement, North Korea zeroed in on Ms. Rice's testimony last month in her Senate confirmation hearings, in which she lumped North Korea together with five other dictatorships, calling them ''outposts of tyranny.'' North Korea's statement said, ''The true intention of the second-term Bush administration is not only to further its policy to isolate and stifle the D.P.R.K. pursued by the first-term office, but to escalate it.'' North Korea's formal name is the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 
 South Korea's foreign minister was landing in Washington just as the announcement was made, and is scheduled to see Ms. Rice and Vice President Cheney next week. Seoul has pursued an accommodating policy toward North Korea, encouraging greater investment there even as the United States has talked of tightening the economic screws if the North refused to disarm.
 ''We once again urge North Korea to rejoin the six-party talks without conditions so that it can discuss whatever differences it has with the United States and other participants,'' the South Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman, Lee Kyu Hyung, was quoted by The Associated Press as saying. ''We express our strong concern with the North Korean statement that it has nuclear weapons, and we again declare our stance that we will never tolerate North Korea possessing nuclear weapons.''
 In Luxembourg, Ms. Rice said that because the United States has long suspected that the North had the capacity to make nuclear weapons, its statement did not really change the security status quo in East Asia.
 ''We are confident that the United States, with our alliance with the Republic of Korea -- the South Koreans -- with our deterrent capability on the Korean peninsula, that of course the United States and its allies can deal with any potential threat from North Korea,'' she said. ''And North Korea, I think, understands that.'' 
 Though Ms. Rice labeled the possession of nuclear weapons by both North Korea and Iran as ''unacceptable,'' her comment about North Korea seemed aimed at reassuring Americans and perhaps Europeans at the end of her weeklong trip in Europe and in the Middle East that the dangers were not imminent.


GRAPHIC: Photo: South Korea's foreign minister, Ban Ki Moon, flew to Washington yesterday for talks expected to focus on North Korea's weapons program. (Photo by Yonhap/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%) Atomic Weapons; Arms Control and Limitation and Disarmament; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%); KIM JONG IL (78%); BAN KI-MOON (58%); DICK CHENEY (57%) James Brooke; David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Kim Jong Il

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (69%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%) North Korea; China; North Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



226 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Class-War Budget

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It may sound shrill to describe President Bush as someone who takes food from the mouths of babes and gives the proceeds to his millionaire friends. Yet his latest budget proposal is top-down class warfare in action. And it offers the Democrats an opportunity, if they're willing to take it.
 First, the facts: the budget proposal really does take food from the mouths of babes. One of the proposed spending cuts would make it harder for working families with children to receive food stamps, terminating aid for about 300,000 people. Another would deny child care assistance to about 300,000 children, again in low-income working families. 
 And the budget really does shower largesse on millionaires even as it punishes the needy. For example, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities informs us that even as the administration demands spending cuts, it will proceed with the phaseout of two little-known tax provisions -- originally put in place under the first President George Bush -- that limit deductions and exemptions for high-income households. 
 More than half of the benefits from this backdoor tax cut would go to people with incomes of more than a million dollars; 97 percent would go to people with incomes exceeding $200,000.
 It so happens that the number of taxpayers with more than $1 million in annual income is about the same as the number of people who would have their food stamps cut off under the Bush proposal. But it costs a lot more to give a millionaire a break than to put food on a low-income family's table: eliminating limits on deductions and exemptions would give taxpayers with incomes over $1 million an average tax cut of more than $19,000.
 It's like that all the way through. On one side, the budget calls for program cuts that are small change compared with the budget deficit, yet will harm hundreds of thousands of the most vulnerable Americans. On the other side, it calls for making tax cuts for the wealthy permanent, and for new tax breaks for the affluent in the form of tax-sheltered accounts and more liberal rules for deductions. 
 The question is whether the relentless mean-spiritedness of this budget finally awakens the public to the true cost of Mr. Bush's tax policy.
 Until now, the administration has been able to get away with the pretense that it can offset the revenue loss from tax cuts with benign spending restraint. That's because until now, ''restraint'' was an abstract concept, not tied to specific actions, making it seem as if spending cuts would hurt only a few special interest groups. 
 But here we are with the first demonstration of restraint in action, and look what's on the chopping block, selected for big cuts: the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, health insurance for children and aid to law enforcement. (Yes, Mr. Bush proposes to cut farm subsidies, which are truly wasteful. Let's see how much political capital he spends on that proposal.)
 Until now, the administration has also been able to pretend that the budget deficit isn't an important issue so the role of tax cuts in causing that deficit can be ignored. But Mr. Bush has at last conceded that the deficit is indeed a major problem.
 Why shouldn't the affluent, who have done so well from Mr. Bush's policies, pay part of the price of dealing with that problem?
 Here's a comparison: the Bush budget proposal would cut domestic discretionary spending, adjusted for inflation, by 16 percent over the next five years. That would mean savage cuts in education, health care, veterans' benefits and environmental protection. Yet these cuts would save only about $66 billion per year, about one-sixth of the budget deficit.
 On the other side, a rollback of Mr. Bush's cuts in tax rates for high-income brackets, on capital gains and on dividend income would yield more than $120 billion per year in extra revenue -- eliminating almost a third of the budget deficit -- yet have hardly any effect on middle-income families. (Estimates from the Tax Policy Center of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution show that such a rollback would cost families with incomes between $25,000 and $80,000 an average of $156.)
 Why, then, shouldn't a rollback of high-end tax cuts be on the table?
 Democrats have surprised the Bush administration, and themselves, by effectively pushing back against Mr. Bush's attempt to dismantle Social Security. It's time for them to broaden their opposition, and push back against Mr. Bush's tax policy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); FOOD STAMPS (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); CHILD CARE (70%) Taxation

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); PAUL KRUGMAN (59%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



227 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: White House Budget Projections Suggest Pain, Much of It Political 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
President Bush faces almost impossible political choices if he is to keep his pledge to reduce spending over the next five years.
 Unpublished budget projections prepared by the White House make it clear that Mr. Bush cannot reach his budget goals without making deep cuts in programs that have strong political support, including veterans' medical care, education, scientific research and nutritional assistance for impoverished mothers and small children.
 White House officials say the projections do not imply any policy decisions for spending after 2006, and are merely numbers ''spit out by the computer.'' But those numbers vividly show the kind of cuts that will be necessary if the president, as he has promised, reduces domestic discretionary spending in 2006 and then freezes it for the next four years. 
 The projections show that discretionary spending, adjusted for inflation, would drop by 16 percent, or $65 billion a year, through 2010.
 Mr. Bush, who proposed cutting or eliminating scores of domestic programs in the budget he introduced this week, did not put forth any specific cuts then beyond 2006. But the White House projections define a path to keeping spending flat through 2010:
 $(6$)Spending on veterans' medical care would drop 16 percent after inflation, despite an expected surge in costs from veterans of the war in Iraq.
 $(6$)Education and vocational training, an area that grew rapidly during Mr. Bush's first term, would decline 15 percent.
 $(6$)Basic scientific research would be reduced 13 percent.
 $(6$)Nutritional assistance for impoverished mothers and their small children, provided through the Women, Infants and Children program, would be cut by 9.6 percent; some 740,000 fewer people would receive assistance.
 Joshua B. Bolten, director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, which oversees the projections, played them down as formulaic, with no implications about specific budget cuts.
 Mr. Bolten said that five-year projections made in 2004 showed a decline in nutritional programs, while the new budget proposal calls for an increase in such spending to $6 billion in 2006 from $5.7 billion this year.
 ''I don't think it does anybody any good to look at these out-year projections and conclude from them that those programs are going to be cut,'' Mr. Bolten told reporters at a breakfast meeting on Thursday.
 But there is no escaping the math. Mr. Bush would have to cut many if not most programs other than those involving the military and domestic security.
 By far the biggest parts of the federal budget are essentially off limits to budget cuts. Entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare, whose costs are based on formulas set by law, account for nearly two-thirds of total spending. Military spending, which Mr. Bush wants to increase by 4.6 percent next year, to $419 billion, is a second major chunk. And spending on domestic security, which he would increase by 3 percent, is the other big protected area.
 That leaves domestic discretionary programs, which account for about $391 billion of $2.3 trillion in total spending this year, to absorb the cuts.
 For the second straight year, the White House announced its overall spending goals for the next five years while declining to publish more detailed projections about individual programs.
 The administration did make available its computer projections to those who asked, though emphasizing in those projections, ''Out-year discretionary estimates for most accounts are generated by formula and do not reflect program policy decisions.''
 Still, the projections do reflect some of Mr. Bush's own spending priorities. Space exploration, including his plans for initial work on a mission to Mars, would rise 1.3 percentage points faster than inflation over the next five years. General scientific research, though, would decline by 12.9 percent after inflation.
 Likewise, the budget projections show rapid growth in international development and humanitarian assistance, reflecting Mr. Bush's goal of expanding the Millennium Challenge grant program for impoverished countries. But State Department spending for diplomatic activity would decline about 5.1 percent after inflation.
 The biggest challenge confronting Mr. Bush will involve programs with powerful political supporters and broad emotional appeal to voters. 
 To keep overall spending flat from 2007 through 2010, the budget projections would cut spending on veterans' medical care by 16 percent after inflation, about $5.3 billion below what the White House estimates would be necessary to maintain activity at current levels. 
 Mr. Bush is already encountering furious opposition from veterans to his proposals to require higher co-payments. The proposed cuts to V.A. hospitals, which have long waiting lists of frustrated veterans as it is, will almost certainly provoke storms of protest.
 If Mr. Bush wanted to prevent any real cuts in veterans' health care, he would have to dig through other parts of the domestic budget. But the projections already envision cuts after inflation of $13 billion in education, $8 billion in health care, $2.8 billion in criminal justice assistance and $3 billion in housing assistance.
 ''It's nice to say these are only formulaic numbers,'' said Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group that has analyzed the projections. ''But the administration is looking to lock in the aggregates by law for five years. Spending in one area has to be offset by cuts in other areas.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 15, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Friday about testimony by Treasury Secretary John W. Snow on the proposed budget misidentified the group he addressed. It was the Senate Budget Committee, not a House committee.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary John W. Snow appearing before a House committee yesterday to testify about the budget proposed by President Bush. (Photo by Shawn Thiew/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET FORECASTS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); VETERANS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MILITARY BENEFITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); CHILD POVERTY (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); MEDICARE (76%); NUTRITION (76%); US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (76%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (76%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (62%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



228 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Plan Hinges on the Peg

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Now that President Bush has put forward a proposal to allow younger workers to divert part of their Social Security payments to investment accounts, the even bigger challenge awaiting him is to offer a plan for restoring the system to financial balance. 
 At the top of the agenda, officials and outside experts say, is the idea of curtailing the growth of the benefits promised to future retirees by tying them to increases in consumer prices rather than wages. Prices generally rise more slowly.
 ''It's a different philosophy,'' said Mauricio Soto, a research associate at the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. ''It gives Social Security a different role within society.'' 
 If indexed to prices, Social Security would function less like a pension plan and more like an anti-poverty program, he and other experts said. Instead of replacing a fixed portion of one's income -- about 40 percent at the moment for a medium-wage worker -- price indexing would eventually reduce benefits for most people so they simply covered the cost of life's basic necessities. Investment accounts would offer the chance of winning some of the loss back.
 (The center does not take a position on whether price indexing Social Security is advisable or not.)
 To show how a switch would affect people, Mr. Soto plugged assumptions into a basic framework set forth in 2001 by Mr. Bush's panel on Social Security. His findings are estimates, and things could turn out differently. But in general, he found that people who are over 45 today would feel the change only mildly, while younger people would find the system greatly changed by the time they retired. The guaranteed portion of future benefits for younger workers would effectively be much smaller, leaving them to rely more heavily on their investment accounts. But even with solid investment gains, their combined benefit would in most cases be considerably less than what the current system promises.
 President Bush has not officially embraced price indexing, which would by itself close the predicted $3.7 trillion gap between outgoing benefits and incoming revenues over the next 75 years. Still, many experts involved in preparing his plan favor the idea, or some variation of it, because price indexing provides an almost perfect mate for the private accounts the White House wants. 
 But the plan could also create large new disparities across generations and among retirees, depending on factors like the years of their births and the results of their investments over their lifetimes. 
 For a worker who is 55 years old today, for example, the change to price indexing would have a relatively small effect. If such a worker made the economy's average wage every year throughout his career, then retired in 2015, the change to price indexing would reduce the guaranteed benefit to $15,164 at age 65. The wage-indexed system now promises such a worker $15,302. With luck, an investment account would have earned enough by then to make up the $138 difference. 
 (Since Social Security is gradually moving the normal retirement age from 65 to 67 over the next few decades, figures in the examples were adjusted to permit accurate comparisons of different age groups.) 
 But for someone who is now just 45, who also earns the economy's average wage every year, the change would be more powerful. This person would get an initial Social Security benefit estimated at $14,211 upon turning 65 in 2025 if the system were switched to price indexing, compared with $15,772 under the current structure. A private account would have to earn enough to bridge the $1,561 annual difference. 
 An average wage earner who is now 25 would get $14,521 upon retiring in 2045 under price indexing, compared with $19,544 if the system were unchanged -- that is, if another way were found by then to finance the larger wage-indexed benefit. 
 The investments in the account of today's 25-year-old would have to earn back the difference of $5,023. That would be more than what the accounts of today's 45-year-old and 55-year-old would have to earn, but the account of someone 25 today, with a full career to accumulate savings, would have more years to try it. 
 According to Social Security Administration projections, 2045 is just about when the system's reserves may be depleted if nothing is done to bolster them, leaving Social Security with revenue to cover only about 75 percent of promised benefits.
 By doing similar calculations for people of different income levels, Mr. Soto also found that low and medium earners would tend to get a bigger boost from the individual accounts than people with high incomes. That is because the limits on the amounts people could put into their investment accounts would let lower-income people invest a larger amount, relative to their pay. 
 ''If you change to a system of price indexing, you save a tremendous amount of money,'' said Kent Smetters, an economist who was on the staff of the president's panel in 2001. So much would be saved, he said, that there would even be a modest sum left over after making the system financially sound. The panel proposed using that money to supplement benefits of low-wage workers.
 Mr. Smetters also pointed out that although price indexing would produce quite large cuts, it would make them in a way that might be more acceptable to people, at least in the beginning. ''It does not cut benefits in the way most people think of cutting benefits,'' Mr. Smetters said. ''It would cut benefits based on what the law promises today.''
 Benefits would remain relatively constant in terms of purchasing power. Future retirees would find that, year after year, their Social Security benefits would still be enough to buy what someone retiring today can acquire with his monthly check.
 But as the economy grew each year -- faster, generally, than prices rise -- retirees would also notice that everybody still in the work force was enjoying much higher living standards than their own. Over time, Social Security recipients depending on their benefits alone would be increasingly aware that they were falling farther behind younger, working people.
 ''We might have a lot of grumbling,'' Mr. Smetters said. 
 That is where the individual accounts are supposed to come in. In exchange for a greatly reduced fixed benefit, they would offer the hope that investment returns might make up a good portion of the loss.
 Mr. Soto considered investment outcomes for his various hypothetical retirees, and found that the people who are fairly close to retirement today had the best chance of coming out ahead. Younger people would be unlikely to win back their losses because price indexing is so powerful. (Experts assumed that prices would rise at an annual rate 1.1 percentage points slower than wages.) 
 Today's average-earning 55-year-old -- the one whose benefit would fall to $15,164 under price indexing -- could manage to recoup his modest $138 cut as long as his individual account earned annual returns of at least 4.6 percent, plus the rate of inflation, Mr. Soto found. Social Security's actuaries assume such an average return could be reasonably expected from a portfolio containing 50 percent stocks and lesser amounts of bonds and Treasury securities. Mr. Soto and other financial economists warn that this could be unduly optimistic, because a long-term average does not take into account year-to-year volatility.
 For the average earner who is 45 today, annual gains averaging 4.6 per cent a year plus inflation would not be enough to fully recoup the $1,561 benefit cut, Mr. Soto found. That rate of return would yield a total annual benefit of $14,826 at age 65. That is $942 less than the $15,772 that the current system promises.
 Some Republicans in Congress have expressed opposition to the price-indexing approach because it has such a negative effect on future benefits. As a result, the White House is studying ways of making it more acceptable. 
 Despite this, the Bush administration continues to send signals that it favors some combination of price indexing and individual accounts. In recent weeks, N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers, has floated the approach in several speeches.
 ''Each generation of retirees receives higher real benefits than the generation before it,'' Mr. Mankiw told the Council on Foreign Relations. ''The current benefit structure is colliding with demography to make the system unsustainable.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Retirement Benefits After Price Indexing''The Center for Retirement Research at Boston College analyzed Social Security benefits that might be paid if growth were tied to increases in prices rather than wages, following a framework proposed by President Bush's panel on Social Security revision. According to the analysis, if a worker had a personal investment account that received a higher rate of return, it would offset some of the declines caused by price indexing. The framework included special measures to limit decreases for low-wage workers.Three price indexing outcomesSocial Security benefit in first year of retirement, in 2004 dollarsCurrently promised, but underfunded, annual benefitLower-wage workerMakes average of $15,850 in 2004 dollars over careerYEAR WHEN WORKER TURNS 65* AND RETIRES2015: $9,2882025: 9,5742035: 10,6412045: 11,8632055: 13,2152075: 16,354Medium-wage workerMakes average of $35,223 in 2004 dollars over careerYEAR WHEN WORKER TURNS 65* AND RETIRES2015: $15,3022025: 15,7722035: 17,5332045: 19,5442055: 21,7702075: 26,940Higher-wage workerMakes average of $56,357 in 2004 dollars over careerYEAR WHEN WORKER TURNS 65* AND RETIRES2015: $20,2882025: 20,9142035: 23,2512045: 25,9132055: 28,8632075: 35,7181. Fully-funded benefit that would be paid after price indexingLower-wage workerMakes average of $15,850 in 2004 dollars over careerYEAR WHEN WORKER TURNS 65* AND RETIRES2015: 9,399 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (100% or more)2025: 10,455 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (100% or more)2035: 10,545 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2045: 10,677 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2055: 10,810 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2075: 10,712 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (60% to 79%)Medium-wage workerMakes average of $35,223 in 2004 dollars over careerYEAR WHEN WORKER TURNS 65* AND RETIRES2015: 15,164 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2025: 14,211 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2035: 14,342 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2045: 14,521 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (60% to 79%)2055: 14,695 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (60% to 79%)2075: 14,575 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (Less than 60%)Higher-wage workerMakes average of $56,357 in 2004 dollars over careerYEAR WHEN WORKER TURNS 65* AND RETIRES2015: 20,105 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2025: 18,844 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2035: 19,019 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2045: 19,253 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (60% to 79%)2055: 18,617 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (60% to 79%)2075: 19,323 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (Less than 60%)2. . . . and with 3.0% annual return on personal accountLower-wage workerMakes average of $15,850 in 2004 dollars over careerYEAR WHEN WORKER TURNS 65* AND RETIRES2015: 9,437 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (100% or more)2025: 10,589 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (100% or more)2035: 10,886 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (100% or more)2045: 11,305 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2055: 11,629 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2075: 11,693 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (60% to 79%)Medium-wage workerMakes average of $35,223 in 2004 dollars over careerYEAR WHEN WORKER TURNS 65* AND RETIRES2015: 15,225 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2025: 14,431 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2035: 14,868 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2045: 15,537 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (60% to 79%)2055: 16,110 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (60% to 79%)2075: 16,272 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (60% to 79%)Higher-wage workerMakes average of $56,357 in 2004 dollars over careerYEAR WHEN WORKER TURNS 65* AND RETIRES2015: 20,166 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2025: 19,074 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2035: 19,531 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2045: 20,264 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (60% to 79%)2055: 20,089 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (60% to 79%)2075: 21,109 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (Less than 60%)3. . . . or with 4.6% annual return on personal accountLower-wage workerMakes average of $15,850 in 2004 dollars over careerYEAR WHEN WORKER TURNS 65* AND RETIRES2015: 9,474 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (100% or more)2025: 10,847 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (100% or more)2035: 11,694 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (100% or more)2045: 13,061 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (100% or more)2055: 14,087 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (100% or more)2075: 14,637 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)Medium-wage workerMakes average of $35,223 in 2004 dollars over careerYEAR WHEN WORKER TURNS 65* AND RETIRES2015: 15,302 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (100% or more)2025: 14,826 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2035: 16,078 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2045: 18,391 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2055: 20,398 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2075: 21,417 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (60% to 79%)Higher-wage workerMakes average of $56,357 in 2004 dollars over careerYEAR WHEN WORKER TURNS 65* AND RETIRES2015: 20,247 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2025: 19,450 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2035: 20,740 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2045: 23,140 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2055: 24,707 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (80% to 99%)2075: 26,646 -- PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY PROMISED BENEFIT (60% to 79%)* A retirement age of 65 was used to allow accurate comparisons of different age groups.(Source by Mauricio Soto, Center for Retirement Research, Boston College
 Model 2, Report of the Presidents Commission to Strengthen Social Security)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%) Social Security (US); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Indexing (Economic Adjustment System); Wages and Salaries; Social Security (US)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (93%) Boston College

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh; George W (Pres) Bush; Mauricio Soto

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005



229 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Beliefs; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Unchurched Lincoln, the theologian? Words of 1865 still ring loud and clear in religious circles.

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels

 BODY:
Today is the birthday of a man thought by many to be the nation's greatest president. It is also the birthday of a man whom many believe to be if not the nation's greatest theologian, at least to come close. That is no coincidence, because they are the same man. 
 Abraham Lincoln seems an unlikely candidate for the Theological Hall of Fame. He belonged to no church. He had read little theology. The exact nature of his religious beliefs remains a matter for debate. 
 Lincoln's standing as a theological thinker rests, above all, on his Second Inaugural Address. Although its closing lines about binding up the nation's wounds ''with malice toward none, with charity for all'' are so familiar and so susceptible to a sentimental reading that the extraordinary force of the whole speech can be missed, a sizable and thoughtful literature has grown up around this address.
 Mark Noll, an outstanding historian of American religion, has done something further. In ''America's God: From Jonathan Edwards to Abraham Lincoln'' (Oxford University Press, 2002) he compares Lincoln with the acknowledged theological minds of that era.
 ''None of America's respected religious leaders,'' Professor Noll wrote, ''mustered the theological power so economically expressed in Lincoln's Second Inaugural. None probed so profoundly the ways of God or the response of humans to the divine constitution of the world. None penetrated as deeply into the nature of providence. And none described the fate of humanity before God with the humility or the sagacity of the president.'' 
 Consider that famous peroration. Who would be for malice or against charity? But as Professor Noll points out, the operative words here are ''toward none'' and ''for all.'' That included the still undefeated enemy as well as Union soldiers and innocent victims. This, at a time when Henry Ward Beecher (''the Billy Graham of his era,'' Professor Noll calls him) was preaching a vision of Southern leaders -- ''these guiltiest and most remorseless traitors,'' the evildoers who had ''drenched a continent in needless blood''-- cast down by God into ''endless retribution.'' 
 ''Almost alone among his contemporaries,'' Professor Noll explained, ''Lincoln did not presumptuously assume that the moral high ground belonged to only his side. By questioning the righteousness of the North and by failing to denounce the South in absolute terms, he joined a very small minority in the spring and summer of 1865. If Lincoln's magnanimity and his moral evenhandedness were generally religious, his view of providence was distinctly theological. More than any other feature of this address, Lincoln's conception of God's rule over the world set him apart from the recognized theologians of his day.''
 That conception was set forth dramatically in the central section of the speech, beginning with the declaration, ''The Almighty has his own purposes'' and issuing into a complex reflection on how the providence of God could encompass both the existence of slavery and now its abolition and how that providence might further encompass even the terrible war as punishment of both North and South for their complicity in that evil. 
 ''Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away,'' Lincoln continued. But God's justice might not necessarily coincide with those hopes or with the nation's prosperity: the Lord's ''true and righteous'' judgments might require that ''all the wealth piled by the bondsman's 250 years of unrequited toil shall be sunk'' and that ''every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword.'' 
 These were hard words, and few religious leaders were willing to speak them. ''For the theologians,'' Professor Noll wrote, ''there was little mystery in how God dealt with the world; for Lincoln there was awesome mystery. For the theologians, God's power remained securely tethered to the interests of the United States, however differently that interest was perceived. But for Lincoln, God's power was controlled by no one but God.'' And finally, he wrote, ''for the theologians, the end of the war only tightened the bond between God and his American chosen people; for Lincoln the course of the war injected a doubt about whether America was the people of God.''
 These theologians were not backwoods preachers. They were well-honed thinkers who were also grappling during these years, often in impressively measured ways, with questions raised by Darwin and Herbert Spencer and new and unsettling findings about the Bible. But about the central issue of their day, what they had to say is now of interest, Professor Noll noted, only to historians like himself, while the brief address on March 4, 1865, by an unchurched layman ''remains an object of intense study and admiration.'' 
 Just short of 140 years after that address, it is easy to turn this paradox into a cheap lesson, to make it a populist demonstration of the lone soul's superiority to the theologically instructed, or to harness it to a secular critique of religious leaders' involvement in public affairs. 
 Certainly contemporary theologians and religious leaders should pay heed to this episode. But so might the nontheological and the nonreligious. By easily identifying oneself with the profound president and not with the convention-ridden theologians, one falls into the very self-righteousness that blinded them. 
 Lincoln and the theologians of this day shared an idiom of God's providential rule over the world's events. That belief has not disappeared, but it is no longer the shared framework of public discussion. Today, the talk is of freedom, rights and opportunity, security, prosperity, pluralism and nondiscrimination. Contending within that framework are outlooks, both religious and secular, liberal and conservative, red and blue, no less certain of their own correctness and privileged place in the course of history than were Lincoln's theological contemporaries. 
 Subtract the mid-19th-century focus on divine providence and the contrast is still between what Professor Noll described as ''a morally nuanced picture of America's destiny'' and ''a morally juvenile view of the nation and its fate.'' Anyone absolutely confident of standing on Lincoln's side of this contrast probably doesn't. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); HISTORY (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005



230 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Big Oil's Burden of Too Much Cash

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD; Heather Timmons contributed reporting from London for this article.

 BODY:
Born from the megamergers of the 1990's, the world's giant oil companies have delivered on their promise. They have cut costs, increased returns and raised profits to records. Now, flush with cash, they find themselves in a paradoxical position -- they are making more money than they can comfortably spend. 
 Thanks to crude prices that averaged $41 a barrel in New York last year, the world's 10 biggest oil companies earned more than $100 billion in 2004, a windfall greater than the economic output of Malaysia. Together, their sales are expected to exceed $1 trillion for 2004, which is more than Canada's gross domestic product. 
 But even as fears of shortages grow throughout the world and prices remain high, the cash-rich oil companies are not pouring a large portion of their money into their basic business: drilling for oil. Indeed, oil executives, in their second straight year of rising profits, are finding that too much money is chasing too few oil fields. Instead, they are giving much of their cash back to shareholders.
 For example, Exxon Mobil, the world's largest publicly traded oil company, earned more than $25 billion last year and spent $9.95 billion to buy back its own stock; Royal Dutch/Shell Group, whose revisions to its oil reserves have left many investors wary, pledged to hand out at least $10 billion as dividends to shareholders this year. 
 And BP, which earned $16.2 billion in 2004, will return as much as $23 billion to its investors this year and next, mostly as dividends. At the same time, it is cutting capital expenditure for the first time in at least four years, to $14.1 billion in 2005 from $14.4 billion last year. 
 Other oil companies, like the French giant, Total, plan to report results next week. Altogether, profits in 2004 for the top 10 companies jumped by more than 30 percent from the previous year, when they totaled $80 billion.
 Still, oil executives bristle at the suggestion that they are not investing enough and point to new operations in places like Angola or Kazakhstan. Exploration in those places underscores the trend of West Africa and the Caspian Sea taking over from North America and the North Sea as a main focus of exploration and growth for oil companies. 
 Executives also remember that only six years ago, crude oil futures were trading below $15 a barrel -- a third of today's levels. That is a lesson no one is ready to forget.
 ''We're a cyclical business,'' David J. O'Reilly, chief executive of ChevronTexaco, the second-largest American oil company, said in a telephone interview, ''and at the high end of the cycle it makes sense to get the company in good shape and strengthen our balance sheet. 
 ''History tells us that what goes up also goes down.'' 
 Lord Browne, BP's chief executive, said oil companies were doing their job. ''Investment is going in, a lot of reserves are being developed,'' he said in an interview in London. ''Looking at the percentage of oil profits reinvested, rather than the amount of cash invested, gives a skewed perspective. I think you have to think of the dollar value.''
 One reason exploration spending is declining is quite simple -- there is less oil left to drill for in places that are open for exploration, like North America or the North Sea, while the bulk of the world's known reserves, mainly in the Middle East, are mostly shut off to foreign investors. 
 ''If they had attractive things to invest in, they'd be investing their little heads off,'' said Gerald Kepes, a managing director at PFC Energy, a consultancy based in Washington. ''Twenty-five years ago, if prices had risen to $45 a barrel, you would have seen everyone in the United States drop everything, jump in a pickup truck, and drill in their backyards. The fact that you don't see this today says a lot. These kinds of easy opportunities have largely dried up.''
 Last year, the larger integrated oil companies spent about 24 percent of their cash on dividends, 12 percent on share buybacks, and 12 percent on paring debt, Mr. Kepes said. Less than half of their cash, or 46 percent, went into capital spending.
 As a share of exploration and production expenses, spending on exploration has declined over the last decade, and now accounts for about 20 percent of the total, compared with about 30 percent in 1991, according to PFC.
 ''The very easy money-making investments are gone,'' said Fatih Birol, the chief economist at the Paris-based International Energy Agency. ''The problem isn't that there's not enough oil. It's there's not enough opportunities to find oil.''
 Mr. Birol said that two-thirds of the wells drilled worldwide from 1997 to 2003 were in North America, where production is falling, while the Middle East accounted for 2 percent of global investments. 
 Early successes in Alaska and in the British and Norwegian areas of the North Sea, both regions developed in the late 1970's and 1980's, are giving way to mature and declining operations in these areas as oil reserves slowly dry up. 
 At the same time, the Persian Gulf region, which holds the bulk of the world's proven reserves of conventional oil, remains mostly off limits to international investors. In one way or another, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates limit access to international companies.
 High oil prices are not a guaranteed boon for oil companies. When oil prices are low, oil executives are courted by commodity-rich countries to develop national resources. But when prices rise, governments have a tendency to rethink their contracts and seek higher royalties.
 That is happening in Venezuela, which is reviewing its operating agreements with foreign oil companies; it is also happening in Russia, where the government is assuming more control of the country's oil industry.
 ''The net effect of $50-a-barrel oil is to reduce opportunities,'' said Paul Sankey, an analyst with Deutsche Bank in New York. ''Large profits make governments think that they're not taxing sufficiently enough.''
 For example, the Russian government collects most of the profits when oil prices rise above $25 a barrel. Some countries -- including Kuwait, Angola and Iran -- put limits on the gains foreign companies can make if prices rise above a certain level. In many production-sharing agreements, for example, oil companies agree to a revenue cap, so that when prices rise, producers must reduce their volumes. 
 ''The industry would much rather have lower oil prices and more stability and a more sustainable environment,'' Mr. Sankey said. ''Record prices mean record revenue, but also too much attention for an industry that basically likes to remain out of sight.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Pumping Profits''High oil prices are generating strong profits for the industry, which is sharing much of its bounty with stockholders.AMEX OIL INDEXGraph tracks the price-weighted stock index of leading oil companies from 2002-2004.Aug. 27, 1984 = 125DIVIDENDSGraph tracks the total paid by nine industry leaders from 2002-2004.(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Sanford C. Bernstein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (95%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); TRENDS (78%); FUTURES (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); INTERVIEWS (62%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production; Profits (Industry-wide); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); CHEVRON CORP (54%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%); XOM (NYSE) (55%); CVX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%)

PERSON: DAVID J O'REILLY (50%) Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CASPIAN SEA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (77%); AFRICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005



231 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Gridlock on India's New Paths to Prosperity

BYLINE: By SARITHA RAI

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Anxieties over the United States economy have receded and worries about the political backlash have ebbed. But India's $17 billion outsourcing industry has a new dread: the poor infrastructure in the country's crowded cities is taking a big toll and may even curb the growth of the fast-expanding industry.
 Inadequate roads, a shortage of hotel rooms, inadequate power, traffic jams, too few overseas flights and high telecommunication fees are all becoming major concerns. They were the main topic this week at the annual meeting of India's outsourcing industry trade group. 
 ''Shortcomings in the environment are hurting company bottom lines by 1 to 2 percent annually,'' Kiran Karnik, president of the group, the National Association of Software and Service Companies, or Nasscom, said in an interview. ''You pay a price when you have to bus thousands of employees to work, run your own generators to make up for power shortages, and pay exorbitant rates because hotel rooms are scarce.''
 As companies performing outsourced white-collar work in low-cost India add thousands of skilled, English-speaking employees each quarter to meet the swelling demand, the growth puts increasing pressure on the already-creaky infrastructures. And growth is projected to continue at a rate of 25 percent to 30 percent a year in the next few years. 
 Nasscom has been prevailing upon the government to make big investments in infrastructure across the board, Mr. Karnik said in a press briefing before the conference. It has already eased the air travel situation a bit by letting private Indian airlines fly abroad -- formerly a monopoly of the state-owned airlines -- and by giving landing rights to more foreign airlines. But by all accounts, infrastructure in India is much worse than in China, where the government is building huge expressways, office and residential townships, and some 33 office parks.
 In the meantime, larger outsourcing companies have taken matters into their own hands. Two Indian software and back-office giants, Wipro and Infosys Technologies, for instance, both based in Bangalore (population seven million), have built suburban campuses with luxuriously landscaped gardens, modern office buildings, food courts, gyms, swimming pools, supermarkets and clothing stores.
 They run their own bus services to ferry employees and operate generators to meet their energy requirements. Infosys is also building a 500-room hotel in its campus for visiting employees, customers and guests.
 With the hotel squeeze particularly bad in Bangalore, and room rates more than doubling in the last two years, Mr. Karnik said it was becoming common for outsourcing industry executives and customers to stay in Mumbai or Chennai and commute by air to Bangalore daily. The flight from Mumbai, 650 miles away, is one and a half hours, while Chennai, 208 miles away, is a half-hour by air from Bangalore. 
 Some American companies, including Microsoft and Intel, have also set up campuses in India. The lavish 50-acre New Oroville township that Catalytic Software of Kirkland, Wash., built an hour's drive south of Hyderabad, has Western-quality housing, work, recreational and shopping facilities, and lets ''U.S. managers in India overcome communication hurdles'' with ''Always On connectivity'' and ''24/7 power backup,'' according to the company's Web site.
 Until now, outsourcing companies have built such infrastructure for their own use -- and have been accused of creating ''islands of affluence'' in a country with millions of poor people. But companies are starting to step forward to help finance public transportation.
 Wipro, Infosys and other Bangalore companies have volunteered a third of the cost of a $100 million elevated expressway from the city to the Electronics City suburb, home to many outsourcing companies. Construction is set to begin in April.
 This should bring relief to workers like Leena Limaye, a 26-year-old software engineer at Wipro, who lives with her parents in a Bangalore neighborhood 21 miles from Wipro's Electronics City campus. 
 Ms. Limaye says she spends an hour and a half in the mornings and two hours in the evenings commuting in a Wipro bus. ''Traffic jams are a hot topic of discussion when colleagues and friends sit down to talk,'' she said.
 Her employer, with 14,000 of its 39,000 employees in Bangalore, runs a fleet of 170 buses and 100 sport utility vehicles to transport workers. 
 The lack of infrastructure is not yet driving away outsourcing customers, said Stephanie Moore, a vice president at Forrester Research, in an interview during the Nasscom conference.
 In fact, business continues to boom, with the country's top three outsourcing companies -- Tata Consultancy Services, Infosys and Wipro -- each reporting huge profit increases and the addition of thousands of employees.
 But Akshaya Kumar, managing director of Colliers International, the Indian unit of the global commercial real estate services firm, said, ''The sorry state of the infrastructure is making companies improvise.'' Many, especially back-office companies providing customer service, are moving to second-tier Indian cities, like Jaipur and Mysore, he said.
 Convergys, the Cincinnati-based back-office services company, has 10,000 employees in India and expects to double that in the next two years. The company is considering using a vehicle-tracking system in its buses and sport utility vehicles to monitor its vehicles stuck in traffic jams so it can know which employees will be late for work.
 Convergys also operates in Brazil and Israel, besides the United States and Britain. ''India is the weakest in terms of good infrastructure,'' said Larry Schwartz, executive vice president for global operations. The company constantly has to work around the gridlock in India, he said. ''It is a limiting factor to how fast we can expand'' in the country.
 ''The costs of running our own bus service, providing employees with pagers and mobiles because phone lines are not reliable,'' Mr. Schwartz said, ''all this kicks into costs, making India less competitive.'' Convergys says it is currently able to pass the costs on to its customers.
 Overseas businesses and customers have choices and will exercise them, S. Ramadorai, chief executive of Tata Consultancy and Nasscom's vice chairman, warned at the annual meeting.
 ''The government is now sensitized that while there is a demand for Indian services and talent, unless the ecosystem is upgraded, we will lose out,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cars clog Hosur Road, which leads from Bangalore to Electronics City, where Wipro and Infosys are based. The companies and others in Bangalore have decided to contribute about $33 million toward an expressway. (Photo by Namas Bhojani)(pg. C3)
 Traffic jams are routine in India, making many employees late for work. (Photo by Namas Bhojani)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (91%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); POWER FAILURES (76%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) Labor; Roads and Traffic; Commuting; Delays (Transportation); Airlines and Airplanes; Hotels and Motels; Electric Light and Power; Labor

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (85%); INTEL CORP (50%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: National Assn of Software and Service Companies

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (85%); INFY (NYSE) (85%); INFY (NSE) (85%); INTC (NASDAQ) (50%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: Saritha Rai; Kiran Karnik

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (93%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (90%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005



232 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Political Memo; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Takes His Lumps, And They're From the Right

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
As Gov. George E. Pataki tests the waters for a foray into national politics, he is finding out just how cold and forbidding they can be for a moderate Republican from the Northeast midway through a rocky third term.
 If Mr. Pataki was initially a darling of the national Republican Party a decade ago when he defeated Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, the liberal giant, some conservatives are now expressing deep distrust as they survey his 10 years in office and the decisions and spending increases that helped him win re-election three times in a state with a strong liberal leaning. 
 Last fall, William F. Buckley Jr., one of the elder statesmen of American conservatism, dismissed Mr. Pataki in an interview in The New Yorker as ''epicene,'' or sexless. In December, the Manchester Union Leader -- an influential voice for Republicans in New Hampshire, which holds that famous first presidential primary -- carried a column that began with the words: ''As 2008 rapidly approaches, it's not too early to rule New York Gov. George Elmer Pataki unfit for the G.O.P. presidential nomination.''
 And the cover story on Mr. Pataki in the Feb. 28 issue of National Review, the 50-year-old conservative magazine, is not the kind of press that Republican politicians with presidential ambitions normally seek. ''Spurious George,'' reads a headline next to a big-eared caricature of the governor's face superimposed over the body of Curious George, the monkey and associate of the Man in the Yellow Hat. ''The Pathetic Reign of New York's Governor Pataki,'' a smaller headline reads.
 Stuart Rothenberg, a political analyst, observed this week in Roll Call, the Capitol Hill newspaper, that the last Northeastern Republican who was elected to the White House was Calvin Coolidge. Mr. Rothenberg, the editor of the Rothenberg Political Report, a nonpartisan political newsletter, said in an interview that the challenges for Mr. Pataki would be formidable should he run.
 ''Any time you run New York State, with the size of government in the state, the size of the budget, the way you have to deal with a legislature that is always divided with one house Democratic and one house Republican, I think you're going to build a record that's going to give conservative Republicans from Nebraska and Georgia and Wyoming plenty of ammunition to paint you as a Rockefeller Republican,'' he said, invoking the name of Nelson A. Rockefeller, another Republican governor of New York State whose name has become synonymous with the dwindling liberal wing of the party. 
 So Mr. Pataki has been working to shore up conservative support. 
 He recently named Lawrence Kudlow, a television commentator and former Reagan administration official with supply-side credentials, to head a task force charged with studying ways to ''simplify'' the state's tax code. He networked tirelessly with delegates and opinion-makers from key states at the Republican National Convention and at President Bush's inauguration. And last month he addressed the Monday Meeting, a gathering of influential New York conservatives.
 Mallory Factor, one of the co-founders of the Monday Meeting, said that conservatives are not a homogenous group, and that different factions -- religious conservatives, fiscal conservatives, social conservatives -- are likely to take different views of Mr. Pataki.
 ''If you know him, well, this guy has really deeply held conservative beliefs,'' said Mr. Factor, who invited Mr. Pataki to speak. ''I would say he was warmly received, but I would say that there was some concern and some skepticism.'' 
 The fact that he has not yet announced his political plans -- and may not have decided on them -- has added to the governor's difficulties. Should he decide to run for a fourth term as governor -- which several recent polls show would be an uphill battle against Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat who is running -- Mr. Pataki would probably have to tack left again. But if he decides to begin laying the groundwork for a presidential run, he could need to tack more sharply to the right. 
 Mr. Pataki said that he was disappointed by some of the criticism from the right. ''It's disappointing, because I think if you fairly look at the record of New York since I've been governor, on fiscal and tax matters, it's incredible,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''But I don't think people understand, sometimes, the context in which you operate, or they don't understand the facts.''
 He spoke of ushering the state through some of the worst economic times since the Great Depression, of his record for cutting taxes and pushing for what he called conservative fiscal policies, and of doing so despite the state's solidly Democratic enrollment and its solidly Democratic State Assembly. ''New York is one of the bluest of the blue states,'' he said. ''The State Assembly is certainly one of the most liberal legislative bodies in America, and not just that, but they have a two-thirds majority.''
 Still, some of the early conservative commentary on a possible Pataki run for president has been withering. Articles have noted the spending increases in the state, whose budget has passed the $100 billion mark on his watch, the deals he has made with labor leaders and the state's borrowing. The syndicated column that ran in The Manchester Union Leader, by Deroy Murdock, said, ''As this country's most economically repressed state, New York is America's North Korea with Pataki as its Kim Il Sung.''
 Mr. Rothenberg said: ''Pataki is sort of an odd case, because there have been a number of different versions of George Pataki. There's George Pataki the insurgent conservative; there's George Pataki the Rockefeller Republican, and outside New York, I'm not sure what they make of him.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki on the cover of a late February National Review. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (71%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005



233 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Re-enlisting Led to Warfare And Charges Of Murder

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and JOHN DeSANTIS

 BODY:
Today, Second Lt. Ilario G. Pantano of the Marine Corps is the suspect in the murder of two people in Iraq. But years ago, he was known to his friends as a Renaissance man, a mover and shaker in the downtown Manhattan world of independent films and Internet television.
 By November 2000 he had founded his own company, Filter Media, and later joined other alumni of the elite Horace Mann School, who were running the Shooting Gallery, a film company that produced ''Sling Blade,'' ''You Can Count on Me'' and other movies. 
 He had served as a marine in the Persian Gulf war of 1991; he left the corps to attend New York University when he was 21. Later he was an energy trader for Goldman Sachs, he delivered food to homeless shelters, and he helped a friend promote his new restaurant.
 But after watching the World Trade Center come crashing down on Sept. 11, 2001, taking the lives of several friends, his life took another turn.
 He moved to Battery Park City a few months afterward and passed ground zero daily. He told friends that the sight pained his heart. 
 James Rafferty, who has known Lieutenant Pantano for 11 years, said he believed the terror attack had prompted Lieutenant Pantano's decision to re-enlist in the Marines.
 ''I think for Ilario it kind of brought him to the realization that he is a marine and there are things that need to be done so that stuff like this doesn't happen again,'' Mr. Rafferty said. ''It would be hard to sit back and not be a part of that.''
 He added, ''I think he felt like his brothers are going to fight for our freedom, and if he still can, then he will.''
 After re-enlisting, Lieutenant Pantano went to Iraq with the Second Marine Division, landing in March 2004. He fought in the battle of Falluja last spring. 
 Now, his lawyer said, he is facing murder charges that stemmed from his role in the shooting deaths of two Iraqi men south of Baghdad on April 15.
 The shooting occurred during a search of a vehicle suspected of transporting insurgents, said the lawyer, Charles Gittins, who added that Lieutenant Pantano could face the death penalty.
 ''The Marine Corps is saying he is a murderer, and those are slanderous allegations,'' Mr. Gittins said.
 Lieutenant Pantano is back in the United States with his wife and two children, at his home in Wilmington, N.C., near Camp Lejeune. Maj. Matt Morgan, a Marine Corps spokesman, said a hearing in the coming weeks would determine formal charges. Major Morgan said no further information would be released before the hearing. 
 Through his lawyer, Lieutenant Pantano declined a request to be interviewed. But, the lawyer said, ''He is fighting mad.'' 
 Friends and family members are rallying to his defense, unable to reconcile the man they know as a bright, if enigmatic, level-headed city boy equally conversant in movies and military technology with the thought that he could have deliberately killed people without justification.
 ''Ilario returned from Iraq a hero but there are some dark forces still trying to bring him down,'' his wife, Jill Chapman, wrote in an e-mail message to friends.
 People who knew him from his days in film and media in New York struggled to absorb the news.
 ''I find this all fairly unbelievable,'' said Vladimir Edelman, a former business partner who founded Filter Media with Lieutenant Pantano in 2000. Now defunct, it was a consulting agency to the budding interactive television industry that once counted Sony Pictures Digital and MSNBC among its clients, according to a company press release. 
 Friends said they found Lieutenant Pantano, who grew up in Hell's Kitchen, to be a curious player on the Internet media scene. Some knew that, fulfilling a boyhood fascination with the military, he had served in the Marines in the early 1990's. They surmised that he had entered the high-charged, creative atmosphere of Internet media and film because it appealed to his drive and artistic inclinations.
 ''He is an incredibly passionate, creative guy,'' Mr. Edelman said. ''I was like: 'What are you doing here? You were a former sniper? How does that happen?' He was not your typical Hoo-ah military guy, but he was always patriotic.''
 Lieutenant Pantano was an executive in the Internet division of the Shooting Gallery. 
 But the company fell victim to the downturn in the economy in mid-2001. He ultimately left it in the months before he re-enlisted in the Marines in early 2003.
 ''This is an adult game,'' he told The New York Observer in an article on the Shooting Gallery's demise. ''The Internet and the independent film business are the two most speculative businesses there are, and they have the potential to be very lucrative, but also very risky.''
 Friends said Lieutenant Pantano was surprised by conditions in Iraq but kept a positive attitude.
 ''He thought he was going on a peacekeeping mission and ended up in Iraq being shot at every day,'' said Mr. Rafferty, who had exchanged e-mail messages with him after he left.
 In Wilmington, neighbors and friends said they had the impression Lieutenant Pantano had planned to stay in the Marines for some time, though his interests seemed broad and he had been talking to people in the growing film and television community there.
 ''If you met him you would think he was a teacher, a lawyer, a doctor, a psychiatrist,'' said Matt Rhodes, a former neighbor who attended movies with Mr. Pantano and was impressed by the range of books in his house and his topics of conversations. ''Not a soldier, not a marine.''
 Danny Richani, a television actor in Wilmington, said Lieutenant Pantano used to quiz him about his background and career development.
 ''In conversation, it was not about him,'' Mr. Richani said. ''It was always: 'What are you doing? How did you do that? Why did you do that?'''
 But his mother, Merry Pantano, suggested that Lieutenant Pantano might have headed back to Iraq if the Marines' investigation had not arisen.
 ''He was fierce in battle and compassionate at home as any of his friends or colleagues can tell you,'' she wrote on the Web site she set up, defendthedefenders.org. ''He has often demonstrated he would do anything to protect and save the lives of his men, and until he received a charge sheet for murder, he was preparing to go back to Iraq with his brothers and do it again.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ilario Pantano (pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); LAWYERS (84%); DESERT STORM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); LIBEL & SLANDER (77%); FILM (77%); CHILDREN (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); TERRORISM (72%); INTERNET VIDEO (72%); ENERGY MARKETS (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (54%); HOMELESSNESS (54%) United States Armament and Defense; Murders and Attempted Murders; Biographical Information

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: Randal C Archibold; John Desantis; Ilario G (Lt) Pantano

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); WILMINGTON, NC, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (58%) Iraq; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005



234 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Low Voices at High Altitude

BYLINE: By Manjushree Thapa. 
Manjushree Thapa is the author of ''Forget Kathmandu: An Elegy for Democracy'' and ''Tutor of History,'' a novel.

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
UPON assuming absolute power over Nepal on Feb. 1, King Gyanendra banned all expressions against the spirit of his coup, including those voiced in interviews, writings, publications and even private discussion. It is hard for me, as a writer, to accept this. And ensuing events in my country have shown that I'm hardly alone.
 Nepal won its democracy in 1990, after centuries of despotic monarchy. Perhaps the most dramatic effect of this liberty over the past 15 years is that Nepalis got in the habit of talking. We talk in our houses and in the tea shops, we talk in offices and on the streets, we talk through the news media and at public forums, we assemble in demonstrations to voice our opinions. No topic is off limits. We criticize, we praise, we summarize and analyze anything, everything. It became, it seemed to us, impossible to silence us. 
 Yet King Gyanendra has been trying to do just this. After his coup, he immediately suspended the right to assemble peacefully, cracked down on the free press, overturned the right against preventive detention and banned rights to property and privacy. He took from the people the right to most constitutional remedies, leaving us completely at the mercy of his government's whims. We are no longer citizens, but subjects.
 The military has stationed itself in state-owned and private news media organizations, vetting every report published or broadcast. Soldiers captured the nation's telecommunications system, first shutting down all phone lines for days, then turning them off and on at will. Many politicians, social advocates, human-rights defenders, journalists and writers fled their houses, fearing arrest. (I was lucky enough to get out of the country on Feb. 6 under the protection of a foreign diplomat who walked me through the airport and onto my plane.)
 People were right to be scared: the round-ups of those who posed a threat to the king's new regime began even as the coup was announced, and have continued. The news of the government's actions was spread by word of mouth, as all news reports, even those on satellite TV, had been blocked. 
 In the first few days of the coup, everyone hunkered down, afraid. But soon people began to meet and talk, to talk against the coup. Protests popped up all over the country. The nation's businesspeople joined the chorus: bankers complained of the lack of phone lines; officials at airlines, hotels and other businesses dependent on tourism warned of economic collapse. Soon there was talk that the king was planning to seize the bank accounts of democratic politicians on trumped-up charges of corruption. 
 As they talked, people grew emboldened. They found out who had satellite phones, who had Internet connections that somehow still worked. Journalists smuggled their reports across the Indian border or from the compounds of diplomatic missions. Contraband writings -- The New York Times, The Guardian of London and the Indian newspapers' coverage of the coup -- passed from hand to hand. 
 Eventually, censorship itself became an object of ridicule. The country's biggest English-language daily, The Kathmandu Post, ran nonsense editorials like ''Socks in Society'' -- a thoughtful treatise on how socks without holes are a prestige symbol in a poor country like Nepal. The weekly Nepali Times ran an editorial criticizing a recent spate of deforestation -- trees being the symbol of the Nepali Congress Party, whose leaders had been arrested. One daily, Deshantar, simply left a blank space where its editorials usually appear. 
 As the public mood has shifted from fearful to defiant, the coup seems more of a farce than a tragedy. The king's main justification for taking power was that the country's Maoist insurgents, who have fought the state since 1996, had grown powerful enough to paralyze all governance. The king promised to deploy the military more effectively now. Yet people quickly realized that if the military was going to spend so much effort arresting dissidents, censoring the news, nationalizing property, scattering demonstrations, disbanding organizations and generally evading the rule of law, who would ward off the Maoists? 
 Now several demonstrations have taken place in Katmandu, the capital, and other forms of defiance are planned. The Nepali people have grown fond of freedom. We won't give it up without a fight.
 But we are concerned about the international response to the coup. More than 60 percent of Nepal's national budget comes from foreign grants and loans. If liberal democratic nations -- the United States, Britain and the other European countries -- would halt their aid (even just the money going to the military), it might make it impossible for the king to sustain absolute power. It is a supreme act of bad faith on the part of the king to ask taxpayers around the world to foot the bill for his autocratic reign.
 Of course, even if we are able to reverse the coup and restore democracy it won't solve all of Nepal's problems. Not only is the country one of the poorest in the world, but the Maoist insurgency has claimed more than 11,000 lives and forced hundreds of thousands from their homes. A Maoist takeover is simply not an appealing option to most Nepalis. 
 Most analysts in Nepal agree, however, that there is no military solution to the Maoists either. Not only is the army ineffective, but many claim that it has used the insurgency as an excuse for extrajudicial killings, unlawful detentions and rape. In the end, the democratic political parties and the Maoists must negotiate a settlement, perhaps with international mediation. 
 With his ill-advised coup, King Gyanendra has only distracted the Nepali people and the world from what truly matters: making democracy work, making it possible for Nepalis to enjoy our rights -- like talking about anything and everything -- without any fear of the gun. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (87%); POLITICS (87%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (69%); CORRUPTION (68%); SMUGGLING (67%); ARMED FORCES (65%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (64%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (63%); AIRLINES (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); TOURISM (50%) Politics and Government; Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat; Freedom of the Press; News and News Media; Privacy; Freedom and Human Rights; Foreign Aid ; United States International Relations

PERSON: Manjushree Thapa; Gyanendra (King)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) NEPAL (94%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Nepal; Great Britain; Nepal

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005



235 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: West African Leaders Spar With Togo's Army-Backed President

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: COTONOU, Benin, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
West African leaders on Friday summoned Togo's new president to talks in Niger on Saturday, threatening immediate sanctions if the Togolese leader did not attend.
 Faure Gnassingbe was installed as president by the army just hours after his father, Gnassingbe Eyadema, died a week ago. West African leaders denounced his appointment, which violated the Constitution, as a military coup. The Constitution was hastily amended to allow Mr. Gnassingbe to succeed his father and to run the country until 2008. 
 African leaders, Togo's former colonial ruler, France, and the United States swiftly condemned the appointment, demanding that presidential polls be held and threatening an array of sanctions.
 Togo's transfer of power has dealt a blow to the declared efforts of African leaders to prove that the continent is able to govern itself and impose democratic principles.
 The delegation of West African leaders had been scheduled to go to the capital, Lome, for talks with Mr. Gnassingbe on Friday, but they canceled the trip after he decided to meet them in his northern base of Kara, close to where his father was born and was buried.
 Instead, they summoned him to Niger's capital, Niamey, on Saturday to meet President Tandja Mamadou, the current chairman of the Economic Community of West African States.
 The leaders ''reiterated their total rejection of the coup d'etat and invite the Togolese authorities once again to reverse their unconstitutional acts,'' they said in a statement after talks here in Benin's main city. 
 ''If the Togolese authorities do not respond favorably to this invitation they would put themselves at risk of immediate sanctions'' from the economic community, the statement said. 
 The leaders of Nigeria, Niger, Mali, Ghana and Benin took part in the discussions. Niger later said there would be no negotiation with the Togolese team expected in Niamey, but a reaffirmation that Togo's Constitution must be respected.
 Under the original Constitution, the head of the National Assembly, Fambare Ouattara Natchaba, was supposed to take over pending elections in 60 days. Mr. Natchaba, who was out of the country when Mr. Eyadema died, is in Benin.
 Togo's government said in a statement that it had been ready to receive the delegation on Friday but that it did not arrive.
 ''The government reiterates that it is fully available to welcome, or meet, any friends of Togo who want to accompany it at this turning point in our political life,'' it said.
 The statement was made at the end of a day of diplomatic sparring between Nigeria and Togo.
 In a sign of his increasing isolation, Mr. Gnassingbe spent hours in Kara with government ministers and generals waiting for the African leaders to arrive, only to finally return to Lome.
 The West African leaders said they only learned that the meeting had moved to Kara when they arrived in Cotonou, and asked the Togolese to return to Lome.
 Inside the country, governed for 38 years by Mr. Eyadema, who brooked little opposition, protests have been rare, but the police fired tear gas to disperse hundreds of people staging a demonstration in an opposition stronghold in Lome on Friday.
 Togo was gripped by political unrest in the late 1990's. Amnesty International has accused security forces of killing hundreds of people during and after an election in 1998. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); COUPS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOGO (99%); NIGER (96%); BENIN (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (94%); NIGERIA (92%); MALI (79%); GHANA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005



236 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: CNN Executive Resigns Post Over Remarks

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Eason Jordan, a senior executive at CNN who was responsible for coordinating the cable network's Iraq coverage, resigned abruptly last night, citing a journalistic tempest he touched off during a panel discussion at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, late last month in which he appeared to suggest that United States troops had deliberately aimed at journalists, killing some.
 Though no transcript of Mr. Jordan's remarks at Davos on Jan. 27 has been released, the panel's moderator, David Gergen, editor at large of U.S. News & World Report, said in an interview last night that Mr. Jordan had initially spoken of soldiers, ''on both sides,'' who he believed had been ''targeting'' some of the more than four dozen journalists killed in Iraq. 
 Almost immediately after making that assertion, Mr. Jordan, whose title at CNN had been executive vice president and chief news executive, ''quickly walked that back to make it clear that there was no policy on the part of the U.S. government to target or injure journalists,'' Mr. Gergen said. 
 Mr. Jordan was then challenged by Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, who was in the audience. Mr. Jordan then said that he had intended to say only that some journalists had been killed by American troops who did not know they were aiming their weapons at journalists.
 Nonetheless, accounts of Mr. Jordan's remarks were soon being reported on Web logs as well as in an article on Feb. 3 on National Review's Web site. Ann Cooper, executive director of the Committee to Protect Journalists, said that 54 journalists were killed in 2003 and 2004 . At least nine died as a result of American fire, she said.
 Among Mr. Jordan's responsibilities at CNN was be an advocate -- often a forceful one -- in discussions with the Pentagon on issues concerning the security of journalists in Iraq.
 In a memorandum released to his colleagues last night, Mr. Jordan, 44, who had worked at the network for more than two decades, said he had ''decided to resign in an effort to prevent CNN from being unfairly tarnished by the controversy over conflicting accounts of my recent remarks regarding the alarming number of journalists killed in Iraq.''
 In a separate e-mail message to the staff, Jim Walton, president of the CNN News Group, a division of Time Warner, announced Mr. Jordan's resignation, which took effect immediately, before praising his 23 years of service at the network. 
 In accepting Mr. Jordan's resignation, CNN appeared intent on putting the episode behind it as quickly as possible, perhaps in an effort to avoid repeating the drawn-out tensions last fall between CBS News and the Bush administration, as well as its conservative supporters. 
 After broadcasting a report in early September that was critical of President Bush's Vietnam-era National Guard service, CBS defended the report, in the face of criticism on Web logs, for more than a week before announcing that it could not substantiate it. Dan Rather, the CBS anchor, subsequently announced that he would step down as of March 9, and CBS announced its had fired one producer and was seeking the resignations of three others after an outside report it had commissioned found serious fault with the reporting process behind the Guard broadcast.
 Asked last night if CNN had had any contact with the Bush administration over the fallout from Mr. Jordan's remarks, a network spokeswoman, Christa Robinson, said, ''Not that I'm aware of.'' 
 Asked if Mr. Jordan had been under any pressure from the network to resign, Ms. Robinson said the decision had been his. She said Mr. Walton, the CNN president, was unavailable for further comment. Mr. Jordan did not return a message left on his cellphone seeking comment. Mr. Jordan, who once had day-to-day responsibility for CNN's international coverage, is no stranger to controversy. 
 In April 2003, he wrote an Op-Ed article in The New York Times saying that CNN had essentially suppressed news of brutalities in Saddam Hussein's Iraq, saying he thought the reports could have jeopardized the lives of Iraqis, particularly those on CNN's Baghdad staff.
 ''I felt awful having these stories bottled up inside me,'' he wrote. ''Now that Saddam Hussein's regime is gone, I suspect we will hear many, many more gut-wrenching tales from Iraqis about the decades of torment. At last, these stories can be told freely.''
 When reports of Mr. Jordan's more recent remarks began reaching the United States via the Internet, some of his colleagues, citing the previous controversy, responded with palpable irritation and mystification, though not with comments they would permit to be attributed to them by name, given the sensitivity of the situation.
 For CNN, the online reports -- as well as the only interview Mr. Jordan has given on the subject, for an article in The Washington Post -- have come at an especially inopportune time. In November, the network named Jonathan Klein, a former CBS news executive, as president of its domestic network. (His predecessor had been appointed only a little over a year earlier.) 
 It also gave him an ambitious assignment: to reclaim the ratings lead it yielded years ago to the Fox News Channel, whose commentators, at least, tend to tilt to the right.
 Bret Stephens, a member of the Wall Street Journal editorial board who attended the session in Davos, wrote in Thursday's Journal that Mr. Jordan had ''made a defamatory innuendo'' but added: ''Mr. Jordan deserves some credit for retracting the substance of his remark, and some forgiveness for trying to weasel his way out of a bad situation of his own making.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (77%); TERRORISM (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (64%) United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information; World Economic Forum; News and News Media

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%) Cable News Network

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARNEY FRANK (51%) Eason Jordan; Jacques Steinberg; Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); SWITZERLAND (91%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005



237 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: 'The Gates' Unfurling to High Hopes

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
With 45 television cameras in front of him and a view of bright orange vinyl gates stretching through Central Park behind him, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that the city expected an infusion of $80 million in tourism and other spending by people flocking to see ''The Gates,'' the vast public art project by the artists Christo and Jeanne-Claude.
 Worldwide interest in the project was clear at the news conference at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where journalists from more than 200 media outlets, including networks in Sweden, Mexico City and Tokyo and others as unusual as Bulgarian national television, crowded into the Temple of Dendur to hear the mayor and the two artists discuss the project, whose saffron-colored fabric panels will be unfurled this morning.
 For Mr. Bloomberg -- who has reduced the city's arts budget amid general cutbacks but has also emerged as the strongest promoter of public art at City Hall in decades -- the event was a chance to bask in the glow of a near-perfect blockbuster project: one that comes at no cost to the city (the artists are paying for everything, including extra police officers) and that will attract thousands of art pilgrims to New York during a month when tourism is traditionally at its lowest. 
 ''With no ticket sales of any kind it's impossible to predict exactly how big an impact 'The Gates' will have during its 16-day stay here,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, ''but based on attendance at similar events and other factors, the city's Economic Development Corporation estimates that the project will generate more than $80 million in economic activity for our city.''
 The $20 million project was originally conceived by the artists in 1979 and was rejected by three mayoral administrations before Mr. Bloomberg's, in part because of concerns about its cost and about damage to the park.
 The mayor, who first became interested in the notion of ''The Gates'' in 1995 as a trustee of the Central Park Conservancy, made light of the project's long history yesterday, saying that it took Michelangelo four years to paint the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel and Beethoven five years to write the Ninth Symphony. ''Mere blinks of an eye,'' he said, ''compared to the time that it took to build the masterpiece that we are celebrating today.''
 ''I can't promise,'' he added, ''particularly since this is New York, that every single person will love 'The Gates,' but I guarantee that they will all talk about it.''
 ''And that's really what innovative, provocative art is supposed to do,'' he added, as Jeanne-Claude and Christo sat next to him.
 Vince Davenport, the project's engineer, said that teams of workers would be standing by in case any of the 16-foot-high gates broke or were pushed down, and that a gate could be replaced in less than an hour. But both he and Raymond W. Kelly, the police commissioner, said they did not anticipate many problems, from either vandals or the weather. Mr. Davenport said that teams would begin manually unfurling the fabric at 8:30 a.m. and that all of the panels should be released by about 11.
 Asked often yesterday to explain the meaning of the project, Christo and Jeanne-Claude emphasized that its meaning would have to be found by those who walked through the 7,500 gates, spread over 23 miles of walkways.
 ''It has no purpose,'' Jeanne-Claude said. ''It is not a symbol. It is not a message. It is only a work of art.''
 But Christo explained that it related in some ways to the unrealized plans of Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux, the park's designers, to place iron gates at many of the entrances to the park. He added that the fabric panels, which will blow and curve in the wind, are also meant to remind viewers of the park's serpentine paths and the curves of the empty branches of the trees above them.
 After answering several questions, however, Christo became clearly frustrated by trying to explain his work and emphatically urged experience over rational inquiry. ''This project is not involved with talk,'' he said. ''It is real physical space. You need to spend time walking in the cold air -- sunny day, rainy day, even snow. It is not necessary to talk.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The artists Christo and Jeanne-Claude said yesterday that the meaning of ''The Gates'' would be found by those who walked through it. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B7)
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg expects ''The Gates'' to bring in $80 million. Pedestrians in Central Park walked amid the bare gates yesterday. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); WRITERS (70%); TICKET SALES (67%) Art; Public Art; Parks and Other Recreation Areas; News and News Media; Television; Art

COMPANY: BULGARIAN NATIONAL TELEVISION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Randy Kennedy; Christo (Artist); Jeanne-Claude (Artist); Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%); SWEDEN (77%); BULGARIA (74%) Central Park (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005



238 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: New York Hits Online Sellers Of Cigarettes

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
Concerned about the booming trade in online cigarette sales, New York state officials have begun using a variety of techniques to clamp down on the trade, saying New York City alone is losing more than $75 million a year in uncollected tax revenues because of the sales. 
 In recent weeks, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer has been pushing local postal officials and private carriers to stop delivering cigarettes bought online. His office has also recently begun negotiations with credit card companies to block transactions of online cigarettes.
 These efforts were given added push recently as local officials from the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives met with credit card executives to alert them to the various ways in which these transactions are illegal. 
 ''The tone was very cordial and unthreatening,'' said a city official who participated in the presentation three weeks ago at the bureau's office in Brooklyn. ''But in the end they made it crystal clear that now that the credit card companies understood the law, they would be held accountable for processing these transactions.''
 Mr. Spitzer emphasized that the effort has as much to do with health as money. ''These sales present a significant threat to public health because they provide easy access to cheap cigarettes, which increases smoking rates, particularly among children,'' he said. ''These illegal sales also evade state tax requirements.''
 Whatever their motivation, city and state officials are broadening their efforts to eradicate the business. 
 Two weeks ago, a judge ruled in one of the city's four lawsuits against online sellers that the city can file a revised racketeering lawsuit against Internet cigarette sellers. The ruling was the first time a federal judge has indicated that Internet sellers can be charged under federal racketeering law, said Eric Proshansky, the city's chief lawyer on the case. 
 After gleaning the names and the addresses from a Virginia lawsuit against one online cigarette company, the city began sending letters last month to more than 2,600 New Yorkers who officials say bought tax-free cigarettes. The letters, sent to those who bought cigarettes online from July 2002 to April 2004, give the alleged violators 30 days to pay or face interest and penalties of up to $200 a carton.
 In November, local law enforcement seized 300,000 cartons of illegal cigarettes at Kennedy International Airport. Joseph G. Green, a spokesman for the A.T.F., said that the seizure was the culmination of a yearlong investigation jointly conducted by the Queens district attorney's office; federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; postal inspectors; and city and state tax and finance officials.
 Sam Miller, a spokesman for the city's Department of Finance, said that the city loses more than $75 million a year as people duck local taxes by purchasing online. But the crackdown has drawn some criticism.
 ''New York is simply trying to engage in economic protectionism by limiting cigarette sales to brick-and-mortar sellers,'' said James L. Bikoff, a lawyer who represents several Internet tobacco sellers. ''Most of the folks who are in the online cigarette business are small outfits and they typically advise the consumer to check with their own city and state's laws regarding tax rules.'' 
 New York City smokers pay the highest cigarette taxes in the country, as the state charges a $1.50 tax per pack and the city adds an additional $1.50 tax per pack. A carton of cigarettes in the city costs about $70, including $33.30 in excise and sales taxes. Online, cigarettes cost as little as $15 a carton.
 Thus far, the city and the state have met with mixed results in their efforts to control the online traffic in cigarettes.
 Some banks that process MasterCard transactions have begun blocking sales from certain Internet tobacco sites to customers, said Joshua Peirez, a senior vice president at MasterCard. But other banks do not. American Express currently has no policy that blocks Internet cigarette sales, said Christine Elliott, a spokeswoman for the company.
 After sending a letter to credit card executives in August, Mr. Spitzer joined several other state attorneys general to send another letter pressing credit card companies to stop the transactions. 
 Both letters cited several reasons for the failure of Internet tobacco sellers to comply with applicable laws, including that they make no effort to verify the age of their customers and fail to report shipment of cigarettes to the tobacco tax administrator of the state into which shipments are made.
 While the United Parcel Service and other private carriers have been more open to the idea of blocking the delivery of these packages, postal officials have balked at pressure from Mr. Spitzer's office, claiming that they do not have the legal authority to stop the shipments, according to city officials who have been part of the discussions. But Mr. Spitzer's office contends that the postal service indeed has the authority under federal laws that prohibit mail fraud schemes, according to a letter sent by the office. 
 New York State passed a law that took effect in 2003 prohibiting online and mail-order sales of cigarettes to its residents. The law was largely intended to curb tax evasion and under-age smoking, since many online cigarette sites do virtually nothing to verify the age of customers. 
 Efforts to stop online sales are complicated, since Internet sites are sometimes based abroad and are therefore difficult to prosecute. City officials estimate that about 80 percent of the online cigarette sales come from sites that claim Indian affiliation, which for sovereignty reasons claim immunity from laws like the Jenkins Act. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FIREARMS (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (84%); SMOKING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); CITIES (77%); JUDGES (77%); LAWYERS (77%); TOBACCO MFG (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); AIRPORTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (57%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005



239 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Wearing the American Dream
After a Fashion Week in New York that was highlighted by podlike skirts, first-rate collections by Ralph Lauren (left) and Zac Posen presented a lean, sleek American look. A review by Cathy Horyn. FASHION, PAGE B20

Japan Urges North Korea To Rejoin Nuclear Talks
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan urged North Korea to re-engage in disarmament talks, a day after North Korea said it had nuclear arms. The clock is running on Japan's plan to bar most North Korean ships from its ports starting March 1. In Washington, Vice President Dick Cheney met South Korea's foreign minister, pressing him not to reward the North with trade deals. PAGE A6

Therapists Fear Losing Drug
Psychiatrists said they were confused and concerned by the news that Canadian regulators had suspended the use of a common hyperactivity drug amid reports of deaths linked to its use. PAGE A13

CNN Executive Resigns
Eason Jordan, the executive at CNN who was responsible for coordinating
Iraq coverage, resigned, citing a tempest he had touched off at a discussion of the World Economic Forum in which he appeared to suggest that United States troops were targeting and killing journalists. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Little Money for Oil Drilling
The 10 biggest oil companies are on track to earn more than $100 billion in 2004. But even as fears of shortages grow, the companies are not pouring a large portion of their money into their basic business: drilling. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

THIS WEEKEND

Get Ready for the Oscars
A. O. Scott muses on what the acting nominations say about us and our preoccupations. Plus, handicapping the awards and looking ahead, already, to 2006. ARTS & LEISURE


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Diane Bondareff for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); JOURNALISM (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); OIL EXTRACTION (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (73%); DICK CHENEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005



240 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-8

Sunni Presence Scarce in New Iraq Government
The Sunnis, the unchallenged ruling class under Saddam Hussein, decided with remarkable consistency to skip the election of the new government in Iraq. As a result, the Sunnis, who account for about 20 percent of Iraq's 28 million people, will have almost no representation in the government. A1

Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld made an unannounced visit to Iraq as sectarian violence rippled across the country, with a bombing at a Shiite mosque and a machine-gun attack on a bakery. A8

Japan Challenges North Korea
Japan's prime minister urged North Korea to re-engage in disarmament talks while increasing economic pressure with a new law that would bar most North Korean ships from Japanese ports. A6

Russians Take to the Streets
Russians are said to be politically passive, but the wave of recent protests unfolding in cities across 11 time zones is unexpectedly challenging this notion, while raising questions about public support for President Vladimir V. Putin. A6

Germany Bans Protests
Germany's leading government ministers announced plans to ban far-right protests during coming commemorations of the end of World War II. The ban, if approved by the legislature, would apply to demonstrations at the sites of former concentration camps and Holocaust memorials. A3

Rebel Attacks in Colombia
A new wave of leftist rebel attacks, along with mounting international criticism of government efforts to disarm right-wing death squads, have dealt sudden and serious setbacks to President Alvaro Uribe even as he has been touting his success in bringing order to his conflict-riven country. A4

Togolese President Summoned
West African leaders summoned Togo's new president, Faure Gnassingbe, to talks in Niger, threatening immediate sanctions if he did not attend. A7

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Drug Suspension Draws Ire
Psychiatrists said that they were as confused as they were concerned by the news that Canadian regulators had suspended the use of a commonly prescribed hyperactivity drug amid reports of deaths linked to its use. A13

ARTS B7-19

High Expectations for 'Gates'
With 45 television cameras in front of him and a view of bright orange vinyl gates stretching through Central Park behind him, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said that New York expected an infusion of more than 80 million in tourism and other spending by people flocking to see ''The Gates,'' the vast public art project by the artists Christo and Jeanne-Claude. B7

NATIONAL A9-13, 18

Bush Threatens to Veto Bills That Cut Drug Benefit
President Bush threatened to veto any bill that scales back Medicare's prescription drug benefit, which becomes available in January 2006 to elderly and disabled people A1

Al Qaeda Threat Cited in 2001
A strategy document outlining proposals for eliminating the threat from Al Qaeda, given to Condoleezza Rice as she assumed the post of national security adviser in January 2001, warned that the terror network had cells in the United States, according to a declassified version of the document. A1

Wal-Mart to Settle Wage Suit
Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest retailer, has agreed to pay $135,540 to settle federal charges that it violated child-labor laws in Connecticut, New Hampshire and Arkansas. A9

Hastert Cautious of Bush's Plan
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert warned this week that ''you can't jam change down the American people's throat'' on Social Security, becoming the latest and most prominent Congressional Republican to call for more public education and debate before Congress acts on President Bush's top legislative priority. A13

Dean Stakes Claim to Post
Still facing lingering doubts in some quarters about his rise to Democratic party chairman, Howard Dean sailed through a final round of meetings with a message of inclusiveness for his detractors and a few partisan zingers. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

New Strain of H.I.V. Detected In New York
A rare strain of H.I.V. that is highly resistant to virtually all anti-retroviral drugs and appears to lead to the rapid onset of AIDS was detected last week in a New York City man, who had unprotected anal sex with other men on multiple occasions while using crystal methamphetamine, city health officials announced. A1

2 Images of Accused Marine
The friends and family of Second Lt. Ilario G. Pantano are struggling to absorb the news that he is a suspect in the murder of two people in Iraq. His friends knew him as a Renaissance man, a mover and shaker in the downtown Manhattan world of independent film and Internet television. B1

FASHION B20

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-6

OBITUARIES A14-15

Arthur Miller
One of the great American playwrights, whose ''Death of a Salesman,'' a landmark of 20th-century drama. A man who grappled with the weightiest matters of social conscience in his plays and in them often reflected or reinterpreted the stormy and very public elements of his own life, he was 89. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

CNN Executive Resigns
Eason Jordan, a senior executive at CNN, resigned abruptly, citing a journalistic firestorm he had touched off during a panel discussion at the World Economic Forum in which he appeared to suggest that United States troops were targeting and killing journalists. C1

Private Pensions in Sweden
Sweden, long known for its cradle-to-grave welfare state, has already embraced a system that partly resembles the White House's proposals on Social Security. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: A vital job goes begging; Mr. Abbas makes a stand; a dismal class action finale; Carolyn Curiel on ''The Gates,'' waving in Central Park.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B18
TV Listings B19
Crossword B18
Weather A12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); VETO (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); HOLOCAUST (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); DISARMAMENT (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); APPROVALS (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); MEDICARE (58%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); ALVARO URIBE (51%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); TOGO (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NIGER (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005



241 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Japan Urges North Korea to Rejoin Disarmament Talks

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE and DAVID E. SANGER; James Brooke reported from Tokyo for this article, and David E. Sanger from Washington.

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
The day after North Korea declared that it possessed nuclear weapons, Japan's prime minister urged the North to re-engage in disarmament talks. He spoke as the clock was running down toward a new law that will put economic pressure on North Korea by barring most of its ships from Japanese ports starting March 1.
 In Washington, Vice President Dick Cheney met South Korea's foreign minister on Friday and pressed him not to reward the North by pursuing trade deals with the country -- a point on which the United States and South Korea have increasingly been divided. According to officials close to the discussion, Mr. Cheney specifically urged the South not to fill a North Korean request for hundreds of thousands of tons of fertilizer, saying that the nations trying to disarm the North had to take a common approach if they hoped to force its president, Kim Jong Il, to choose between nuclear arms and deeper isolation.
 China, officials said, is considering delaying or a mission to North Korea scheduled for next week to urge the country to end the eight-month hiatus in talks. 
 But Mr. Cheney, the member of Mr. Bush's national security team considered to be most hawkish on North Korea, told his South Korean visitor, Ban Ki Moon, that the United States would stick with the six-party negotiations that the North has rejected, and gave no indication that Washington was considering military action or a quarantine of the country, the officials said.
 Separately, the White House rejected a demand from North Korea for one-on-one negotiations, instead of group talks that would also include Japan, China, South Korea and Russia. President Bush has argued that bilateral negotiations failed in the 1990's because North Korea acted in bad faith, starting a second suspected nuclear program after agreeing to freeze its program in a 1994 accord with the Clinton administration. 
 The White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, insisted Friday that even within the larger talks, North Korea's negotiators would have many chances to face their American counterparts. ''There's plenty of opportunities for North Korea to speak directly with us in the context of the six-party talks,'' Mr. McClellan said. 
 While the administration talked about diplomacy, several officials said they were exploring ideas to put renewed economic pressure on the North. One senior American official said it was likely that the administration would search for new ways to squeeze the flow of money that runs into North Korea. 
 Talking to reporters in Sapporo, Japan, about 600 miles across the Sea of Japan from North Korea and a center of trade with the country, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi maintained Japan's public stance that the tightening shipping rules were not sanctions against North Korea. 
 The rules, scheduled to go into effect in three weeks, require all ships over 100 tons calling at Japanese ports to have property and indemnity insurance, which few North Korean ships have. It was passed last year after one Japanese city had to pay $6.4 million to salvage a North Korean shipwreck and to clean up its oil spill.
 The driving force for Japanese economic sanctions on North Korea is popular anger over North Korea's abductions of Japanese citizens in the 1970's coupled with widespread uneasiness about North Korea's nuclear weapons and missile program.
 North Korea fired one missile over Japan in 1998, prompting Japan to join the United States in its effort the build a missile-defense shield.
 The law is expected to have a crushing effect on North Korea's seafood industry. In 2003, only 2.5 percent of North Korean ships visiting Japan had insurance. In recent weeks, only one North Korean ship, a passenger-cargo ferry, is known to have purchased insurance.
 The insurance barrier will also be felt at Tokyo's Tsukiji market, the world's largest fish market, where North Korea is a major supplier of snow crabs, sea urchins and clams. As Asia's richest nation, Japan is the best market for North Korea's fishing fleet.
 ''It will hurt, it will pinch, it will be felt by North Koreans who are significant,'' said Chuck Downs, an American expert on Korea and author of ''Over the Line: North Korea's Negotiating Strategy.'' ''This will have a major impact,'' he said.
 Trying to form a circle around the already isolated state, Japan, Russia, China and South Korea all urged North Korea on Friday to return to talks aimed at dismantling North Korea's nuclear arsenal and its weapons assembly line. The neighbors were reacting to North Korea's announcement Thursday that it possessed nuclear weapons and that it was ''indefinitely'' boycotting disarmament talks. The talks, coordinated by the United States, were last held in June in Beijing.
 But of the five nations, only Japan is taking new steps to punish North Korea economically.
 On Tuesday, Prime Minister Koizumi received a petition, signed by five million people, demanding economic sanctions against North Korea. In December, a Kyodo News poll of 1,009 people found that 75.1 percent wanted the government to ''invoke economic sanctions and take a stern posture'' in dealing with North Korea. Last week, Katsuya Okada, Japan's main opposition leader, told foreign reporters, ''Measures should be imposed that will bring North Korea to the negotiating table.''
 Taking a different tack, American and South Korean officials have asked Mr. Koizumi in recent days not to impose sanctions for fear of driving North Korea away from the disarmament talks.
 The new insurance requirement is part of a wider Japanese effort to enforce safety and maritime rules on North Korea, a campaign that is cutting sharply into trade. Last year, North Korean ships made 1,071 port calls in Japan, down from 1,415 in 2002. Two-way trade last year amounted to $259 million, the lowest level on record and about 20 percent of the 1980 peak.
 In 2003, North Korea's trade with South Korea amounted to $724 million. With China, it hit $1 billion. South Korea and China oppose economic sanctions for fear that North Korea's government in Pyongyang would collapse, unleashing millions of economic refugees from North Korea, Northeast Asia's poorest nation.
 In turn, North Korea has warned the world that it considers economic sanctions ''a declaration of war.''
 ''Japan stands to gain nothing from economic sanctions that run counter to a mood of peace between the D.P.R.K. and Japan,'' the newspaper Rodong Shinmun said in an editorial on Thursday, referring to North Korea by its official name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
 Adding its own analysis, the Korean Central News Agency, the state news agency, warned Thursday about Japanese sanctions: ''The Korean Army and people are hating and cursing the crafty and wicked Japanese reactionaries. We have too many accounts to settle with Japan.''
 But to some outsiders, economic pressure could move North Korea back to the table.
 ''It's a nifty way to send a powerful message to Pyongyang that it can't expect cooperation from its neighbors while it engages in insulting and perverse behavior,'' Peter Hayes, executive director of the Nautilus Institute in San Francisco, said Friday. ''If Japan were combining positive with negative inducements, it would be viewed in the region as independent of the United States, and more liable to win Korean cooperation.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: South Korean police officers behind a defaced portrait of Kim Jong Il, the North Korean leader, at an anti-nuclear protest yesterday in Seoul. (Photo by Kim Kyung-Hoon/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); BAD FAITH (70%); FERTILIZERS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (88%); DICK CHENEY (76%); BAN KI-MOON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (73%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005



242 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1717 words

HEADLINE: Sweden's Take on Private Pensions

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM 

 BODY:
Every spring Marie-Louise Graveleij, a 62-year-old receptionist in a funeral home, receives a large orange envelope through the mail. Now, it is about to become her lifeline, offering her an alternative to a full-time job.
 Soon, she said, she will end her current work contract and decide whether she can afford to retire. The orange envelope she expects to receive within the next few weeks will contain a statement of her rights under a five-year-old restructuring of this country's still-generous state pension program that -- like the changes President Bush wants to introduce in Social Security -- includes a personal investment account. 
 The question is, will she be able to get by on what the envelope offers or not? 
 As in other lands where private accounts have been introduced in various forms, the answer seems ambiguous. For all the uncertainty over such accounts, what may be most surprising to Americans is that Sweden, long known for its cradle-to-grave welfare state, has already embraced a system that partly resembles the White House proposals. 
 ''I felt everything was going to be simple; this is Sweden,'' Ms. Graveleij said in an interview, musing over her understanding of her pension rights before and after the changes in the system. ''I didn't worry about it before. I felt safe. I felt everything would be O.K. Then, the safety net was gone.''
 Even after poring over the statement of benefits, she said, she was still not sure how much she would receive to help her afford the $450-a-month rent on her 400-square-foot apartment. ''Everything has become very complicated,'' she said.
 Her anxiety could eventually be shared by Americans who would lose some of the guaranteed benefits of Social Security if President Bush's plans to introduce privatized accounts became law. But Sweden's struggle with a new approach to pensions is by no means unique. 
 Its experience, along with those from other countries, highlights some of the benefits involved but also underscores the various risks when a government turns over an important investment decision to people not always comfortable with managing their retirement money.
 With the possible exception of Singapore's ambitious and expensive savings programs, the experience of other countries has been mixed. In Britain, in the late 1980's, legislation permitting savers to divert funds from company and state retirement plans into private investments backfired when the value of those investments fell and insurance sales representatives were accused of selling products under false pretenses.
 In Chile, the introduction of private investment accounts almost 25 years ago led to accusations that hidden fees reduced benefits by as much as a third. 
 In Poland, an army of sales agents, hired under a new private savings regime in 1999, defrauded the system by charging commissions on false accounts. Since some of the sales agents were paid a commission for every new account, they simply invented them. Other accounts were in the names of deceased people. To try to avoid such fraud and secret costs Sweden introduced its private pensions system by placing a state-appointed intermediary, the Premium Pensions Authority, between savers and fund managers, much as President Bush is proposing to do. Moreover, Sweden created a state-administered default account, comprising foreign and Swedish equities, for people who did not want to choose their own investments. 
 But in seeking a highly competitive program, Sweden threw open its private accounts system to a staggering 675 funds (compared with 6 in Chile and 21 in Poland), requiring savers to pick 5 of them or invest in the default fund.
 Unlike Mr. Bush's Social Security overhaul proposal, which would carve voluntary private accounts out of existing taxes, the Swedish system imposes a mandatory 2.5 percent saving on top of its basic benefit. In Sweden, 16 percent of wages goes into an overhauled pay-as-you-go system that defines the contributions savers make but no longer guarantees the same benefits as in the past.
 But while the system was meant to help people like Ms. Graveleij make her investments, it has left many Swedes confused, with some expressing indifference.
 To some here, the government seems to be requiring savers to take on too much risk with too little expertise after decades of having the state take care of most such issues.
 ''After a working life, the legislative process should provide a proper standard of living,'' said Busse Ekvall, 65, who took early retirement six years ago. ''As far as the private pension is concerned, it's too risky. We want a guarantee so that the money is not exposed to risk,'' added Mr. Ekvall, who receives about $3,300 a month before taxes, about 72.5 percent of his final salary. 
 Similarly, Lars Gedda, 66, a retired bank employee, noted that many of his friends did not feel they were qualified to pick 5 funds out of the 675 offered. ''You must have a knowledge that the average person does not have,'' he said.
 And for many of those still quite a few years from retirement, it is difficult to come to grips with the contents of the orange envelope.
 ''Its 2.5 percent, so who cares?'' said Hakan Ehn, 39, an airplane engineer who says he expects to be able to retire at 55 by relying on gains from owning his $250,000 four-bedroom home, a private savings plan costing $300 a month and an anticipated inheritance.
 Sweden's investment plan has suffered from poor timing, having been introduced in 2000, just before the global stock market boom came to an end.
 ''Those who chose to put their money in funds have lost their money in some way,'' said Berit Andnor, the minister of social affairs. ''I think that the experience has not been so good.''
 Of five million current savers, only three million actively choose their investments -- mostly people who chose their five funds when the system was introduced and the market looked more promising. After the initial enthusiasm, according to official figures, only 8 percent to 10 percent of new entrants into the system opt to make their own investments.
 Many people do not even bother to open their orange envelopes, the authorities say, either because they are too young to regard pensions as relevant or unsure of how the figures inside will translate into benefits. Such is the uncertainty that the government has ordered an inquiry into the private accounts system.
 ''The government has misled and under-educated the Swedish people in this huge change of responsibility,'' said Christer Elmehagen, chief executive of AMF, a leading pension fund manager that makes most of its money in Sweden's thriving regular pension business but also sells funds in the new private accounts system.
 ''In the United States you have a history of taking responsibility,'' he said. ''We are educated in a completely different landscape where the government has been our big brother.''
 Christina Lindenius, director general of the Premium Pensions Authority, the state body that oversees the private account system, said the reason the proportion of active investors has fallen is that the new entrants into the system are ''young people with very little money in the system'' who ''are not yet thinking about retirement.''
 Nonetheless, she said, ''my belief is that we should go in the direction of fewer funds.''
 In some ways, the Swedish model offers important lessons for the United States. A proliferation of funds, for instance, evidently creates confusion, while a default fund attracts savers unsure of themselves in the open market, drawing them away from active investment choices that could turn out to be perilous or profitable -- or both.
 The Premium Pensions Authority in Sweden aggregates trades between funds made by individual savers on a huge computer system and places them each day in bulk with the specific funds that savers have requested. That cuts out individual transaction costs but it also prevents fund managers from knowing their customers. Mr. Bush has proposed something similar for the United States.
 Despite these similarities, the Swedish pension overhaul grew out of political and economic circumstances different from those driving change in the United States. 
 In the early 1990's, said Klas Eklund, the chief economist at SEB Bank, a deep recession, growing unemployment and soaring interest rates ''had a traumatic effect on Sweden and we realized that we were not God's chosen people.''
 In contrast to the ideological rift in the United States, moreover, the overhaul grew out of a binding consensus among the dominant Social Democrats and four other parties accounting, in total, for over 80 percent of the Swedish Parliament. And the changes were introduced at a time of fiscal surpluses to help offset the costs of switching systems. 
 But there are similarities, too. The old pay-as-you-go system, like the one in the United States, was under strain as increasing numbers of pensioners relied on decreasing numbers of taxpayers for support. Under the previous system, pensioners were guaranteed 65 percent of the average salary of their 15 best-paid years up to salary levels of around $50,000 a year.
 Beyond that, more than 90 percent of all Swedish employees belong to occupational pension plans worth 10 percent to 15 percent of their final salary up to $50,000 and a much higher proportion for higher salaries.
 By contrast, the new pay-as-you-go component offers retirees even higher pensions if they postpone their retirement, and it includes a complex formula, known as the brake, that automatically reduces pensions if the system goes into deficit.
 So while the level of contributions has remained the same, the overall value of benefits will fall as pensioners in coming decades move increasingly onto the new system. That is where the private accounts come in, forecast, ideally, to provide up to 30 percent of Swedish pensions from real savings for those who are entering the system now. At the moment, the private accounts system holds about $20 billion.
 But it seems inevitable that the new plan will lead to greater financial disparities in a society that has long valued equality. ''It will all depend,'' said Ellen Nygren, a specialist in the LO labor union federation, ''on which fund you invested in and when you retire.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Swedish taxpayers receive an orange envelope yearly with pension updates.
''I didn't worry about it before,'' said Marie-Louise Graveleij, 62, of her pension. ''I felt safe. Then, the safety net was gone.''
''As far as the private pension is concerned, it's too risky,'' said Busse Ekvall, 65, who retired six years ago.
''It's 2.5 percent, so who cares?'' said Hakan Ehn, 39, of the pension. He said he had other means of paying for his retirement. (Photographs by Rob Schoenbaum for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
''Those who chose to put their money in funds have lost their money in some way,'' said Berit Andnor, minister of social affairs.
''The government has misled and under-educated the Swedish people in this huge change of responsibility,'' Christer Elmehagen said.
 Christina Lindenius is director general of the Premium Pensions Authority in Sweden. (Photographs by Rob Schoenbaum for The New York Times)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); SALES FORCE (83%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (76%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LEGISLATION (71%); SALES & SELLING (62%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Social Security (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%) George W (Pres) Bush; Alan Cowell

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (75%) SWEDEN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); CHILE (79%); POLAND (71%) Sweden

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005



243 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; YOUR TAXES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: There's a Reason People Turn to Professionals

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
MORE likely than not, you are now among the expanding legions of Americans willing to pay someone to handle the time-consuming, often frustrating chore of figuring how much income tax you owe. 
 The Internal Revenue Service, which lives on numbers, reckons that for Form 1040, the most widely used, it would take the average person 6 hours, 17 minutes for actual preparation and an additional 7 hours, 18 minutes to assemble records, decipher the law and to copy, assemble and submit the return.
 Small wonder, then, that 55.75 percent of all personal returns were signed by a pro for the 2002 tax year according to the latest I.R.S. tabulation, compared with 49.34 percent a decade earlier.
 ''The paid preparer is growing and continues to grow,'' said Mark Steber, vice president for tax resources at Jackson Hewitt Tax Service, the No.2 tax preparer, after H&R Block. While a Big Four accounting firm may charge $3,000 or more for a typical, moderately complex situation, you can hire a part-time practitioner for a couple of hundred dollars or so -- or maybe less if that person is a friend or neighbor. 
 The shift to hiring others for the job comes despite the rise of software programs to help people face tax preparation on their own. Whether or not they use that help, people are switching to computers so rapidly that the I.R.S., for the first time, expects more than 50 percent of all individual returns to be filed electronically this year. 
 H&R Block, in fact, experienced a decline in retail clients in the 2004 filing season, a development that its chairman, Mark A. Ernst, called the company's biggest challenge. Block's response has been to create plans in which taxpayers using various versions of its TaxCut software can enlist the aid of employee experts -- by telephone, for example. But when should a taxpayer look for help, and what kind is best? 
 ''It boils down to really two things,'' said Robert G. Gibson, a partner in private client advisory services at KPMG, the accounting firm. ''The level of complexity that you're dealing with vis-a-vis your knowledge of the tax system. And, secondly, your desire and motivation to tackle the project.''
 Although the government has doubled, to $100,000, this year the income limits for eligibility to use the simpler 1040A and 1040EZ forms for this filing season, the tax code itself has become more difficult to fathom.
 ''Legislative changes, life changes and economic changes such as losing a job used to drive a good deal of the increase in paid-preparer use,'' Mr. Steber said, noting the examples of a newly widowed woman whose husband had always handled the taxes, or someone who starts a small business or must begin withdrawals from a retirement plan. ''But now,'' he added, ''what I think you're seeing is just an overwhelming complexity of the law.''
 Some of each year's dose of complexity, in fact, is to the taxpayer's advantage. This year, for example, people can choose to deduct state and local sales taxes instead of state and local income taxes. That particularly benefits people who live in states with no income tax. 
 But a year's changes can mean that traditional do-it-yourselfers may miss out on a benefit if they use the preceding year's return as their guide.
 ''People want to know they're not missing anything, not overpaying the I.R.S.,'' said Tom Linafelt of Block's digital tax solutions unit.
 Jackson Hewitt says that the average refund for its customers is $400 more than the overall I.R.S. average of $2,126 last year.
 If you choose to do nothing more yourself than collect your tax-related documents, you can take them to all kinds of people -- from a local preparer with no formal credentials who has hung out a shingle to a national chain to a fancy Big Four accounting firm.
 But a rapidly growing number of taxpayers are deciding that the best bet is a blend of do-it-yourself and professional or computerized help.
 One option costs nothing. This is an online program called Free File, a joint project of the I.R.S. and an alliance of 19 software companies; it can be found by going to www.irs.gov and clicking on the Free File link. That project, now in its third year, allows tens of millions of taxpayers to prepare and submit federal returns electronically at no cost. Eight of Free File's industry members have lifted restrictions on such things as income, age or state of residency, so that anyone can qualify. Participating companies can earn money by selling supplementary services, like those for state returns. 
 As for H&R Block, it offers three online tax programs, tailored for different levels of complexity. The standard program costs $29.95 and includes a session in which you can ask questions of an adviser. The premium program, at $39.95, includes an interactive video library to explain tough situations and new tax laws and provides a consultation with a tax professional.
 The top program, called signature, costs $79.95 and corrects any preparation errors, files the return and provides representation in an audit and year-round access to a tax pro. 
 ''These are hybrids between do-it-yourself and professional,'' Mr. Linafelt said. ''We feel people like to do their own taxes, like to feel in control of their finances. It's the one time of year they get a really good picture.''
 Of course, software packages differ. Some provide more explanation for the novice than others. Some aren't sophisticated enough for complicated situations and some may be incompatible with your computer, limit you to one return or lack state forms or online or telephone support.
 Still, the software has made tax preparation so easy for so many people that some critics say it may blunt efforts to simplify the tax code.
 But no matter how proficient you become, it's a good idea to have a professional review your taxes, at least periodically, expert preparers contend. ''You should at least use one every three years or so, within which the statute of limitations is operating so if you miss something you can go back and fix it,'' Mr. Steber of Jackson Hewitt advised. 
 Other selling points of professional help are advanced software, follow-up consultation and defense if a return is challenged. Professionals may also help spot and explain areas of potential savings for future years. 
 ''There's no better road map to discover where the planning opportunities lie than through the job of preparing the tax return,'' said Mr. Gibson of KPMG.
 SPECIALISTS say you should avoid any preparers who advertise the ability to get the biggest refund or whose fee is tied to a refund amount, as they may be chiselers who could get you in trouble with the I.R.S. 
 Yet the fast-expanding embrace of tax software by do-it-yourselfers seems unlikely to be causing significant defections from preparation professionals.
 H&R Block has almost 10,000 offices nationwide, almost twice as many as Jackson Hewitt. But Mr. Ernst said that if Block had even more capacity, it could stop some refund-eager clients from shunning lines and seeking out other pros.
 Daniel L. Gordon, an accountant who has his own firm in Bethesda, Md., seems to see even less threat from converts to software. 
 ''I've had one or two that I've lost this year, but I generally replace them with wealthier and more complex clients,'' he said. ''I don't lose any sleep over it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Purlaine Lieberman, right, who works for H&R Block in Manhattan, has helped Robert Knighton file his taxes for three years. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX PREPARATION SOFTWARE (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (88%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); DISMISSALS (65%) Taxation

COMPANY: KPMG (84%); H & R BLOCK INC (56%); JACKSON HEWITT TAX SERVICE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (56%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (56%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

PERSON: MARK ERNST (53%) Robert D Jr Hershey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



244 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2431 words

HEADLINE: On the Beach, a Brand New Life

BYLINE: By JEFF VANDAM

 BODY:
MARISOL GUIVAS met her husband-to-be one day in 1998 through an instant message. She lived in the Bronx, he in Brooklyn, and she asked his name. It was Angel, he said, and like his future wife, he had a keen interest in the heavenly figures that were his namesake. One of their first dates was to see the Internet love story ''You've Got Mail.'' They seemed destined for each other. 
 Marisol and Angel were married in 2000. They lived in the $32,000 one-bedroom co-op that Angel had bought as a bachelor in Sheepshead Bay. He had grown up there, the only Puerto Rican kid in a neighborhood of Italians, and now he and Marisol were starting their family there. Their son, Gabriel, was born in June 2002, and as he grew out of his crib and into his big-boy bed, the co-op began to feel too small. 
 They looked north, to new construction under way in Harlem, and east, to homes in Long Island. Then an item in the newspaper caught Marisol's eye. It mentioned a lottery for brand new seaside homes in a complex to be named Arverne-by-the-Sea, in Queens. It was a 20-block stretch in the distant Rockaways, the string-bean-shaped peninsula that juts into the ocean south of Kennedy Airport and Jamaica Bay. It was only 10 minutes from Angel's job at the post office in Howard Beach, and would become a vast development of homes, with stores, restaurants, a Y.M.C.A., a marina and a school. They signed up. 
 Last February, they got a call that they were in line for the very last house in the very first phase of Arverne-by-the-Sea, 32 homes labeled the Sands at Harbour Pointe. They went to the sales office and poked around the neighborhood, if it could have been called that. There were no food stores, save for a bodega. The subway station was a treacherous 15-minute trek away on the sidewalk-less Rockaway Freeway. Still, when two buyers in front of them bailed out, Marisol and Angel scraped together a 10 percent down payment on the $395,000 price. Their new address was on Arverne Mews, a street that did not yet exist.
 The land where the Guivases were about to put down new roots had been nothing but sand, weeds and trash for 40 years. It wasas though a real estate curse had befallenit. More wild dogs than people on the streets. More trash than shells on the beach. The end of New York, literally and figuratively. It had been fallow, empty, abandoned, its beachside bungalows razed in the 1960's to make way for decades of schemes that never materialized. It was part of the 308-acre Arverne Urban Renewal Area, left over long after the idea of flattening a dense patch of residential land was rejected as an urban planning concept. The biggest vacant lot in the city. 
 But Arverne-by-the-Sea was to change all that. The free sand buckets and shovels from the sales office depicted people on the beach waving in front of a brilliant sunset. The ambitious master plan was to build 117 acres of residential subdivisions with names like Ocean Breeze, the Tides and the Dunes. The grand total of market-rate homes to be built by 2007 was 2,300. Marisol and Angel were taking a grand gamble on a place where no previous project had come to fruition in nearly half a century. 

Land of 1,000 Schemes
 To stroll on the shores of Arverne these days is to experience loneliness. Among the bare parcels that were once filled with houses and people, there is very nearly nothing. The only buildings are a closed bait-and-tackle outlet and a health clinic. A small ''Comfort Station'' sits on the boardwalk just off Beach 73rd Street; a weathered sign above the boarded-up restrooms says they are ''temporarily closed.'' 
 The emptiness invites routine illegal dumping, and in 2001, two joggers, including a 74-year-old man, were attacked on the boardwalk by wild dogs. The skyline is composed of the elevated tracks of the A train and the towers of nearby housing projects. Manhattan, occasionally visible in the distance from Beach Channel Drive, seems impossibly far away, sunken into the sea.
 Arverne was not always devastated. In the early 20th century, it was a well-to-do resort community containing one of the nation's largest hotels, the Arverne. Aristocrats gamboled in the sea spray.
 ''It was a vacation area with bungalows and houses and concessions along the boardwalk,'' said Jonathan Gaska, district manager for Community Board 14. ''It really mirrored what the old Coney Island was.''
 By the 1940's, Arverne had become a bustling neighborhood. Yet the prosperity that bolstered other parts of the country in the 50's did not seep into that part of the Rockaways. Stores, theaters and restaurants fled, and Arverne declined to the point where the city razed its crumbling homes and labeled it an ''urban renewal area'' in 1964. But nothing was ever renewed. 
 This is not to say people haven't tried. In the years before Angel and Marisol Guivas set foot in Arverne, developers and community leaders brought forth a cavalcade of ideas, some more preposterous than others. Few of them took into account the wishes of the surrounding community. 
 In the late 1980's, the developer Bruce Ratner proposed 10,000 units of residential housing in Arverne. Opponents knocked the number of units to 7,500. But then the New York real estate market imploded and Mr. Ratner's company pulled out.
 A few years later, the Reichmanns, a Canadian family that built the Canary Wharf development in London, submitted a proposal to build upon the sands of Arverne a futuristic pleasure palace, Destination Technodome. It was to be staggering in scale and include an indoor ski slope. There would also be theaters, an Olympic-size pool, skating rinks, a hotel and new jobs projected in the thousands. But the costs the family asked the city and state to assume, as much as $1 billion, proved too much, and the project collapsed.
 Highly frustrated, the community asked a team of consultants to sketch out a plan that would actually work. A proposal was submitted to the Giuliani administration in 2000 that included the community's desires: attractive housing, a school, a recreation center and a large amount of retail, specifically a major supermarket, chain stores and restaurants. 
 Along with several other builders, two Long Island developers, the Beechwood Organization and the Benjamin Companies, assembled a bid for the project. Shortly after a devastating plane crash in the Belle Harbor section of the Rockaways in November 2001 that killed 265 people, the Giuliani administration designated Benjamin-Beechwood as the winning team. 
 ''Within a week or two of that plane crash, we got the call,'' said Les Lerner, a principal of the Beechwood Organization. ''Perhaps they needed to show something positive happening in the Rockaways.''

A Grand Gamble
 It was perhaps a cruel twist that Angel and Marisol Guivas had redone their kitchen in Sheepshead Bay before getting the call about the house in Arverne. They had put in new cabinets and appliances and bought a big new refrigerator, but in just a few weeks, they would have to shuffle their belongings across the Gil Hodges Memorial Bridge and onto the Rockaway peninsula. 
 It was a pleasant evening in November 2004, and furniture, clothing, empty juice boxes, catalogs and Gabriel's toys were scattered about in a pre-move jumble. An enormous sense of expectation permeated the household. ''I'm psyched! You know what I'm saying?'' said Angel, 35, his strong voice booming and his cropped black hair not moving an inch. Enthusiastic as ever, he clapped his hands together, loud. ''I want to get to work, guys!'' 
 Marisol, a petite, dark-haired 33-year-old with warmth and energy to spare, laughed. ''It's very 'beach house,''' she said about their new home, her face glowing. She was pregnant with another baby, due in March. If the Guivases had not won their lottery spot in Phase 1A of Arverne, they probably would have had to begin raising the baby in a place that was not even big enough for the three of them. 
 To give Gabriel his own space in their Sheepshead Bay home, they had put his bed in a narrow room just off the main entrance that resembled a walk-in closet. Angel painted the ceiling sky blue and added white cloud puffs. But they knew their 2-year-old needed more space to run around.
 Angel and Marisol, who can't seem to stop talking effusively about their new home, have never had serious doubts about choosing Arverne. But their final confirmation came from an entrepreneur with slightly more experience. They attended a real estate expo at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center last fall, and one of the events was a question-and-answer session with Donald Trump. 
 ''What happened was a girl told him, 'I'm about to go under contract with Arverne-by-the-Sea,''' Marisol said. ''And Trump was like, 'Arverne? Can I have your contract?'''
 ''We high-fived,'' Angel said. ''It was great! We were so happy. Another person said, 'I have $20,000 in equity, what can I do with that money?' And Trump said, 'Arverne.' That's exactly how we took Arverne, as an opportunity.''
 Less than a year after Angel and Marisol bought the house on Arverne Mews for $395,000, similar units in the newer phases of the development are selling at prices starting at close to $500,000. In the next section to be completed, 80 percent of the 121 houses have already been sold. In the section after that, the waiting list is 500 families long. People like the Guivases, who bought one of the first houses in the first development, sowed the seed.
 ''Pioneers is a good word,'' said Mr. Lerner of the Beechwood Organization. ''At the time they committed to buy these houses, all that was going on in Arverne was these 32 houses. Now they really see that the dream they gambled on has come to fruition.''
 Yet in the surrounding community, there is still very little in terms of amenities. The only store for more than 10 blocks is a bodega on Rockaway Beach Boulevard, which shares space in a tiny strip mall with the Dragon Garden Chinese takeout and an empty storefront that was formerly home to ''Forbidden Tattoos.'' 
 Transportation is another issue. The nearest subway station is the Beach 67th Street stop on the A train, and getting there requires traipsing through wide puddles along the Rockaway Freeway, an unlighted street with fast-moving traffic. The ride into Manhattan, which takes commuters across Queens and Brooklyn, usually exceeds an hour. 
 ''It's really an hour and ten or an hour and twenty,'' said Mr. Gaska of Community Board 14. But when more people move to Arverne, he said, the community will lobby the Metropolitan Transportation Authority for express trains to Manhattan. ''They don't have to build new tracks; they don't have to do anything,'' he said.
 As for groceries, Mr. Lerner said he and his partners were on the cusp of announcing a deal with a ''major brand-name supermarket'' to install a store in Arverne-by-the-Sea. But for the time being, residents like the Guivases shuttle over to Brooklyn or out to Long Island for their basic needs. 

Bright House, Big Future
 Upon his first entry to the house on Arverne Mews, the Guivases' son announced that it was ''Gabriel's house.'' 
 ''Ooooh, beautiful,'' he told his parents. They were not aware he knew what that word meant, but they accepted his assessment. He now rides his Li'l Rascal tricycle around in the empty living room, his Lion King sneakers lighting up the carpet.
 The new house is two stories of gleaming white and gray siding with a white picket fence. There is a backyard with enough room to barbecue and listen to the waves. There is a one-bedroom rental unit on the second floor that already has a tenant. 
 In the living room of their part of the house, Angel is painting the walls in shades of green like ''Celery Ice'' that get progressively darker as they approach the back window, which lets in glowing bright ocean light. There is no direct view of the water, but the beach is right around the corner.
 ''It's like a Florida in New York,'' Marisol said from the kitchen, where another new fridge waited to be installed.
 ''No, no,'' Angel corrected her, ''it's California in New York. That's the way I see it. You see guys in wetsuits out there,'' he said, pointing to the ocean, which attracts its own legion of surfers. 
 Until all the furniture arrives, Angel, Marisol and Gabriel are staying in the first-floor bedroom, where they have installed an enormous inflatable mattress. The garage is full of boxes and shopping bags from Ikea, and the kitchen counter is scattered with papers and brochures advertising the model for their unit, ''The Brittania.'' 
 Neighbors have already stopped by. Back in Sheepshead Bay, Angel said, ''half the people, they don't really want to talk to you.'' But in Arverne-by-the-Sea, he said, ''People are like, 'Heyyyy! How you doin'?''' 
 ''We all got here almost in the same week,'' Marisol added of her neighbors. ''We're building relationships together.''
 To Angel and Marisol, there is no end to what Arverne-by-the-Sea will bring. They have talked about investing in other properties in the area, or maybe even opening a franchise like Starbucks. (''Iced coffee at the beach!'' Marisol said.) Outside, Angel pointed at the wide expanse of dirt that will become his new community, the expanse where so many others have seen defeat.
 ''You see that lot right there?'' he asked. ''That's prime real estate. That's untouched. That's empty. This is what I see that a lot of people don't see. You just have to have the courage to jump in. It's unbelievable. It's gonna be great!''

HIGHLIGHTS
Shifting Tides

1856 -- The first structure, a fishing shack, is built on the Rockaway Peninsula.

1864 -- Ferries departing from Canarsie begin shuttling vacationers to the Rockaways.

1882 -- Remington Vernam buys land between Far Rockaway and Rockaway Beach, building houses and laying streets. His wife names the area ''Arverne'' because he signs his checks ''R. Vernam.''

1895 -- The village is incorporated and given the name Arverne-by-the-Sea.

1922 -- A raging fire destroys 150 buildings, including 10 hotels.

1964 -- Arverne is declared an urban renewal area and acres of bungalows are razed.

1991 -- Plans for 7,500 units of housing, also called Arverne-by-the-Sea, fall through.

2000 -- Destination Technodome, a gigantic indoor sports complex, is abandoned as a development idea for Arverne.

2001 -- A consortium of Long Island developers is designated as the winning design team for a new Arverne-by-the-Sea residential and retail complex.

2004 -- The first homes in Arverne-by-the-Sea are opened; the Guivas family moves in.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Feb. 13 with an article about new housing in the Rockaways misstated the year the first structure was built on the Rockaway Peninsula. It was not 1856; an early settler, Richard Cornell, built a home in Far Rockaway in 1690.




GRAPHIC: Photos: HIGH HOPES -- Angel and Marisol Guivas, with their son, Gabriel, are thrilled to be among the newestresidents of Arverne-by-the-Sea. (Photographs by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
AH, THAT SALT AIR -- At the Guivases' old apartment, top left and left, 2-year-old Gabriel slept in a room that resembled a walk-in closet. In their new two-story home by the sea, above right and below, space and light abound. ''It's like a Florida in New York,'' Marisol said. ''No, no,'' Angel corrected her, ''it's California in New York.'' (Photos by Top left and left, Angela Jimenez for The New York Times
 above and below, Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. 10)Map of the Rockaways highlighting Arverne-by-the-Sea development area. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); RESTAURANTS (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) Area Planning and Renewal; Geographic Profiles; History; Housing; Arverne-by-the-Sea (NYC); Names, Geographical

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: Angel Guivas; Marisol Guivas; Remington (19th Century) Vernam; Jeff Vandam

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Rockaway Peninsula (NYC); Arverne (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



245 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Ford Enters the Crossover Bake-Off

BYLINE: By MICHELLE KREBS

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
LIKE researchers testing new compounds in a laboratory, or cooks whipping up recipes for a prize competition, auto designers are trying to find the perfect formula for the industry's hottest new thing, the Frankenwagon known as the crossover.
 Crossovers have traits of two or more types of vehicles, but in most cases they cannot be tidily categorized. Some are built on the chassis of a car and have the body style of a sport utility, like the Toyota Highlander or Honda Pilot; with others, like the Buick Rendezvous, a sport utility body rides on a minivan base. So the automakers' product planners are forever tinkering with the ingredients, varying the proportions of car, sport utility and even pickup to develop the perfect mix. 
 With their 2005 Freestyle, Ford's product planners conjured up a formula that is close in size and price to the Chrysler Pacifica, a competitor that has similarly carlike styling. But after a week of test-driving, I concluded that Ford created the superior blend.
 Indeed, it would seem that Ford learned some lessons from Chrysler's mistakes. The Pacifica was priced too high and equipped too lavishly when it came to market; as a result, Chrysler cut prices, added cheaper versions and offered incentives to buyers. 
 The Freestyle is priced attractively and packaged nicely, and it comes from good stock. Its architecture was derived from the more expensive Volvo XC90 and is shared by the Ford Five Hundred and Mercury Montego sedans.
 When I first drove the Freestyle, I predicted that it would be a sleeper, handily outselling the rather bland Five Hundred. That has turned out to be the case. Ford originally figured that its production run would be 60 percent Five Hundreds and 40 percent Freestyles; the ratio now is 50-50, and the mix is likely to tilt even further toward the Freestyle. Because the Five Hundred, Freestyle and Montego are all built at a Chicago assembly plant designed for flexible manufacturing, the production mix can be adjusted quickly to meet market demand.
 While competitors like the Nissan Murano have wildly expressive exterior designs, the Freestyle looks quite traditional. It is, in fact, understated and rather plain, as are many Fords these days. There is more than a passing resemblance to the Explorer, but I would go so far as to say it looks much like a station wagon -- a term that few in the auto industry dare to speak, given the stigma of wagons being old-fashioned. I would say it is no great beauty, but it is not an embarrassment, either.
 Riding on a car base, the Freestyle does not force passengers to climb up and in, as truck-based S.U.V.'s often do. Yet there is a good view of the road because the front seats are higher than they are in most sedans. The third-row seats are also raised, so far-back passengers can enjoy the view as well. The roof also rises at the rear, assuring ample headroom.
 Inside, the layout is contemporary and clutter-free. My top-of-the-line Limited model wore platinum paint and flaunted cream-color leather upholstery. The center of the dashboard was dressed up with a reasonably convincing simulation of wood. Other bits of trim, where chrome might usually be found, were done in a plastic meant to look like brushed metal -- and actually looked like brushed metal. 
 The Freestyle's main selling point is its practicality and versatility, especially of its seating configurations. All Freestyles have a third-row seat, a feature that is often an option in crossovers or is available only in more expensive versions. And the Freestyle's third row actually accommodates adults, unlike most.
 Both the second- and third-row seats fold flat, and the operation is smooth and easy. In fact, whoever developed the folding third row in this wagon deserves a fat bonus. These are the industry's easiest, lightest and smoothest seats to rearrange; you need only follow the simple instructions, and each step is labeled with a big 1, 2 or 3. 
 The second row seats slide forward and backward, so legroom can be distributed where it is most needed. A second-row bench seat, which expands the seating capacity to seven, is also available.
 I also appreciated the 22.5 cubic feet of space behind the third row. That is about double the room offered by the Pacifica. 
 I put the Freestyle to the people-carrying test when I took a group of middle-school boys from the neighborhood to Dairy Queen. They liked being able to adjust the seats for extra legroom and were impressed by the abundance of electrical outlets and cup holders of all shapes and sizes. They declared the deep center console between the second-row bucket seats to be perfect for video games. But the optional DVD player didn't win raves; the boys thought the screen was too small for playing games. 
 Besides the video screen, their biggest complaint was the rather rough, noisy ride in the third row. Up front, I also complained about the noise, specifically the trucklike roar of the engine. I've had similar complaints with the engines in other Fords, including the minivans.
 The Freestyle's only engine is a 3-liter V-6 rated at 203 horsepower and 207 pounds-feet of torque. While not the class laggard, it is substantially less powerful than the best in this class -- and feels it. For a vehicle that weighs around 4,000 pounds, the Freestyle is underpowered. 
 The engine is paired with a continuously variable automatic transmission for improved fuel economy. The C.V.T. has caused some quality headaches for Ford, and drivers who expect to feel and hear distinct gearshifts may take a while to feel comfortable with the engine's monotone revving. But it provides superior fuel economy, with a rating of 20 m.p.g. in town and 27 on the highway. 
 Safety features include a standard traction control system. Like many other crossovers, the Freestyle does not offer an electronic stability control, even as an option (though all Toyota Highlanders have one as standard equipment). Front side air bags and side-curtain air bags -- which offer head protection for all three rows -- are available in a $695 option package.
 My Limited test car started at $29,270 and had a final sticker price of $32,915. While I tested a front-drive Freestyle, an all-wheel-drive version is available for $1,800 more. The SE, starting at $25,670, and the SEL, at $27,070, are better bargains.
 There are a couple of notable omissions from the option list. If the typical Freestyle driver is a mother like me, who often hauls children to sporting events in other school districts, a navigation system would certainly come in handy. And I could use a helping hand, in the form of a power assist, with the heavy liftgate.
 The Freestyle could use a bit of frosting: an infusion of power, a few added amenities and a dash of styling panache. But the basic recipe is not only sound, it should appeal to the tastes of the mass market.

INSIDE TRACK: A station wagon without the baggage.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ford's Freestyle shares architecture with the Five Hundred and design cues with the Explorer. (pg. 1)
 Built on car architecture, the Freestyle is easier to enter than an S.U.V. (pg. 4)Chart: ''4 Wagons With a Touch of S.U.V.'' lists features and specifications for selected Sport Utility Vehicles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (63%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (61%) Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Michelle Krebs

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



246 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; BEST SELLERS: February 13, 2005; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1304 words

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 1	1	3	THE BROKER, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $27.95.) The C.I.A. arranges a presidential pardon for a power broker who may know crucial secrets, laying a trap for the foreign intelligence service that wants him dead.		 	 	 	 2	2	98	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a centuries-old secret society.		 	 	 	 3	3	71	THE FIVE PEOPLE YOU MEET IN HEAVEN, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $19.95.) An old man who died while trying to rescue a little girl from danger discovers that all will be explained to him in the afterlife.		 	 	 	 4		1	CONVICTION, by Richard North Patterson. (Random House, $25.95.) A lawyer comes to believe that her client -- who is on death row for the sexual assault and murder of a young girl -- may be innocent.		 	 	 	 5	4	8	STATE OF FEAR, by Michael Crichton. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) Reverse eco-terrorists create natural disasters to convince the public that global warming is real.		 	 	 	 6	5	5	BY ORDER OF THE PRESIDENT, by W. E. B. Griffin. (Putnam, $26.95.) An Army officer tries to thwart a terrorist plot to crash a stolen 727 into the Liberty Bell.		 	 	 	 7	6	4	CHAINFIRE, by Terry Goodkind. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $29.95.) The 10th volume of the ''Sword of Truth'' fantasy series.		 	 	 	 8		1	THE LAST KINGDOM, by Bernard Cornwell. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) In ninth-century England, a warrior must decide where his loyalties lie: with the viking chieftain who raised him or with Alfred the Great.		 	 	 	 9		1	LABYRINTH OF EVIL, by James Luceno. (Lucas/Del Rey/Ballantine, $25.95.) A new ''Star Wars'' novel, featuring Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi.		 	 	 	 10	8	4	UNEXPECTED BLESSINGS, by Barbara Taylor Bradford. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) Continuing the story of the Harte family and its financial empire, told through four generations of women.		 	 	 	 11	7	10	NIGHT FALL, by Nelson DeMille. (Warner, $26.95.) A husband and wife who work for an antiterrorism task force reopen the investigation into the crash of T.W.A. Flight 800 over the Atlantic, off Long Island, in 1996.		 	 	 	 12		2	ALONE, by Lisa Gardner. (Bantam, $24.) A sniper with the Massachusetts State Police faces a wrongful-death lawsuit -- and a killer who's on the loose.		 	 	 	 13	10	11	LONDON BRIDGES, by James Patterson. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) The F.B.I. agent Alex Cross contends with two deadly enemies: the Wolf and the Weasel.		 	 	 	 14	9	9	A SALTY PIECE OF LAND, by Jimmy Buffett. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) A cowboy's life is changed when a 101-year-old woman hires him to be a lighthouse keeper. 		 	 	 	 15	11	12	*I AM CHARLOTTE SIMMONS, by Tom Wolfe. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $28.95.) A very smart, very innocent freshman from the Blue Ridge Mountains is amazed by what she finds at a prestigious university.			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 1	1	3	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	 2	3	5	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Viking, $29.95.) A historical investigation, by the author of ''Guns, Germs, and Steel,'' into why some societies succeed while others fail. 		 	 	 	 3	2	4	WITNESS, by Amber Frey. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $25.95.) A memoir by the California massage therapist who testified for the prosecution in the murder trial of Scott Peterson. 		 	 	 	 4	5	3	GOD'S POLITICS, by Jim Wallis. (HarperSanFrancisco, $24.95.) An evangelical Christian argues that Democrats must ''take back the faith'' and not allow conservative Republicans to hijack the Bible. (+)		 	 	 	 5	4	19	AMERICA (THE BOOK), by Jon Stewart, Ben Karlin, David Javerbaum et al. (Warner, $24.95.) ''The Daily Show'' offers an illustrated parody of a civics textbook. 		 	 	 	 6	7	3	ANIMALS IN TRANSLATION, by Temple Grandin and Catherine Johnson. (Scribner, $25.) How autism can help lead to an understanding of the brains, emotions and talents of animals. 		 	 	 	 7	13	3	102 MINUTES, by Jim Dwyer and Kevin Flynn. (Times Books/Holt, $26.) Two journalists at The New York Times describe people's struggle to survive inside the World Trade Center on Sept. 11. 		 	 	 	 8	10	3	WINNING THE FUTURE, by Newt Gingrich. (Regnery, $27.95.) The former speaker of the House proposes a 21st-century ''Contract With America.'' (+)		 	 	 	 9	12	17	CHRONICLES: Volume One, by Bob Dylan. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) Recollections and observations from the singer-songwriter. 		 	 	 	 10		3	CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN, by John Perkins. (Berrett-Koehler, $24.95.) A former employee of an international consulting firm denounces the American global empire and its ''corporatocracy.''		 	 	 	 11	6	43	EATS, SHOOTS & LEAVES, by Lynne Truss. (Gotham, $17.50.) An Englishwoman expounds on the use and misuse of punctuation marks.		 	 	 	 12	9	10	FAVRE, by Brett Favre and Bonita Favre with Chris Havel. (N.F.L. Publishing/RuggedLand, $29.95.) A profusely illustrated book about the Green Bay Packers' quarterback.		 	 	 	 13	8	14	HIS EXCELLENCY, by Joseph J. Ellis. (Knopf, $26.95.) A biography of George Washington, by the author of ''Founding Brothers.'' 		 	 	 	 14	11	16	WHEN WILL JESUS BRING THE PORK CHOPS? by George Carlin. (Hyperion, $23.95.) Another volume of observations and opinions from the stand-up comedian.		 	 	 	 15		1	THE CASE FOR DEMOCRACY, by Natan Sharansky with Ron Dermer. (PublicAffairs, $26.95.) The former Soviet dissident and political prisoner assays ''the power of freedom to overcome tyranny and terror.''	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Jan. 29, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
Other recent books of particular interest

A COMPLICATED KINDNESS, by Miriam Toews. (Counterpoint, $23.) A novel told by a girl mismatched with her Mennonite hometown.

BICYCLE: The History, by David V. Herlihy. (Yale University, $35.) A prodigious researcher vividly recounts the development of a great machine that wasn't fully practical till the 1870's.

SAVAGE SUMMIT: The True Stories of the First Five Women Who Climbed K2, the World's Most Feared Mountain, by Jennifer Jordan. (Morrow, $24.95.) Victims of alpine sexism, all now dead.

IMPERIAL RECKONING: The Untold Story of Britain's Gulag in Kenya, by Caroline Elkins. (Holt, $27.50.) The physical and moral atrocities perpetrated by colonialism in the 1950's.

KAFKA ON THE SHORE, by Haruki Murakami. (Knopf, $25.95.) Two characters alternate in this dreamish novel: a boy fleeing an Oedipal prophecy and a witless old man who can talk to cats.

DEATH OF AN ORDINARY MAN, by Glen Duncan. (Black Cat/Grove/Atlantic, paper, $13.) This novel's hero, a newly dead (but fully sentient) man, examines the passive life he lived.

LOVE, POVERTY, AND WAR: Journeys and Essays, by Christopher Hitchens. (Nation Books, paper, $16.95.) Reports and polemics from a writer who found his Great Satan on 9/11.

EXTREME WEATHER: A Guide & Record Book, by Christopher C. Burt. (Norton, paper, $24.95.) An exploration of Nature's angriest moods.

AN END TO SUFFERING: The Buddha in the World, by Pankaj Mishra. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) An intellectual autobiography: what Mishra has learned from the Buddha's legacy.

JUDGMENT DAYS: Lyndon Baines Johnson, Martin Luther King Jr., and the Laws That Changed America, by Nick Kotz. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) Johnson as moral hero of civil rights.

SINGING IN A STRANGE LAND: C. L. Frank-lin, the Black Church, and the Transformation of America, by Nick Salvatore. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) The life of a passionate, popular preacher up from the South; father of Aretha Franklin.

 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); PARDONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); TERRORISM (74%); LITIGATION (73%); ESPIONAGE (72%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (72%); ECOTERRORISM (71%); DEATHS (69%); ARMIES (68%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (68%); BRITISH MONARCHS (68%); SEX OFFENSES (68%); POLICE FORCES (65%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (60%); MURDER (57%); NATURAL DISASTERS (51%); GLOBAL WARMING (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (73%); JAMES PATTERSON (72%); DAN BROWN (56%); MITCH ALBOM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



247 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN STUDIES/GETTING BY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Many Lives, Many Wheels

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
BICYCLES are everywhere in this eight-story building: bicycles leaning in the hallways, bicycles parked in the stairwells, bicycles nestled two deep in the single-room dwellings shared by three or four men. 
 The sprawling landmark building, at 31st and Broadway, is nestled in the middle of Manhattan's wholesale district. Its central, though unglamorous, location appeals to its most notable tenant population: Chinese deliverymen. An alternative to farther-flung quarters in Chinatown or Flushing, this outpost is only 10 minutes by bicycle to restaurants in Murray Hill, 20 minutes to those on the Upper West Side, 20 minutes to the Upper East Side. 
 Every morning around 10, the bicycles make an exodus as dozens of Chinese immigrants step out of the building and glide down 31st Street, their spinning wheels gently clicking. 
 At night, the process reverses. The men return, their bicycles casting long shadows under orange-tinged streetlights. Until last year, dozens of bicycles were chained along the scaffolding at night. Then the building was sold. The new management insisted that no bikes be left outside. So now the bicycles, seats covered with white plastic bags and frames fortified with duct tape, are taken into the cramped rooms. 
 For these quiet and nearly invisible deliverymen with few English skills, a bicycle is a lifeline. They often buy their bikes from black-market vendors who come by the restaurants. The prices are as low as $30 for creaky old models and as high as $80 for models with better maneuverability. 
 There is a tacit understanding that these bicycles are mostly stolen. The deliverymen shrug this off. After all, they are very often the victims that the bikes are stolen from. 
 Many of the men, having paid $30,000 to $65,000 to be smuggled into the United States, have not seen their children for years. Some, with orange-spiked hair and an enthusiasm for video games, are barely children themselves. 
 Home, which for most is Fujian Province in southern China, is reduced to photographs tucked into wallets, phone calls after work for as low as 2 cents a minute, and a firm determination that one day they will go back. 
 Most earn $1,000 to $1,500 a month, mostly from tips. ''We can't do anything else because we don't speak English,'' said Chen, 37, who lives with three other men in a 10-foot-by-12-foot room. Two of his roommates are deliverymen: Lin, 55, who hasn't seen his family for 12 years, and baby-faced Little Chen, 22, who just arrived in New York. 
 In a corner of the room, behind the door, sat two bicycles, and just outside, a third one. JENNIFER 8. LEE


GRAPHIC: Photo: They come, they go. And in between, Chinese deliverymen depend on their bicycles to eke out a living in a new land. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (74%); CYCLING (74%); REFUGEES (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (68%); SMUGGLING (66%) Restaurants; Delivery Services; Housing ; Bicycles and Bicycling; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Jennifer 8 Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (91%); FUJIAN, CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (93%) New York City; China

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



248 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: Reflections on Iran

BYLINE: By Pico Iyer. 
Pico Iyer's most recent books include a set of linked essays, ''Sun After Dark,'' and an Iranian novel, ''Abandon.''

 BODY:

IN THE ROSE
GARDEN OF
THE MARTYRS
A Memoir of Iran.
By Christopher
de Bellaigue.
283 pp. Harper
Collins Publishers.
$26.95.
 IN the prosperous northern Tehran suburb of Elahiyeh, ladies who lunch visit a French-trained psychologist downtown (to talk of their adulteries, no doubt), while their teenage daughters (''matchsticks marinated in Chanel,'' in Christopher de Bellaigue's pungent words) get nose jobs, hang around the pizza parlor and perform oral sex on their boyfriends so they'll still technically be virgins when married off to their first cousins. Occasionally the ''morals police'' stop by in Land Cruisers to check handbags for condoms, but Elahiyeh honors the age-old Iranian principle of veiled surfaces and highly embroidered interiors. Indeed, when de Bellaigue and his Iranian wife invite one of the Ayatollah Khomeini's former hoodlums to lunch -- an Indian meal -- the man and his wife marvel over the apartment's interior design.
 This is the Iran of only a very, very few, of course, and de Bellaigue devotes only two dashing pages to it in his impenitently stylish and arresting debut book, ''In the Rose Garden of the Martyrs.'' Yet it speaks for his method of pitching us into the very heart and streets of the Iranian revolution today, its troubled consciences, and giving us so jolting a sense of ordinary lives and human losses that we can no longer see the country in simplistic, public-policy terms of ''conservatives versus reformists.'' A young British journalist who writes for The Economist, de Bellaigue aims to complicate from within a world that too many of us associate only with turbaned ayatollahs and slogans of ''Death to America.'' That former hoodlum, for example, introduced to us as Mr. Zarif, laid mines in the war against Iraq at 15, joined a seminary at 17 and now, playing around with screenwriting, can barely recognize the places where he sent people to their deaths. Civil wars, de Bellaigue is agile enough to see, often take place invisibly.
 The guiding method of ''In the Rose Garden of the Martyrs'' is to zoom in on a handful of individuals whose cases, unraveled in detail, can give us, you could say, the people's version of (and a sequel to) Ryszard Kapuscinski's classic portrait of pre-Revolutionary Iran, ''Shah of Shahs'' (1982). We see loyalists who fought for the revolution and now mostly fight against it; widows in the holy city of Qom who sidle up to mullahs and say, ''Excuse me, sir, would you be interested in doing a good deed?'' (knowing that the religious leaders are more than ready to pay to do the deed); the ''thick-necks,'' thugs of the bazaar whose names de Bellaigue renders as ''Cockroach Asghar,'' ''Cocky Muhammad,'' ''Skull-Cooker Mehdi.'' The results, as befits a famously sinuous and sophisticated culture, are seldom what we expect (one of the strongest defenses of the revolution, as giving people new opportunities to go to school, to learn musical instruments, even to choose their own partners comes, as it happens, from a dissident intellectual who has had six consecutive newspapers shut down). Yet the vignettes also cohere to form a withering portrait of a lost and disenchanted country of heroin addicts, 13-year-old prostitutes and grace notes mocked by the ruins all around.
 Part of the power and richness of de Bellaigue's account comes from his sense that history is alive and bleeding for Iranians, and from his ability to command a ''worldliness'' and a ''relish for the morally ambiguous'' as pronounced as their own. The book begins with a scene of crowds weeping and flagellating themselves over the death of Imam Hossein, son of the Prophet's son-in-law, murdered more than 1,300 years ago. Later it catches the enduring mix of aestheticism and violence in the culture (nicely captured in the book's title) by reminding us how Shah Abbas I, who constructed the exquisite city of Isfahan in the 17th century, murdered his eldest son, blinded his second son and then saw his little grand-daughter killed by her own father, that son he had blinded, in an elaborate act of vengeance. Among other things, the scenes of history made vital recall to us that many in the Islamic world think in terms of centuries, even millenniums; their enemies in Washington often can scarcely remember what happened last week.
 De Bellaigue's particular interest, as again suggested in his title, is in the punishing eight-year war against Iraq, which left everyone the loser and, he suggests, dealt a death-blow to the revolution by the time it concluded in 1988. More than 25,000 Iranians fell in a single battle -- almost half as many casualties as America sustained during the entire Vietnam war -- and even those who survived were known sometimes to go home and slit the throats of their own 2-year-olds. As ever, though, in recreating the fighting in gripping, first-person descriptions, de Bellaigue does not show us the Iran we expect: one man cites Plato and Aristotle in the trenches; another, soon after describing knifing an Iraqi in hand-to-hand combat, says, ''I had big problems with the Marxists. I couldn't understand what they were saying, while I felt as though I understood [Karl] Popper perfectly.'' To this day, some Iranians, the book reminds us, hold the West responsible for arming Saddam Hussein with poison gas and believe that the West actually manufactured the war to deplete two Islamic powers in one shot.
 Like any journalist who has covered the country since 2000 -- he is the rare Western correspondent to be stationed in Tehran -- de Bellaigue gives us full accounts of the regime's murders and the people brave enough to stand up to them, and describes President Khatami's wavering attempt to steer a course ''between God and freedom.'' But the strength of his book lies mostly in its sense of unofficial history, the whispers and unscripted mutterings of a proud, suspicious, highly cultured and elegiac people whose lives, as even Vita Sackville-West noted 80 years ago, take place mostly behind closed doors. Taaruf , or ''ceremonial insincerity,'' is one of the principles that de Bellaigue isolates at the heart of Iran, making it more curtained still from outside view. People repeat invitations only in the hope (the knowledge) they will not be taken up; others issue brutal putdowns in the most flowery of words. By showing us the intricacy of Persian culture, he begins to explain why, for example, the head of Iran's security council was one of the only foreign leaders to come out publicly in favor of George W. Bush just before the 2004 election, though only two years earlier, the same Bush had appointed Iran to the ''axis of evil.''
 As some of this suggests, de Bellaigue writes with an imperial confidence that may remind some readers why his principal employer, The Economist, is more known for panache and provocation than for dutiful A B C's, and there are moments when he tries too hard to summon a novelist's intensity (calling soldiers in the trenches ''lads,'' for example, as if they were boys down at the pub), or takes one shortcut too many (calling Hafez, the mystical poet who wrote of a metaphorical intoxication, ''a strenuous oenophile''). The British ''occupy a privileged position in Iran's demonology,'' he notes with typical wryness, and with his irreverence and sculptured ironies, he seems certain to increase that standing. Yet many of his quick pronouncements are what make the book most engaging: ''Two centuries of semicolonization sometimes seem worse than unambiguous colonization; at least the unambiguously colonized got railways and sewers and unambiguous independence.''
 ''In the Rose Garden of the Martyrs'' is not, happily, the memoir promised in the subtitle ''A Memoir of Iran.'' Memoirs are beginning to emerge with increasing frequency from Iranians in exile, who recreate the beauties they have lost or take us into an aromatic, languorous world that could not be farther from Iran today. Besides, revolutions, like divorces, leave few disinterested parties. Part of de Bellaigue's authority comes from the fact that he's an Iranian once removed; though he studied Persian at Cambridge, he had no great interest in the country when he first visited, in 1999, he says, but when he fell in love with the woman now his wife he decided to move there. The result is that one senses no ax ground or point being proved (his wife's parents occupied ''nice ministry positions'' under the Shah, he writes, but that does not stop him from being pitiless toward the Shah's excesses).
 An account of Iran is, of course, acutely timely at a moment when the country may become the next target of our government's meliorist ambitions. Yet the difference between a journalist and a writer is that the former is telling us what happened yesterday, while the latter, by looking equally closely at the day's events, tells us what may happen next year. A writer can also show us such an archetypal shape to revolutions that he begins to describe not only Iran but revolution in far-off Cuba and other places, too. De Bellaigue is a defiantly literary writer, and he gives us a sense of Tehran today so immediate and insistent that we can hear and feel the unending anxieties of those who, if we attack them, will, alas, become nothing but statistics.


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by Behrouz Mehri/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images)
 Iranian women at a rally in central Tehran on International Women's Day, March 8, 2004. (Photograph by Henghameh Fahimi/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); INTERIOR DECORATING (68%); IRAQ WAR (67%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%); CIVIL WAR (62%); RELIGION (62%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: Pico Iyer; Christopher De Bellaigue

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); IRAN (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



249 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2399 words

HEADLINE: Driver Ed and the Wait for Wheels

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
UP until two years ago, Danbury High School's driver education program was fairly traditional.
 Barry Thayer, a band director at elementary and middle schools at the time, was in charge. Several teachers gave lectures, which included safety issues, and took students on the road in one of the school's three cars. About half the school's students usually enrolled, Mr. Thayer said, and Danbury even had a contract to teach students from the Ridgefield school district as well. There were only two major differences from the driver education experience of the 1970's. The course was voluntary. And it was not free; it cost $440.
 In early 2003, shortly after the district announced it would no longer offer the program for staffing and budget reasons, Mr. Thayer opened his own driving school. 
 ''I think the administration became very aware that we were one of the few school systems that continued to offer it,'' said Sue Tenorio, director of the district's Community Resource Center, which was responsible for overseeing driver education. ''It just made sense at that point to cut it off. It happened without any major fanfare or opposition.''
 Now running the Thayer Driver Education Center, Mr. Thayer estimated his school teaches half the students from Danbury High, the same percentage he used to teach. But unlike in public schools, Mr. Thayer can also enroll anyone in the area, and, at $525 for the whole course, he can make a profit. 
 This, in a nutshell, is the story of driver education. In a trend over decades toward privatization, Connecticut's secondary schools have been gradually dropping it from the curriculum and commercial driving schools have been picking it up. Mirroring this trend has been a growing body of research from safety experts that question whether driver education has any effect on safe driving habits. Nevertheless, while the course has become more expensive and while some experts have called it into doubt, driver education has remained a rite of passage for thousands of Connecticut teenagers.
 Automobile accidents have for years been the leading cause of death for teenagers. In 2003, car crashes killed 3,657 drivers nationwide between the ages of 15 and 20. Nearly 8,700 people, of all ages, were killed in crashes involving teen drivers. The trend has fluctuated but stays high. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, there were 56 fatalities in 2003 in Connecticut from crashes involving 15-to 20-year-old drivers, compared with 58 in 1994. 
 What is particularly striking about the statistics is how rapidly the crash rate drops with age. Nationally, 16-year-olds get into crashes at almost twice the rate of 18-to 20-year-olds. If practice does not make drivers perfect, the numbers show that it certainly makes them much safer.
 Graduated licenses, which add restrictions and postpone when teenagers can get full licenses, were meant as a way to change these statistics. The program has worked in other states, reducing teenagers' crashes by 31 percent in Michigan, for example.
 In 1996, Connecticut adopted a system that is not, strictly speaking, a full graduated licensing system, but comes close. It applies to 16- and 17-year-olds; drivers 18 or over are required only to take the written, vision and road tests to receive their license. At 16, aspiring drivers can get a permit, but they can drive only if they are accompanied by a licensed driver who is at least 20 years old.
 Teenagers can then take a driver education course that includes 30 hours of classroom time and 8 hours behind the wheel, and then take a road test at least 120 days after getting their permit. Without the course, they have to wait 180 days to take the road test, and their parents must sign a statement verifying that the student has studied the driver's manual for 22 hours and had at least 8 hours of supervised practice. (If teenagers forgo the formal full-length driver education program, they still have to take an 8-hour classroom course, which covers drugs and alcohol, offered by commercial schools for around $125.)
 After passing the road test, a teenager gets a license, but is restricted for a few months on how many passengers can be in the car. 
 The 60-day difference in the waiting period for those who took driver education was a contentious issue when the 1996 law was passed. Though the law originally required all permit holders to wait for six months, the driving school industry fought to give teenagers a time discount for taking driver education. (There is another incentive: some auto insurers give a discount of up to 10 percent if a new driver has taken driver education.) Some owners said the lack of an incentive to take driver education was hurting business, while others said formal driver education should be encouraged as a crucial part of any licensing system that was aiming for safe drivers.
 Eventually, legislators agreed to include the 60-day reduction in the permit period for teenagers who completed driver education, a development cheered by driving schools. But traffic safety researchers are not convinced it is a good thing.
 Dan Mayhew, senior vice president of the Canada-based Traffic Injury Research Foundation, said there had been numerous studies about these sorts of time discounts. Like many safety experts, he doubted that traditional driver education makes a difference either way in avoiding crashes. But when taking a course leads to a quicker license, he said, driver education can be worse than harmless.
 ''The evidence is mounting that allowing teenagers to get off the learner phase sooner than they would otherwise leads to a higher crash rate,'' he said. He pointed to a study in Nova Scotia, where teenagers who got a time discount for driver education had a 27 percent higher crash rate than teenagers who did not take a formal course and had to wait. In one study in Ontario, the rate was 44 percent higher. 
 A few extra months of supervised practice, he said, mattered far more than whether that supervision was formal or not. In a recent article, Allan Williams, a senior researcher for the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, sums up the research bluntly: ''There is no difference in the crash records of driver education graduates compared with equivalent groups of beginners who learned to drive without formal education.'' 
 This conclusion is not new. In fact, one of the most important studies about driver education was in Connecticut as far back as 1976, the year that the state government stopped reimbursing school districts for the costs of their driver education courses. Nine districts dropped it immediately. There were already stirrings of skepticism around that time about the effectiveness of driver education, so a Yale researcher, Leon S. Robertson, decided to track what happened in these nine districts and compare them with the rest of the state. He published the results four years later. In those districts where there was no formal driver education, the accident rate for teenagers had gone down.
 The discovery is not as counterintuitive as it sounds. A major factor in the drop in crashes was the simple fact that fewer 16-and 17-year-olds in those districts were getting their licenses. But it was one of the first in a series of studies concluding that driver education had little effect on teenagers' crash rates, and in cases where it led to early licensing, driver education could actually lead to a rise in crash rates.
 Before all these studies, driver education was experiencing something of a golden age. Almost all high schools included driver education classes as part of the daily curriculum. The schools picked up the costs and local dealerships even donated new cars to the schools, in hopes of gaining new customers. But in the middle 1970's, reports of the skeptical research began pricking the ears of taxpayers and school boards around the country, and when budgets tightened, driver education was often first to be cut. It was gradually pushed out of the curriculum. Most schools that offered driver education began financing it by charging students, which they could legally do since it was an extracurricular activity, and the courses were often contracted out to commercial schools. In the past few years, with ever tighter budgets, schools like Danbury have been going farther than that.
 ''A lot of the schools seem to be favoring eliminating it completely,'' Mr. Thayer said.
 With around 26,000 16-and 17-year-olds getting their licenses in Connecticut each year, driver education can mean big business. The Department of Motor Vehicles said there were 79 commercial driving schools in Connecticut compared with 29 high schools that still run their own driver education programs. There are an additional 68 high schools that contract out driver education to commercial schools. The rest of the high schools, more than half of them, leave the students to their own resources. 
 Julie Tolkin's two driving-age children, Aaron and Corey, were at Weston High School when they turned 16. At the time, Weston did not have a driver education program, and Ms. Tolkin had to find a driving school by word of mouth.
 ''I did this extensive calling of parents,'' she said. '''Where did you go? Why did you go to Fairfield?' The No. 1 answer was, 'I don't know.'''
 Aaron and Corey both ended up going to the Driving School in Fairfield, which they felt had a more flexible schedule than others in the area. 
 There are few people in the state who have spent more time on the issue than Jack Sousa, owner of the Waterbury-based Academy of Driving. Throughout the adoption of the graduated licensing laws, he has been the de facto spokesman for Connecticut's driver education industry, lobbying legislators and lecturing at Parent Teacher Association meetings. His office, next to a room filled with receptionists scheduling lessons around the state, is decorated in a golf theme: golf balls, tees and pictures of golfers. So it was no surprise what Mr. Sousa's metaphor was when discussing driver training.
 ''If I take you outside and I show you how to shoot a chip shot, if I show you how to putt from the fringe of the green and I show you how to drive and I give you eight hours of that, at the end of eight hours how good a golfer are you going to be?'' he asked.
 Mr. Sousa said he had been lobbying for more regulations for years, for a strict graduated licensing program and most of all for mandatory, and lengthier, driver education. He questioned the dependability of some of the Insurance Institute's research, arguing that programs are so different and regulations so varied from state to state that it is impossible to draw any firm conclusions.
 Even within Connecticut, the effectiveness of driver education is difficult to judge. The Department of Motor Vehicles does not keep statistics on accident rates of those who take the course compared with those who use the parental training statement and wait the extra two months. 
 But Mr. Sousa, like other driving school instructors, admitted one of the research's main conclusions: that more practice is needed to make proficient drivers. He agreed that 16-year-olds should have tough restrictions, adding that he did not allow his own daughter to drive as soon as she was legally able. But he insisted that more driver education, not less, is the answer. 
 ''People will say, 'There's no question you want it because you're in the business,''' he said. ''I understand that. But I also understand that there isn't any type of life skill that you can buy eight hours of and be proficient in. So don't make what I do for a living an example and say, 'Well, we have drivers' ed and they're getting eight hours, but it's not improving anything.' Of course it's not. It's a basic format.''
 Advocates of driver education are faced with a problem. Over the past decade Connecticut has been trying to increase the amount of supervised driver training required to earn a license. Driver education has gone from being a class that every teenager took without charge to being, in most cases, a program that costs hundreds of dollars. So legislators and parents are left trying to figure out a balance between economic reality and what some see as a necessary step for safe drivers.
 ''All the research I have done clearly demonstrated to me the more training a teenager receives in a structured environment the better off they are and the better off everyone is,'' said State Representative David Scribner, who pushed a 2004 law that restricted passengers for new drivers. ''In many ways you could say I'm an advocate for increased training because I believe it works. But I also believe there are harsh realities that exist in our society that don't put every 16-and 17-year-old in the same situation where this kind of training is provided.''
 On a breezy evening in December, Jennifer Sanchez of Naugatuck, sat behind the wheel of a Chevrolet Cavalier. The big student driving sign on top made it look as if the car were delivering pizza. She drove up the ramp onto a busy Route 8.
 ''Put our signal on,'' Tony Casiano, an instructor with the Academy of Driving, coached from the passenger's seat. ''Look to see if there's traffic'' -- he indicated the rearview mirrors and the rear windows -- ''and pull into the lane.''
 Jennifer, whose uncle had died in a car crash on I-95 the week before, said the only training she got was at the driving school. She has a 3-month-old daughter, and her boyfriend, who has a car, works all day, so there is little time left for practice. Unlike many student drivers, Jennifer is taking driver ed not to get an early license or an insurance discount, but simply to how to drive. 
 ''It's a matter of just relaxing now,'' Mr. Casiano said. ''Don't strangle the steering wheel.''
 It took her almost an entire year to finish the course. She dropped out of high school, so she had to find a commercial school on her own. When she did, she couldn't afford to pay the $380 all at once and, though she finished the classroom portion quickly, the school wouldn't let her take the behind-the-wheel portion until she had paid in full. The earliest she can schedule her road test is in March. 
 ''I want to take a couple more classes, but it's $60 for an extra class,'' she said. Driver education helped her, but she needs more. ''I have a fear of driving,'' she said. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: RITE OF PASSAGE -- Connecticut teenagers still take driver education, but more often from commercial driving schools than at a high school. Christopher Millette, 17, above, took to the road for the first time in Waterbury with his instructor, Anthony Casiano. Joyce A. Howe, left, teaching at her driving school in Stratford. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Only 29 high schools in the state still run their own driver education programs, while there are 79 commercial driving schools. Stephanie Barrett, 17, used one of them and practiced her parking at a school in Woodbridge.
Jack Sousa, of Academy of Driving, says teenagers need more practice. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
In the classroom, a lesson on the intricacies of an intersection. (pg. 6)Chart: ''Parallel Parking Is the Least of It''Young drivers in Connecticut can get their full licenses two months earlier by taking an approved driver-ed class.LEARNER'S PERMITWithout full-length driver-ed class may apply in 180 days for: LICENSEWith full-length driver-ed class may apply in 120 days for: LICENSERequirements and restrictions for the Connecticut drivers license:Learner's PermitAGE16-17REQUIREMENTSVision testWritten testParental consentRESTRICTIONSMust be accompanied by 4-year licensed driver at least 20 years oldLicenseAGE16-17REQUIREMENTSVision testWritten testRoad testFour months with learner's permit if full-length driver-ed course is completedSix months with Home Training Statement and eight-hour classroom courseRESTRICTIONSFirst three months after licensing:Only one passenger allowed
 must be parent, driving instructor or 4-year licensed driver more than 20 years oldSecond three months after licensing:Passengers may only be family members, driving instructor, or licensed driver more than 20 years old(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRIVER EDUCATION (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); TRENDS (89%); AUTOMOBILE DRIVING SCHOOLS (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); CURRICULA (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (70%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (66%); DRIVING AGE (66%) Roads and Traffic; Children and Youth; Drivers Education

PERSON: Campbell Robertson

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



250 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: There Is No Hiding From Nancy DiNardo

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

 BODY:
THOSE Democrats who don't want to donate money or sweat equity to their political party would do well to avoid Nancy DiNardo, who last month became the new leader of the Connecticut Democrats and the first woman to hold the title.
 ''These days, people run away from me when they see me coming,'' she said with a wicked laugh. No matter. People who have met Ms. DiNardo, 55, who is the former chairwoman of the finance committee for the state party, know there is no hiding from her when she is seeking donations, which is just about all the time in her new role.
 It was Ms. DiNardo who led the effort to raise a $1.6 million to finance the campaign of Diane Farrell, the first selectwoman of Westport, the dark horse who nearly stole the congressional seat from Representative Christopher Shays by capturing 48 percent of the vote. 
 Ms. DiNardo, who in an interview was wearing an understated suit (albeit over a fire engine red blouse), wields her silver cellphone like a saber. Asking for donations isn't awkward for her, she said, ''because I believe in the message.''
 And that is?
 ''We want the governor's seat,'' she said flatly. Another goal is winning back a majority of the congressional seats, she said, which are all up for grabs next year.
 She waves off the fact that the current Republican in office, Gov. M. Jodi Rell, has a public approval rating of more than 80 percent.
 ''Anybody who knows her says she's a nice person, but this isn't about being a nice person,'' Ms. DiNardo said of Ms. Rell, in the tone of one accustomed to sliding a velvet glove over an iron fist. ''This is about running the state. And she really hasn't done anything significant in her seven months in office.''
 Toughness aside, Ms. DiNardo is a people person. She chatted easily about her interests outside politics. She is single and, she said, ''still looking.'' Downhill skiing is her favorite sport. She has skied extensively out West and has a yen to ski the Andes. She loves to travel.
 But she is a hometown person, who still lives in the family home near the center of Trumbull, where she grew up the youngest of three children.
 An interest in politics was kindled by her parents. Her late father, Peter DiNardo, served on the Trumbull Police Commission. When he died in 1989, Senator Joseph Lieberman delivered one of the eulogies. Ms. DiNardo's mother, Josephine, now 86, was a member of the Democratic State Central Committee.
 Ms. DiNardo was first elected to the Trumbull Town Council at age 21, after returning to her hometown upon her graduation from Emmanuel College in Boston. She returned home to teach, beginning with first grade at Maplewood School in Bridgeport. In 2002, she retired as the director of psychological services for the Bridgeport Board of Education.
 In between, she served on Trumbull's board of health, finance, and police commission. For 21 years, she has been chairwoman of the Trumbull Democratic Town Committee, where she said she discovered a passion for the behind-the-scenes work of running a campaign.
 Ms. DiNardo said she owns ''a few commercial properties'' that her father bought for her. But it was her brother, Sal, who took an interest in the family real estate business. His commercial real estate holdings in the Fairfield County area are valued ''in the millions,'' said Michael W. Freimuth, a former director of economic development in Bridgeport. Ms. DiNardo's father began his real estate empire by selling junk and used cars before buying his first property, she said.
 Ms. DiNardo's ties to the Bridgeport area are strong. She was treasurer of the gubernatorial campaign of former Bridgeport Mayor Joseph P. Ganim, who is now in prison on various corruption charges.
 ''I saw Ganim as somebody who would go far,'' she said. ''I was devastated by the fact that he did all of that and, of course, with one of my cousins.''
 One of Ms. DiNardo's cousins is Alfred Lenoci Sr., who with his son Alfred Jr. pleaded guilty in 2001 to charges that included bribery in the corruption investigation of Mr. Ganim and his associates.
 Asked about her relationship with the Lenocis, Ms. DiNardo would not speak on the record other than to reply, ''We're not close.''
 She would rather discuss the intricacies of capturing the party chairmanship. Ms. DiNardo pursued the post in earnest when George C. Jepsen, the former chairman and one-time candidate for lieutenant governor, announced he would not be seeking re-election. Mr. Jepsen had said he would seek the office of attorney general if Richard Blumenthal decides not to run.
 To secure the necessary votes, Ms. DiNardo said she worked the phone, calling party leaders, members of the State Central Committee and town chairmen.
 Now she is installed in the dreary, sunless Hartford office. (''George hasn't taken down his stuff yet,'' she said, waving towards a wall of historical artifacts. ''The Civil War isn't my thing.'') Ms. DiNardo drives to Hartford in a Lexus sports utility vehicle several times a week. She took the job without pay, as did Mr. Jepsen.
 The role of party chairman has changed since the days of the legendary kingmaker John Bailey, who served from 1946 to 1975. The job is more about providing resources to candidates like voter profiles, training and fund-raising, she said.
 ''I think Nancy has the rare ability to do it without seeming shrill and without being too aggressive,'' said Roy Occhiogrosso, a political consultant who advises the state's Democrats. ''She seems to understand that it's not about her. It's about the party.''
 Her predecessor, Mr. Jepsen, agreed.
 ''She's a straight shooter, and her only agenda is electing Democrats,'' he said.
 If Mrs. Rell chooses not to run for governor in 2006, the Republicans face a dearth of candidates. But Ms. DiNardo's party has the opposite problem. Among those Democrats who have expressed interest in the governor's office are: Senator Christopher Dodd, Mr. Blumenthal, Secretary of the State Susan Bysiewicz, Mayor John DeStefano of New Haven, Mayor Dannel P. Malloy of Stamford and Lt. Gov. Kevin Sullivan. Ms. DiNardo also noted that ''there are people out there'' who are mentioning Ms. Farrell as a potential gubernatorial candidate.
 How to handle so many aspirants?
 ''I'm proud we have so many,'' she said. ''Any one of them can in fact be governor and do a great job.''
 In the past few weeks, she has met with town committee chairmen throughout the state and she is setting up meetings with legislative leaders. She acknowledged that while she is familiar to Fairfield County Democrats, many of party members from elsewhere do not know her.
 Ms. DiNardo expected to travel to Washington for the election on Saturday of a new chairman of the Democratic National Committee, a trip that is a highlight for a self-described ''political junkie.''
 She said it was still something of a thrill for her to be the first woman to lead the Connecticut Democrats. In 1979, Jo McKenzie became the first woman to lead the Republicans.
 With a nod to the cellphone that sat at her fingertips, she said, ''When I was making telephone calls, a lot of women we're saying, 'Yes, it's about time that we have a woman.' That felt good.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Nancy DiNardo, the new Democratic leader, took office last month. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Nancy DiNardo working with Andrew Cascudo in her offices in Hartford. One of her goals is to get a Democrat in the governor's office. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Time)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); SKIING (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%); POLICE FORCES (50%); CITIES (50%) Politics and Government; Biographical Information

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); M JODI RELL (58%) Nancy Dinardo; Stacey Stowe

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



251 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: PLANNING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1553 words

HEADLINE: Disability Insurance: Proceed With Caution

BYLINE: By MICHELLE LEDER

 BODY:
ANNMARIE HURLEY still remembers a conversation more than 13 years ago with her boss, Dr. Fred Danziger, as if it were yesterday. Dr. Danziger, a dentist in Long Beach, N.Y., asked Ms. Hurley, then a 26-year-old dental hygienist, if she had ever thought about disability insurance. She had not, but after listening to him and meeting with his insurance agent, she decided that the policy made sense.
 Three years later, when she developed pronator teres syndrome, a painful nerve problem, in one arm and carpal tunnel syndrome in both hands and was no longer able to do her job, the policy premium of $519 a year seemed like the best money she had ever spent. But in 1997, after a year and a half of collecting $2,250 a month in benefits, the insurer, First Unum, stopped paying, even though Ms. Hurley's contract provided for lifetime benefits. For eight years, Ms. Hurley, with the help of a lawyer, has been fighting the company, now called UnumProvident, to have benefits reinstated. So far, she hasn't had much luck.
 ''I never thought this would happen to me,'' says Ms. Hurley, now 39. ''In good faith, I submitted a claim, and in not-so-good faith, they're torturing me.'' 
 A spokeswoman for UnumProvident said the company was unable to comment on Ms. Hurley's case, which was heard by an appellate court in Brooklyn early this month. 
 But in November, UnumProvident, which has repeatedly been criticized by regulators who say it has denied legitimate claims, reached a $15 million settlement with regulators in 47 states, including New York, and agreed to review more than 200,000 rejected claims. The company said there was no finding of wrongdoing. Richard J. Quadrino, a lawyer in Garden City, N.Y., who represents Ms. Hurley, said it was unclear if her case would be one of those reviewed.
 Over the last few years, televised reports of business practices and problems at UnumProvident, which is based in Chattanooga, Tenn., and is by far the nation's largest provider of disability insurance, have led to plenty of caution about disability policies in general. This is true of both independent agents and consumers, who pay an average of around $1,000 in annual premiums for policies. Brokers and financial planners sell practically all disability policies, except for the group disability insurance offered by employers, which costs policy holders, on average, about $200 a year. 
 The number of people buying new policies has fallen, according to Limra International, an industry trade group in Windsor, Conn. In 2003, about 372,000 new policies were sold, about 5 percent fewer than in 2002. Fewer than 215,000 policies were sold in the first nine months of 2004, suggesting that the decline was continuing.
 Agents and financial planners routinely recommend disability coverage, and consumer advocates tend to agree. For those who are self-employed or work for a company that does not offer group disability insurance, that means buying individual policies. A Limra study found that while practically all companies with more than 5,000 employees offer disability insurance, availability declines sharply as head count falls. The benefit is offered at under half of companies with fewer than 100 employees.
 While policies vary greatly, the basic idea is to ensure that when people are unable to work because of an illness or injury, they can still cover monthly expenses. Policies, which typically pay around 60 percent of an individual's pretax salary, can cover both short-term disabilities, which may keep someone out of work a few weeks, and long-term disabilities, which may last years. About 3.85 million people have bought some form of disability insurance on their own, according to Limra. Many are doctors, lawyers and corporate executives with high incomes, though middle managers are increasingly adding it, too, said Guy W. Bertsch, vice president for product development at UnumProvident.
 Anyone who does not have an investment portfolio large enough to cover monthly expenses should probably consider disability insurance, said Larry Ginsburg, a financial planner in Oakland, Calif. 
 ''People need to ask themselves what happens if they become sick or get hurt, which happens a lot more frequently than most people would like to think,'' added Mr. Ginsburg, who also serves on the board of United Policyholders, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group based in San Francisco that focuses on various types of insurance.
 Indeed, industry data shows that while it is far more common for people to carry term life insurance than disability insurance, the chance of an illness or injury that leaves a person unable to work for several months, or even years, is much greater than the chance of premature death. The data also shows that women are much more likely to become disabled over the course of their working life than men, primarily because women have longer life expectancies and risk complications from pregnancy.
 A Census Bureau study found that a typical 35-year-old making $50,000 a year had enough savings on hand to cover only two months of expenses. Yet most disabilities last 90 days or longer, and more than 1.5 million Americans are considered permanently disabled and unlikely ever to return to work. 
 Five states, including New York and New Jersey, provide state residents with short-term benefits, though the amounts are typically small -- a maximum of $170 a week in New York and $470 a week in New Jersey for 26 weeks. Federal disability insurance under Social Security typically kicks in only for disabilities expected to last more than a year, like chronic heart ailments. 
 ''Most people don't tend to look at disability insurance as much as they should,'' Mr. Ginsburg said.
 PART of the problem is that disability insurance tends to be much more complicated than other types of insurance, like home or automobile coverage, said Jeff Sadler, a broker in Ormond Beach, Fla., who has sold disability insurance for nearly 30 years and has written two books about it. Consumers must select from a menu of complicated options, and many terms are confusing. 
 Last summer, a Limra study found that more than half of those who bought disability insurance in the previous year did not know what percentage of their salary they would receive if they were injured, and that 45 percent did not know their policy's definition of disability. Nearly two-thirds of those surveyed had postponed buying the insurance so they could study it further.
 Those who buy policies find that they often have to hand over a mass of personal financial information, including bank statements and tax returns, and submit to an extensive review of their medical histories -- a much more comprehensive review than is required for either life or health insurance. Mr. Bertsch, of UnumProvident, said that reviewing these records was a normal part of the underwriting process.
 ''We're insuring income, so we need proof of income and we need to determine if the person is physically healthy,'' he said. He declined to say what percentage were turned down. The extensive review also helps to prevent fraud, which Mr. Bertsch said could occur at the time of application or when a claim is filed. When the economy is doing poorly, claims tend to rise, he added.
 Because disability insurance is more complicated than other types, consumers may have trouble shopping for the best price online. And many agents, said Mr. Sadler, who often travels around the country training others how to sell disability insurance, are still somewhat reluctant to offer it, after years of listening to clients complain when their claims are held up or denied. ''A lot of people have stopped selling it because of the problems,'' he said.
 Still, instead of avoiding the insurance altogether, Mr. Sadler suggests buying a policy from a smaller, well-established company with a good record of paying legitimate claims. Mr. Ginsburg and Mr. Sadler both suggest checking with state insurance commissioners before buying a policy to see whether customers have filed complaints against a company. ''Despite the problems, the whole point for disability insurance has never changed,'' Mr. Sadler said. ''Most people don't have a way to earn any money if they're injured.''

QUICK READ
What will disability insurance cost? Policies vary greatly, but here are two examples offered by one large insurer, UnumProvident:

A 40-year-old man making $250,000 a year will pay about $4,000 a year for a policy that will pay him $10,000 a month until he turns 65.

A 40-year-old man who makes $50,000 a year will pay about $1,700 a year for a policy that will pay him $2,900 a month for up to five years.

Because disability policies are full of technical language, it pays to ask questions before signing on the dotted line, said Amy Bach, executive director of United Policyholders, a consumer advocacy group. Here are some questions to ask:

How does the insurance company define a disability -- as being unable to do any job, or any job that you are trained and qualified for?

What is the monthly benefit?

How long will the company pay benefits?

How long should you expect to wait to receive benefits after filing a claim?

What proof of disability is required?

Must you first qualify for state and/or federal benefits?

What weight will the treating doctors opinion have?


GRAPHIC: Photo: AnnMarie Hurley, a former dental hygienist who developed carpal tunnel syndrome in both hands, has been trying to collect on disability insurance for eight years. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (89%); DISABILITY INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (89%); DENTISTRY (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); ORAL HYGIENE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) Disability Insurance

COMPANY: UNUM GROUP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Unumprovident Corp

TICKER: UNM (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525120 HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (83%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%)

PERSON: Michelle Leder

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (74%) TENNESSEE, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



252 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3144 words

HEADLINE: Spinning Frenzy: P.R.'s Bad Press

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
FOR years, Armstrong Williams, co-founder of Graham Williams Group, a public relations agency in Washington, has catered to clients in politics, business and entertainment. His partner at the agency is Stedman Graham, the boyfriend of Oprah Winfrey. Mr. Williams is also a popular and ubiquitous political commentator, advocating individual accountability and ethical rectitude as a leading African-American conservative.
 One of the Web sites of this P.R.-specialist-cum-commentator captures the flavor of his professional portfolio: ''Williams has become a multimedia wonder, taking stands for what's right on radio and television, in print and in cyberspace. Focusing on issues such as the work ethic, personal responsibility and especially the restoration of morality in today's society, Williams brings an independent view with a refreshing twist to the central issues of our day.''
 But in early January, Mr. Williams's independence and ethical bearings came under scrutiny. He acknowledged that the Department of Education had paid him $240,000 to promote its ''No Child Left Behind'' initiative during radio and television appearances. Until USA Today reported the arrangement last month, anyone watching or listening to him discuss White House policy would probably have been under the impression that his opinions were unsponsored. 
 While Mr. Williams enjoys a free-floating job profile -- spin doctor, commentator, entrepreneur -- many public relations executives and industry critics say his activities fell outside the ethical fold. And the fact that a major public relations firm, Ketchum, helped to orchestrate the education department's stealthy sales pitch has prompted a heated debate within one of the country's most influential businesses.
 The controversy comes as other changes are roiling the information business. Public relations specialists are scrambling to adjust to a time in which the Internet revolution and a boom in alternative media sources are rewriting the parameters of the communications industry and challenging traditional sources of authority. So, despite an avalanche of freely available information, the truth is becoming harder to discern.
 ''P.R. has a P.R. problem,'' said Brenda J. Wrigley, an associate professor of public relations at Syracuse University. ''We have to get our own house in order before we go around advising corporations what to do. We are advocates and there's no shame in that as long as it's grounded in ethics and values.
 ''This has to be seen against a very partisan political background in which both parties are doing anything they can to get points of view across at a time when almost anyone can start blogging and call themselves a journalist,'' she added. ''I can't imagine Armstrong Williams will be the only story to emerge from all of this. I think there's got to be more.''
 MR. WILLIAMS'S fee was part of a $950,000 government contract that Ketchum signed last June. The agency, a division of the Omnicom Group, agreed to enlist Mr. Williams as an advocate and hired his firm to produce advertisements promoting the Bush administration's education policy. 
 Federal law prohibits covert government publicity or propaganda campaigns. And Congressional Democrats, spotting an excellent opportunity to generate buzz, have introduced legislation seeking to curtail government-financed publicity. The Department of Education and the General Accounting Office are investigating the Williams matter. 
 President Bush said in a recent news conference that he had been unaware of either the arrangement with Mr. Williams or the payments the government made to another commentator, Maggie Gallagher, to give advice on White House policies. The president ordered federal agencies not to replicate those arrangements and, shortly thereafter, the government disclosed that it had ended payments to a third commentator, Michael McManus, who had also advised the government. Omnicom and Ketchum, which the General Accounting Office criticized last year for producing fake news videos promoting the White House's prescription drug plan, did not respond to repeated requests for interviews.
 Mr. Williams, who began his career in public relations before emerging as a radio personality in the 1990's, declined to be interviewed for this article. He has told reporters that he regretted accepting the $240,000 payment, but he has refused to return his fee to the government, telling USA Today that to do so ''would be ludicrous because they bought advertising, and they got it.''
 Ketchum and three other public relations agencies owned by Omnicom appear to have delivered the bulk of the White House's messages. According to a study prepared by Congressional Democrats, those four agencies snared about $223 million of the $250 million that the federal government spent on public relations contracts from 2001 to 2004. 
 Five federal agencies accounted for the bulk of federal spending on public relations: the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the National Institutes of Health, the Minerals Management Service, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Health Resources and Services Administration. The report also noted a sharp increase in public relations contracts awarded by the government on a noncompetitive basis.
 The Bush White House is hardly the first to contract with such firms. The same Congressional study noted that from 1997 to 2000, during President Bill Clinton's second term, the government spent $128 million on public relations. At issue, however, is not the amount of money spent; it is the amount of spin deployed.
 ''The Armstrong Williams scandal is an example of the close coordination between the advertiser and the commentator,'' said Sheldon Rampton, research director at the Center for Media and Democracy, a left-leaning nonprofit group that tracks abuses in the public relations business. ''In terms of journalistic traditions, that violates disclosure and conflicts-of-interest principles.''
 Many public relations executives said that they aspired to be honest information brokers and that Ketchum's activities were atypical. They said that their government work often involved promotion of vital policy issues, and that passionate advocacy is fine as long as the sponsor of a message or product is not hidden from public view.
 ''At the end of the day, P.R. is about trying to communicate a message on someone's behalf,'' said Harris Diamond, chief executive of Weber Shandwick, one of the largest public relations firms in the country. ''It is very important that we have transparency in our practices. We have to give very clear guidance on where information is coming from.''
 What is clear, though, is that the number of large firms communicating those messages has been shrinking. Sweeping consolidation has transformed public relations over the last two decades, with such publicly traded global communications giants as Omnicom, the WPP Group, the Interpublic Group, and Publicis Groupe acquiring a bevy of large, formerly independent firms. These behemoths have picked off well-known companies like Ketchum, Fleishman-Hillard, Hill & Knowlton, Weber Shandwick and Burson-Marsteller, placing them inside holding companies that also operate advertising, strategic consulting and marketing businesses.
 Even before the consolidation began, public relations had grown from a business populated by stereotypical spinmeisters trying to chalk up glowing coverage for their clients into a more lucrative and sophisticated field inhabited by advisers who occupy a vaunted ''seat at the C.E.O.'s table.'' (Still, courting the news media remains the primary task of most smaller public relations firms). 
 Some firms' duties have evolved to encompass political lobbying, legal advice, pitches to the media and public relations campaigns that span continents. Burson-Marsteller and APCO Worldwide, for example, have served as particularly aggressive advocates for Russia's controversial business elites, while Qorvis Communications is one of the Saudi Arabian government's chief American advisers. 
 As a result of these changes, publicists are pulling in more money than ever. In 2002, the country's top 10 public relations firms billed clients about $2.5 billion, compared with top-10 billings of just $192 million in 1968, according to inflation-adjusted data compiled by the Council of Public Relations Firms, an industry trade group. Because communications conglomerates have stopped breaking out public relations billings, 2002 was the last year for which reliable industry-wide data is available.
 But reaching an audience has become much more challenging for public relations firms, just as it has for traditional news media. The Internet, declining newspaper readership and the growth of cable television and niche magazines have combined to splinter the news and television audience. Public relations has had to find new ways to connect with people, whether through much-maligned video news releases, event marketing or the use of third-party advocates like Mr. Williams. 
 Temptations to push the ethical envelope abound. ''We're going through a period of a huge jolt, and now more than ever we have to teach our account people a moral compass,'' said Richard W. Edelman, president of Edelman, the nation's largest independent public relations firm. ''Every piece of information we put out, in theory, can go directly to the end user without any mediation. But our job today is still to bring to the media a credible story.''
 Communications conglomerates, however, make much more money from advertising than from public relations. As a result, critics say, firms like Ketchum that operate inside conglomerates are pushing harder to fatten the bottom line -- which may lead them to cross ethical boundaries.
 Critics also say that the billions of dollars in debt the conglomerates have incurred during their acquisition spree has made them pursue fees more aggressively. ''It's our belief that the masters of the universe, if you will -- WPP and these other guys -- are pressing for higher profits,'' said Daniel J. Edelman, father of Richard and founder of the company that bears his name. ''They have standards for what they want, usually 17 percent margins. We like to do well, but we're not trying to hit those kinds of numbers. It takes away from our historic relationship with the media.''
 Executives at WPP, Publicis and Interpublic said that their public relations units operate with great latitude. They also contended that independent firms had a self-interested reason for promoting themselves as less profit-hungry than those inside conglomerates: it is good public relations. 
 The three companies also said that they emphasized ethics in their corporate cultures and denied that there was pressure exerted on their public relations units to hunt recklessly for large fees. ''I'd like to see some evidence of that,'' said Howard Paster, a WPP director. ''I don't think that's the case. I've heard that argument before and I think it's specious.''
 Mr. Paster said that it is ''axiomatic that you don't pay for coverage'' and that Ketchum and Mr. Williams's activities do not represent systemic problems within the public relations field.
 Howard Rubenstein, a veteran New York publicist, said his firm, has received buyout offers from conglomerates over the years but that he has demurred. Running an independent, private company, he said, gives him greater flexibility and freedom from short-term profit pressure. He said he thought the controversy surrounding Ketchum and Mr. Williams might have a salutary affect on the public relations field.
 ''The good part is that people who do unethical things will be exposed more quickly, and I think it will create a standard that did not exist in our industry for a long time,'' said Mr. Rubenstein, who entered the field in 1954. ''In my early years, if you couldn't get a column into Walter Winchell you were nobody. How things have changed. We're much more strategically important now.''
 PUBLIC relations as a formal endeavor first took shape early in the 20th century, when another seismic communications shift was under way: the rapid growth of the newspaper business, with New York as its epicenter. P.R. piggybacked on the news boom as well as on another newfangled entity: the corporation. John D. Rockefeller Sr., architect of both the modern corporation and the Standard Oil monopoly, retained the services of the father of public relations, Ivy Lee, after being blindsided by critical and sometimes inaccurate articles.
 According to ''Titan,'' the Rockefeller biography by Ron Chernow, Mr. Lee tried to repackage the industrialist as a humane philanthropist, and in so doing became an important counsel to John D. Rockefeller Jr. as well. Mr. Lee, whose career later foundered when it was revealed that he did promotional work for the Nazis, advised the Rockefellers to be frank and direct when discussing their business practices with the press -- a relief to a family averse to the practice, then common, of bribing reporters for coverage.
 In the 1920's, Edward Bernays, a relative of Sigmund Freud, led publicists into new waters by emphasizing psychological research and advocating the use of seemingly objective third-party authorities to sway public opinion. He professionalized the business while introducing other new forms of manipulation, like establishing bogus front groups to promote the benefits of smoking. 
 Arthur Page, an in-house public relations adviser to AT&T from the 1920's through the 1940's, embraced the concept of good corporate citizenship and pushed AT&T to be open and honest in its press dealings. The tension between proponents of Bernays-like manipulation and Page-style transparency has existed in the business ever since.
 Many involved in the government's psychological warfare and public information campaigns during World War II became part of a new crop of publicity agents in postwar America. Some of them established public relations agencies that blossomed in the 1960's, when the rise of television created another monumental communications dislocation and a publicity gold rush. Most of those firms are among those that conglomerates have acquired in the recent consolidation.
 PUBLIC relations scandals have cropped up periodically over the years. Hill & Knowlton, which WPP acquired in 1987, came under heavy criticism for the misleading video news releases it produced for the government of Kuwait in 1990. The videos, which included false reports of atrocities committed by Saddam Hussein, were intended to drum up public opposition in the United States to the Iraqi leader before the Persian Gulf War of 1991. Today, Fleishman-Hillard, an Omnicom company, is enmeshed in a scandal involving accusations by the Los Angeles city controller that the firm and a former executive overbilled the city for their services. 
 The former Fleishman executive is contesting the accusations. A Fleishman spokesman said that the incident was an aberration involving a small number of employees and that the firm maintained high ethical standards. 
 But others say the incident may echo of larger forces at work in the public relations industry.
 ''There's no question in my mind that the padding of bills has to do with firms chasing higher profits,'' Daniel J. Edelman said. ''I think bill-padding is a reflection of consolidation.''
 Yet it is Ketchum's imbroglio with Mr. Williams and the Education Department that seems to have struck a particularly indignant nerve among some longtime public relations analysts. ''This is the Three Mile Island of the P.R. business,'' said Jack O'Dwyer, a public relations gadfly in New York who heads a research firm and publishes a newsletter bearing his name. ''The industry began selling its soul when it sold out to these advertising companies because the public relations business should be about the truth, not about sales.''
 Senior executives at the conglomerates said they thought such criticism was alarmist and reiterated their view that consolidation had brought increased sophistication and more resources to public relations efforts, without a loss of integrity.
 According to 2002 data collected by the Council of Public Relations Firms, a trade group, only 9 percent of the industry's revenue came from work performed for governments and nonprofit groups. The remainder derived from corporate advocacy.
 BUT it is government contracts that have raised the current specter of the industry's involvement with covert propagandizing. Public relations executives say that much of their government work is bipartisan and that political clients believe fervently in the truth of their messages, no matter how much those messages may seem like spin to people on the opposite side of the political divide.
 ''There are 20,000 new bills in Congress each year and all of those programs require communications support,'' said Louis Capozzi, chief executive of Manning Selvage & Lee, a unit of Publicis. ''Questions are much more difficult in a political environment because one man's propaganda is another man's truth.''
 Or, as in Mr. Williams's case, another man's controversy. Omnicom initially said that Ketchum had done nothing wrong and that it was Mr. Williams's responsibility to disclose his federal financing.
 ''We would assume that the commentator-pundit would disclose,'' said Lorraine Thelian, Omnicom's head of North American operations, in a January interview with PRWeek, a trade publication. ''That's an assumption that you make.
 ''It's not like we were pitching him to other media as a spokesperson,'' Ms. Thelian added. ''Whatever he did once that contract was put together, he did on his own.''
 Since Omnicom made this statement, it and Ketchum have remained silent, a risky tactic given that public relations wisdom traditionally holds that staying quiet during a crisis only prolongs media scrutiny and creates an appearance of culpability.
 ''They should have come clean right away and not tried to pin all of this on Williams,'' said Paul A. Argenti, a professor of corporate communications at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth. ''It's an example of the same kind of bad advice they give their clients every day.''
 Many in the public relations field, meanwhile, say their industry's future hinges on the values that Mr. Williams has espoused in his media appearances: ethics and responsibility.
 ''It's an opportunity for people in the industry to stand up and say, 'Here's the right way to do things, here's the ethical way to do things, and we're in a very new media world and we need to map out a new course of action,''' said Judy Phair, president of the Public Relations Society of America, another trade group. ''For public relations to be effective, it has to be built on public trust.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the public relations industry misstated the title of Lorraine Thelian, an executive at the firm that arranged for a television commentator to serve as a paid advocate of the federal government's education policy. Ms. Thelian is head of North American operations for Ketchum, a public relations unit of the Omnicom Group; she does not hold that title for Omnicom itself. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Armstrong Williams, left, met in 2003 with Republican leaders including Senator Bill Frist, center, and Marc Racicot, the president's 2004 campaign chairman, about improving the party's image. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 Ivy Lee worked with the Rockefellers on public relations in the early part of the 20th century. (Photo by The New York Times)(pg. 9)Drawing (Illustration by Andy Chen/The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Whom Do You Believe?''How much do you trust each institution to do what is right?Percentage of respondents who answered 6 to 9 on a 9-point scale.Nongovernmental organizations: 55%Business: 48%Government: 44%Media: 32%What type of media do you turn to first for trustworthy information?Television: 35%Newspapers: 23%Internet: 19%Radio: 11%Magazines: 4%How credible do you feel each of these sources is for information about a company?Percentage of respondents who answered ''extremely'' or ''very credible.''Articles in business magazines: 55%Articles in newsweeklies: 48%Articles in newspapers: 42%Colleagues: 42%Friends and family: 42%A company Web site: 24%Information conveyed by C.E.O./C.F.O.: 18%Product or service advertising: 9%Corporate advertising: 8%Survey of 400 people age 35 to 64 who are college-educated, have a household income of more than $75,000 or equivalent and report a significant interest and engagement in the media as well as economic and policy affairs. Survey conducted from December 2004 to January 2005.(Source by Edelman)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); ETHICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (77%); JOURNALISM (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (62%); WRITERS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Education and Schools; Public Relations and Publicity; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: Ketchum Inc ; Education Department (US)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (57%) Armstrong Williams; Timothy L O'Brien; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



253 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Lyn German, Jonathan Edwards

 BODY:
Lyn Maris German, the daughter of Roxanne and Aaron German of Brooklyn, was married last evening to Jonathan Patrick Edwards, a son of Betsy and Serpell Edwards of Houston. Melody F. Nelson, a minister of the Church of Spiritual Humanism and an aunt of the bride, performed the ceremony at the Gatehouse, an event space in Lafayette, Colo. 
 Mrs. Edwards, 29, is a graphic designer for e-Trinsic, a company in Louisville, Colo., that produces online training materials for users of medical equipment. She graduated magna cum laude from the State University of New York at Buffalo. Her father owns Canarsie Beverage, a beverage distribution company in East New York. Her mother is an aide at Canarsie High School in Brooklyn.
 Mr. Edwards, 28, develops software for managing inventory and financial data at Corporate Express, an office supply company in Broomfield, Colo. He graduated cum laude from Trinity University in San Antonio with degrees in international economics and computer science. His mother tutors dyslexic children in speech development and reading comprehension. His father retired as a senior research associate for Texaco in Houston, and is the president of the board of the Houston Maritime Museum.


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); RELIGION (77%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (75%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (74%); STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES WHOLESALERS (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (72%); WEB BASED TRAINING (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); DYSLEXIA (66%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT BUFFALO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



254 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 3; Travel Desk; ADVISORY: TRAVEL NOTES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: If Jacksonville Seemed an Unusual Super Bowl Spot, Wait Until Next Year

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Had Norman Mailer gone to the Super Bowl last Sunday, he might have asked, ''Why are we in Jacksonville?'' 
 Jacksonville (below), in northern Florida, was not a Vietnam-like quagmire, but in the view of news media critics, it was too small, too chilly, too dull, too anonymous, too undeserving to play host to a Super Bowl. This was for warm-weather party cities like Miami, New Orleans and Los Angeles, where 24 of the 39 games have been played. 
 And the National Football League, as travel agent, has another surprise for next year. The Super Bowl is going to another atypical destination: Detroit.
 So is the N.F.L. renouncing its past? Not entirely. The big game will be in Miami in 2007 and Phoenix in 2008. But its criteria have changed, partly to reward cities and owners for paying for new stadiums, like Alltel in Jacksonville and Ford Field in Detroit.
 ''Each of those communities built stadiums, and that's important,'' said the N.F.L. commissioner, Paul Tagliabue. ''When people invest public money in the N.F.L., they get a return, and the Super Bowl is part of the return, when we can do it.''
 The philosophy pleases officials in Detroit, which is bigger than Jacksonville and doesn't need to import cruise ships, as the Florida city did, to meet the N.F.L.'s requirements for hotel rooms.
 ''It's not often they come north, but a lot of fans are from up north, and football is a cold-weather sport,'' said Brad R. Van Dommelen, a senior vice president at the Detroit Metro Convention and Visitors Bureau. He added: ''Safety should not be a concern.''
 It should be noted that Ford Field is a domed stadium. But Detroit is not exactly a resort destination. Its murder rate is rising, its population is shrinking and its unemployment rate is at 14 percent. Even its mayor, Kwame M. Kilpatrick, recently said, ''We've been a black eye on the landscape of America for too long.'' Not exactly an advertisement for next year's Super Bowl.
 RICHARD SANDOMIR


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); CRUISES (75%); RESORTS (71%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (70%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); POPULATION DECLINE (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); CRIME RATES (61%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%) Football; Super Bowl; Ford Field (Detroit)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%)

PERSON: Richard Sandomir

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



255 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Those Family Ties Can Bind, But They Can Also Strangle

BYLINE: By DAVID KOEPPEL

 BODY:
After more than 60 years in business, things were beginning to unravel for Arnold's Factory Supplies, a family-run Baltimore company founded in 1933. 
 The longtime president died in 1995, leaving the company without a clear succession plan and precipitating a struggle between the late president's son, Mick Arnold, and another family member. After several years of ''butting heads,'' as Mr. Arnold puts it, the other family member -- whose name and relationship Mr. Arnold asked not be published -- resigned in 1999, and the two relatives have not spoken since. 
 ''The company's survival was at stake, and we were going in the wrong direction,'' said Mr. Arnold, 34, now the sole family member running the 40-employee company, which makes industrial packaging materials. ''I was not going to watch 65 years go down the drain.''
 Such rifts are not uncommon in family-run businesses, according to consultants who specialize in them. In recent years, more attention has been paid to what distinguishes family operations from nonfamily businesses and how they can improve as workplaces for both family members and outsiders. 
 That new focus partly reflects the economic importance of family-run operations -- they account for more than 80 percent of the country's businesses and employ about 62 percent of the American work force, according to The Family Business Review, a Boston journal.
 Moreover, as baby boomers start to retire, many of those businesses are likely to change hands. A survey done in 2003 by the MassMutual Financial Group and the Raymond Family Business Institute estimated that leadership of 39 percent of family businesses would change hands from then to 2008. 
 The advantages of family businesses -- and a reason many people enjoy working for them -- is that they tend to be less bureaucratic than larger organizations and allow employees greater flexibility in making decisions. On the downside, upward mobility can be limited, because many top jobs are held by relatives. 
 ''It's essential for nonfamily members to realize that as outsiders, they are playing by a different set of rules,'' said Jane Zalman of Zalman Family Business Solutions, a consulting firm in New York. Ms. Zalman said that emotions run high under family ownership, whether it is the mom-and-pop business on the corner or a large corporation, and the professional and the personal can often become indistinguishable. 
 She also said that siblings who work together often have a way of communicating that dates back to childhood -- a kind of insider code that outsiders cannot share. 
 Ken Potter Jr., president and chief operating officer of Martin's Potato Chips, a family-run business in Thomasville, Pa., says that he is able to anticipate his family's thoughts even before they speak. And communication among the Potters -- Mr. Potter shares ownership with his younger brothers, Kevin and David -- can be blunt. 
 ''I realize I'm not the only person here and things don't always come out my way,'' said Mr. Potter, who is known as Butch, in part to distinguish him from his father, Ken Sr., who ran the company from 1971 until his retirement last year. 
 Mr. Potter, 44, graduated from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., with a degree in chemical engineering and was working for Nestle in Pennsylvania when his father persuaded him to join the family business. 
 Mr. Potter recalled that his early years at the company were not easy. He felt overloaded with what seemed like too much responsibility and acknowledged that he was ''in over my head.'' Besides managing an operation with about 140 employees, he had to overcome the perception of favoritism -- a fact of life in most family businesses, consultants say.
 Another fact of family enterprises is that personal squabbles are sometimes played out in the office, to the dismay of both nonfamily and family employees.
 ''There's no greater thrill than sharing success with people you love,'' said Paul Karofsky, president of the Transition Consulting Group, a Boston firm, and executive director emeritus of the Northeastern University Center for Family Business. ''But there's no greater hell on earth than working with a dysfunctional family when things aren't going well.'' 
 Mr. Karofsky advises family owners to hire outside executives and set up more corporate structure to give both family and nonfamily employees a better idea of what is expected from them. 
 Consultants can help set up succession plans, make formal the processes for conflict resolution and peer review, and establish clear roles and responsibilities for family employees. 
 Scott Bardell, 46, an account executive for Wagner Printing, a 151-year-old family business with offices in Chicago and Freeport, Ill., has worked for three family-owned printing businesses in the last 15 years, and says he has enjoyed having closer access to management than he might have in larger nonfamily corporations. ''I'm not just a number to a C.E.O.,'' he said. 
 But before joining Wagner, Mr. Bardell left a larger family printing business in the same area after a promised promotion did not materialize. ''After five years, I was told by my boss that he didn't see an opportunity coming up,'' Mr. Bardell recalled. '''Management is top-heavy,' he told me. 'There's too many family members involved to make room.'''
 Gerry Burkhalter, Wagner's production manager, has worked with three generations of Wagner progeny for 39 years and sits on the company's board. He says the family has given him a great deal of autonomy, although he acknowledged that favoritism was still inevitable. He noted, however, that a relative who was hired for a certain job despite a lack of qualifications did not last long. 
 Mr. Arnold of Arnold's Factory Supplies says his company cannot afford ''the luxury of having family hangers-on.'' 
 ''Whether you're name is Arnold or Jones, you have to contribute or you can't be here,'' he said.
 At some family companies, upward movement -- even a stake in the business -- is possible. At Martin's Potato Chips, for example, which is slowly evolving from a down-home Pennsylvania company to a regional food producer that sells snack food in six states, the Potter brothers put their chief financial officer on the board and gave him a minority ownership stake. 
 Mr. Karofsky, the consultant, says family-run companies are increasingly hiring outside managers. But Mr. Potter of Martin's says that his family will never give up day-to-day management. 
 ''The trust is better among family,'' he said. ''I know everyone is working in their self-interest and giving it their best.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ken Potter Jr. said he had to overcome perceptions of favoritism when he took over as manager of the family potato chip business. Two younger brothers are also owners. (Photo by Kalim A. Bhatti for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY COMPANIES (91%); FAMILY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); SUCCESSION PLANS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LABOR FORCE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); BABY BOOMERS (64%) Small Business

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (54%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%)

PERSON: David Koeppel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



256 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Free Money? Sure. Heard of Food Stamps?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
With techniques like screaming television commercials, Matthew Lesko has built a lucrative business empire that produces nationally sold books of information about ''free money'' that, their covers and his commercials suggest, is available from the government -- in great volume.
 ''Free Money to Quit Your Job,'' ''Free Money to Change Your Life,'' ''Free Money for Entrepreneurs,'' ''Free Money to Pay Your Bills'': They are among the 100 or so works, often the size of telephone books and often with DVD and tape spinoffs, that Mr. Lesko has published over the last two decades. 
 But now the New York State government has given Mr. Lesko something free that he is not shouting about with glee: an accusation that his directories of government money sources offer far less than promised. 
 The criticism, in a recent report by the state's Consumer Protection Board, is based on its examination of one of Mr. Lesko's current volumes, ''Free Money to Pay Your Bills,'' a 772-page compilation that costs $37.95.
 The chairwoman of the Consumer Protection Board, Teresa A. Santiago, charged that the book helped foster a myth that the government had billions in ''hidden money,'' making people susceptible to swindlers promising government grants for an upfront fee. The board forwarded its complaint to the state attorney general's office, where it is being reviewed, an official said.
 Speaking by telephone from the Rockville, Md., offices of his company, Information USA, Mr. Lesko responded that ''Free Money to Pay Your Bills,'' which he compiled with Mary Ann Martello, and his other books had helped many people get aid from programs they had not known existed, and that he was not responsible for the swindlers.
 He granted that he was ''subject to hyperbole'' in promoting his books -- he wears gaudy suits with dollar signs emblazoned on them in his commercials -- but insisted that this did not detract from their value. 
 The cover of ''Free Money to Pay Your Bills'' says that inside are ''over 4,000 little-known government money programs that you can use to pay your bills and get out of debt.'' Also on the cover is an illustration of Mr. Lesko, dressed as Uncle Sam and merrily thrusting out a fistful of dollar bills.
 A spokesman for the Consumer Protection Board, Jon Sorensen, said that ''you might find 400 programs,'' and that many are well known, like unemployment insurance and food stamps. Those that are not well known, he said, can be so restricted in eligibility criteria as to be useless to the general public. For example, there is a program listed that aids a small number of classical music students and retired musicians in New York.
 Mr. Lesko defended his tally of the programs included in the book. ''If you have a federal program that adds money to a state program,'' he said, ''I don't know that it's the same program.'' Nor is it true that everyone knows about the major programs, he said. 
 Mr. Lesko said he included programs that had restricted eligibility requirements to provide a complete directory. 
 He declined to say how much his business had made, saying ''It's nobody's business'' because it is a private company. 
 Happy customers he cited included Terry Brown-Zapata of Woodbridge, Va., who said in an interview that ''Free Money to Pay Your Bills'' had guided her to a county agency that paid for a new furnace and to an internship program that led to a civilian job with the Army. The book gave her information ''I'd have known nothing about,'' she said.
 But Mr. Sorensen pointed to Cathy Boone of Rockville Centre, N.Y., who said that Mr. Lesko's books about starting a business had ''made it sound easy,'' but had wasted her time because the programs did not exist at the places listed or had requirements that a novice like her could not meet.
 Earlier this month, Mr. Lesko modified his credentials on his Web site, lesko.com, which described him, as his books did, as a columnist for Good Housekeeping Magazine and The New York Times Syndicate. He wrote the magazine column in the 1980's and the column for the syndicate from 1992 to 1994. Both organizations recently told him that these did not justify his suggestion of a current association, so the Web site now identifies him as a former columnist for them.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Matthew Lesko has been criticized for promising too much in his many books and spinoffs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); LITERATURE (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); MUSIC (50%) Books and Literature; Consumer Protection; Advertising and Marketing

ORGANIZATION: Consumer Protection Board (NYS)

PERSON: Joseph P Fried; Matthew Lesko

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



257 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Ideas & Trends; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: For Blacks in Law School, Can Less Be More?

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
ONE would have thought, given the decades of ardent debate over affirmative action in higher education, that the main axes of the dispute had been established. Defenders of racial preferences say that they compensate for historical wrongs, ensure vibrant and varied campus discourse and help create minority role models and leaders. Opponents say preferences are nothing but a reverse form of discrimination that stereotypes and stigmatizes minority students.
 But a recent study published in The Stanford Law Review by Richard H. Sander, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, has found a new way to inflame the debate. In fact, the study has ignited what may be the fiercest dispute over affirmative action since 2003, when the Supreme Court found some forms of it to be constitutional. 
 Professor Sander's study tests a simple, but startling, thesis: Affirmative action actually depresses the number of black lawyers, because many black students end up attending law schools that are too difficult for them, and perform badly. 
 If black law students were accepted to lesser law schools under race-blind admissions, Professor Sander writes, they would receive better grades and pass the bar in greater numbers. Even accounting for the many black students who could not attend any law school without affirmative action, the ultimate number of black lawyers would still increase, he concludes.
 That assertion, which is based on a great deal of data, along with inference and speculation, has provoked an outpouring of written critiques from law professors, economists and social scientists. Several will be published in The Stanford Law Review's May issue. 
 Professor Sander, who is white, says he came to his conclusion reluctantly. He notes that he helped found a fair-housing group in Southern California and that his son is biracial. He says he ''favors race-conscious strategies in principle, if they can be pragmatically justified.''
 His critics generally accept, and sometimes even praise, aspects of his empirical work. He shows three large gaps between black and white students: their academic credentials before entering law school, their grades in law school and their success on bar examinations.
 But many critics dispute Professor Sander's assertion that the first gap -- in undergraduate grades and L.S.A.T. scores -- causes the next two, in law school grades and in rates of passing the bar. 
 The basic numbers are not in serious dispute. 
 Using a standard 1,000-point scale to reflect both L.S.A.T. scores and undergraduate grade-point averages, Professor Sander writes, the average black student's score was 130 to 170 points below that of the average white student.
 Once at law school, the average black student gets lower grades than white students: 52 percent of black students are in the bottom 10th of their first-year law school classes, while only 8 percent are in the top half. And the grades of black students drop slightly in relative terms from the first year of law school to the third.
 Black students are twice as likely as whites to fail to finish law school. Nineteen percent of the black students who started law school in 1991 had failed to graduate five years later; the corresponding figure for whites was 8 percent.
 About 88 percent of all law students pass a bar exam on the first attempt; 95 percent pass eventually. For blacks, the corresponding figures are 61 percent and 78 percent.
 Timothy T. Clydesdale, who teaches sociology at the College of New Jersey, says the law school environment, and not affirmative action, suppresses the grades of some law students. 
 ''Something intrinsic to the structure or process of legal education affects the grades of all minorities,'' he writes in the fall issue of Law and Social Inquiry. Professor Clydesdale agrees with Professor Sander, however, that bar passage rates are determined primarily by law school grades.
 Professor Sander concedes that 14 percent fewer black students would enter law school without preferences. But because more of those who do get in would get good grades at schools that are better suited to them, more would graduate, he said, yielding 8 percent more black lawyers.
 The critics run their own numbers and conclude that without affirmative action, the number of black lawyers would fall anywhere from 9 percent to 35 percent.
 James Lindgren, a law professor at Northwestern who has followed the debate, cautioned that none of these numbers should be taken seriously.
 ''In the real world, too many things would change,'' he said in an interview.
 Professor Sander's study may be most vulnerable in its assessment of the top law schools, where the vast majority of law students of all races graduate and pass the bar.
 For instance, Richard O. Lempert, a law professor at the University of Michigan, said that the university's law school had found little difference between its black and white students in rates of graduation, in passing the bar or in income afterward. ''We think the fact that Michigan is an elite law school has a lot to do with it,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. ''Sander's data, though he barely mentions it, convey essentially the same story. Thus his analysis provides no case for the Harvards, Yales and Columbias of this world to abandon affirmative action.''
 But the situation may be different at less prestigious schools.
 Ian Ayres and Richard Brooks, two Yale Law School professors who are harshly critical of other aspects of the Sander study, used its data for their own study of law schools, which showed that 41.2 percent of black law students -- based on their undergraduate credentials and the law schools they attend -- have less than a fifty-fifty chance of becoming lawyers. The corresponding number for whites is 0.2 percent. ''For some of these people,'' they write in a draft critique, ''the investment in law school seems riskier than getting married in Las Vegas.''
 ''While we reject Sander's conclusion that affirmative action has reduced the number of black attorneys,'' Professors Ayres and Brooks write, ''we are more sympathetic to his idea that there is a class of black law students who shouldn't have gone to law school.''
 Wherever the debate ultimately leads, said Ed Johnson, a research economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics, Professor Sander's overall hypothesis is a valuable step in trying to understand a complex phenomenon.
 ''His story does seem to fit the data pretty well,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''That doesn't mean it's true. But it's hard to come up with an alternative explanation. In his favor, he's told a story that's at least a story.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The final hurdle: Many more blacks than whites fail to pass the bar examination. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)Chart: ''A Hotly Debated Thesis''A study by Richard H. Sander, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, has stirred outrage among supporters of affirmative action. He suggests that affirmative action in law school admissions sets up many black students for failure, moving them to more elite schools where they are more likely to perform badly.Professor Sander estimates that 95 percent of black law school students benefit from racial preferences. Without race-based admissions, he believes, most of these students would go to lower-tier schools and get better grades. The basic numbers are not in serious dispute, but critics are challenging Professor Sander's interpretation of them.PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: LAGGING GRADESIn his study, the median grade of black students was lower than those of white students. It didn't matter what type of school:MEDIAN GRADE OF BLACK STUDENTS95% of whites at elite law schools had higher grades93% of whites at other nationally prominent law schools95% of whites at midrange public law schools92% of whites at midrange private law schools93% of whites at lower-range private law schoolsMORE FAIL TO FINISH LAW SCHOOLDIDN'T GRADUATEWHITES: 8.2%BLACKS: 19.3%Professor Sander claims the rate of non-graduation for black students would fall to 13.5% without racial preferences.MORE FAIL THEIR FIRST BAR EXAMFAILEDWHITES: 8.1%BLACKS: 38.6%Professor Sander claims the bar exam failure rate for black students would fall to 20.5% without racial preferences.(Source by Dr. Richard H. Sander, University of California, Los Angeles)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (96%); LAW SCHOOLS (95%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); GRADES & GRADING (76%); RANKINGS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); DISCRIMINATION (72%) Colleges and Universities; Blacks; Law Schools; Affirmative Action; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%)

PERSON: Adam Liptak; Richard H (Prof) Sander

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



258 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: 'Affordable' Housing, a Moving Target

BYLINE: By TOM CLAVIN

DATELINE: EAST HAMPTON 

 BODY:
LATE last summer, the Town of East Hampton thought it had a good plan to preserve lower-cost housing in a market that was bolting into the stratosphere.
 The town would bottom-feed the real estate market, where the entry-level price for a home was about $400,000. It would put down $150,000 toward each purchase, while beneficiary families, selected by lot from a list of qualified applicants, would secure a mortgage for the $250,000 difference and be handed the keys to their new home. When it came time to resell a house, its price was to be tied to the Consumer Price Index, not to real estate market prices, so the owners could have some modest return on their investment while keeping the home in the ''affordable housing'' range for the next qualified family.
 But now that the town has begun trying to spend the $1.5 million it budgeted to invest in 10 houses for the program, there aren't any houses to be had for $400,000. Town officials are debating whether to boost its appropriation in the program, spending more per house, or to invest in fewer houses, or to require qualified families to get bigger mortgages, or to give up the program altogether and spend the money to build apartments. 
 ''The market is red hot and that's killing us,'' said Tom Ruhle, the director of housing and community development for the town. ''We are being outbid for houses that we're trying to buy.''
 Using data from the Suffolk Research Service, the inflation-adjusted median home sale price in East Hampton Town rose from $274,000 in 2000 to $625,000 in 2004.
 ''The East End and East Hampton in particular have lost gravity,'' said Harold Shepherd, owner of the East Hampton real-estate company that bears his name. ''Whatever goes up, goes up, up and further up. Every time I think a former $200,000 house is going to sell for a million, and that's amazing enough, it sells for a million and a quarter.
 ''The land has gone,'' Mr. Shepherd continued. ''There is no land. It's simple supply and demand. With a small and eventually nonexistent inventory, if I've got it and you want it, you're going to pay whatever I tell you. And unlike Florida and most other areas in the U.S. where you can go north or east or west, there's nowhere else to go in the Hamptons. We're surrounded by water.''
 As a result some residents are finding that buying a house on the South Fork is approaching ''Mission Impossible'' proportions.
 ''I would say that about 80 percent of the year-round residents on the East End could not afford the house they are living in now,'' said Assemblyman Fred Thiele, who was raised in Sag Harbor and continues to live there. ''You look at the demographics and there is continuing to be a large exodus of the younger population, who in the past would emerge as the next middle-class generation here.
 ''I've talked to small business owners who can't find people to hire,'' Mr. Thiele said. ''School districts are having a harder time finding teachers because they can't live here. For police departments and fire departments, there are fewer people stepping up. How are you going to get people to work on Main Street if they can't find a place to live?''
 He added: ''What's especially troublesome is that the gap is widening. The gap between what year-round people's incomes are and what they can afford in the real estate market is growing wider, and at a faster rate.''
 Barbara Weinman is a mother of three and a vice president at Harold Shepherd Real Estate. ''I wouldn't be able to live here now and raise my children,'' she said, ''and I'm lucky. I've lived here 21 years and bought my house 7 years ago. The irony is, if I hadn't been in real estate, I could not have supported my family. I see women all the time at the doctor's office or wherever who are saying, 'We don't know if we can afford to keep living here.' The real estate situation has overturned their whole lives.''
 The housing-subsidy program was meant to make a dent in the problem. In 2003, the Town Board selected by lottery 100 names from the 272 residents who had applied for ''affordable'' housing. Fifty of those names belonged to people eligible for the town's preference list, which included emergency services workers, volunteer firefighters and employees of the town and its school districts. The chosen 100 are being ranked according to their ability to get a mortgage or afford the rent, and Mr. Ruhle said that as units become available, winners will be drawn alternately from the preferred-50 list and the other-50 group.
 There was concern that families who could qualify for a mortgage of $250,000 would exclude the neediest, but Mr. Ruhle was careful to warn that the program was not for low- or very-low-income people. ''We know they wouldn't qualify,'' he said. ''This is for middle-class families who can qualify in partnership with the town.''
 The town does not have specific income parameters for a family to become eligible for the program. ''If you earn $20,000 a year, you're below the cut, and if you make over $100,000, you're probably over the line,'' Mr. Ruhle said. ''What we look at is if a family can secure a mortgage of $250,000. There are many variables involved, including the size of the family, its credit history, cash on hand and current debts. That is why we determine eligibility on a case-by-case basis.''
 Diana Weir, a former East Hampton councilwoman who is now vice president of the Long Island Housing Partnership, said that the Village of Patchogue has purchased downtown property to build an ''affordable housing'' project, and that the Town of Huntington created a town house development in Huntington Station in which the town retained ownership of the land. 
 But a town buying existing homes is unusual. ''Elsewhere on Long Island the focus is building affordable housing,'' Mr. Ruhle said. ''Here, the focus is on buying existing houses.''
 Ms. Weir said: ''Some people don't believe we should be helping people profit at the expense of the taxpayer. Yet we need our work force and young families to stay for economic reasons. In the 1990 to 2000 period, Long Island lost over 127,000 people between the ages of 20 and 34.''
 After the proposal was given to the Town Board, it set aside $3 million in its Community Housing Opportunity Fund. Half would go toward the purchase of 10 properties, and the remaining $1.5 million would underwrite the construction of 26 rental units at a town-owned site in Springs. The town also wants to go ahead with an earlier plan to build 26 homes near the town airport.
 ''We're very much in favor of the buying and renting approach,'' said Sheila Okin of the Amagansett Citizens Advisory Committee. ''But there's only so much money the town can put into the Opportunity Fund, and as the money trickles in, property prices here are rising rapidly.''
 Opposition to the house-buying plan has come from the town's own Community Housing Opportunity Fund Committee. ''Our advice to the town is, don't get involved in real estate,'' said Amado Ortiz, a member of the advisory committee, which was appointed by the Town Board. ''The way house values are in East Hampton today, $150,000 won't go very far, so we could end up with that $1.5 million buying 5 or 6 houses instead of 10. Our preference is to use the entire $3 million to create rental units which will house many more people.
 ''We're happy that there is $3 million available to devote to affordable housing, and that whatever form it takes, it's going to happen,'' he added. ''We just don't think we're getting the most for those bucks by the town buying houses and essentially becoming landlords. The committee is unanimous that rental is the way to go. More people and families can be housed. We have a very big group of single people, such as senior citizens, who don't need a house but an apartment would be fine.'' 
 Though he has yet to buy a single house, Mr. Ruhle is forging ahead. ''We are actively involved in finding houses and land and making offers on them,'' he said. ''That's what we do. That's what we'll continue to do. We're making what we believe are reasonable offers.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: This shack on a tiny plot in East Hampton, abandoned for more than a decade and considered uninhabitable, is being offered for $329,000.
 ''I see women all the time at the doctor's office or wherever who are saying, 'We don't know if we can afford to keep living here,''' said Barbara Weinman, a real estate agent. ''The real estate situation has overturned their whole lives.'' (Photographs by Doug Kuntz for The New York Times)Graph: ''Up, Up, Up Out East''Median sales price for a single-family home in East Hampton.Graph tracks sales since 1994. (Source by Suffolk Research Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (69%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing

PERSON: Tom Clavin

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) East Hampton (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



259 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/Tappan, N.Y.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: A Hamlet Allowed to Grow at Its Own Pace

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
MARSHA AND EDWARD LAMADRID took the less-traveled route to suburbia: first they raised two sons in an apartment in Astoria, Queens; then, as empty-nesters, they moved to a quiet neighborhood of single-family homes in Tappan, a hamlet of Orangeburg in Rockland County.
 ''Typically people in Queens go east on Long Island when they move to the suburbs,'' said Mrs. Lamadrid, a clerk for the Bronx Supreme Court. ''When we finally decided to trade in one lifestyle for another, we took off in a different direction.'' 
 When they were looking for a place to move to, they became smitten with the prospect of a direct commute to their jobs in the Bronx, and with the relative affordability of real estate in Rockland compared with some other suburbs. So they headed north. 
 Since the Lamadrids bought their two-bedroom town house condo 14 years ago, one of their grown sons, Daniel, and his wife, Veronica, also relocated from Queens to Tappan. Seven years ago, they bought a 1960's three-bedroom ranch in one of the hamlet's housing developments, later buying a larger home. 
 ''We're all glad to be out of the city,'' Daniel Lamadrid said. 
 During the week, the senior Mr. Lamadrid and his wife commute separately down the Palisades Interstate Parkway to the George Washington Bridge. ''Twenty miles door to door, and less than an hour on most days,'' Mrs. Lamadrid said. ''Not bad.''
 Located in southern Rockland, directly on the New Jersey-New York border, Tappan is one of seven unincorporated sections of Orangetown. Often referred to as hamlets, unincorporated areas do not have their own elected officials. 
 Thom Kleiner, the supervisor of Orangetown, observed that Tappan, a suburb never directly served by a commuter railroad, avoided ''the fate of overdevelopment'' some other communities experienced. ''The lack of a good rail network has had its pluses and its minuses,'' Mr. Kleiner said. ''Basically, it allowed Tappan, which is the southernmost town in the state west of the Hudson, to develop at a more leisurely pace.''
 The Tappan Zee Bridge was not completed until 1955, and before that, Mr. Kleiner said, ''there really was no way to get across the Hudson.'' The George Washington Bridge notwithstanding, he said, there were few north-south roads conducive to a daily commute by car until the Palisades Parkway -- which runs from Fort Lee, N.J., through Rockland to Bear Mountain -- was completed in the mid-1950's. 
 For public transportation, New Jersey Transit's Pascack Valley Line runs commuter trains on weekdays between Spring Valley and Hoboken, N.J., and Red and Tan/Rockland Coaches operates buses between Rockland and locations in New York City. 
 Tappan bears the imprint of two distinct groups of settlers: the Europeans who arrived in the 1600's and the New York City dwellers who moved to the hamlet in the second half of the 1900's.
 The transplants from the city settled in new ranch- and colonial-style houses in developments built 30 and 40 years ago. In addition to the tract housing, which sprawls throughout much of Tappan, the hamlet has three condominium complexes. A small stock of older single-family Victorians and Cape Cods is scattered on smaller lots.
 By contrast, the Village Green, a designated historic area, is a reminder of Tappan's role in the Revolutionary War. Located in the southeastern portion of the hamlet and settled by the Dutch in the 17th century, the area became an intense focus of activity during the latter part of the following century. 
 In 1774, the Orangetown Resolutions, which threatened to repeal English laws like the tea tax that curbed American liberty, were signed there. Close by, the DeWint House, where Gen. George Washington had military quarters, still stands. Also extant and in operation is the Old '76 House, a tavern where Maj. John Andre, the English spy, was held before his hanging in 1780.
 Today that area of the hamlet consists of several blocks of wood-framed homes, small office buildings and enterprises like a pet-grooming establishment and a coffee shop, most of them in structures from the early 1900's.
 The elder Lamadrids were first introduced to Tappan by co-workers in the Bronx, who claimed real estate values were better in Rockland than elsewhere. That is a commonly held notion, although agents in Rockland said it is too difficult to make precise comparisons because of variables like lot sizes and square footage of houses.
 ''At least the perception has been that you get more bang for your buck in Rockland,'' said Jeanne Shields, the manager of Weichert Realtors in Nanuet. ''But whether that really is the case, I don't know. Certainly compared to Westchester, it's a better deal.'' 
 In suburbs outside New York City, the median sales prices for single-family homes vary widely. Nassau County's median reached $437,000 and Suffolk's $362,000 at the end of December, according to the Multiple Listing Service of Long Island. In Westchester, the median for a single-family home was $615,000 at the end of last year, according to the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service.
 The Rockland County Board of Realtors reported a median of $457,650 for the last three months of 2004. In Tappan, the median price was $500,066, about 9 percent more than for Rockland as a whole, Mrs. Shields said.
 There are other reasons for moving to Tappan, like the quaint charm of the area around the Green.
 After hearing about a 130-year-old clapboard office building for rent in the historic district, David Englander, a lawyer, decided to move his offices from 57th Street in Manhattan to Tappan. Instead of driving an hour or more through rush-hour traffic to get home, Mr. Englander pulls up to his front door in nearby Palisades within six minutes of leaving his cozy office with its wood floors, high windows and elaborate moldings.
 Another businessman, Jerry Hong, a pharmacist, worked on the Upper East Side of New York City for 20 years before he decided to buy Storino Pharmacy in Tappan five years ago. In contrast to Mr. Englander, Mr. Hong now has a much longer commute, driving an hour and 15 minutes each way to and from his home in Brooklyn. ''But it's worth it to me,'' he said. ''The business atmosphere here is much less pressured than it is in the city, the people are more easygoing, and I like being the only pharmacy in town.''
 The South Orangetown Central School District has also served as a magnet. Its students fared well on the SAT's last spring: a mean of 534 on the verbal part of the test and 561 and the math portion, above the statewide average last year of 496 for verbal and 510 for math.
 The school district uses the Princeton plan, a system in which all students in the same grade attend the same school. South Orangetown has 3,578 students in five schools: a high school for Grades 9-12; a middle school for Grades 6, 7 and 8; and three elementary schools, one for Grades 4 and 5, one for Grades 2 and 3, and one for pre-kindergarten through first grade. 
 The Princeton plan, first used in Princeton, N.J., in an attempt to achieve racial integration, was instituted in the South Orangetown schools in the early 1980's to overcome socio-economic differences that previously existed in the separate hamlets and villages, said Jane Sandbank, assistant superintendent for curriculum and instruction. 
 One open question among residents is how to pronounce Tappan. Some say it is Tap-PAN, while others prefer TAP-pan, as in the Tappan Zee Bridge. So far, a consensus has not been reached.
 Even Mr. Kleiner could not offer a solution. 
 ''I thought I knew, but I guess I'm not sure these days,'' Mr. Kleiner said. ''That's something we'll have to settle at a later date.'' 
 For now, the supervisor said he is focusing his energies on further enhancing the charm of the Village Green. The town is spending $750,000 to remove overhead utility wires on nearby streets and reroute them to the rear of buildings, and to install brick pavers on crosswalks and sidewalks. ''The goal is to make one of Rockland's prettiest assets even more picturesque,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: GEORGE WASHINGTON WORKED HERE -- The hamlet of Tappan, in Rockland County, has retained its historical character, and a relatively slower pace of life, in part because it was bypassed by mass transit.
On the Market: 170 OLD TAPPAN ROAD -- This 85-year-old house on 1.4 acres has four bedrooms and two baths and is listed at $1,200,000. (845)359-4940.
185 OLD TAPPAN ROAD -- This 50-year-old house on 2.2 acres has three bedrooms and three baths and is listed at $779,900. (845)634-0400.
30 LAFAYETTE ROAD -- This 65-year-old house on 0.24 acres has three bedrooms and two baths and is listed at $414,990. (845)623-5200. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)Chart: ''GAZETTEER''POPULATION: 6,757AREA: 2.8 square milesMEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $86,435CURRENT MEDIAN SOLD HOUSE PRICE: $500,066TAX ON AVERAGE HOUSE: $6,750MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE A YEAR AGO: $477,500MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $280,000CURRENT MEDIAN CONDO PRICE: $359,000DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 22.4 milesCOMMUTE TO MANHATTAN: About one hour by car in rush-hour traffic
 less than 30 minutes at other times. Some bus and train service available.ZIP CODE: 10983THE VIEW FROM TAPPAN'S VILLAGE GREEN ABOUT NOON ON OCT. 2, 1780: Maj. John Andre, the 29-year-old British spy, being led by a contingent of soldiers to the nearby gallows.Map of New York State highlighting Tuppan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SUBURBS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (88%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (87%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMPTY NESTERS (78%); TRAINS (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (67%); MOUNTAINS (62%) Geographic Profiles

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) Tappan (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



260 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Long Island; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Trying Out a Power Source of the Future

BYLINE: By VALERIE COTSALAS

 BODY:
AS a fuel cell housed in a metal box about the size of a small S.U.V. hummed quietly in the parking lot of the Babylon Town Hall with puffs of steam floating out of its exhaust pipe, the chairman of the Long Island Power Authority, Richard Kessel, announced early this month that the utility was seeking a company to build and operate a 10-megawatt fuel cell that would provide enough energy to power 10,000 homes. 
 ''This will be the first project of its kind in America,'' Mr. Kessel said of the plan to feed fuel cell energy directly to the power grid. ''We're taking fuel cells to a new level.''
 Fuel cells are ''clean'' energy generators that convert hydrogen to electricity by a chemical process, requiring no combustion. The exhaust is water, heat and some carbon dioxide. Currently, most fuel cells extract the hydrogen from natural gas. 
 The proposed plant, to be situated at a substation in West Babylon, is to replace a ''farm'' of 75 smaller fuel cells now being tested there. LIPA does not expect homeowner electricity rates to increase as a result of the new project, Mr. Kessel said, even though fuel cells generate electricity at a higher cost than combustion generators.
 Three days after the announcement, in the quiet living room of a house in West Islip, Sister Gertrude O'Brien flipped a switch on the reading lamp over her easy chair. The lamp, one of several appliances in the house powered by the fuel cell sitting in the middle of the backyard, dutifully lighted the room. ''I think it's kind of ugly,'' Sister Gertrude said of the bulky fuel cell out back, ''but I would say that the benefits greatly outweigh the aesthetics.''
 Those benefits were visible on a day in December when a car hit a utility pole nearby. The whole neighborhood lost power, but Sister Gertrude and the two other nuns who live in the house could turn on their lights and watch television.
 Next door, when the Rev. Douglas Dower returned to his home that same night, he noticed all the homes on his block were dark. When he got inside, he checked his appliances.
 ''When I opened the refrigerator door, the light went on and everything inside was still cold,'' Father Dower said.
 The fuel cell in his yard, hooked up through conduits and pipes in the cellar to provide heat, light and power to essential appliances in his home, did not need the LIPA grid.
 Sister Gertrude and Father Doug, as they are called at Good Samaritan Hospital where they both work, live in hospital-owned homes that are two of several fuel cell test sites across the Island. Others include buildings at Brookhaven National Laboratory, a McDonald's restaurant and the Babylon Town Hall.
 Baron Davis, who lives with his wife and two young sons in a home they rent in Mineola, first came to live on Long Island from Anchorage, Alaska, in August 2003, landing at Newark Liberty International Airport only 20 minutes after a widespread blackout had knocked out power to most of the East Coast. 
 With nowhere else to go, Mr. Davis rented a car and drove with his sons to the Mineola home where the family had just moved. ''It was a nightmare, I couldn't even see road signs,'' Mr. Davis said of that harrowing six-hour drive. 
 But he is feeling more secure these days. Since early January, Mr. Davis's home has been one of seven in Mineola, owned by Winthrop Hospital, that are powered and heated partly by a fuel cell.
 ''They basically created a ditch and connected pipes over a week,'' he said of the installation by Plug Power Inc., the Albany-based company that manufactured the fuel cells for the tests. ''It really didn't create any problems.''
 The fuel cell power has been more reliable so far. Before the fuel cell was hooked up, the lights in the house would flicker every day, he said, and he often had to reboot his computer.
 ''Ever since they've had this on, I haven't seen any glitches,'' Mr. Davis, an unemployed electrical engineer, said of the fuel cell. ''No lights flickering on and off anymore.'' 
 But fuel cells like those used in Long Island homes are too expensive, about $75,000, and require servicing too often to be a viable residential alternative right now, according to Roger Saillant, president and chief executive of Plug Power. The main function of the tests is to improve the technology.
 ''You can compare it to the combustion engine in a car -- billions have been built, there's an opportunity to learn from each one of them,'' Mr. Saillant said. ''Of all the fuel cells in all the world, there's probably not 2,000 of them.''
 The LIPA plan to use fuel cells to supply the grid is part of an effort to generate 25 percent of the utility's energy using renewable sources by 2014, a goal set by the New York State Public Service Commission last year, Mr. Kessel said. 
 The utility has also already contracted with Florida Power and Light to build a windmill farm -- 40 to 50 windmill turbines -- about six miles from the Island's south shore, near Robert Moses State Park, providing 140 megawatts of power to the grid. Long Island's power demands averaged about 2,989 megawatts per hour in 2004 during peak hours. 
 But while windmills create electricity from ocean winds, the fuel cells used for LIPA's project will use a fossil fuel to operate: natural gas. The public service commission includes fuel cells in its policy, a commission spokesman, David Flanagan, said, to spur on the development of cells that will one day run on renewable resources like methane or electrical current. 
 Gordian Raacke, head of the environmental group Renewable Energy Long Island, discussed the future of fuel cells at the Babylon Town Hall news conference, where he praised LIPA's newest energy project. 
 Mr. Raacke powers his East End home with solar panels. Under a LIPA plan that allows homeowners using solar energy to ''run their meters backward,'' Mr. Raacke feeds electricity back to the grid and gets credits on his electric bill instead of charges. ''I don't pay anything for electricity,'' he said. ''When the day is overcast and I need energy, I use the credits.''
 The fuel cell of the future, Mr. Raacke believes, will be able to extract and store hydrogen from solar- and wind-generated energy, so if he had one in his house, he would not need to tap the grid on a cloudy day. ''Fuel cell technology provides an important link in the alternative energy chain,'' he said. ''It closes the loop.''
 Mr. Saillant of Plug Power said it is indeed possible for fuel cells to store hydrogen gas taken from a mixture of water and the electrical current generated by wind turbines and solar panels. Ideally, the stored gas would be used on a calm or overcast day to continue powering and heating the home.
 But he estimates that fuel cells not requiring natural gas are, under the best federal-financing conditions, at least 15 years away. 
 More recently in Mineola, Mr. Davis is happy with the first month of fuel cell power in his home. ''Having experienced a major outage, I can really appreciate this,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: BACKYARD ENERGY SUPPLY -- The home of the Rev. Douglas Dower in West Islip is a fuel cell test site. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (93%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (76%); UTILITY RATES (71%); HOSPITALS (60%) Electric Light and Power; Fuel Cells; Hydrogen

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%); MCDONALD'S CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Long Island Power Authority

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (50%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%)

PERSON: Valerie Cotsalas

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY); Babylon (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



261 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: 'New' Rumsfeld Is Seeking Stronger Ties With Europe

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Eric Schmitt contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: MUNICH, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld returned Saturday to the scene of his most brutal and bitter clash with Europe, which occurred two years ago, suggesting that he was a new man eager to forge a stronger trans-Atlantic relationship in the second Bush administration. 
 ''When I first mentioned I might be traveling in France and Germany, it raised some eyebrows,'' he joked in his speech at the annual Munich Conference on Security Policy. ''One wag said it ought to be an interesting trip after all that has been said. I thought for a moment and then I replied, 'Oh, that was the old Rumsfeld.''' 
 The line got a laugh from the audience of specialists on European and American national security, business and politics. 
 In the same grand 19th-century hotel in February 2003, Mr. Rumsfeld enraged much of Europe by branding as ''Old Europe'' opponents of the American-led invasion of Iraq, most prominently France and Germany. His reception last year at the conference was less icy, but this year, it was even, at times, warm.
 His appearance was only decided late Thursday, and it seemed intended to reinforce Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's message on her recent European tour to convince America's traditional allies that the United States takes them seriously. The Europeans are so hungry for attention and respect from Washington that some participants said that the fact that Mr. Rumsfeld showed up at all was important. 
 But while Mr. Rumsfeld joked and smiled on his charm offensive in Europe, he had no new policy substance. 
 Most pointedly, when Germany called on the United States on Saturday to support European negotiations to persuade Iran to abandon a crucial part of its nuclear program, Mr. Rumsfeld refused to endorse the initiative.
 In the opening speech to the conference, Germany appealed to the United States to end Iran's isolation, arguing that only economic and security incentives could persuade Iran to abandon a crucial part of its nuclear program.
 ''I strongly encourage the U.S. administration to actively support the Europeans' diplomatic efforts,'' Defense Minister Peter Struck of Germany said, speaking in the name of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, who was ill and could not deliver the speech. ''We must overcome Iran's massive isolation for Iran will only abandon its nuclear ambitions for good if not only its economic but also its legitimate security interests are safeguarded.''
 That will happen, Mr. Struck added, only with American involvement in a regional dialogue. In his speech, Mr. Rumsfeld only briefly mentioned the global problem of weapons proliferation and mentioned neither Iran's nuclear program nor the current standoff with North Korea over its nuclear weapons program. He was not about to weigh in on what is emerging as the most crucial diplomatic issue facing the second Bush administration and Europe.
 Asked in a question-and-answer session afterward to respond to the German call for American support on Iran, Mr. Rumsfeld dodged. 
 ''The president and Secretary Rice have commented on it, and the last thing I want to do is to step on their words,'' he said. ''How's that? I think that pretty well covered it. Next?'' 
 Later, Mr. Rumsfeld said that the United States hoped that the Europeans or the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations' nuclear monitoring organization, ''can proceed on a diplomatic path'' to persuade Iran to abandon what he called its ''seeming path to develop a nuclear weapon.'' He said nothing about direct American support for the Europeans. 
 The United States is convinced that Iran is secretly planning to build nuclear bombs and is struggling to develop a strategy to deal with Iran's Islamic Republic. In a meeting with French intellectuals in Paris on Wednesday, Ms. Rice branded Iran a ''totalitarian'' state and said that any approach that held out incentives for Iran would only help sustain the hard-liners in Iran, participants in the meeting said. 
 On Saturday, Defense Minister Ali Shamkhani appeared on Iranian state television inspecting a torpedo assembly line, Reuters reported. Mr. Rumsfeld only decided to attend the security conference just hours after Germany's federal prosecutor on Thursday rejected calls to investigate accusations that Mr. Rumsfeld and nine other top officials were guilty of war crimes in the Iraqi prisoner abuse scandal.
 ''He did well here by adopting a more congenial style without changing U.S. positions on any major issue,'' said Richard C. Holbrooke, secretary of state for European affairs and ambassador to Germany in the Clinton administration. ''It reflects a return to the proper leadership style for the United States -- to lead in a positive way -- not in a way that alienates the very people you want to follow you.'' 
 But Mr. Rumsfeld's colloquial, fast-talking style did not appeal to everyone. ''He always goes for the good phrase,'' said Josef Joffe, publisher and editor-in-chief of the German daily Die Zeit. ''The more he tries to get a laugh and deliver a punch line, the more he gets himself into trouble.'' His message on NATO, Mr. Joffe added, ''is that it's been dead for a long time.''
 Mr. Rumsfeld told the audience that one nation alone could not defeat radical Islamists and their ''totalitarian'' aims, emphasizing the importance of the NATO alliance. ''It will take many nations to help Afghans and Iraqis succeed in bringing democracy to places where tyrants once ruled and terrorists once trained,'' he said. 
 Still, even as the United States is asking NATO, with limited success, to take on a much larger role in training Iraq's police and military, he made clear that the NATO alliance is limited in what it can do. 
 ''NATO is the most impressive military alliance in the history of mankind, but it is what it is,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said, adding that ''nothing would have happened'' to address crises in places like Liberia or Haiti if the world had waited for NATO. 
 Mr. Schroder, in the speech delivered in his name, surprised participants with his even more critical remarks about NATO, saying that it was ''no longer the primary venue where trans-Atlantic partners discuss and coordinate strategies.'' 
 He called for the creation of a high-ranking panel of specialists to present governments with a reform of trans-Atlantic relations by early 2006 -- but that it should be between the United States and the European Union, not NATO.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 13 about a speech by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld at a security conference in Munich, where he called for stronger ties with Europe, misstated the date and place of his original reference to opponents of the administration's Iraq policy as ''old Europe.'' It was in an appearance before foreign journalists in Washington in January 2003, not at another Munich conference in February 2003.

An article on Feb. 13 about efforts by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld to improve relations with Europe during his visit to a security conference in Munich misstated the State Department title held during the Clinton administration by Richard C. Holbrooke, who commented on Mr. Rumsfeld's performance. He was assistant secretary of state for European and Canadian affairs; there is no secretary of state for European affairs.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Minister of Defense Peter Struck, left, of Germany and Donald H. Rumsfeld yesterday at the Munich Conference on Security Policy. (Photo by Ralph Orlowski/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (59%); GERHARD SCHRODER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



262 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2883 words

HEADLINE: Fare Increase Is Only a Start At N.J. Transit

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
DAY after agonizing day in the aftermath of the recent punishing snowstorm and single-digit temperatures -- there were delays, cancellations, equipment failures and overcrowded trains. In retrospect, it was perhaps the worst possible time for New Jersey Transit to ask for a fare increase.
 Still, some longtime passengers like Fran Duffy were philosophical.
 ''Lately it has been terrible, but usually the service is pretty good,'' said Mr. Duffy, who has been commuting to Wall Street from his home in Mercerville for 25 years. 
 Hunched against the cold at the Princeton Junction train station on a recent evening, Mr. Duffy -- whose hour-long commute mutated into a three-hour slog in the days following the snowstorm-- shrugged about the proposed increase in ticket prices.
 ''I am not happy about it,'' he said, ''but what can you do?''
 From the vantage point of New Jersey Transit, the nation's third-largest mass transit system -- which operates 2, 027 buses, 711 rail cars and 45 light-rail cars -- the answer is not much. 
 So the cash-starved agency, which until 2002 had not raised fares in more than a decade, has come back to passengers for the second increase in three years. The reason is simple: without an increase, New Jersey Transit will face a $60 million loss next year.
 Under this year's proposed increase -- which must first be approved by the board of New Jersey Transit before taking effect in April -- the average rail fare will go up about 13 percent, and discounts for traveling during off-peak hours will be cut to 12.5 percent from 25 percent.
 In addition, interstate bus fares will increase 13 percent under the proposal, although the price of monthly passes for local buses will not rise. One-way tickets on local buses, the Newark subway and the South Jersey light rail will go to $1.25 from $1.10, and fares on the Hudson Bergen Light Rail will rise to $1.75 from $1.50. 
 But before the proposed increases are voted on, the transit agency has scheduled 13 public hearings around the state from Feb. 15 through Feb. 26. 
 ''N.J. Transit did not increase fares for many years and now it is catching up with them,'' said Jeffrey Zupan, a transportation expert for the Regional Plan Association in Manhattan. ''The fare is the only thing taxpayers and the public sees; and for many years, they decided politically it made sense not to raise the fares.''
 In fact, before a 10 percent increase in 2002, the agency's last rise in fares, 9 percent, was instituted in July 1990.
 To be sure, public hearings like those scheduled over the next two weeks rarely result in drastic policy shifts -- particularly when an agency has already budgeted for a fare increase. Nonetheless, Jack F. Lettiere, the state Transportation commissioner, said transit officials would consider changes if a convincing case could be made.
 ''It is not just window dressing,'' Mr. Lettiere insisted. ''I am interested in what folks have to say about the pricing structure.''
 Yet this time, transit officials say, an increase is desperately needed to meet a range of expenses like rising fuel prices and skyrocketing health insurance costs for employees. In addition, an increase in security in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, has added about $13 million a year to the agency's $1.4 billion budget.
 Even after the proposed increases go into effect, however, officials warn that the system faces more serious financial problems. 
 For starters, the proposed increase will not come close to eliminating the agency's long-term gap between revenues and expenses. And experts warn that unless the state Legislature increases subsidies or financing through a rise in the gasoline tax, New Jersey Transit will face far more serious problems down the road.
 Indeed, New Jersey Transit officials say, unless legislators take some action, the agency could be facing a budget gap of more than $300 million within two years.
 ''This is an issue we are going to have to deal with,'' said Mr. Lettiere, who is also board chairman of New Jersey Transit. 
 To a certain extent, the transit system -- particularly the commuter rail section -- is a victim of its own success. Public transit rarely shows a profit; most systems, including New Jersey Transit, lose money on every customer. Ticket prices only cover about 42 percent of the cost of running the transit lines, according to George Warrington, the executive director of New Jersey Transit. That means for every $10 ticket, the agency has to raise $5.80 from somewhere other than the rider. 
 Moreover, business has been booming on the state's trains and buses. According to figures from New Jersey Transit, the number of passengers has increased by more than 30 percent over the past 10 years.
 ''There is a gap between revenues and expenses,'' Mr. Warrington said. ''And it gets worse as we increase services.''
 All of which has left transit officials in a difficult position. Although experts, including Mr. Lettiere, have said New Jersey Transit will almost certainly have to raise fares steadily to make up for the decade of no increases, they recognize it will be practically impossible for the system to make up the budget shortfall by simply raising prices. To do so would require more than doubling the cost of a ticket, which could drive away customers. In fact, the agency estimates that this proposed increase may lead to a 3 percent drop in ridership.
 The constant scramble for money has led New Jersey Transit to repeat a common sin in the mass transit world: diverting money from long-term repairs to pay for short term operations. Over the past 10 years, for instance, the agency has taken more than $1 billion from long-term projects to keep the trains and buses running.
 But agency officials say they can no longer continue doing this, and are capping the amount of money diverted from long-term repairs at $360 million a year. 
 Indeed, Mr. Warrington said one reason for the fare increase is the agency's decision to limit the amount of money diverted from long-term work. In 2003, a commission appointed by Gov. James E. McGreevey estimated that the state needed to invest an additional $5 billion in long-term repairs to prevent deterioration of the rail and bus systems. Diverting that money from daily operations will only increase future problems, Mr. Warrington said.
 ''It is masking an underlying problem,'' he said. ''It steals your seed corn from investment and basic infrastructure.''
 Since America began its love affair with the automobile, trains have been relegated to the position of jealous suitor. For most rail companies, moving passengers without entering bankruptcy has been impossible for nearly 50 years.
 New Jerey Transit was created from the wreckage of several once mighty passenger rail lines that ran though the state: the Jersey Central, the Erie Lackawanna and the Pennsylvania Railroad. Those companies were losing money on passenger trips by the late 1960's, and the state stepped in with financial support. After a brief period of nationalization -- the railroads were run for a time by Conrail, which was formed in 1976 and sold in 1998 -- New Jersey Transit assumed full control of commuter rail and bus service in 1983. 
 From the beginning, the agency was confronted with a creaking mix of old trains, worn track and decaying switching equipment. Over the next decade, transit officials concentrated on replacing the train cars and locomotives and repairing the tracks.
 As the system improved, demand for service increased, and in the late 1990's, the agency expanded rapidly: a huge switching and track project extended a direct ride into Manhattan for thousands of suburban commuters; a new station at Newark Airport added a direct link for air passengers; a station in Secaucus allowed residents north of Hoboken to ride directly into New York; and two light-rail systems opened, one linking towns along the Hudson, the other connecting Delaware River towns in the south.

New Rail Lines Are Popular
 Although the new operations have experienced some problems -- crowding in particular has been a complaint, and some new equipment has had trouble meshing with antiquated machinery -- they have generally been popular. Ridership has increased on all the lines: from 1991 to 2004, the number of passengers increased by 34 percent. And planning groups like New Jersey Future have found that new rail service has boosted property values. 
 But there was one problem with all of this expansion: New Jersey Transit could not afford to pay for it. 
 Ten years ago, the transit agency began running up large operating deficits, while at the same time, the state Legislature began scaling back on subsidies. From 1994 to 2002, the amount of money provided to the transit system fell. Over the same period -- and not counting the cost of new services -- inflation cost the agency $40 million a year, according to the governor's special transportation commission.
 Governor McGreevey tried to address the problem when he took office, but state budget problems only allowed legislators to return New Jersey Transit subsidies to 1994 levels of $260 million a year.

More Service, Smaller Subsidies
 ''What you really have is N.J. Transit getting less than they got in 1994 if you take into account inflation,'' said Martin E. Robins, director of the Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center at Rutgers University. 
 To keep the system running, transit officials began to dip into their long-term funds. In 1990, they used $8 million from capital investments to pay for daily maintenance. And as costs increased, the system relied more on long-term financing. By last year, the agency was diverting $360 million each year from long-term projects.
 In a way, moving the money from the long-term side to daily operations is an accounting problem rather than a practical one. State rules separate money for transit into two piles. One, for daily operations, comes from passenger fares and subsidies from state and federal government. The other, from the gasoline tax, pays for long-term repairs and large purchases, including new buses and train cars.
 Essentially, transit officials ran out of money from daily pile and started using money from the gas tax to pay for day-to-day operations.
 The problem, of course, is that long-term repairs do not get finished. It is like using money set aside for roof repairs to pay the electric bill: the lights stay on, but eventually the roof falls in.
 ''You need to ensure a state of good repair for the railroad itself,'' Mr. Lettiere said. ''Once that starts to deteriorate, you have real problems.''
 In general, the agency's buses and train cars are in good shape. The system recently received the last of 30 new electric locomotives, and is adding 26 new diesel engines as well. A fleet of 200 new rail cars has had some problems integrating with older equipment -- doors have stuck closed and intercoms have malfunctioned -- but Mr. Warrington said the manufacturer has promised to finish repairing the cars by this spring. And by 2007, New Jersey Transit is scheduled to begin using double-deck rail cars, increasing capacity by 25 percent without adding new trains to the schedule.
 ''Generally, over 10 years our reliability has improved,'' Mr. Warrington said. ''In any given month we run in the 94-95 percent on-time time range.''
 The problem is the underlying infrastructure. According to the governor's transportation committee report, New Jersey Transit needs to make substantial investments in bridge repairs as well as station and track upgrades. Equipment on buses, like the radio system, also needs to be upgraded.
 The train system also faces serious problems with its most important rail line: the Northeast Corridor, owned by Amtrak, between Washington and Boston. Because Amtrak -- operated by the federal government -- has historically been strapped for funds since the nation's intercity rail service was formed in 1971, much of the track as well as signal and electric equipment are literally falling apart. 
 Mr. Warrington, who was president of Amtrak before coming to New Jersey Transit two years ago, said many of the problems encountered after last month's snowstorm were caused by failing Amtrak equipment. And with President Bush planning to eliminate the $1.2 billion subsidy for Amtrak in his budget introduced last week, the situation is not likely to improve any time soon.
 ''There is clearly a problem developing associated with the basic integrity of the Northeast Corridor,'' Mr. Warrington said. He said the snowstorm demonstrated ''the fragile nature of the Northeast corridor and the difficulty Amtrak has had maintaining it.''
 And while New Jersey Transit's equipment is wearing out, the agency's bank account is in far worse shape, largely because of the meager gas tax collected in the state Transportation Trust Fund.
 Originally, the trust fund was pay-as-you-go: money was collected from the gas tax and spent on highway and transit projects. But about 10 years ago, the state began borrowing against the trust fund as a way to avoid increasing the gas tax. As a result, New Jersey has the fourth lowest gas tax in the United States, but it has run up a huge debt to pay for highway projects.
 By the middle of 2006, the debt will have grown so large that all of the money collected from the gas tax will go toward paying off the state's loans, about $805 million a year. That means there will be no money available to pay for new highway projects -- or any expenses for New Jersey Transit. 
 In turn, transit officials -- who have grown dependent on the money for much of their budget -- say that would be a disaster.
 ''Without the trust fund, we would lose $350 million of a $1.4 billion budget,'' Mr. Warrington said. ''Obviously, that would have very serious consequences.''

Gas Tax Rise Is Inevitable
 Experts assume that the state will rescue the trust fund before it runs out of money, probably by raising the gas tax. Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey, who declined to comment for this article, has said he is willing to consider increasing the tax, though he has said that it is not politically feasible to bring up the issue before the November elections.
 That is largely the result of state politicians' beliefs that voters will punish any public official who dares to raise taxes. In its report two years ago, the governor's commission on transportation said it would be necessary to increase the gas tax as much as 12.5 cents to 15 cents a gallon -- almost doubling the current tax of 14.5 cents -- to repair the state's highways and make improvements to the mass transit system.
 David Rebovich, director of the Institute for New Jersey Politics at Rider University, said the acting governor obviously is concerned that ''opponents would use such an increase as campaign fodder.''
 But Mr. Rebovich said the issue is such a looming concern that candidates will not be able to avoid taking a position. ''Candidates from both parties will be forced to talk about it,'' he said.
 Assemblyman John S. Wisniewski, a Democrat from Bordentown who is chairman of the Transportation Committee, agrees that political leaders should not duck the issue, since the only practical way to raise money for transportation projects is through the gas tax.
 Moreover, Mr. Wisniewski said allowing the Transportation Trust Fund to run out of money would be irresponsible and dangerous for the state's economy.
 ''It is going to be funded and it is going to be funded through an increase in the motor fuels tax,'' said Mr. Wisniewski.
 For now, Mr. Wisniewski said, political leaders need to explain to voters why the gas tax money is needed and convince them that the money will benefit the economy.
 ''So much of our economy is based on transporation,'' he said. ''We need to have an honest dialogue with the people of the state. We need to explain to them what they get for this.''

New Jersey Transit Public Hearings

Tuesday, Feb. 15

Passaic County Administration Building
Freeholders' Board Room
401 Grand Street, Paterson
5:30 - 8:30 p.m.

State Department of Environmental Protection
Public Hearing Room, First Floor
401 E. State Street, Trenton
5:30 - 8:30 p.m.

Wednesday, Feb. 16

Camden City Hall
City Council Chamber, Room 201
5:30 - 8:30 p.m.

John Wiley & Sons Inc.
Second Floor, Cafeteria
11 River Street, Hoboken
5:30 - 8:30 p.m.

Thursday, Feb. 17

New Jersey Transit Headquarters
Board Room
One Penn Plaza East, Newark
5:30 - 8:30 p.m.

Somerset County Administration Building
Freeholders' Meeting Room
20 Grove Street, Somerville
5:30 - 8:30 p.m.

Tuesday, Feb. 22

Summit City Hall
Council Chambers/Courtroom
512 Springfield Avenue, Summit
5:30 8:30 p.m.

Monmouth County Library
Rooms 1 and 2
125 Symmes Drive, Manalapan
5:30 - 8:30 p.m.

Wednesday, Feb. 23

Atlantic City Convention Center
Meeting Room 301
One Miss America Way, Atlantic City
5:30 - 8:30 p.m.

Port Authority Bus Terminal
Times Square Hall
625 Eighth Avenue, New York
5:30 - 8:30 p.m. (informational session)

Thursday, Feb. 24

Bergen County Freeholders
Public Meeting Room
One Bergen County Plaza,
Hackensack
5:30 - 8:30 p.m.

Toms River Park and Ride
Lobby
400 Highland Parkway South,
Toms River
5:30 - 8:30 p.

Saturday, Feb. 26

Edward J. Bloustein School
Special Events Forum
33 Livingston Avenue,
New Brunswick
1 - 4 p.m. (informational session)


CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about a proposed fare increase being sought by New Jersey Transit misstated the hometown of Assemblyman John S. Wisniewski, the Democratic chairman of the Transportation Committee, who wants to increase the gasoline tax and put the state in a better position to finance transportation projects. He is from Sayreville, not Bordentown. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: For New Jersey Transit passengers, the average rail fare is likely to go up about 13 percent in April. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Rail passengers at Pennsylvania Station in downtown Newark were confronted by long delays and cancellations after power wires came down during a spate of service disruptions last month. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)
 Some of the equipment in an Amtrak control room near Pennsylvania Station in Newark dates to the 1940's. (Photo by Angel Franco for The New York Times)(pg. 9)Chart: ''Riding Rails and Roads''New Jersey Transit passenger trips (trains and buses).Graph tracks New Jersey Transit passenger trips (trains and buses) from 1992 to 2004.(Source by New Jersey Transit)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); TRAINS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (74%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); TICKET SALES (68%) Transit Systems; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Buses; Commuting; Railroads; Transit Systems

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey Transit

PERSON: JOHN SULLIVAN (50%) John Sullivan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



263 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; EDUCATION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Grade Point Angst At Princeton

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

 BODY:
LILY JOHNSTON, a psychology major from the Seattle area completing her senior year at Princeton University, is viewed by her teachers as a young woman with a great future. ''She is a high achieving senior and is quite articulate,'' said Samuel Wang, an assistant professor of molecular biology at the university.
 Ms. Johnston is not so sure her future is as secure as others may think. Princeton has just completed its first semester under a new grading policy aimed at reducing the number of A's it awards, the first and only Ivy League school to do so. Ms. Johnston and many other students worry that the new, tougher grading standards will put hurt them as they look for jobs or apply to graduate or professional schools. 
 ''The people in my stage have gone through three years at Princeton getting grades you thought you earned,'' Ms. Johnston said. ''Now, maybe people are saying those grades weren't valid. While I personally didn't notice anything in actual grades last semester, I did notice professors making a point of mentioning the new standards. That changes the tenor of the class, and it makes you think the professor is more conscious of, perhaps, grading down.''
 Dr. Wang, like many of the senior faculty who voted overwhelmingly in favor of those new standards, thinks they will give a greater value to a Princeton 'A.' 
 In April, after much talk at Princeton and other Ivy League schools about grade inflation, the faculty voted 2-to-1 to approve a proposal by Nancy Weiss Malkiel, the dean of the college, to set an expectation that the number of A's handed out by each academic department would be limited to 35 percent of students in regular courses and 55 percent of students doing independent work. Princeton plans to release the results of its new policy at the end of the spring semester, after the first full academic year. 
 Grade inflation has been a concern on college campuses since the Vietnam War, when some professors gave students better grades so they could keep their draft deferments. The issue took on a new urgency after it was reported by The Boston Globe in 2001 that Harvard University awarded honors to 91 percent of its 2001 graduates. At Princeton, between 1997 and 2002, 45.5 percent of all students in undergraduate courses received A's.
 A faculty-staff committee at Princeton that examined grade inflation put the issue succinctly in the opening statement of its 2003 report: ''Who could ever have imagined that we would reach a point where a student with a straight B average would rank 923 out of a graduating class of 1079 -- or where a student with a straight C average would rank 1078?''
 Some smaller academic departments, like Slavic languages, have voiced concern that if A's are parceled out so strictly, students would begin shying away from classes and departments would die. Still other faculty members oppose an arbitrary restriction on the number of A's they can award. But Dr. Wang said the new policy was important to be able to differentiate between students. ''A huge practical issue in grade inflation is the compression of students into a small number of categories. In some departments the range is effectively from A+ to B. This compression makes evaluation of students harder,'' Dr. Wang said.
 Dean Malkiel said the university has sent letters to major graduate schools and as many as 3,000 employers to explain the university's new grading policy. But that has not eased concerns among students.
 Matt Margolin, a senior political science major from Portola Valley, Calif., and the former president of the student government, said: ''All of the Wall Street jobs and major scholarships look at the junior year and first semester senior year grades. There is such a mass of students applying that, at least, the first cut is about those grades and they can't be concerned with a letter explaining Princeton's new position.''
 Mr. Margolin said that he believes that Princeton is a better school with better students than it was in past generations, so higher grades would be justified.
 ''I worked really hard to get in here,'' he said. ''I did 20 drafts of my application essay. I worked really hard in high school. I did all the extra things I needed to get in because I really wanted to be here. My father went to Princeton and I don't think -- he doesn't think -- he could get in here today. Times are different and things are more competitive, so I think most all of those A's were completely legitimate.'' Dr. Wang said students should be less concerned about the grade debate and more concerned about the real world. ''I was dismayed at the high level of student interest in this topic both before and after we passed the proposal,'' he said. ''Last year we saw a heated presidential campaign and escalation of casualties in the Iraq war, but I heard far less from students on these topics. The undergraduate student government wrote all the faculty a letter regarding their opposition to the grade inflation proposal. The Abu Ghraib prison abuses were revealed around that time, a topic about which I heard nothing.''
 So far, the grade-inflation restrictions do not appear to have hurt Princeton's reputation among prospective students. ''Applications to Princeton are up from previous years, so the new initiative does not appear to be discouraging students from coming here,'' said Daniel R. Marlow, a Princeton physics professor. ''I believe that in the long run, this will improve the quality of education at Princeton, and that both faculty and students will end up working harder.''
 Jeffrey Herbst, a 1983 Princeton graduate and now a political science professor there, expects the controversy to blow over. ''The student body refreshes itself completely every four years,'' he said. ''Very soon, it will appear to Princeton students that this policy is the way it has always been.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Princeton students are worried about the university's new, tougher grading policy, which is meant to cut the number of A's. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRADE INFLATION (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); APPROVALS (64%); BIOLOGY (57%); VIETNAM WAR (50%) Colleges and Universities; Grading of Students

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%) Princeton University

PERSON: Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



264 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1922 words

HEADLINE: Down So Long, It Looks Like Up in Trenton

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
EVEN as New Jersey's leaders have shuttled, year after year, to countless sessions of the Legislature in this city on the Delaware, drug trafficking and violent crime in neighborhoods surrounding the gleaming State House dome have exploded in a rainbow of gang colors. 
 Local and state authorities have had little success combating the trend in recent years, with homicides and sexual assault still a frustratingly common occurrence. Indeed, a national survey recently ranked Trenton, an ethnically diverse city of 85,000, as the fourth-most dangerous city of its size in the country. 
 Yet against this backdrop of lawlessness, some residents say they have reason to hope that help is on the way. 
 ''The police aren't letting the city go anymore,'' said Ken Bullock, a barber and community activist who has lived all of his 47 years in Trenton. 
 Mr. Bullock said he had noticed a much greater police presence in his crime-ridden neighborhood on Walnut Avenue and Monmouth Street, about a mile east of the State House. ''It's been a dramatic change here. They're actually doing something.'' 
 Yet there is a long way to go. Mr. Bullock said that these days, trouble looms in the form of violent, drug-dealing street gangs. And many of his neighbors -- after years of antipathy -- are still wary of the largely white police force. ''You know, most people in Trenton are still scared of the law,'' he said.
 But these days Mr. Bullock is a frequent visitor to police headquarters on North Clinton Avenue, near the city's municipal court, where he says he has discovered a receptive audience.
 Such observations are new for Trenton, a once-thriving industrial center whose neighborhoods have been eroded in recent decades by rising joblessness and crime. Trenton's population has shrunk by nearly a fifth from the more than 104,000 black, Hispanic, Italian, Irish and Polish residents who lived there as late as the 1970's.
 Like many tired cities in the Northeast, the jobs -- and middle-class residents -- moved to nearby suburbs like Hamilton Township. Today, the unemployment rate in Trenton is 10 percent, compared with 4 percent statewide, and more than 17 percent of its families live below the poverty line.
 The public schools, some of which were considered among the best in the state in the 1950's, are now among the worst. A state takeover of the city's affairs in the early 1980's provided little in the way of a long-term solution, nor did construction of new office buildings near the State House, which gave the city a skyline and thousands of state jobs but no tax revenue.
 In the past several years, there have been glimmers of a reawakening. For instance, the Mill Hill section has seen an influx of urban-pioneering gay couples. And the Italian section known as Chambersburg still draws patrons to a handful of well-known restaurants. But there are still other areas around the city that are nothing less than danger zones.
 The city's desperate crime situation has led to some extraordinary measures. Two years ago, Mayor Douglas H. Palmer hired Joseph Santiago, the fiery former Newark police director and state police superintendent, as Trenton's police director. 
 Instead of shying away from Mr. Santiago's controversial past, Mr. Palmer gave him sweeping latitude to impose changes to the 363-member police department, like beefing up the peer review system and forcing officers to spend more time on the streets in the worst neighborhoods. 
 More recently, the city contracted with a consultant on gang intervention to help oversee the coordination of police and city efforts with the public schools to enroll youths in dozens of new outreach and mentoring programs.
 At the same time, the state attorney general's office and state police have taken a larger role in battling gang and drug-related violence. As recently as June, 17 gang leaders were arrested, and others are said to be under investigation. 
 The determined -- if long overdue -- focus on reducing crime in this relatively small city, aided by the political will and an array of new techniques, has crime experts referring to Trenton as an unlikely proving ground for some of the region's most advanced crime-prevention methods.
 ''The size of Trenton and the fact that there's broad political and organizational support for change means that we should have a really unusual opportunity to test what's possible,'' said George L. Kelling, faculty chairman of the Police Institute at Rutgers University in Newark, who is advising city officials here on their new initiatives. ''We might be able to do something that could have a rapid impact and a lot of significance, there and in other cities.''
 For his part, Peter C. Harvey, the state attorney general, did not mince words about what he thought was at stake. ''All of us collectively have to be very consistent in our community education and our law-enforcement effort in Trenton to make sure that our capital city doesn't deteriorate into an uninhabitable city,'' he said. 
 Results have been mixed. On one hand, the city is about to release numbers for last year showing a 17 percent drop in serious crime. According to police officials, there were 5,182 incidents involving homicide, rape, theft, assault and arson, a drop from 6,224 in 2003.
 But a closer look at those numbers shows something less promising: because of drug and gang-related violence, killings have remained stubbornly common occurrences, with 18 homicides last year, up from 13 the year before. There were also 46 incidents of rape reported in 2004, up from 36 in 2003. 
 Moreover, despite a decline in the overall crime rate, which mirrors a statewide trend, certain high-crime neighborhoods in Trenton are still barely livable. In those parts of the city, street gangs seem at times to be ubiquitous: Los Angeles-based groups like the Bloods have taken root in the southern part of Trenton, the police say, while the Crips have flourished in the eastern ward. In addition, new gangs have sprouted in the Hispanic neighborhoods near the maximum-security state prison downtown.
 To the chagrin of city officials who are trying to change the image -- and the reality -- here, Morgan Quitno Press, a Kansas-based research company, ranked Trenton the fourth-most dangerous city of its size in the country. 
 Mr. Santiago, the garrulous law-enforcement veteran who was appointed director of police in February 2003, said that the increase in killings was more a reflection of the gang-related drug trade than the overall safety of the city, and that most neighborhoods had become less dangerous places. 
 He also contended that the department's performance had improved since he arrived by increasing officer accountability, cutting the average response time and raising the police presence on the streets. 
 ''When I got down here, I started asking questions,'' he said. ''I asked about crime rates. They didn't even know what they were. Two years ago, they didn't even have a daily crime report. I asked if there were gangs in Trenton. They said no.''
 Still, he said, he recognized that despite the departmental improvements and apparent drop in overall crime, it was only a start.
 ''We realize there's a long way to go,'' Mr. Santiago said. ''We've started by increasing people's confidence in the police. But we know we have to keep going. '' 
 Much of the next step, which the city hopes to point to as a model, will include new crime-prevention programs. To that end, the city recently hired Barry Colicelli, another veteran of the Newark Police Department, to create programs that would identify and deal with the city's most ''at-risk'' young gang members and juvenile offenders, essentially setting up a system to badger them with alternative educational and mentoring programs. 
 As part of the effort, Mr. Colicelli will be charged with setting up a system of accountability in which officers will question each other about progress in deterring gang recruitment, youth violence and truancy. 
 ''I certainly don't know of anything on this scale that's being done anywhere else,'' Mr. Colicelli said.
 Yet for all of the big plans, there are also big obstacles. For one thing, the politics of policing Trenton remain murky. Mr. Palmer is still reeling from the worst political storm of his 14-year tenure, prompted by his hiring Mr. Santiago, who was forced from his previous job with the state police after several well-publicized controversies. Mr. Santiago, who was never charged with any crime, faced questions about his personal finances, the purchase of $120,000 in office furniture and an improper request to see files from a background check on his alleged relationships with reputed organized crime figures. 
 Since then, Trenton's police unions and some members of the city force have been in open revolt at what they contend are the misguided and politically motivated strong-arm tactics of the new leadership.
 ''I recognized that he was a pariah at the time,'' Mr. Palmer said. ''People said he was in the mob; that he's spent extravagant amounts of money on furniture; that he was going to get indicted. So I did my due diligence. I asked the people who were saying these things if he was really going to jail. They said, 'Well well ' I said, 'Fine, you didn't get along with him. But I know what he's accomplished in the past, and I've got a job for him to do here.' And he's been doing it.''
 In addition to local tensions in Trenton, cooperation between local and state law enforcement entities is not what it could be. Mr. Harvey, who tangled with Mr. Santiago and played a role in his departure from the state police, described his relationship with the police director as ''a work in progress.'' 
 Nor are all of the police convinced of the merits of the new routine. Officers involved with police unions -- who have been the most critical of the institutional changes since a referendum in 1999 ceded control of the department to the mayor -- suggested that many of the reforms were motivated more by politics and personal ambition than by a genuine desire for reform.
 ''They're running the department through intimidation rather than trying to lead by example,'' said Len Cipriano, president of Local 11 of the Policeman's Benevolent Association. ''It's not working. Some crime may be down -- minor thefts, stuff like that -- but shooting, homicides, aggressive assaults are on the upswing.''
 Some neighborhood residents say that while they have seen an increased effort to combat crime, they have also watched the situation on the streets grow worse.
 ''Crime is on the rise, you know?'' said Wayne Council, 50, a lifelong resident who spent much of his youth in and out of prison, and now has a business selling clothing from a van on Walnut Street, Stuyvesant Street and other locations he describes as ''the worst areas in the city.'' 
 ''I think the police are doing the best they can do with what they got,'' Mr. Council said. ''And they're definitely doing more than before. But now you get 10 kids coming out here, part of one of these gangs, and they're just running wild.''
 Mr. Council, who has been the victim of a gang attack, said that ''the best police can do is move them -- at least get them off the corner and go somewhere else.''
 ''But that's not a solution,'' he said. ''They can make whatever changes they want, but I'm going to wait and see before I say they're doing a good job. There's no solution until they can get these kids together and educate them. Otherwise, the problems will be the same.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Serious crime dropped 17 percent last year in Trenton, but because of drug and gang-related violence, the number of killings rose. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 An anti-gang unit, top, has had an increase in its workload, above. But Ken Bullock, a barber who has spent all of his 47 years in Trenton is hopeful: ''The police aren't letting the city go anymore.'' (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Map of New Jersey highlighting Trenton. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); GANGS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RANKINGS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); TRENDS (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); HOMICIDE (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); POVERTY RATES (60%) Crime and Criminals; Gangs; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Crime and Criminals

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: Joseph J (Dir) Santiago; Josh Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Trenton (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



265 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; TELECOMMUNICATIONS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: High-Tech, High Stakes

BYLINE: By TERRY GOLWAY

DATELINE: BASKING RIDGE 

 BODY:
NOT so long ago, the former AT&T headquarters just off Interstate 287 was a symbol of modern, postwar New Jersey. The buildings were low-rise and sprawling. Parking was plentiful. And the mailing address was not a worn and gritty industrial city but a gleaming suburb in Somerset County.
 But slightly more than two years ago a shrunken and humbled AT&T sold the sprawling campus to Pharmacia, part of the pharmaceutical giant Pfizer, for $200 million. Soon afterward, however, Pfizer put the huge facility back on the market. 
 Today, vacant buildings and empty parking lots offer dreary testimony to a revolution in telecommunications brought about by deregulation, rapid changes in technology and the emergence of more nimble competitors, a revolution that has cost New Jersey tens of thousands of jobs in the last 15 years. AT&T itself may yet go the way of Bethlehem Steel, Pan Am and other ghosts of the 20th century. Only weeks ago, SBC of San Antonio, announced plans to acquire AT&T, based in Bedminster, for $16 billion.
 There is a possibility, however, that the future of telecommunications in New Jersey will soon pay tribute to its past by restoring jobs and purpose to this service-economy graveyard. Verizon Communications Inc. -- the nation's largest telephone company -- is considering putting a new operations center in Basking Ridge. 
 At stake are nearly 2,000 jobs that would be shifted from Verizon headquarters in New York. In addition, about 2,500 employees of Verizon Wireless, which is also based in Bedminster, could be moved to the campus here. But it is hardly a done deal. Indeed, Basking Ridge is just one of the sites under consideration, and not all of them are in New Jersey. Verizon is also being seriously courted by officials to move to northern Virginia. While Gov. Mark Warner's office has confirmed that it is in negotiations with Verizon, a spokeswoman for the Virginia governor, Ellen Qualls, declined to comment further.
 As recently as last week, acting Gov. Richard J. Codey tried to fend off the threat from Virginia by offering Verizon an economic incentive package amounting to $63.9 million if it agreed to locate its operations center in the state. 
 The state treasurer, John McCormac, announced the initiative -- the first official acknowledgment from Trenton that New Jersey was in the running for the Verizon relocation -- and a decision is expected within the next few weeks.
 Mr. McCormac, who is deeply involved in the talks with Verizon, emphasized that Mr. Codey was intent on keeping jobs and creating new ones. But according to some economic experts, a good deal more than several thousand Verizon jobs is at stake. If New Jersey, a capital of the old telecommunications world, can reinvent itself as a center in the new wireless world, other good-paying jobs will follow. 
 ''Wireless is the wave of the future,'' said Dr. Carl Van Horn, director of the Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at Rutgers University. ''It is extremely important for the state to be successful in this growing part of the telecommunications industry. Opportunities are shifting away from the copper line sector to the wireless side, and it would be important for us to have wireless headquartered here.''
 Verizon Wireless accounted for more than 40 percent of the parent's revenue in the final quarter of 2004, according to company figures. Revenue from the wireless component was just over $7 billion in the year's final three months, an increase of more than 22 percent over the same period in 2003. Over all, revenue for Verizon Wireless amounted to more than $27 billion last year, a $5 billion increase over 2003. Based in those figures, it is not a surprise that the Codey administration put together the second-largest incentive program ever offered by the state to keep Verizon Wireless in New Jersey and to attract the more than 1,700 jobs that will be moved out of Manhattan and into the new operations center.
 ''The stakes are very high,'' said Philip K. Beachem, president of New Jersey Alliance for Action, an Edison-based advocacy group of business leaders, labor organizers and academicians. ''In light of the state's budget situation,'' he said, referring to the $4 billion deficit this year, ''there is an economic incentive to go after Verizon aggressively. And I think the governor and treasurer are doing that.'' 
 Verizon only last week formally acknowledged that it was considering New Jersey and Virginia as potential sites for an operations center. Previously it had considered moving its full corporate headquarters out of New York, but decided instead to sell its current home in midtown and relocate employees to another office on West Street in downtown. ''We have 18,500 people in New York City, and that figure will remain consistent,'' said Peter Thonis, a Verizon spokesman. ''In addition, however, we plan to establish a new operations center at a new location. That will include leadership teams, business support, Verizon Wireless and other employees. We have not selected a site.'' 
 While Mr. Thonis would confirm only that New Jersey and Virginia were in the running, people close to the talks say the former AT&T facility in Basking Ridge is considered a tempting location. And a spokesman for Pfizer, which owns the 140-acre site, confirmed that it was for sale but declined to identify potential buyers.
 Working in New Jersey's favor, say those close to the talks, is the fact that Verizon Wireless is situated Bedminster. Moving 2,500 workers from there to Basking Ridge -- less than 10 miles away -- would not be nearly as complicated and costly as moving them to northern Virginia.
 If the Codey administration succeeds in luring Verizon, observers like Dr. Van Horn hope it will mark a new beginning for the state's telecommunications industry. The old, wired world represented by the AT&T facility in Basking Ridge is beyond frayed. ''We have lost more than any other state in terms of market share of the telecommunications pie,'' said Dr. Van Horn, noting that New Jersey was home to 6 percent of the nation's telecommunications jobs in 1990, but only 4 percent last year.
 Breaking down the numbers more, a study by Dr. Ken Dautrich, director of the Institute for Public Affairs at the University of Connecticut, showed that New Jersey shed 14,000 telecommunications jobs from 2001 to 2003 alone. But, offering hope, he found that while 10 percent of the state's telecommunications workers were employed by ''nonwired companies'' in 1990, that figure passed 36 percent last year.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The former AT&T campus in Basking Ridge sits empty, a reminder of how the state's telecommunications industry has declined. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)
 Verizon is based in New York, above, but it wants a new operations center elsewhere. (Photo by The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (87%); RELOCATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DEREGULATION (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (69%); GOVERNORS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Labor; Relocation of Personnel

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (94%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (91%); PFIZER INC (83%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%); PHARMACIA CORP (57%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Verizon Communications Inc

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (94%); VZ (NYSE) (94%); PFZ (LSE) (83%); PFEB (BRU) (83%); PFE (NYSE) (83%); PANASONIC (NSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (83%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (57%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (56%)

PERSON: MARK WARNER (50%) Terry Golway

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Basking Ridge (NJ); New Jersey; Bedminster (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



266 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation: Course Correction; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Teaching Students to Swim in the Online Sea

BYLINE: By GEOFFREY NUNBERG. 
Geoffrey Nunberg, a Stanford linguist, is heard on NPR's ''Fresh Air'' and is the author of ''Going Nucular'' (PublicAffairs, 2004).

 BODY:
INFORMATION literacy seems to be a phrase whose time has come. Last month, the Educational Testing Service announced that it had developed a test to measure students' ability to evaluate online material. That suggested an official recognition that the millions spent to wire schools and universities is of little use unless students know how to retrieve useful information from the oceans of sludge on the Web.
 Clearly, ''computer skills'' are not enough. A teacher of Scandinavian literature at Berkeley recently described how students used the Web to research a paper on the Vikings: ''They're Berkeley students, so, of course, they have the sense to restrict their searches to 'vikings NOT minnesota.' But they're perfectly willing to believe a Web site that describes early Viking settlements in Oklahoma.'' 
 That trusting nature is partly a legacy of the print age. If we tend to give the benefit of the doubt to the things we read in library books, it is because they have been screened twice: first by a publisher, who decided they were worth printing, and then by the librarian who acquired them or the professor who requested their purchase.
 The Web imposes no such filters, even as it allows users to examine subjects people would never have gone to a traditional library to research, like buying a printer or a cheap airline ticket. Many adolescents use the Internet to get information about issues they are reluctant to discuss with parents or teachers, like sexual behavior, sexual identity, drug use or depression and suicide.
 But there is a paradox in the way people think of the Web. Everyone is aware that it teems with rotten information, but most people feel confident that they can sort out the dross. In a survey released last month by the Pew Project on the Internet and American Life, 87 percent of search-engine users said they found what they were looking for all or most of the time.
 That level of confidence may not be justified, particularly when a search for information requires judging a Web site's credibility. According to the Pew survey, only 38 percent of search-engine users were aware of the difference between unpaid and sponsored search results, and only 18 percent could tell which was which.
 A 2002 study directed by BJ Fogg, a Stanford psychologist, found that people tend to judge the credibility of a Web site by its appearance, rather than by checking who put it up and why. But it is much easier to produce a professional-looking Web site than a credible-looking book. The BBC was recently duped by a fake Dow Chemical site into broadcasting an interview with an environmentalist posing as a company spokesman.
 Then, too, search engines make it all too easy to filter information in ways that reinforce pre-existing biases. A Google search on ''voting machine fraud,'' for example, will turn up popular Web pages that feature those words prominently, most of which will support the view that voting machines make election fraud easier; opposing sites won't tend to feature that language, so will be missed in the search. A researcher exploring the same topic in a library would be more likely to encounter diverse points of view. 
 Up to now, librarians have taken the lead in developing information literacy standards and curriculums. There's a certain paradox in that, because a lot of people assumed that the digital age would require neither libraries nor librarians. But today, students have only limited contact with librarians, particularly because they do most of their online information-seeking at home or in the dorm.
 More important, leaving information literacy to librarians alone suggests a failure to understand the scope of the problem.
 Part of it lies in the word ''literacy'' itself. No other language has a word that covers such a broad swath of territory, from reading and writing skills, to a familiarity with culture, to elementary competence in subjects like math or geography. To many, ''information literacy'' suggests a set of basic ABC's that can be consigned to Information 101.
 One can list some basic principles of information literacy, like ''Recognize an information need''; ''Evaluate sources critically''; and ''Check to see if the site sponsor is reputable.'' But those precepts are only of limited help with all that people now use online resources to do.
 Last fall, for example, I co-taught a graduate course on ''Information Quality'' at Berkeley's School of Information Management and Systems. The students were highly sophisticated about search engines and knew their way around the Web. 
 But even they had difficulty with exercises that involved evaluating information in unfamiliar areas, like using the Web to decide which online degree program to recommend to a friend.
 Still, given more time, those students would have known where to go for more accurate maps of the territory they were exploring. Unlike most students, they knew that ''what's out there'' doesn't end with what comes up on Google. University librarians complain that students tend to confine their online research to Web searches, ignoring other resources that the libraries have access to, like old newspaper archives, map collections and census data.
 No less important, the students in our course would have known to use an even more basic technique: asking the right person. E-mail turns the Web into a vast digital help desk; user groups are teeming with people who will gladly explain the finer points of espresso machines or the history of English slang. But most people rarely think to make use of them.
 In the end, then, instruction in information literacy will have to pervade every level of education and every course in the curriculum, from university historians' use of collections of online slave narratives to middle-school home economics teachers showing their students where to find reliable nutrition information on the Web.
 Even then, it is true, most people will fall back on perfunctory techniques for finding and evaluating information online. As Professor Fogg observes, people tend to be ''cognitive misers,'' relying on superficial cues whenever they can get away with it. 
 Only when confronting a question that is personally important -- a health problem, a major purchase -- are most people motivated to dig deeper. But that is reason enough to make sure that people have the skills they will need.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Adam Palmer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); LIBRARIES (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); SUICIDE (50%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%) Computers and the Internet; Tests and Testing; Research; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE (58%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA VIKINGS (57%) Educational Testing Service

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (50%); DOW (NYSE) (50%); DOW (LSE) (50%); 4850 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (58%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: Geoffrey Nunberg

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



267 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: A Golden Opportunity To Make Fiscal Sense

BYLINE: By Laura Mansnerus. 
Laura Mansnerus reports from Trenton for The New York Times.

 BODY:
A solution to New Jersey's all-but-intractable fiscal problem -- that is, the state keeps spending more money than it takes in -- is within reach, perhaps for the first time in years and the last time in years. 
 As a lame duck, Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey can propose some brave measures, like raising more taxes. Members of the Senate are not up for re-election until 2007. And while the whole General Assembly is up for re-election in November, that is still a long five months from June, with a lovely, long summer between. The whole crew could cut the Whitman tax cuts, sacrifice some pork and give up borrowing forever. 
 Almost no one thinks that is going to happen, though. The future of the Democratic Party is at stake here, and it is not in the mood to take risks.
 This is so despite the Democrats' lock on Trenton. The party is all but assured of the governor's office for the next five years, and probably nine. The Assembly is so packed with Democrats that they would have to make a huge effort to lose their majority. The Senate is theirs for the next three years -- and the next three budgets. 
 The immediate problem is that for the 2006 fiscal year, starting July 1, the state has about $4 billion less than it needs. The current budget, at $28 billion, was balanced with $2 billion in borrowing that the Supreme Court has since disapproved. A string of one-shot, revenue-raising schemes, like bonds financed by future revenue expected from the nationwide tobacco settlement, has exhausted the obvious desperation moves.
 Mr. Codey, who will deliver his proposed budget on March 1, has floated several ideas: turning over the New Jersey Turnpike to a private operator, taxing professional services and 401(k) retirement accounts and even raising the income tax rate on joint incomes over $150,000. 
 The proposed tax increases are encouraging to some Democrats who are not running for anything.
 Jon Shure, the president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, a liberal research group in Trenton, said he would extend the sales tax and raise the income tax, which seems less crazy since he led a successful campaign last year for the ''millionaire's tax'' on incomes over $500,000. Over the last decade, Mr. Shure said, the income tax cuts made by former Gov. Christie Whitman cost the state about $10 billion.
 The Republicans -- speaking of outsiders -- are already protesting any suggestion of any kind of tax increase. But the more difficult opposition might come from the Assembly, Democratic majority and all. 
 ''The Senate can be brave and philosophical and talk about the long term,'' said Senator John H. Adler, a Democrat, ''but in the Assembly they have to think about re-election.'' 
 And surely they are. In the last week the chairman of the Assembly Budget Committee, Louis Greenwald, said in several published reports that proposals to raise the income tax would go nowhere this year.
 As for the Democrats' enormous advantage in the Assembly, which does not seem to be in danger, Mr. Shure said, ''Tell them that.''
 ''They'll say, 'I have to run for re-election,'.'' he said. ''Well, can you run for re-election if you raise college tuition and everything else? The price you might pay for raising revenues may not be as high as the price you pay for not meeting the need.''
 Mr. Shure, sounding less optimistic by the second, said governors are always a problem, too, even in a cooperative economy. ''In good times, governors have plenty to spend but don't want to spend the political capital it takes to set things right,'' he said.
 Mr. Shure has reason to know. He was the press secretary for Gov. Jim Florio, Mrs. Whitman's predecessor, who was removed by the voters after pushing through a $2.8 billion tax increase. Reasonably or not, Democrats still talk about it. 
 Mr. Codey could be fairly heroic to his fellow Democrats, giving them cover with a public lament that the state can no longer afford the Whitman tax cuts. 
 But since he apparently plans to stay in politics -- as Senate president, no less -- Mr. Codey might not like to be lodged in the state's memory with Jim Florio.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Laura Mansnerus 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); SALES TAX (76%); LIBERALISM (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); NEW ISSUES (70%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); US 401K PLANS (62%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation

PERSON: JOHN ADLER (58%) Richard J (Gov) Codey; Laura Mansnerus

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



268 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1865 words

HEADLINE: Social Isolation, Guns and a 'Culture of Suicide'

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD

DATELINE: STEVENSVILLE, Mont. 

 BODY:
Patrick Spaulding, 17, was the star of his basketball team, an honor student and one of the most popular boys in his class at Stevensville High School here in western Montana.
 Bill Tipps, 83, was devoted to his wife of 62 years, Louise, who had developed diabetes and who he feared would need to have her leg amputated. 
 Ron Malensek, 42, owned several small businesses, collected guns and called his wife ''Princess.'' 
 All three died of a single gunshot wound to the head in this valley below the snow-covered Bitterroot Mountains. All three pulled the trigger themselves. 
 Death by gunfire is typically thought of as an urban plague, fueled by crime, poverty and drugs.
 But rural America also has such an affliction. ''Americans in small towns and rural areas are just as likely to die from gunfire as Americans in major cities,'' said Charles Branas, an assistant professor of epidemiology at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. ''The difference is in who does the shooting.''
 No matter the method, suicides occur at a higher rate in rural areas than in cities or suburbs, with the rate rising steadily the more rural the community. With homicides, the trend works in reverse, with higher rates in more urban areas.
 Researchers have long known the statistics, but new research illuminates the substantial role of firearms in suicide. 
 When Professor Branas examined data from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, he found that the risk of dying by gunshot was the same in rural and urban areas from 1989 to 1999, findings that were published in The American Journal of Public Health. He has also concluded that in the most rural counties, the incidence of suicide with guns is greater than the incidence of murder with guns in major cities.
 Many of the cases in Stevensville and in other rural areas have common threads, professors and epidemiologists say.
 People who see themselves as rugged frontiersmen are often reluctant to reach out for help, particularly for mental health treatment. If they do, they may see a physician instead of a psychiatrist or another trained mental health expert.
 Suicide risk factors like depression, economic worries and alcohol use are, of course, prevalent in urban areas, said Dr. Alex Crosby, an epidemiologist in the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control at the Centers for Disease Control. But they are heightened in rural areas by social isolation, lack of mental health care and the easy availability of guns. 
 ''People say, 'How could people living in such beautiful places commit suicide?''' said Nels Sanddal, a psychologist in Bozeman, Mont., and president of the Critical Illness and Trauma Foundation, which works to prevent suicides. ''We have a culture of suicide.''

Surprise Over Statistics
 As far back as 1890, soon after Montana became a state, statistics from the Census Bureau showed that it had the highest suicide rate in the nation, Mr. Sanddal said.
 ''When you have seen other people exercise it as an option in a difficult situation, it becomes easier for you to exercise it as an option,'' he said. ''So now suicide is condoned or tolerated in Montana, even if people don't talk about it.''
 Stevensville is in Ravalli County, which has a suicide rate more than twice the national average. Since 1990, the county has had 103 suicides, more than three quarters of which involved a firearm. By comparison, there have been just 13 homicides in the county, whose population has swelled 44 percent in that time, to 36,000 people.
 The youngest to commit suicide in the county was 13 and the oldest was 92. Reflecting a national pattern, suicides rise sharply with age among men in the county. 
 The editor of The Ravalli Republic, the local daily newspaper, said that it is against the paper's policy to report on suicides and that he was unaware of a sizable number of incidents in the county. 
 When asked about the high suicide figures, Sheriff Chris Hoffman said, ''This shocks me,'' even though he is also the coroner and signs all death certificates. Since the 1890's, Sheriff Hoffman's family has raised cattle in the Bitterroot area, which Lewis and Clark traversed in 1805 and described as the most difficult part of their journey. 
 ''People here are not aware of all the suicides,'' he said. ''It's not something people here talk about.''
 Professor Branas said he encountered similar surprise when he conducted field studies in rural counties in Iowa, Ohio and Pennsylvania. 
 Most families of those who committed suicide around Stevensville in the last year declined to be interviewed. But relatives and friends of several people who died in previous years agreed, often reluctantly, to talk. 
 Mary Lee Rush, whose son committed suicide at 29 and who lives in Grantsdale, an unincorporated town in Ravalli County, said: ''People here are very rural. They do for themselves. They won't go for help.'' 
 Suicide, she said, ''is an acceptable way of dying if you feel desolate or you can't handle things anymore.''

A Young Life Ended
 Patrick Spaulding, a 6-foot-4-inch senior, was the leading scorer on his high school basketball team and had set a school record with 28 rebounds in a single game. ''He lived for basketball,'' said his mother, Paulette Spaulding, who lives in the family house with her husband about five miles outside Stevensville. Patrick was consistently on the honor roll.
 On a Friday night in January 1997, Patrick went out and drank a few beers, his friends said, and on the way home apparently fell asleep at the wheel, entangling his pickup truck in barbed wire. A sheriff's deputy gave Patrick a citation for illegal possession of alcohol.
 ''Under school rules, that would have meant he would be suspended from the team for the rest of the season,'' his mother said. ''He was such a perfectionist, always harder on himself than on anyone else, he felt he had let his family and teammates down.'' He did not discuss the situation with his parents. The next morning, the day of a big game, alone in his bedroom, Patrick shot himself.
 ''Teenagers don't live for tomorrow, they live for today,'' Mrs. Spaulding said.
 At Stevensville High School, the guidance counselor, Linda Mullan, was concerned about how other students would respond to Patrick's death and was worried about the possibility of copycats. Many students own guns and hunt, often starting in junior high school. ''Guns and hunting are a rite of passage in Montana,'' Ms. Mullan said.
 Two seniors in the same class as Patrick were so distraught by his death that they turned down appointments to the Air Force Academy, preferring to concentrate on trying to heal the wounds of grief among their classmates and prevent any further tragedy, Ms. Mullan said.
 A few families of those who have taken their own lives have begun organizing themselves to better understand what happened. Pat Kendall, whose son, Josh, shot himself in the Blue Mountains in 2000, when he was 23, has opened a resource center with a lending library in a small house in Missoula, at the northern end of the valley. She has also helped get the Missoula County Health Department to start a suicide prevention program, the first of its kind in the area.
 What Mrs. Kendall has come to believe is that her son probably had bipolar disorder. When he finally went to a doctor, not long before he killed himself, the doctor, who was not a trained psychiatrist, prescribed the antidepressant Prozac. But Prozac can make mood swings worse for some people with bipolar disorder. Mrs. Kendall believes that in a region with few mental health resources, Josh's problem was mistaken for depression.

'A Mercy Killing'
 Bill Tipps and his wife, Louise, moved to Stevensville from a suburb of Las Vegas to be close to their adult son, Dennis Tipps, who was the high school football coach and onetime police chief. 
 Dennis Tipps found a site for a home for his parents nearby in an area of small farms and new houses. One of his sons, Dennis Jr., a contractor, built them a simple ranch-style home. 
 But Bill Tipps grew depressed. ''My dad hated the cold and the winter,'' Dennis Tipps said.
 He was also becoming increasingly concerned about the health of his wife, who was 80. She had undergone several heart surgeries, and the local doctor said her toes might have to be amputated because of diabetes.
 Dennis Tipps now surmises that when the doctor pointed with a sweeping gesture to Louise Tipps's foot, and then her knee and hip, Bill Tipps assumed the doctor was suggesting that his wife's leg would also have to be taken off. 
 His father hated doctors and would not seek their advice, Dennis Tipps said. So his father never clarified his wife's prognosis or sought help for his apparent depression.
 His father ''never displayed his emotions,'' Dennis Tipps said. ''He kept everything inside, and he was very stubborn. He wouldn't change his mind.'' 
 One morning in September 1999, at 8:05 a.m., Bill Tipps called his son at his home. 
 ''I just shot and killed your mother so they can't take her leg off,'' said the elder Mr. Tipps, who was 83. ''Now I'm going to shoot myself.''
 Dennis Tipps jumped in his truck, and as he approached his parents' house, he heard what he thought was his engine backfiring. It was his father shooting himself.
 ''In my dad's mind, this was a mercy killing,'' Dennis Tipps said. ''He would never leave her side. He thought he was doing the right thing, but he overreacted.''

'He Just Quit'
 Debbie Miller describes the gentle side of her husband, Ron Malensek. ''He called me Princess and treated me like a princess,'' she said. 
 But Mr. Malensek had been diagnosed with depression as a child, she said. 
 In early 2000, he called all his friends, told them goodbye and then tried to commit suicide by overdosing on pills. He survived, and she urged him to see a doctor, who prescribed Prozac.
 In the summer of 2003, Mr. Malensek stopped taking the medication. 
 Mr. Malensek had always worked seven days a week at various jobs: he had owned two bars, a gas station and a bingo parlor, and then had a business installing rain gutters. That summer, he started neglecting customers who called for estimates, Ms. Miller said. He became angry and could not sleep, and he had no energy, she said. It was as if ''he just quit,'' said Ms. Miller, a speech therapist at Stevensville High School.
 On Aug. 5 last year, they went to a favorite bar, the Rustic Hut, in the town of Florence. It was the anniversary of his father's death. 
 When Ms. Miller left to go home, her husband stayed at the bar. Then he walked out back, retrieved a handgun that he had stashed there earlier, and shot himself.
 After his death, Ms. Miller discovered that he had not shared other pressures with her. 
 ''It turned out there were a lot of financial issues I didn't know about,'' she said. Bill collectors bombarded her and repossessed his pickup truck. She had to sell his business.
 She also learned that he was a ''gun freak,'' she said. ''I'm still finding guns he had stashed all over the house.''
 Ms. Miller does not know the statistics about rural suicides, but she knows enough. Her father and her first husband also killed themselves.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about people who commit suicide with guns in rural areas referred imprecisely to psychiatrists, whom some are reluctant to consult. Like members of other specialties, to whom potential suicides may turn more readily, psychiatrists are in fact physicians. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Louise and Bill Tipps, above, had moved near their son, Dennis, and his wife, Patty, at left. Bill Tipps killed his wife, then himself.
Sheriff Chris Hoffman is also the coroner for Ravalli County.
Pat Kendall tends to the grave of her son, Josh, who shot himself in 2000. She has worked to establish mental health programs in rural Montana. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Suicide in Rural America''Suicide rates are highest in rural areas, especially those in the Rocky Mountain states, and most suicides are committed using guns. In cases where guns are used, the suicide rate in rural counties is higher than the homicide rate in urban areas.SUICIDES PER 100,000 PEOPLE1990 to 2001, average annual rate for 805 health service areas in the U.S.Map of United States highlighting average annual rate for suicides in health service areas.FIREARM DEATHS PER 100,000 PEOPLE1989 to 1999, average annual rateGraph tracks homicides and suicides by type of county (more urban or more rural) per 100,000 people from 1989 to 1999.PERCENTAGE OF SUICIDES THAT ARE COMMITTED WITH FIREARMS 1989 to 1999Graph tracks percentage of suicides by type of county (more urban or more rural) per 100,000 people from 1989 to 1999.(Sources by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Bruce Dembling, University of Virginia School of Medicine [map data]
 Charles Branas, University of Pennsylvania medical school [urban-rural data])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); TEEN SUICIDE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); SUICIDE (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (88%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (88%); CITIES (88%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (87%); BASKETBALL (78%); DEATHS (76%); MURDER (75%); HOMICIDE (75%); MENTAL ILLNESS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (72%); DEPRESSION (72%); DIABETES (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); TRENDS (71%); HEAD INJURIES (71%); MOUNTAINS (70%); PSYCHIATRY (70%); COUNTIES (69%); CENSUS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (83%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (82%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (95%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



269 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; TAX TIPS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Too Late To Save

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
HEY, big spender. Here's a tax break for you: Beginning with 2004 tax returns, people who itemize their deductions may choose to deduct state and local sales taxes instead of state and local income taxes.
 In adding that provision, Congress clearly gave a break to residents of the seven states that have no income tax: Alaska, Florida, Nevada, South Dakota, Texas, Washington and Wyoming. Residents of the other 43 states can already deduct state and local income taxes, but in some cases, even in high-tax states like New York and California, they may be ahead by deducting sales taxes.
 People who have bought big-ticket items like cars or boats are one possible example, according to Neil Becourtney, a tax partner in the accounting firm of J.H. Cohn in Roseland, N.J. Another may be an older couple with an income, say, of $100,000, much of it from tax-exempt municipal bonds and pensions subject to state tax breaks. 
 The provision was included in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which was enacted in October, and the Internal Revenue Service has published tables of sales taxes for each state in its new Publication 600, available at www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p600.pdf. A worksheet for adding local sales taxes to the state sales taxes is included.
 ''I mailed the publication to about a dozen Florida clients,'' Mr. Becourtney said. ''It's win-win; you can only come out ahead. For many taxpayers it will lower 2004 federal income taxes.''
 Following are other considerations for taxpayers this tax season:

THE ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX -- The ever-growing number of people subject to the alternative minimum tax will not benefit from the sales tax deduction. Under that tax, no deductions for state and local taxes -- and that includes property taxes -- are allowed.
 Some 2.4 million individual tax returns for 2003 had an A.M.T. liability, according to the I.R.S, up from 1.9 million a year earlier, and by 2010 the number is expected to surge to 35 million. Many reasons, as varied as exercising incentive stock options and claiming tax credits can lead to an A.M.T. liability. In the New York metropolitan area, where both state income taxes and suburban real estate taxes are relatively high, those deductions could snare a high percentage of taxpayers. As a result, taxpayers should be sure to calculate their liabilities under both the regular and alternative systems, Mr. Becourtney said. 
 ''It's better than having the I.R.S. send you a computer notice'' demanding an additional tax payment plus interest, he said. ''It's nondeductible consumer interest, adding insult to injury.''
 Bernard S. Kent, of Detroit, who is the partner in charge of personal financial services for PricewaterhouseCoopers in the Midwest, said, ''There are not many things you can do retroactively,'' if you are liable for the alternative tax. But people may want to analyze whether they are likely to be permanently liable for it, as they may be if they live where state and local taxes are high. If so, he said, ''Do you want to move? Do you want to rent?'' 
 Taxpayers who are likely to have future A.M.T. liabilities and who own municipal bonds should ask their brokers whether their bonds are subject to the alternative tax, Mr. Kent said, and they should consider paying off home equity loans that are being used for home improvement because they are not deductible under the A.M.T.

CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS -- Donations to charity are deductible under both the regular tax system and the A.M.T. Mr. Kent offered two tips for protecting those deductions.
 People who make large donations of personal property like artwork or collectibles worth more than $5,000 must have a professional appraisal and must fill out Form 8283, he said. If the value exceeds $500,000, he added, they should attach the appraisal to the return. 
 For any donation of $250 or more, taxpayers must have an acknowledgment letter from the charity in their files before the due date of the return. If taxpayers made contributions toward tsunami relief in January 2005, they have the option of deducting them on their 2004 returns. But if they do not receive the acknowledgment letter in time, Mr. Kent said, it would be prudent to file for an extension to file.

HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS -- These relatively new accounts are ''available to everyone who has high-deductible health insurance'' and is not covered by Medicare or another health insurance plan, said Donna LeValley, a tax lawyer and contributing editor to ''J.K. Lasser's Your Income Tax 2005.''
 Because contributions are deductible, even for people who do not itemize, and earnings accumulate tax-free and distributions for medical care are tax-free, they are ''great accounts to look into,'' she said. The law defines high deductible as at least $1,000.
 Eligible people have until April 15 this year to contribute to a health savings account for 2004. Under a transition rule for 2004, when the accounts began, account holders may be reimbursed for eligible expenses incurred last year even before the account was set up. The deduction is limited to the annual deductible on the qualifying health plan and is capped at $2,600 for an individual or $5,150 for a family. Taxpayers who are 55 or older can deduct an additional $500. The plans are explained in I.R.S. Publication 969, at www.irs.gov/publications/p969/ar01.html.

SMALL-BUSINESS OWNERS -- People who own small businesses, including sole proprietors who file a Schedule C with their tax return, may be able to claim big upfront deductions for business expenses for two more years. The tax break was due to expire in 2005, but it has been extended to 2007, thanks to provisions in the 2004 jobs creation act. The limit for this deduction on 2004 returns is $102,000; for this year and future years, it will be adjusted for inflation. ''It is definitely good to plan and make the big purchase this year or next,'' Ms. LeValley said.
 The law tightened up a loophole that was popular with business owners. Many bought sport utility vehicles weighing over 6,000 pounds and claimed an immediate deduction, and they can still do so on 2004 returns for purchases made before Oct. 22, 2004. After that, the first-year write-off is limited to $25,000.
 People who are just starting a business also get two nice breaks under the new law, Ms. LeValley said. They can choose to deduct upfront up to $5,000 of business start-up costs and organizational costs of corporations and partnerships paid or incurred after Oct. 22, 2004, instead of amortizing them. ''It flows through to the personal return,'' she said. ''It's terrific because the first year is the most difficult year.''

INVESTMENTS -- Laws in recent years have trimmed taxes on most investment income, opening new opportunities for future saving, too. Most dividends on stocks and long-term capital gains are taxed at 15 percent for taxpayers in the upper brackets and at 5 percent for those in the 10 percent and 15 percent brackets on earned income.
 Joanne E. Johnson, a lawyer who is a managing director in the wealth advisory group at J.P. Morgan Private Bank in New York, recommended that as taxpayers receive their 2004 tax records they review their portfolios with an eye toward reducing risk and concentrated positions. ''Fifteen percent is what I consider cheap,'' she said. ''It's a lovely opportunity to rebalance your portfolio, to take some returns and put the money to work somewhere else.''


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stuart Goldenberg)(pg. 27, 28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES TAX (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (91%); INCOME TAX (91%); TAX LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); CITIES (67%); STOCK OPTIONS (50%) Taxation

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (82%)

PERSON: Jan M Rosen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



270 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1774 words

HEADLINE: Stay Local, Or Go South? It's the Geography, Cupid

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
IT is Valentine's Day weekend in this S.U.V.-saturated land known more for double strollers than double dates. Does Westchester know where its singles are seeking one another? 
 Talk to Rebecca Benjamin, an aspiring professional matchmaker who coordinates county dating events, and the answer you'll get is a resounding ''Here!''
 For Ms. Benjamin, 29, whose day job is social work at a hospital in White Plains, suburban location is a point of dating pride. ''City dating is more competitive,'' she said with distaste. ''The single market in New York breeds this culture that people are always looking for the next big thing.'' 
 ''We have everything here,'' she asserted. ''There's no reason you have to be isolated in your apartment.''
 She has good reason to know. A native of Chappaqua, she moved to Manhattan in 2001 after finishing graduate school, but only lasted a few months. It was no fun, she says, paying $1,400 to share a small two-bedroom apartment with a roommate she hardly knew. 
 Now she is ensconced in a one-bedroom condo in Hartsdale, relishing the space. ''I come back and it's quiet and I live on a tree-lined street,'' she said. Her social calendar never has much of a lull; she describes having gone on dozens of dates in the last year, and says a handful turned into longer relationships. ''There's no way I could have this kind of lifestyle in the city.''
 Of her city friends, she said: ''They look at me sort of puzzled. They can't imagine this kind of life.'' 
 Yet, she added: ''When I go to the city, I feel like a poseur. I am never comfortable there, even when I wear all black.''
 The question is, how many dating singles in Westchester would agree with her? Is the calm in her kind of lifestyle really what they want? 
 It is evidently what increasing numbers of them have, faced with expensive city real estate and an uncertain economy. Unlike Ms. Benjamin, however, many of them have moved back to live with Mom and Dad -- who are great to put up with them, of course, but not usually considered an asset by single daters. According to census figures, young adults living at home now make up more than 30 percent of the 22-to 31-year-olds in the New York-North New Jersey area. Nationally, that figure is about 14 percent.
 In choosing between city and county to find their dates, dozens of singles said recently in interviews at Westchester night spots, it comes down to quantity versus quality. City dating -- with its bars catering to different crowds every night of the week -- is, as Ms. Benjamin put it, ''less about finding a better relationship than just finding a better date.''
 ''There are so many people in New York that you don't have to give anyone a chance,'' was her assessment. ''We don't have the same random cheesy guys that you see in city bars.''
 County dating, of course, has the opposite issues. ''You meet the same people over and over, and it's like a high school reunion every weekend,'' said Carlos Ferreira, 24, who lives in Bridgeport, Conn., and works in White Plains. ''You see the same seven people every night, and that gets old. You know you're not going to date them.''
 It's hard to gainsay him on the numbers. Census figures indicate that singles 25 to 34 make up just 7 percent of Westchester's population, and that for married people 35 to 54, the number is much closer to a third. 
 So what's a younger dater to do? 
 Well, certain bars offer singles networking nights, also known as speed dating. 
 And there is always the Internet. A spokesman for Match.com, a popular service, says it carries profiles for about 7,000 people from the larger Westchester municipalities -- including White Plains, Yonkers and New Rochelle -- compared with 65,000 in Manhattan. (Westchester members tend to be younger, and are more likely than their city counterparts to list ''power'' and ''sarcasm'' as turnoffs.)
 But some singles in the suburbs still resort to good old-fashioned shoe leather, doing what they can to hunt both city and county territories. Laura Vanderbrook, 24, who works at Vintage Bar and Restaurant in White Plains, says that Westchester will do when it's just ''girls' night out,'' but that the city is best on nights she has focused on checking out potential dates. 
 Even though White Plains has a growing reputation as the county hot spot for night life, ''there's not all that much choice here,'' said Ms. Vanderbrook, who moved from a small town near Rochester to attend law school at Pace University. 
 But she acknowledges the suburbs' saving grace: ''I find that there are more gentlemen here, and that makes it more comfortable. It's just a lot less full-on aggression.''
 Similarly when Gerardo Reyes, 21, her co-worker at the bar, is really looking to stay out late, he heads south to Manhattan, where many clubs are packed until sunrise. 
 ''There's no place like the city, really,'' said Mr. Reyes, who lives in White Plains and is a student at Westchester Community College. ''The girls there are a bit more wild.''
 Not that that's always an advantage. ''You might be able to date them easier,'' he says of city women, ''but they're not the girls you want to take home to your mom.'' 
 For that purpose Mr. Reyes has a girlfriend -- the one he has had since White Plains High School days. 
 (But even at Vintage, on a recent evening as he tended bar, the fact that he had a girlfriend did not stop a series of female customers from complimenting his smile or touching his arm to flirt. So Manhattan doesn't have a corner on that market? ''Girls can be aggressive anywhere,'' was his answer, and he quickly added, ''Guys can be idiots anywhere.'')
 Life seems much cushier for Mr. Reyes than for John Park, 24, who after graduating from the University of Michigan last year got a job in White Plains and moved back home to Mom and Dad in Orangeburg.
 ''You get so used to being independent,'' he said ruefully. ''Then you come back here and it's kind of a shock. 
 Mr. Park is a decent-looking fellow, but he has begun to realize how tough it may be to score a date given his living arrangement.
 ''It's sort of hard to get a girl,'' he acknowledged. ''I guess I just sort of expect it to fall in my lap.'' 
 Many 20-something singles of both sexes in Westchester say they are indeed reluctant to go out with anyone living at home. Some go so far as to call it a deal-breaker. 
 Jonathan Speier, a 28-year-old consultant who grew up in Ossining and lives in Stamford, says he categorizes women according to whether or not they live on their own. 
 Recalling dates that started with his pulling into the parents' driveway, he said: ''First of all, there's the issue of taking their daughter away. Even if you don't see them, you are cognizant that they are there.'' 
 And that's only the first added pressure, Mr. Speier said. The real difficulty in such situations comes from the women's demands. 
 ''People who live with their parents are much too used to being catered to,'' he said, not hiding his disapproval. ''They are used to being taken care of by Mommy and Daddy. That's a turn-off, no question.'' 
 To illustrate, he points to a failed relationship with a woman who lived with her parents in White Plains. 
 ''I knew it was a bad idea,'' he said. ''But like most guys, I can forgive a lot of faults if she's gorgeous.''
 She was, but not enough for the long haul. 
 ''She made it seem like a big project to come to Stamford,'' Mr. Speier said. ''She was used to having someone pick her up here and take her there. That's a suburban thing.'' 
 The biggest suburban thing of all, though, is feeling ''geographically undesirable,'' as Ms. Benjamin put it. Westchesterites seeking dates via the Internet can get tagged with the ''undesirable'' label, she says -- and it is one she resists. 
 For instance, in her experience using JDate, a Web site for Jewish singles, she said, ''people see that you're not from the city and they think, 'Wow, that must be far away.'''
 The flip side, though, is ''if I see someone who is in Westchester, I'm very quick to write to them. I think, 'Wow, they're close.'''
 Anyway, mileage is mileage, wherever you live. Although Ms. Benjamin likes to accentuate the positive -- ''When you have to drive to see someone, it says, 'I want to put time in this,''' -- she admits that she, too, has mileage limits. While men in New Jersey, Connecticut and Manhattan are all possible options, she says, Long Island seems too far to go, and Brooklyn is out of the question.
 ''I'm just not going to schlep all that way,'' she said, with a combination of apology and resolve. ''It's just not going to work in the long term.'' 
 Besides, traveling doesn't necessarily increase the chances of a serendipitous encounter. That can happen even at the local hangout. Steven DiLoreto likes to reminisce about the period after his divorce more than a decade ago, when he used to spend time at a bar that his cousin owned in Briarcliff. He kept running into a woman; she was always dropping by to see a girlfriend who worked at the bar. There was occasional but no obvious spark. 
 Then, one evening, the woman broke a nail. Seizing the opportunity to show off his chivalrous ways, Mr. DiLoreto rushed home and returned to the bar with a Band-Aid and antiseptic. 
 ''She sort of thought that it was very cute,'' he said, smiling, as he sat with a couple of friends at Lucy's Lounge in Pleasantville one recent evening. ''So I did the right thing. Then I made dinner for her, hence she found a man who could cook.''
 Now 46 and endowed with an ample belly, Mr. DiLoreto delighted in recounting the story -- and made clear it had reached a new chapter. 
 ''I said right away I wasn't interested in getting married again,'' he explained. ''We've been together 11 years. Just goes to show, you don't know where you're going to meet someone.'' 
 But you can also run low on time, like Mr. Speier. ''I'm definitely the last of the Mohicans,'' he said. ''Most of my friends are engaged or married.''
 Not that he seemed upset about that. ''There are benefits to being last,'' he pointed out. ''I'm the one getting invited to the beach house because everyone else has a girlfriend or a wife.'' 
 Ms. Benjamin, too, remains optimistic. Looking to the future, she plans to put her expertise to work, starting a matchmaking service for the 35-and-under suburban set. She is already holding parties sponsored by HurryDate, which introduces dozens of singles for mini-dates all in one night. 
 ''I get to meet everyone,'' she said. ''There is somebody for everyone out there. It's not about looking and looking and looking. If you do that, you aren't really talking about settling down.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: An encounter at Lucy's Lounge in Pleasantville, above. Extolling the charms of suburban dating, one Westchesterite had this to say: ''There are so many people in New York that you don't have to give anyone a chance. We don't have the same random cheesy guys that you see in city bars.'' (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Among the opinions aired at Vintage Bar and Restaurant in White Plains, above and right, was this one, from Gerardo Reyes, who tends bar: ''There's no place like the city, really. The girls there are a bit more wild. You might be able to date them easier, but they're not the girls you want to take home to your mom.''
 At Lucy's Lounge in Pleasantville, above, left and below, a patron reminisced about having met and courted his sweetheart at a nearby bar. ''We've been together 11 years. Just goes to show, you don't know where you're going to meet someone.'' (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (78%); DATING SERVICES (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (68%); INTERVIEWS (60%); SUBURBS (56%); CENSUS (50%) Dating (Social); Valentine's Day

PERSON: Jennifer Medina

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



271 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Wind Power Is Becoming a Better Bargain

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: HOUSE, N.M., Feb. 10 

 BODY:
With every turn of the giant blades of the 136 windmills here on the edge of a mesa, the stiff desert breeze is replacing expensive natural gas or other fuel that would have been burned in a power plant somewhere else.
 Wind energy makes up a small fraction of electric generation in this country, but the rising price of natural gas has made wind look like a bargain; in some cases, it is cheaper to build a wind turbine and let existing natural gas generators stand idle. Giant, modern wind farms like the New Mexico Wind Energy Center here may become more common if prices continue to rise. 
 The center, 150 miles east of Albuquerque, opened in the summer of 2003 and is one of the largest in the country. The power is bought by the state's largest utility, Public Service of New Mexico, and provides about 4 percent of that company's electricity over the course of a year. In March, when demand is low and winds are usually strong, the project generates 10 percent of the electricity the company supplies. The state has established a goal of using 10 percent renewable energy by 2011. The governor, Bill Richardson, a former secretary of energy, has said that New Mexico could become ''the Saudi Arabia of renewables.'' 
 Across the country, the increase in gas prices has made a fundamental difference in the purchasing decisions of utility companies, said Michael A. O'Sullivan, senior vice president of FPL Energy, which owns and operates the New Mexico center. 
 ''Gas prices helped get -- pardon the pun -- the wind at our backs,'' he said in a telephone interview from the company headquarters in Juno Beach, Fla. At $6 per million B.T.U.'s, the standard unit in which gas prices are quoted, the fuel needed to produce a kilowatt-hour costs more than 5 cents at an inefficient gas plant, and more than 4 cents at the most efficient plants. 
 Last fall, Congress restored the Production Tax Credit, worth 1.8 cents per kilowatt-hour after taxes, for wind energy projects completed by the end of 2005. Counting that credit, Mr. O'Sullivan said, his company sells wind energy for 3 to 5 cents a kilowatt-hour. 
 The tax credit and steeper natural gas prices are driving the increased interest in wind energy. But there are problems, even supporters say. 
 ''One of the things the wind folks do not talk about is when the wind blows,'' said George E. Kehler, manger of alternative and renewable energy at Dow Chemical. 
 West Texas, for example, is notoriously windy, but mostly at night and in the winter, when the electric market is glutted with cheap power from coal and nuclear plants. Peak electric load, and peak use of gas in electricity generators, occurs in summer, during the day. 
 One solution, Mr. Kehler said, may be to put windmills on the Texas coast, which may not be quite as windy, but where the windiest periods happen during daylight hours. 
 Dow is a strong supporter of wind-generated energy as one strategy to drive down the price of natural gas, which the company uses as a fuel and as an ingredient for chemical manufacturing. 
 Another problem, if wind energy becomes more popular, is output reliability. The New Mexico Wind Energy Center output of up to 206 megawatts is 8 percent of what all the company's generators would produce if they were all running at full capacity. 
 ''That is enormous,'' said Don Brown, a spokesman for Public Service, who said it was a record among American utilities. 
 But most of the year the wind is not blowing nearly hard enough to make 206 megawatts. Mr. Brown said his company was not certain how much more heavily it could depend on wind energy without the threat of blackouts.
 The variability was obvious here on Thursday morning, with wind that looked to be suitable for kite flying, but which the center's employees said was weak. A control room display showed the wind blowing at 5.5 meters a second (about 12 miles an hour) and the ''swooshing'' from the 110-foot-long blades was slow, turning at about 16 revolutions a minute instead of the optimum 20. The plant was producing only about 25 megawatts, or one-eighth of its capacity. 
 Because windiness is hard to predict, the electricity made here is worth less. In the complicated world of electricity pricing, power is valued two ways. The familiar one is as energy, meaning the work that the electric current can do. The second is as capacity, the amount that can be called upon as needed. Wind power is generally sold only as energy because most wind plants produce only 30 to 40 percent as much energy in a year as they would if they ran at full tilt, every hour of the year, a measure called ''capacity factor.'' Unlike coal or nuclear plants, which achieve capacity factors of 90 percent or more, the wind operator cannot decide when the windmill will run.
 If Public Service of New Mexico were to decide it needed, say, another 200 megawatts of power in coming years, it could not be assured it could meet demand by building 200 megawatts of wind machines. 
 Steven L. Clemmer, the research director at the Clean Energy Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, said that for wind the rule of thumb is to multiply the maximum capacity of the wind machine by the capacity factor, so 200 megawatts of wind is worth only 60 to 80 megawatts of capacity. And while a gas plant can collect money from customers both for the kilowatt-hours it generates and for the reliable capacity it has standing by, wind farms like this one can collect only for the energy they make. 
 But with natural gas prices about three times the level of a few years ago, utilities are reluctant to build more gas plants. The immediate alternative may be coal, but its costs are becoming hard to predict because over the decades that a plant built now would be expected to run, regulations on the pollutants that cause smog and acid rain are likely to change, and regulation of carbon dioxide, a gas that is said to cause global climate change, also seems likely. So there is new debate about how to value wind, which has no fuel cost and no pollution emissions.
 Two new theories are coming to the fore. One, expounded in January by researchers at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California, is that if enough plants that run on renewable energy are built, the demand for natural gas will drop so much that the price will fall. That would seem to justify federal policies subsidizing wind, because broad sections of the economy would benefit, although developers of wind plants would suffer. 
 Another idea is to spread wind plants geographically, so that if wind is low in one area, it may still be sufficient in another. Better data collection may also allow better forecasts. 
 A third is to install natural gas generators at the site of wind plants, to serve as backup, or to pair wind plants with old, inefficient natural gas plants elsewhere that might otherwise be retired.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Brent Mitchell, left, is a technician at the New Mexico Wind Energy Center, right, in House, N.M. The center is one of the largest in the country. (Photographs by Rick Scibelli Jr. for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (93%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); TAX LAW (85%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); CHEMICALS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (50%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (50%); DOW (NYSE) (50%); DOW (LSE) (50%); 4850 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



272 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; WINE UNDER $20; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: Other Pinots To Pursue

BYLINE: By HOWARD G. GOLDBERG

 BODY:
After the film ''Sideways'' opened in October, the Burgundy Wine Company, Manhattan's top pinot noir specialist, at 143 West 26th Street, detected unusual interest in pinot. Next, five Oscar nominations heightened the demand. The film is set in Santa Barbara County pinot country, but California pinots largely fall outside the specialties at Burgundy. A fraction of 700 rarefied Bourgogne and Oregon pinots there satisfy everyday needs economically. Jean-Marc Bouley's light 2002 Hautes-Cotes de Beaune ($19.95) is a winner. HOWARD G. GOLDBERG




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (88%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (87%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (86%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (90%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



273 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; FOOTLIGHTS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 661 words

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON. 
E-mail: westarts@nytimes.com

 BODY:

Beyond the Horizon
 When 30 students of David Dunlop, a painter and teacher at the Silvermine School of Art in New Canaan, Conn., set up their easels at the Ward Pound Ridge Reservation last fall, their assignment was to observe the setting, but not copy it. 
 ''Art is not a police report, it's a poem,'' Mr. Dunlop said in a recent interview. ''The artist's job is a transmutation of experience into paint, just as poets would have transmuted it into literature.'' 
 The students set about soaking up the sounds, sights and smells of the place, and then went on to ''poetically reconstitute the experience'' in their paintings. The resulting landscapes, in oil, acrylic and watercolor, can be seen at the Gallery in the Park at the reservation through April 30 (914864-7317). 
 ''Artists need to know that their work resonates with millennia-old mythologies,'' Mr. Dunlop said. ''There's a narrative and literary content as well as sensory experience, and the more witting they are about it, the better.''
 Anne Johann, a naturalistic landscape painter who teaches at the Croton/Cortlandt Center for the Arts in Cortlandt Manor, includes water in every landscape painting she makes. 
 Her award-winning oil paintings of meadows, woodlands, inlets and marshlands will be on view at Gallery 25N in Peekskill from Feb. 18 through April 10 (914293-0811). 
 More landscapes -- but without frames -- can be seen beginning March 5 in a group show, ''Out of Bounds,'' in the Glyndor Gallery at Wave Hill in the Bronx. The exhibition features wall-based drawings and installations by Jeffrey Gibson, Geraldine Lau and Amy Chan (718549-3200, ext. 232). 

Artists Win Grants
 The Westchester Arts Council awarded its annual Arts Alive grants on Feb. 3 at a breakfast event held in a glass-enclosed room at PepsiCo in Purchase, where the sun shone through skylights and the outdoor sculpture garden looked serene under snow. 
 The grants, from $500 to $2,500, are given to arts groups, many of them fledgling, for new projects in the county. This year, 41 groups received grants for 46 events, including concerts, competitions, ethnic festivals, poetry series, plays and art exhibitions. 
 The projects include a performance of Orff's ''Carmina Burana'' by the New Choral Society of Scarsdale; a young playwrights competition and showcase by Innovative Stages of Bronxville; an African drum project by O'bey Foundation of Mount Vernon; a production of ''Little Shop of Horrors'' by Scene Stealers of Goldens Bridge and a series of jazz concerts by the Westchester Jazz Orchestra of Mount Kisco. 
 Two individual artists received grants of $2,500 each: Carlo Adinolfi of Tarrytown, a choreographer and dancer, for a solo dance-theater piece, ''The Acrobat;'' and Michael Dwyer, a filmmaker from Port Chester, for a documentary, ''Rising Tide: The Struggles of the Culture of Local Artisans in a Changing Economy.'' The grants are financed by the New York State Council on the Arts. 

Surprise, It's a Dance
 Wordsworth admired the ''glad animal movements'' of children, which he said sprang from spontaneous bursts of thoughtless energy. Teachers from the Tappan Zee Dance Group in Tarrytown are guiding that energy in elementary school residencies in Tarrytown by asking children to think about new ways to move.
 ''I present a creative concept, like planting a garden on different parts of the body, and then give them time to explore,'' said Anne-Catherine Church, who with Julie Johnson has been teaching creative movement for the past few weeks at the Tappan Hill School.
 Children are told to make different shapes with their bodies, to mirror one another and to tell stories by movement alone. Such techniques build imagination, flexibility, strength and hand-eye coordination, Ms. Church said.
 ''The kids ask me when they're going to start dancing,'' she said. ''I tell them they are dancing, and they don't believe me because they say they're having so much fun.'' ROBERTA HERSHENSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); POETRY (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (84%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); THEATER (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CHOREOGRAPHY (71%); JAZZ & BLUES (70%); FESTIVALS (68%); THEATER & DRAMA (65%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (60%) Art

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Silvermine School of Art (New Canaan, Conn)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%)

PERSON: David Dunlop; Roberta Hershenson

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Ward Pound Ridge Reservation (Katonah, NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



274 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: The New Boss

 BODY:
 Matt Bai's (Jan. 30) survey of new union tensions unleashed by the ''Wal-Mart economy'' was compelling. 
Globalization may be the seismic shift that defines labor in the 21st century. More, please.
 With a half-million members working in health, education and social services, the Canadian Union of Public Employees is the largest union in Canada. The ''race to the bottom'' that confronts labor in New York and Chicago is the same challenge we face in Vancouver and Montreal. Working together is the key to winning this rat race.

Tom Baker
National Representative
Canadian Union of Public
Employees
Hamilton, Ontario


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jean-Francois Martin/Marlenaagency.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%) Labor; Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: Canadian Union of Public Employees

PERSON: Tom Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (54%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (54%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%); QUEBEC, CANADA (54%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



275 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: How the Irish Paved Civilization

BYLINE: By Joe Klein. 
Joe Klein is the political columnist for Time magazine and the author of ''Primary Colors.''

 BODY:

EMPIRE RISING
By Thomas Kelly.
390 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $25.
 NO writer owns New York -- not the way that William Kennedy owns Albany or Raymond Chandler once owned Los Angeles. The city is just too big. The best lay claim to a neighborhood, an ethnic group or a moment. Damon Runyon had Broadway in the 30's; Edith Wharton, high society in the Gilded Age; Henry Roth, the immigrant Lower East Side; Louis Auchincloss, the Upper East Side; more recently, Jonathan Lethem has captured a significant patch of Brooklyn. Now comes Thomas Kelly to stake his claim -- on a group, Irish immigrant construction workers, and on a transaction that is central to the political geography of the city: the kickback. ''Nothing,'' he writes, at the outset of his new novel, ''Empire Rising,'' ''gets built in Gotham without a kickback.''
 Kelly is a former construction worker -- he worked his way through Fordham, that underappreciated Jesu-it launching pad in the Bronx -- and a former advance man for Mayor David Dinkins; his resume positions him perfectly for his chosen turf. His claim is not quite literary. He is neither an elegant stylist nor a particularly close observer of the human condition. But there is a compelling muscularity to his work -- the plots barrel along, the characters are wildly colorful -- and there is a dead-on authenticity to the dialogue and the atmospherics. There is also a bracing, and rare, appreciation for the sheer satisfaction of honest work: 
 ''Briody steadied his legs and back and torso and arms and clenched his jaw against the rattle of the pneumatic gun. His muscles were fluid one second with movement, static the next to drive the rivet home, a contracting and easing of his brawn that over the weeks had become as regular as breathing. The gang moved in perfect sync as four parts of one whole, advancing nonstop from beam to column to beam. The sun was out now, overhead and hot. The morning chill was gone. Sweat poured down their backs. Briody watched their rivet punk walk along a beam with a burlap bag full of bolts slung over his shoulder, his hat askance. He was 17 and glided along the six-inch-wide crossbeam with the assurance of the oblivious.''
 The work in question is the grandest imaginable, the construction of the Empire State Building in 1930 -- a particularly resonant moment in the history of New York, the exclamation point that punctuated the Roaring Twenties. The stock market has recently crashed, but the depth of the economic abyss is not entirely apparent yet. The city is still blithely ignoring Prohibition, dancing the Charleston, drowning in bathtub gin. Gentleman Jimmy Walker is the mayor, nonchalantly adulterous, complaisant, casually corrupt. Franklin Roosevelt is governor, about to run for president, anxious to separate himself from the local political stench, and also from his predecessor -- Al Smith, a Roman Catholic and, arguably, Tammany Hall's finest flower, a great governor but a disaster as a presidential candidate in 1928. (Smith, for his part, detests Roosevelt.) Tammany itself is in decline, still suffering after the death of the brilliant ''silent'' boss Charles Murphy, and run now by an insurance man, John F. Curry, a shadowy nonpresence in ''Empire Rising.'' (Curry's absence is a distinct personal disappointment to me since my grandfather, also named Joe Klein, ran that boss's favored conduit for honest graft: the John F. Curry Insurance Agency.)
 ''Empire Rising'' is, then, a historical novel -- and there are perils that come with the territory, foremost of which is what an editor of mine once called the ''Oh, look, there's Walt Whitman'' problem. It takes a certain amount of grit -- Kelly would use a more graphic reference -- to mix and match historical and fictional characters. Even so talented an artist as E. L. Doctorow had only intermittent success with it in ''Ragtime.'' And Kelly has his hands full here, introducing not only Jimmy Walker, Al Smith and Franklin Roosevelt, but also Babe Ruth, Lewis Hine and Primo Carnera. Judge Crater is a character. In fact, the mystery of the judge's disappearance is ''solved'' by Kelly, which also takes grit.
 Some of the historical showboating is a diversion -- the celebrities, with the exception of the elegant Mayor Walker, don't have much life to them -- but Kelly has chosen a particular time and place, and the elected officials of that moment are, each in his way, crucial to the intricate choreography of corruption in old New York. 
 At the center of ''Empire Rising,'' though, is Johnny Farrell, a fictional aide to Mayor Walker. Farrell's job is to orchestrate the kickbacks. Early on, Kelly explains how it worked: 
 ''The developers needed two changes in the building code to make the Empire State Building feasible, never mind profitable. Steel gauge and elevator speed. Two simple adjustments in the way skyscrapers were built that the mayor had vetoed twice without comment. Farrell had played the developers beautifully. . . . [He] had secured the mayor's signature, after doubling its price, of course, to a nice round one million dollars. And that was just the beginning. There were to be dozens of subcontractors on the job who would have to pay for the privilege, not to mention ancillary work like sewer lines, roads and a sparkling new subway station. Plus, someone had to meet the gambling and policy needs of several thousand workers. Farrell controlled all of it.'' 
 Farrell is a second-generation Irish immigrant, college-educated but street-smart. He dresses flashy -- diamond stickpin, fancy watch -- drops $20 tips and flaunts an upper-class Protestant wife and kids. He wants to be loyal to his old boys from the neighborhood, but there is a city to run and new alliances beckon. 
 There is a lot to work with here, and I wish Kelly had given us a bit more of Farrell's inner life, the conflicts that cause him to be just a shade too weak to be a really effective bagman, a shade too decent to be a truly frightening villain. (Frankie Keefe, the corrupt Teamster boss in Kelly's previous novel, ''The Rackets,'' was a magnificently awful bad guy.) Indeed, the emotional heart of ''Empire Rising'' lies elsewhere, in the romance between Farrell's Irish immigrant mistress, Grace Masterson, and a construc-tion worker, Mike Briody, who spends his spare time running guns for the Irish Republican Army.
 The word most often used, not always favorably, to describe this sort of novel is sprawling, but Kelly is a big-hearted and admirably ambitious writer. He wants to show the city top to bottom, from Jimmy Walker's boudoir to the Irish pubs in the South Bronx where the construction workers drink their paychecks. ''The Rackets'' had a similar scope -- it was about a Teamsters Union election in the 1990's (the mayor, unnamed in that case, was a deftly arrogant Giuliani sort). In both books, Kelly takes lots of chances, drawing his characters broadly, jamming the plots with coincidence, violence and melodrama. Not all of it works, but Kelly's city is palpably alive and passionate, and very recognizably New York -- especially in the vertiginous rush of upward mobility, the fissures it causes within families, the loyalties strained, the traditions lost. 
 Kelly knows in his bones the lesson that Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Nathan Glazer posited in their classic of urban sociology, ''Beyond the Melting Pot'': this is a tribal town, and ethnicity trumps economic class as a social determinant. The tribes have their rituals, and Kelly knows his own too well to gild the lily: his Irish construction workers drink hard, curse with genius and swoon over their mothers. They are pigheaded, honor bound and always game for a good punch-up. His heroines are a construction worker's fantasy -- tall, gorgeous, tough-talking and with no illusions at all about Irish men. Those who belong to other tribes, especially the Italians, are incomprehensibly barbaric. (In both ''Empire Rising'' and ''The Rackets,'' there are Italian mobsters who terrify their Irish counterparts -- Irish violence, according to Kelly, is volcanic, emotional, a consequence of pride and stubbornness; Italian violence is dispassionate, surgical, corporate.)
 And at the center of Thomas Kelly's New York, more vital than plot or characters, is politics. Not the politics of elections, personalities, reform or progress -- no, this is the politics of the never-ending transaction. Public employees' unions may supplant Tammany, bundled campaign contributions may replace envelopes filled with cash, and new ethnic groups provide the crooks and the muscle labor. But the buildings still go up, the contracts are still let out (and not always to the lowest bidder) and zoning variances remain an adventure. There are lawyers, insurance brokers, pension fund managers and mobsters crawling all over each other for a payday, and good government sorts (''goo-goos'' is the term of art) trying to thwart them. Kelly is too smart for idealism, too romantic for reflexive cynicism. He is a realist, who understands that there's just too much here -- too much money, glamour, power -- for the city to ever completely reform itself. The structures are too big to run without a little grease. ''Empire Rising'' is an ode to urban grease; I'll never look at that grand old building the same way again.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Kate LaceyDrawing (Drawing by Tim Robinson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%); ETHNICITY (57%); GEOGRAPHY (54%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Joe Klein; Thomas Kelly

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



276 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: An 18-Vote Mandate

 BODY:
Senator Nicholas A. Spano wants you to know he is a changed man. 
 Anyone would be after a near-death experience like the one he had, coming within 18 votes of unemployment in the longest, most excruciating State Senate election in generations. Reached in Albany a day after the battle ended, he sounded gracious -- and chastened. 
 ''I recognize that there were 57,055 people who did not vote for me,'' he said. ''To those 57,055, I want them to know that I hear them, I'm listening, that I know they're unhappy with the process and they want change.''
 Mr. Spano, you may remember, had promised to be a voice for change even before Election Day, when he joined Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat, in calling for a host of reforms in Albany, including constitutional amendments to change the state's benighted budgeting process. It seemed to us then that Mr. Spano, an 18-year Senate incumbent, was rather late in trying to squeeze onto the reform bandwagon, probably because of a particularly tough challenge from his Democratic opponent, the Westchester legislator Andrea Stewart-Cousins. 
 But that's moot now. Mr. Spano made his case and won the race. And now, as the duly re-elected representative of a heavily Democratic district and the No. 3 Republican in Albany, Mr. Spano is well-positioned to make good on his vows and to become an effective bridge between reform-minded Democrats and the party in power. There is plenty for him to do. So far, the Senate's majority party has talked a good game when it comes to open government or giving some say to rank-and-file legislators. But when the time comes to act, they continually fail to deliver.
 Meanwhile, back in the district, a lot of time has been wasted. While Mr. Spano was stewing at home and his lawyers were battling in court, Gov. George E. Pataki submitted a budget that, as expected, contained no miracle bailout for the Yonkers schools. The Westchester Medical Center, hemorrhaging money and jobs, still needs rescuing. Mr. Spano said his first priority was to restore financing for highway patrols by the county police in Westchester, a $2.6 million contract involving 31 officers that the governor's budget eliminated. 
 He vows to ''work overtime to get things done,'' which presumably means tackling the reforms he and Mr. Brodsky proposed last October, among them a call for a constitutional convention to tackle the state's dysfunctional decision-making process. But Mr. Spano seems less energized to reform the one part of New York's political culture with which he has had the most recent experience -- elections. 
 He acknowledges that New York needs to fix its voting procedures -- that voting machines need upgrading and that election inspectors, who miscounted hundreds of votes in his favor in Yonkers on election night, need to be paid more and trained better. But he still holds to his party's crabbed reading of New York's muddy election law, which his lawyers used to fight fiercely to disenfranchise hundreds of registered voters for procedural mistakes, like voting in the wrong election district at the right polling place. 
 We are glad that the Court of Appeals decided otherwise, with a clear ruling that the benefit of the doubt belongs to the voters, not to political parties or partisan judges. That is a message that the newly attentive Mr. Spano -- as well as his colleagues in the Legislature, and the governor -- need to heed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); BUDGETS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); GOVERNORS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); LAWYERS (67%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (66%); POLICE FORCES (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Editorials

PERSON: Nicholas A (Sen) Spano

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



277 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; YOUR TAXES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1738 words

HEADLINE: Tax Reform Looks for a Passing Lane

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
FOR months, President Bush has pursued a two-step domestic strategy. Overhauling Social Security would come first, and only later would he try to revamp the federal tax code.
 But with resistance to the Social Security plan growing almost daily in Congress, lawmakers may force Mr. Bush to revise his strategy and pursue his tax agenda faster than he anticipated. Many House Republicans are more interested in dealing with the tax code than with Social Security, but the political difficulties inherent in tax reform make the risks high. 
 So far, Mr. Bush has studiously avoided articulating a specific vision for tax overhaul. Instead, he has called vaguely for making the system ''simpler'' and ''fairer'' and appointed a bipartisan advisory panel to come up with actual proposals by July 31. 
 Republican allies of Mr. Bush have long said that the aim was always clear: a sweeping change from a system that taxes the money people earn to one that taxes the money they spend. There were multiple paths to that goal, but the bottom line would essentially be some sort of consumption tax.
 But a growing number of Republicans, anxious about plans to partially privatize Social Security, are now pushing Mr. Bush to combine that goal with tax overhaul.
 ''We can deal with Social Security and taxes simultaneously,'' said Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, in a speech last month. ''Sometimes, the more you include in a piece of legislation, the easier it is to pass.''
 The potential advantage of marrying the two agendas, many lawmakers say, is to win maneuvering room to write legislation that would appeal to Democrats and have a chance of becoming law. But the risk could be a huge political logjam. Mr. Bush's plan for Social Security could be bogged down for years if it became stuck in a lobbying battle between tax-reform winners and losers. 
 ''I would not want to see us deflect attention'' from Social Security, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said at a recent Congressional hearing.
 Many House Republicans have been pushing for a fundamental tax overhaul. Lawmakers have introduced numerous bills over the last year that would replace today's system of progressive tax rates with a flat income tax or a national sales tax.
 Other Republicans, including many of Mr. Bush's advisers, would seek the same goal but from the opposite direction. Instead of taxing sales, the government would embark on a series of seemingly incremental changes that eliminated taxes on savings and investment income. Eventually, people would be taxed only on what they spend.
 Mr. Bush has signaled strongly that he does not favor the most radical solutions that some Republicans have advocated for years. Despite calling for a top-to-bottom overhaul, the president all but vetoed ideas like a pure flat tax or a pure sales tax last August when he explicitly vowed to protect two of the biggest tax breaks in the entire code: the deduction for mortgage interest and deductions for charitable contributions.
 The deduction for mortgage interest, for example, would be meaningless in a system based on a national sales tax. The mortgage tax break, which costs the Treasury about $72 billion a year, according to the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation, would also undermine a basic goal of a flat income tax: to offer a lower tax rate in exchange for eliminating traditional tax breaks. 
 On top of that, Mr. Bush has asked the panel to prevent a huge expansion of the so-called alternative minimum tax -- a tax that was originally aimed at the nation's wealthiest households but is now engulfing millions of additional families as incomes rise with inflation each year.
 Freezing the alternative minimum tax would cost the government about $500 billion over the next 10 years, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
 ''It's going to be a difficult assignment,'' said John B. Breaux, a former Democratic senator from Louisiana who is co-chairman of Mr. Bush's tax advisory panel. The group meets for the first time on Wednesday. ''There's a pretty strong consensus that we want to do something about the alternative minimum tax. But any time we look to eliminate a feature of the code that raises revenues, we'll have to find something else to raise revenues that replaces it.''
 MR. BREAUX, who will head the advisory group with Connie Mack III, a former Republican senator from Florida, said he was surprised last month when White House officials said they expected the panel to assume that Mr. Bush's tax cuts would be permanent, instead of expiring by 2011, as currently scheduled. ''It will make things harder,'' he said.
 The basic political problem is in balancing the winners and losers in any comprehensive tax code change.
 ''It's a lot easier to get something through Congress when all you're saying is 'Let's cut taxes,''' said Bruce Bartlett, a senior fellow at the National Center for Policy Analysis, a conservative research organization based in Dallas. ''But when you are talking about a reform agenda, that implies trade-offs. And we haven't seen them do that.''
 Simplifying the tax code would pose difficult choices about some popular tax breaks, including several that President Bush expanded during his first term. In addition to the mortgage interest deduction, other breaks that might be considered include these: 
 The exclusion from capital gains of up to $500,000 from profits on home sales, which will cost $23 billion this year.
 The tax exemption for company-paid health insurance, which will cost $78 billion.
 The $1,000 child tax credit, costing $46 billion.
 The deduction for state and local taxes, costing about $46 billion.
 Tax credits for college tuition, worth $5.2 billion.
 Congress provided a sobering test case when it took on the comparatively simple job of replacing a $4 billion annual tax break for exporters that the World Trade Organization ruled an illegal trade subsidy. That effort took Congress more than two years to pass. What emerged last fall was a sprawling 600-page bill containing tax breaks for many diverse business interests, including pharmaceutical companies, oil drillers, movie studios, timber companies, shipbuilders and wine distributors.
 In many respects, the challenges today are more daunting than those that faced President Ronald Reagan when he led a bipartisan tax overhaul in 1986. That change lowered the top tax rates and created a much flatter rate structure, paying for lower rates by eliminating scores of special tax breaks. But it came when Republicans and Democrats alike were fed up with the rampant use of tax shelters and corporate tax avoidance. Congress balanced the allure of lower tax rates with the medicine of fewer tax breaks.
 The Tax Reform Act of 1986 produced clear winners and losers as well. The winners, by and large, were individual taxpayers who had never taken advantage of arcane tax loopholes. The biggest losers were large corporations, whose share of the overall tax burden climbed.
 Both a flat tax and a consumption tax would probably shift more of the tax burden from high-income households to middle- and lower-income taxpayers. That is because the top 10 percent of income earners, those who earn more than roughly $100,000 a year, currently pay about 65 percent of all federal income taxes. One-third of all American households pay no federal income tax at all.
 In 1996, the Treasury Department estimated that the nation would need a flat income tax of 20.8 percent to fully replace the progressive rates of the income tax for individuals and the corporate income tax. If a flat tax were imposed, tax exemptions for middle- and lower-income families could protect many from automatic tax increases, but analysts say it would be very difficult to prevent some of the tax burden from shifting from the wealthiest households to those with more moderate incomes. 
 ''The only way to create no losers in tax and budget policy is to maintain current law,'' said C.Eugene Steuerle, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute who coordinated the Treasury Department's tax reform efforts under President Reagan. ''Systematic reform usually makes those losers more identifiable up front.''
 When Mr. Bush laid out his domestic priorities last November, he made it clear that he wanted to proceed first with Social Security and only later with tax reform. ''There's still a lot of legwork to be done'' on taxes, Mr. Bush said at a news conference two days after the election.
 But Republicans who are pushing for a tax code overhaul, including many House lawmakers and many of Mr. Bush's advisers, have argued for years that the system should tax consumption rather than income. One reason, they contend, is that the current system taxes people who save and invest their income as much as it does people who spend everything they have.
 Some conservatives were mystified that Mr. Bush even bothered to name a bipartisan advisory panel.
 ''Why bother going through the whole charade of having an independent advisory panel if you know what you want?'' Mr. Bartlett asked.
 But White House officials are playing for time. The campaign to overhaul Social Security is provoking a fight in Congress, leaving little energy for a separate fight on the tax code. ''Tax reform is on the back burner,'' said Representative John Linder, Republican of Georgia. ''But it's still cooking.''
 IT may be cooking faster than some administration officials would like. The number of lawmakers openly calling for combining overhaul of the tax code and of the Social Security system is growing. 
 Though he made no specific proposals, Representative Thomas, the House Ways and Means chairman, and others advocate re-examining the payroll tax that finances Social Security and Medicare. 
 The payroll tax brings in almost as much revenue as the income tax, but it has been widely criticized as regressive, because it is not imposed on annual income of more than $90,000 a year. Because employers pay half of the 12.4 percent payroll tax, critics say the payroll tax also discourages hiring. 
 In recent weeks, numerous Republican lawmakers and Mr. Breaux have echoed Mr. Thomas's call to broaden the Social Security debate and link it with tax reform. 
 ''Why don't we look at the whole picture of how we fund entitlement programs?'' Mr. Breaux said of Mr. Thomas's idea. ''I think he's raised very worthwhile questions.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Lensch) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX REFORM (94%); TAX LAW (94%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SALES TAX (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INCOME TAX (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%) Taxation; Law and Legislation; Social Security (US); Privatization

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



278 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: No Mullah Left Behind

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
The Wall Street Journal ran a very, very alarming article from Iran on its front page last Tuesday. The article explained how the mullahs in Tehran -- who are now swimming in cash thanks to soaring oil prices -- rather than begging foreign investors to come into Iran, are now shunning some of them. The article related how a Turkish mobile-phone operator, which had signed a deal with the Iranian government to launch Iran's first privately owned cellphone network, had the contract frozen by the mullahs in the Iranian Parliament because they were worried it might help the Turks and their foreign partners spy on Iran.
 The Journal quoted Ali Ansari, an Iran specialist at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland, as saying that for 10 years analysts had been writing about Iran's need for economic reform. ''In actual fact, the scenario is worse now,'' said Mr. Ansari. ''They have all this money with the high oil price, and they don't need to do anything about reforming the economy.'' Indeed, The Journal added, the conservative mullahs are feeling even more emboldened to argue that with high oil prices, Iran doesn't need Western investment capital and should feel ''free to pursue its nuclear power program without interference.'' 
 This is a perfect example of the Bush energy policy at work, and the Bush energy policy is: ''No Mullah Left Behind.''
 By adamantly refusing to do anything to improve energy conservation in America, or to phase in a $1-a-gallon gasoline tax on American drivers, or to demand increased mileage from Detroit's automakers, or to develop a crash program for renewable sources of energy, the Bush team is -- as others have noted -- financing both sides of the war on terrorism. We are financing the U.S. armed forces with our tax dollars, and, through our profligate use of energy, we are generating huge windfall profits for Saudi Arabia, Iran and Sudan, where the cash is used to insulate the regimes from any pressure to open up their economies, liberate their women or modernize their schools, and where it ends up instead financing madrassas, mosques and militants fundamentally opposed to the progressive, pluralistic agenda America is trying to promote. Now how smart is that?
 The neocon strategy may have been necessary to trigger reform in Iraq and the wider Arab world, but it will not be sufficient unless it is followed up by what I call a ''geo-green'' strategy.
 As a geo-green, I believe that combining environmentalism and geopolitics is the most moral and realistic strategy the U.S. could pursue today. Imagine if President Bush used his bully pulpit and political capital to focus the nation on sharply lowering energy consumption and embracing a gasoline tax.
 What would that buy? It would buy reform in some of the worst regimes in the world, from Tehran to Moscow. It would reduce the chances that the U.S. and China are going to have a global struggle over oil -- which is where we are heading. It would help us to strengthen the dollar and reduce the current account deficit by importing less crude. It would reduce climate change more than anything in Kyoto. It would significantly improve America's standing in the world by making us good global citizens. It would shrink the budget deficit. It would reduce our dependence on the Saudis so we could tell them the truth. (Addicts never tell the truth to their pushers.) And it would pull China away from its drift into supporting some of the worst governments in the world, like Sudan's, because it needs their oil. Most important, making energy independence our generation's moon shot could help inspire more young people to go into science and engineering, which we desperately need.
 Sadly, the Bush team won't even consider this. It prefers cruise missiles to cruise controls. We need a grass-roots movement. Where are college kids these days? I would like to see every campus in America demand that its board of trustees disinvest from every U.S. auto company until they improve their mileage standards. Every college town needs to declare itself a ''Hummer-free zone.'' You want to drive a gas-guzzling Humvee? Go to Iraq, not our campus. And an idea from my wife, Ann: free parking anywhere in America for anyone driving a hybrid car.
 But no, President Bush has a better project: borrowing another trillion dollars, which will make us that much more dependent on countries like China and Saudi Arabia that hold our debt -- so that you might, if you do everything right and live long enough, get a few more bucks out of your Social Security account.
 The president's priorities are totally nuts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); GASOLINE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); POLITICS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TRENDS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (71%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); WAR ON TERROR (69%); CONSUMPTION (68%); TERRORISM (67%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (50%); AUTOMAKERS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Foreign Investments; Economic Conditions and Trends; Atomic Energy; Electric Light and Power; Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Terrorism

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Wall Street Journal

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (93%); IRAN (90%); IRAQ (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SCOTLAND (79%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



279 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Political Memo; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: No Less Than Bloomberg, His Opponents Face a Test Over Stands on Gay Marriage

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
All eyes were on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg last week after a state judge made gay marriage legal in New York City -- a ruling that put Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican mayor of an overwhelmingly Democratic city, in a particularly tight spot. 
 But the judge's decision has raised challenges for some of Mr. Bloomberg's Democratic competitors, too, because beneath the surface of New York's supposedly liberal politics lie large constituencies of socially conservative voters. 
 As Democratic primary candidates set out to divvy up blocks of support to win their party's nomination, some are bumping up against pockets of opposition among religious groups and others that could make their coalition-building more difficult this year, political analysts and religious leaders said.
 Those pockets are most potentially nettlesome for two of the four candidates, political analysts and religious leaders say: Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president; and Representative Anthony D. Weiner, who represents parts of Brooklyn and Queens.
 They were among four potential Democratic candidates who voiced support for Judge Doris Ling-Cohan's decision making gay marriage legal -- a decision Mr. Bloomberg appealed while expressing personal support for same-sex marriage.
 More so than the other two candidates -- Gifford Miller, and C. Virginia Fields -- Mr. Ferrer and Mr. Weiner are counting on bases that include a sizable portion of voters who are generally not known to be supportive of gay marriage: religious Latinos for Mr. Ferrer; and white ethnic, social conservatives who live in the boroughs outside Manhattan for Mr. Weiner.
 Mr. Ferrer, widely perceived to be the front-runner in the race, is already facing a rebellion from religious leaders in the Bronx who are warning that they could tell Latino churchgoers to sit this election out because of his support of the judge's decision. This week, one such leader , the Rev. Ruben Diaz Sr., a state senator from the Bronx, said Mr. Ferrer's backing of the decision was ''slapping us in our faces.''
 ''He is counting on Spanish support, he's got to be careful,'' Mr. Diaz warned in an interview. 
 Another Bronx-based evangelical leader, Rev. Fernando Rodriguez, head of the Latin American Chaplain Association, said of Mr. Ferrer on Friday, ''We're closing our churches down for him to even visit.''
 Some Jewish leaders whom Mr. Weiner is counting on for backing are no less sanguine. ''We'll certainly let him know we think it's not the correct position when Primary Day comes,'' said David Zwiebel, an executive vice president of Agudath Israel of America, a socially conservative Orthodox organization with offices throughout the New York metropolitan area. He stressed that he would do the same with all of the other candidates.
 But such declarations should prove less worrisome for Mr. Miller, the City Council speaker, whose base of support rests in Manhattan, which is believed by pollsters and analysts to be far more socially liberal than the other boroughs, political strategists said. 
 Likewise, support for Ms. Fields, the Manhattan borough president, among African Americans should override any concerns in black churches over her stand for gay marriage, said Hank Sheinkopf, a political strategist not working for a mayoral candidate this year.
 While Mr. Weiner needs to come out strong for gay rights to build support beyond his base and into more socially liberal parts of the city, Mr. Sheinkopf said, ''if he comes out too strong, what happens in the other boroughs?''
 Of Mr. Ferrer, he added: ''Freddy has a similar problem. If he is too strong, what happens to the Pentecostal church base in the Hispanic community?'' 
 Mr. Weiner says he is well aware that by stating his support for Justice Ling-Cohan's ruling he has risked alienating his more conservative potential supporters.
 ''It arguably is something that's more difficult for me than it is for my colleagues,'' he said in an interview on Friday. But Mr. Weiner said he was able to win election in 1998 and retain office afterward despite his stated support for gay marriage.
 ''At the end of the day, voters respect the idea that you're speaking from your sense of beliefs and not for a political calculation,'' he said.
 Mr. Ferrer said in an interview that backlash from religious voters had not stood in his way before.
 ''I'm consistent about not liking discrimination, and so when you're faced with something like this, you have to act in the way that your heart tells you,'' he said.
 There is a perception among some gay leaders -- who spoke on condition of anonymity because they said they did not want to alienate a potentially friendly mayor -- and some political analysts that pressure from religious leaders has kept Mr. Ferrer from being more public about his support for gay marriage in the past.
 ''Freddy has been very disciplined about keeping the issues more about economic liberalism,'' said John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York's Graduate Center, ''about helping working families -- a kind of populist critique of the mayor -- without getting too much into the lifestyle and value issues.''
 And some prominent gay leaders noted that Mr. Ferrer did not attend demonstrations in Manhattan last year in support of gay marriage and did not speak out when Mr. Diaz held a countermarch in the Bronx.
 Mr. Ferrer said his support for gay marriage was unequivocal. ''I can't account for the perception of a few who have a political motive.''
 Alan Van Capelle, executive director of the Empire State Pride Agenda, a gay rights group, said, ''I think Freddy Ferrer has been a friend to the gay and lesbian community.''
 But Mr. Van Capelle indicated his group and others would pressure candidates to prove their friendship. ''Every candidate seeking the gay and lesbian vote will have to account for what they did during their careers in public service to help gay and lesbian people,'' he said.
 If all the candidates continue to do what is necessary to please groups like Mr. Van Capelle's, the question will be how badly it will hurt them on Election Day with more conservative constituencies.
 Opinions are mixed. Mr. Zwiebel, of Agudath Israel, lamented that with all of the candidates ''sounding the same note,'' his community was likely to be stuck voting for a candidate supportive of gay marriage.
 But Mr. Diaz warned, ''We can tell our people throughout the Hispanic community and churches, don't vote, stay home.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: For Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and any challengers, gay marriage is a sensitive political issue. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (94%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (94%); RELIGION (92%); MAYORS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%) Marriages; Election Issues; Homosexuality; Decisions and Verdicts; Hispanic-Americans; Mayors; Elections; Marriages; Religion and Churches; Primaries

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); ANTHONY D WEINER (79%) Jim Rutenberg; Doris (Judge) Ling-Cohan; Fernando (Boro Pres) Ferrer; Anthony D (Rep) Weiner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



280 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2132 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Cut Short; The Revolution That Wasn't

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IF the history of the Republican revolution were being written today, a single overarching question would have to be answered: Whatever happened to the promise of smaller government? 
 That question was asked again last week, when President Bush unveiled a $2.57 trillion budget for 2006, the largest in the nation's history. The cuts he called for, in areas like veterans' medical care, farm subsidies and vocational training, were met in Washington with doubts that they would ever get through the Republican Congress.
''Republicans have lost their way,'' lamented Newt Gingrich, the government-slashing firebrand of a decade ago. 
 In 1995, a band of 73 freshman Republicans swept into the House of Representatives, with Mr. Gingrich as their speaker. Flush with ideological zeal and determined to get government off the backs of the people, as Ronald Reagan would say, they pushed through a budget resolution that called for eliminating scores of programs and three federal departments. 
 Their fervor was so politically potent that in 1996, a Democratic president, Bill Clinton, declared, ''The era of big government is over.''
 Yet government has only grown. The Cato Institute, a libertarian research institution, says overall federal spending has increased twice as fast under Mr. Bush as under Mr. Clinton. At the same time, the federal deficit is projected to hit a record high of $427 billion this year. 
 These trends seem likely to continue. The White House estimated last week that the cost of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries, originally projected at $400 billion from 2004 to 2013, would, in fact, be $724 billion from 2006 to 2015. Republicans called for scaling back the benefit, but on Friday, Mr. Bush said no and vowed to veto any changes to the Medicare bill.
 ''The era of big government being over is over,'' declared Marshall Wittmann, a senior fellow at the Democratic Leadership Council, a centrist Democratic research organization. That would certainly seem to be borne out in the record of the Republican revolutionaries, known as the ''Class of 1994'' for the year they were elected. Of the 30 who are still in the House of Representatives, 28 hsponsored bills in the last Congress that would have increased government spending overall, according to the National Taxpayers Union, an antitax group. (A chart is on page 16.) 
 Some of the expansion in government was beyond their control. One big reason for the rise in spending is the growth of mandatory entitlements like Medicare and Medicaid. Another is the administration's ''war on terror''; the government has added an entire new agency, the Department of Homeland Security, since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and has spent many billions in Afghanistan and Iraq.
 ''Those were legitimate reasons for more expansive spending,'' said Senator John Thune, Republican of South Dakota. ''But we can no longer hide behind that.''
 Republicans like Mr. Thune say they are pleased that Mr. Bush's budget calls for cutting or eliminating 150 programs, and they applaud his promise to cut the deficit in half within five years. Yet the old Gingrich revolutionaries have lowered their battle cry to a whimper; instead of demanding that federal agencies be put out of business, they are fighting among themselves over small-bore questions of what to cut and what to keep.
 ''The Gingrich revolution was about system change,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, a member of the Class of 1994. ''Now we're in the weeds of government, this program and that program, and we've lost the big picture.''
 To most Americans, the federal budget, more than 2,000 pages of fine print, is hard to grasp; it isn't easy to summon a mental image of $2.57 trillion. One way to look at it is to consider how much the government spends per household. In the 1990's, the figure held steady at about $18,000, according to Brian M. Riedl, a budget analyst for the Heritage Foundation. But last year, it exceeded $20,000, adjusted for inflation, the highest amount since World War II. But the government only takes in $17,000 for each household. ''So right there,'' Mr. Reidl said, ''we're borrowing $3,000 per household.''
 Mr. Riedl says the Republicans lost their zeal for spending cuts after 1995, when Congress forced a government shutdown over a budget impasse with President Clinton. The effort came off as mean-spirited and petty, and Republicans took the blame.
 For Mr. Gingrich, the architect of the shutdown, the costs were especially high. He left government soon after, a reminder of how much easier it is to be a revolutionary than to govern. 
 ''Ever since the government shutdown was determined to be a political loser for Republicans,'' Mr. Riedl said, ''they have been tentative to take on spending.''
 By 1998, they didn't have to. That was the year Mr. Clinton and Congress balanced the budget. Without a deficit to rail against, conservatives had little reason to call for spending cuts. And with the budget in surplus, they learned what the Democrats, who had ruled the House for 40 years without interruption, had long known: constituents reward lawmakers who bring federal money home.
 ''Too many people started to believe that the surest path to re-election is to spend money rather than cut government,'' says Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican. ''The material that comes from the Republican caucus is not to call for the elimination of this program or that, it's to brag that we have increased the budget for education by 144 percent.''
 That is not surprising, says Mr. Wittmann of the Democratic Leadership Council. ''Yesterday's revolutionaries are today's pragmatic politicians,'' he said. ''It's a classic tale of any revolution. They start out as revolutionaries wanting to storm the Bastille and the end up as 'All the King's Men.'''
 There are still revolutionaries out there. Mr. Gingrich, for one, still advocates ''very large-scale change.'' 
 Mr. Bush's budget, for instance, proposes cuts only in so-called nondefense discretionary spending. A very small slice of the budget pie, roughly one-sixth of the total, is devoted neither to the military nor to the entitlement programs like Medicare and Medicaid. Until Congress overhauls these and other entitlements, Mr. Gingrich says, spending will never be brought into line, and many of his former disciples agree.
 ''We need to be braver when it comes to putting the reforms of entitlements on the table,'' said Mr. Graham, the South Carolina senator. The Medicare prescription drug bill, Mr. Graham said, ''was a reform that included new goodies. We need to put some reforms on the table that require sacrifice. That's the Republican Party I miss.''
 With President Bush asking Congress to overhaul another entitlement program -- Social Security -- it may be difficult for lawmakers to find the energy and time to do as Mr. Graham suggests. 
 Still, Republicans say they sense a new budget-cutting fervor on Capitol Hill. Some conservatives whose arms were twisted by their leaders to vote in favor of the Medicare prescription drug bill are vowing, ''Never again.'' 
 Last week, Representative Jim Nussle, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, warned that Mr. Bush should be prepared to use his veto power, something he has not done since he became president, to enforce spending limits. 
 To former Gingrich revolutionaries like Representative Sue Myrick, Republican of South Carolina, that was good news. 
 ''We haven't given up,'' said Ms. Myrick, who is one of the two representatives from the Class of 1994 who has continued to sponsor bills that would result in lower government spending (the other is Steve Chabot of Ohio). ''I'm more encouraged this year than I've been since 1994.''
 Mr. Flake, the Arizona Congressman, said the future of his party hinges on the revolution's revival. ''If voters want bigger government,'' he warned, ''then sooner or later they'll return to the genuine article, and that's the Democrats.''

 Of the 73 Republicans who joined the House in 1995, 30 are still serving. But they hardly seem the same, at least when it comes to sponsoring legislation. In their first term, most sponsored bills that would have had a net effect of cutting spending, according to an analysis by the conservative National Taxpayers Union. In the last term, all but two sponsored bills that would have had a net effect of increasing spending.

THE REMAINING 30
 All figures are proposed INCREASES, except those marked with an asterisk. (Asterisks indicate a DECREASE in spending.)
 John Hostettler, Ind.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: $-174.5 billion*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +$0.5 billion
 Gil Gutknecht, Minn.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -67.0*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +8.0
 Mark Foley, Fla.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -44.0*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +43.7
 Charlie Norwood, Ga.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -33.5*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +59.8
 Sue Myrick, N.C.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -29.1*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: -42.6*
 Charles Bass, N.H.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -23.1*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +25.9
 George Radanovich, Calif.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -23.0*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +7.3
 J.D. Hayworth, Ariz.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -22.3*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +19.2
 Mark Souder, Ind.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -22.2*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +71.5
 Todd Tiahrt, Kan.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -21.9*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +46.0
 Walter Jones, N.C.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -20.6*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +77.4
 John Shadegg, Ariz.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -18.7*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +38.1
 Roger Wicker, Miss.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -18.1*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +27.9
 Barbara Cubin, Wyo.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -17.9*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +37.1
 Doc Hastings, Wash.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -16.9*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +24.7
 Tom Latham, Iowa
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -12.5*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +13.3
 Dave Weldon, Fla.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -11.5*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +56.3
 Mac Thornberry, Tex.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -9.2*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +2.7
 Steve Chabot, Ohio
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -7.0*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: -0.5*
 Steven LaTourette, Ohio
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -6.4*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +551.6
 Phil English, Pa.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -6.2*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +96.3
 Zach Wamp, Tenn.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -5.8*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +64.9
 Frank LoBiondo, N.J.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -3.9*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +65.0
 Ray LaHood, Ill.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: -1.6*
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +70.6
 Bob Ney, Ohio
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: +1.0
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +72.7
 Ed Whitfield, Ky.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: +2.6
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +39.9
 Rodney Frelinghuysen, N.J.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: +3.1
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +2.0
 Jerry Weller, Ill.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: +4.4
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +26.6
 Sue Kelly, N.Y.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: +5.3
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +61.8
 Tom Davis, Va.
 From Cutters -- THE 1995-96 TERM: +6.7
 To Spenders -- THE 2003-04 TERM: +32.4
 MILESTONES FOR THE G.O.P. CLASS OF 1994
 NOV. 1994
 For the first time in four decades, Republicans win control of the House. There are 73 new G.O.P. representatives.
 1996
 Twelve of the 73 are defeated after just one term. Two more resign amid scandals:
 Wes Cooley is accused of lying about his military service in Korea and his marriage.
 Enid Greene Waldholtz's husband is indicted on 27 counts of bank fraud.
 1998
 Entertainer and secondterm congressman Sonny Bono is killed in a skiing accident.
 Six more of the 73 representatives are defeated in November. Newt Gingrich resigns as speaker of the House.
 2000
 Six from the Class of '94 reach their pledged term limits; three leave, and three opt to stay beyond their pledged departures.
 2002
 Members of the class win two governorships -- Maryland and South Carolina -- and two others capture Senate seats.
 2004
 All but seven of the remaining members of the class of 1994 vote in favor of adding an expensive prescription drug benefit to Medicare. (Sources by National Taxpayers Union Foundation, Bureau of Labor Statistics, National Journal, Cato Institute)(pg. 16)

CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the decline in zeal of Republicans over the last decade to reduce the size of the federal government misidentified the home state of Representative Sue Myrick, a Republican Her district is in North Carolina, not South Carolina.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sue Myrick and Steve Chabot were the only two representatives to propose net spending cuts during both the 1995-96 and 2003-04 terms. Last term, Ms. Myrick sponsored a bill to eliminate the current tax code and impose a flat tax, which would eliminate many subsidy programs embedded in the code. Mr. Chabot authored a bill to end the expenditure of government money to promote and support American agricultural products abroad.
In the 1995-96 term, John Hostettler was the only member in this group to sponsor H.R.1923, a wide-ranging bill to reduce federal spending.
 In 2003, Steven LaTourette sponsored a bill to provide health insurance to all Americans until they reach age 21. (Photos by Bill Marsh)(pg. 16)Drawings (Drawing by MK Mabry)(pg. 1)Chart: ''About-Face of the Gingrich Brigade''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HISTORY (78%); VETO (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); TERRORISM (62%); MEDICAID (57%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (56%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); STEVEN C LATOURETTE (73%); SUE WILKINS MYRICK (73%); STEVE CHABOT (73%); JOHN THUNE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005



281 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Is Labor Out in Front On Health Care?

BYLINE: By Matt Miller

 BODY:
IT'S no secret that surging health costs have become a C.E.O.-level issue. When a company like General Motors looks more each year like a giant health plan that operates a nice little nonprofit car business on the side, who wouldn't sound the alarm? 
 But to many business leaders, their union counterparts' view of soaring health costs remains a mystery. Given union readiness to strike in the face of even modest efforts to slim generous health plans, these costs almost certainly doom unionized workers to few if any real wage increases for years to come. Do union leaders get this trade-off? Are they hamstrung by political dynamics that make it hard to approve even sensible health plan changes that can be cast as ''givebacks''? And what is their answer? 
 Recent conversations with Morton Bahr of the Communications Workers of America and Andrew Stern of the Service Employees International Union suggest that at least some union leaders think about the health system in ways more sophisticated and businesslike than many chief executives do -- and that they are eager to be partners in a national reform dialogue that's overdue. 
 ''There's really one economic pot, and you argue essentially over the size of that economic pot and how it gets distributed,'' Mr. Bahr said of the growing trade-off between health care and wages. ''What it leads to is more strife at the bargaining table because workers are not going to be ready to say, 'Well, the health care costs are going up, so we're willing to take a zero wage increase.' They expect the union to find a way to do it, and that's going to lead to more strikes.''
 But Mr. Bahr knows that the trends are unsustainable. In late 2003, after completing his last contract negotiation with Verizon, he told a group of Democratic senators that by 2008, when it was time to revisit the deal, the cost for Verizon to insure someone who retires before age 65 would be more than $21,000 a year. ''How is the company going to compete?'' Mr. Bahr asked, as Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Edward M. Kennedy nodded in agreement. 
 Mr. Stern said that his union members believe that ''the implications of not having health insurance are so grave'' that all except younger workers (who think they'll live forever) would rather take their last $1,000 in top-quality health coverage than have the same amount of cash in their pocket. 
 Mr. Stern's real concern about cost pressures is systemic. ''What scares me is that the system is going to morph into a catastrophic health plan without any debate,'' he said. ''People would have thought that was a collapse 20 years ago, but when things change incrementally, everybody keeps lowering their expectations. People say, 'Why should those people in those unions get that good health care?' instead of saying, 'Why don't I get it?''' With only a small slice of workers having unions that enable them to resist this trend, union chiefs feel a special duty to make a stand.
 A result, even in the face of seemingly modest changes, is a liberal form of the kind of ''slippery slope'' arguments sometimes associated with the National Rifle Association, which argues that even modest limits on gun ownership will ultimately result in the feds knocking on Americans' doors to confiscate every last pistol. Once unions start allowing more copays and deductibles and higher premiums, pretty soon ''you end up where JetBlue is, not where United is'' on health care, Mr. Stern said, contrasting JetBlue's more modest health benefits to United's more traditional coverage.
 Fighting this trend strikes unions as perfectly fair. After all, from their point of view, short-term chief executives are interested mostly in shifting costs to workers to solve their problems -- rather than helping to lead efforts to re-engineer America's radically inefficient health sector in ways that would solve everyone's.
 Mr. Bahr and Mr. Stern add that forcing a debate about what decent health coverage should mean isn't inconsistent with the drive to bring efficiencies to today's byzantine system. They rattle off the initiatives with which they've been involved, arguing that labor comes to this table with clean hands -- and with a greater commitment to systemic reform than the typical chief executive has begun to consider. Mr. Bahr and the Communications Workers of America, for example, helped pioneer managed care networks with AT&T starting in 1989. Mr. Stern talks about ''right sizing'' hospital capacity and complains that special interests with a stake in excess costs are blocking needed changes. ''It's the only industry that's huge with no efficiency to it,'' he said. When these men talk about pooling back-office functions and contracting out food services and laundries, you might think you were listening to business leaders.
 TO be sure, the labor perspective is hardly monolithic. Mr. Bahr, for instance, rejects the call for ''consumer-driven health care,'' which puts individuals on the hook financially for more of their health spending and is expected by conservative advocates to lower costs as a result. ''I don't think health care is a commodity that you shop around for,'' he growled. 
 Mr. Stern seems more willing to look at various means, even if they violate traditional liberal orthodoxy, so long as they promote the decent society that he says belongs at the core of the debate. 
 But each man says business leaders haven't assumed the more statesmanlike role the country needs them to play in these health debates -- a role that will take them beyond their company's or industry's parochial interests to broader questions of national policy.
 ''Why aren't the corporations speaking up now?'' Mr. Bahr asked. ''Do they feel, well, 'As long as I can continue to cost-shift to my employees, until I get it down to zero, that somehow I live in a vacuum and I'm not going to pay for it one way or another'?'' He shook his head. ''We're in this thing together,'' he said. ''We've got to find a common solution.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); APPROVALS (69%) Labor; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (83%) Communications Workers of America; Service Employees International Union

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TED KENNEDY (54%) Matt Miller; Andrew L Stern; Morton Bahr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



282 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Smart Growth's Blind Spot

 BODY:
It was a majestic lineup of preachers and a mighty choir that convened last week at the Cradle of Aviation Museum in Garden City to sing praise to a smart-growth vision for Long Island. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton announced that she and United States Representative Peter King were teaming up on a proposal to get $250 million in federal aid to revitalize old suburbs. The Nassau county executive, Thomas Suozzi, outlined his dream of ''new suburbia'' in a PowerPoint presentation. His Suffolk counterpart, Steve Levy, spoke eloquently of the need to secure Long Island's future by creating new housing, reclaiming old buildings and brownfields and preserving open space. 
 The government officials, builders, academics and corporate executives at the event, a symposium on ''Suburban Evolution'' sponsored by the Long Island Housing Partnership, were fully receptive to the message. It was a day for harmony and applause. There were few discordant notes.
 There might have been more, though, if a woman in an elegant brown suit had succeeded in getting anyone's attention in the final question-and-answer session. She tried, but Mr. King, the moderator, apparently could not see her past the spotlight's glare; the Southold town supervisor was hogging the microphone; and then everybody broke for lunch.
 She was Dorothy Goosby, a councilwoman in the town of Hempstead. As she explained later, she was trying to bring up a point that she thought the event had conspicuously ignored. Ms. Goosby, Hempstead's only African-American council member, said she feared that new affordable-housing units were being too heavily concentrated in her predominantly black district. She worried, too, that converting former commercial properties into apartments could upset the economic balance there. Communities need a healthy mix of housing and commerce, she said, and affordable housing is a much better proposition when the apartments are spread around. 
 Ms. Goosby has a point, and we are sorry she was not able to share it. A discussion of race and class is crucial to any rethinking of the future of Long Island, one of the nation's most segregated suburban areas, but the polite participants in ''Suburban Evolution'' hit on it barely at all. 
 Mr. Levy came closest in his lunchtime remarks, when he stressed the need to transcend the ''pull-up-the-ladder Nimbyism'' that hinders smart-growth ideas on Long Island. Mr. Suozzi touched on it, too, with his call to integrate largely black Hempstead by building plenty of affordable apartments there for the (presumably white) students from colleges in the area.
 But other speakers argued that smart growth would gain wider support if people understood that ''affordable housing'' applied mainly to those who were already in their communities: the young adults in parents' basements and retirees rattling around in empty nests, not the strivers from poorer communities next door. In so many words, these speakers seemed to reflect the views uncovered in a recent Rauch Foundation study, which found that while Long Islanders were increasingly receptive to the idea of affordable housing, a majority also worried that such housing would bring in ''the wrong kind of people.'' 
 We're not sure what that phrase means, exactly. But given Long Island's stark color boundaries, we have a pretty good idea. Unless the preachers of Long Island's smart-growth gospel tackle this issue head on, the new Long Island could end up looking a lot like the old. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); COUNTIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%) Blacks; Minorities (US); Land Use Policies; Conventions and Conferences; Editorials; Housing

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (72%); PETER T KING (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



283 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: THE CHAIRMAN SPEAKS

BYLINE: By Jeff Sommer

 BODY:
Every February, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, is required to testify before the Senate Banking Committee on the state of the economy and the Fed's interest rate policy. 
 Mr. Greenspan is scheduled to make his annual appearance on Wednesday, and traders are certain to be monitoring his words closely.
 During his testimony last year, he said that the Fed was prepared to be ''patient'' about raising rates; that day, both the Dow Jones industrial average and the S.&P. 500-stock index climbed more than 1 percent. Jeff Sommer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BONDS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%) United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



284 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-13-05: ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Spookspeak

BYLINE: By William Safire. 
Send comments and suggestions to: safireonlanguage@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
' I don't take lightly the distinction between clandestine and covert,'' said Senator Jay Rockefeller, ranking Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee. ''It makes all the difference in the world.''
 The occasion for this plunge into spookspeak synonymy was the news that the Pentagon had a group of special operatives to slip into hostile territory to gather humint. That word is espionese for ''human intelligence,'' which means flesh-and-blood spies getting information from the source's mouth. 
 The name for the new spy organization, formed because the Pentagon was not getting needed humint from the C.I.A., was insufficiently impressive at the start. A ''senior Defense official'' (not even a janitor swabbing a Pentagon floor calls himself a ''junior Defense official'') explained: ''There was sort of one little unfortunate arrangement here . . . they were called one thing -- I think it was Humint Augmentation Teams. . . . That title was a much too ordinary title and made you think of them operating at a very low level.'' But to show that this operation ''was meant to operate at the three-star level of concern, maybe it ought to have a different name. And so it was given the name of Strategic Support Team.''
 I suspect that some old-timer figured the new operation would bear the acronym HAT (as in ''Top Hat'' and ''Fedora,'' code names of famous past spies) and preferred the initialese S.S.T. (and whatever happened to the Supersonic Transport?). The purpose of the new 10-person teams is to improve ''actionable intelligence'' provided to our military; the name switch, however, aroused political suspicions that it was done to bamboozle Congressional oversight, which drew media attention.
 That churned up the distinction between clandestine and covert. Both of those adjectives, along with surreptitious and stealthy, are in the family stamped secret. 
 Covert, from the Latin cooperire, ''to cover,'' means ''concealed, hidden, under cover, not avowed.'' Clandestine, from the Latin clam, ''secretly, in private'' (perhaps related to ''clam up''), has a more deceptive connotation: ''furtive, crafty, underhanded, presumably illicit.'' 
 We are now prepared to deal with the synonyms' distinction in spookspeak, where, as Rockefeller says, ''It makes all the difference in the world.'' A National Security Council directive in 1948 defined covert operations as actions by the U.S. against foreign states ''which are so planned and executed that any U.S. Government responsibility for them is not evident to unauthorized persons and that'' -- here comes the hot part -- ''if uncovered the U.S. Government can plausibly disclaim any responsibility for them.''
 That ''plausible denial'' is in the law today; Title 50 Section 413b of the U.S. Code defines covert action as our government's activity ''to influence political, economic, or military conditions abroad, where it is intended that the role of the United States Government will not be apparent or acknowledged publicly.'' But after the embarrassing exposure of the Iran-contra affair during the Reagan administration, Congress in 1991 passed a law requiring the president to sign a secret ''finding'' authorizing the C.I.A. to conduct a covert action and inform intelligence committee leaders.
 Covert action to, say, overthrow a government, free hostages, or take out a threatening missile battery requires a finding and notification to Congress. But clandestine gathering of humint requires neither. ''A clandestine operation differs from a covert operation,'' goes the definition in the Defense Department's current Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, ''in that emphasis is placed on concealment of the operation rather than on concealment of the identity of the sponsor.''
 Administration critics were not satisfied with the senior official's explanation of the reason for the new unit. The columnist Martin Schram wrote, ''The New York Times did not get suckered by the Pentagon's head fake.'' 

HEAD FAKE
 ''It could flat-out reinvent the automobile,'' said Lawrence Burns, G.M.'s V.P. for research, expressing his enthusiasm in Detroit last month about his company's latest hydrogen-fueled car. He expected some disbelief from ''the environmentalists who think we're doing a head fake with this.''
 In California, the Senate president, Don Perata, warned Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger not to pull a fast one with the state budget: ''I don't want every year to figure out a trick or a head fake that is simply going to roll the problem into next year.''
 And in the second campaign debate last year, President Bush looked in the wrong direction for a questioner, saying to the moderator, Charles Gibson: ''You put a head fake on us,'' to which Gibson replied, ''I got faked out myself.''
 After an etymological full-court press, I have determined this expression to have originated in basketball. ''A head fake,'' wrote Ralph Henry Barbour and La Mar Sarra in their 1941 ''How to Play Better Basketball,'' ''will often provide an uninterrupted course to the basket.''
 By 1965, it had been taken up in professional football. Russell Baker, whose column appeared on the Op-Ed page of The Times for 36 years (four longer than mine), observed the changes in the football vocabulary. No longer was the team the eleven; the 60-minute man, the Seven Blocks of Granite, the Four Horsemen were all forgotten. Baker quoted one friend saying, ''You've got to think in terms of the button-hook, the down-and-out, the draw and the red dog.'' Another said: ''The tight end doesn't body-fake on the draw. The split flanker head-fakes in the flat unless the defense is shooting the linebackers.''
 After 60 years in the language, the metaphor has gone far beyond the meaning in sports: ''to look in one direction and act in another.'' To try to stop this flood of usage would be damming with feint praise. 


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%) English Language

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (78%) William Safire

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



285 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; YOUR TAXES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 2002 words

HEADLINE: The Bill's Lower Now. What About 4/15/11?

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
MATT AND IVONA ANZARDO of Plainsboro, N.J., are expecting their first child in May, and they say it won't be easy to sock away money for a house and for the child's education when they're paying so much in taxes. 
 But they don't blame President Bush. While they are counting on him to do more, they say that the tax cuts put in place during Mr. Bush's first term in office have already helped. In fact, an analysis of their 2003 tax return shows that on an income of about $66,000, they paid $6,778 in federal income tax -- $1,446 less than they would have paid if the Bush tax cuts had not been in effect. And when they become parents this year, a child tax credit championed by Republicans starting in 1997 and expanded under President Bush should save them about $1,400 more, assuming the same income. 
 Still, Mr. Anzardo, 30, a sales agent for a specialty paint maker, said those tax cuts weren't enough. His tax payments ''could be going to a down payment toward a house, money for our kid's college fund,'' he said. 
 ''I'm frustrated by it, but I am not resigned to it,'' he added. ''I want my taxes lower.'' He likes what he has heard about President Bush's goal of making it easier to save and invest money. He particularly favors a consumption tax that, Mr. Anzardo said, would force all Americans to pay their fair share.
 But the changes already put in place under President Bush have changed the tax system in some fundamental ways, and while the Anzardos are enjoying tax relief now, some of these changes may not help them in the long run. For wage earners making $50,000 to $1 million -- the huge bracket in which the Anzardos fall -- the Bush tax cuts are increasing the proportion of the tax burden they pay, while lightening the burden of the very richest Americans. In fact, a little-known result of the Bush tax cuts is that while nominal income tax rates remain progressive, those reporting the highest incomes no longer pay a higher share of their incomes in taxes than everyone else.
 And unless there are further changes in the tax code, the Anzardos would lose some of the benefits of the tax cuts if their incomes rose or if they had more children, changes that would make them subject to a levy called the alternative minimum tax that is expected to affect at least 35 million households over the next few years.
 The Anzardos' dream of homeownership could fall apart if proposals by President Bush to eliminate the deduction for state and local taxes were eventually enacted. 
 On top of that, the Bush tax cuts are being financed with borrowed money, which will have to be repaid by taxpayers. The government is borrowing at the rate of nearly $50 billion a month, before counting the costs of the war in Iraq or the costs of a new prescription drug benefit for older Americans.
 Through another levy, the Social Security tax, the Anzardos and many other Americans are paying more than the government needs to pay current benefits to retirees, widows, orphans and the disabled. For the Anzardos, that amounts to about $2,000 a year. Still, the government has warned of a shortfall in money available for benefits when people like the Anzardos are ready for retirement.
 The Anzardos say that they pay their taxes dutifully, and that they are dismayed that many people don't, a situation that has not been helped by cuts in funds for tax law enforcement going back more than a decade. In a series of reports by the Internal Revenue Service, Congress has been told that these cuts result in wage earners being taxed efficiently, while relatively little effort is made to audit investors, landlords and business owners.

The Lucky 290,000
 Under the tax-code changes put in place during the Bush years, the relationship between the share of income and the share of tax reductions has shifted for different income groups.
 Assuming that the tax cuts are made permanent -- many provisions are due to expire over the next six years -- people in the bottom 99 percent of the income charts will get a tax cut smaller than their share of income from 2001 to 2015. The top one-tenth of 1 percent of Americans will get tax cuts that are about twice their share of national income. In this group are 290,000 men, women and children whose annual incomes are greater than $1.6 million. More than a quarter of all the Bush tax cuts will go to the top one-half of 1 percent -- the 1.4 million Americans with incomes of $581,000 or more.
 These figures come from a widely respected computer model developed by the Tax Policy Center in Washington. The center is a joint project of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution, whose economists have worked in tax policy positions for both Republican and Democratic administrations. The projections are based on cash incomes, defined as the adjusted gross income reported on the last line of the front page of a tax return, plus municipal bond interest and contributions to retirement plans like 401(k)'s. This measure tends to understate the real economic gains of those at the very top, who have perfectly legal ways to defer reporting income for tax purposes. 
 The White House says it is irrelevant that taxpayers with the very highest incomes are paying lower effective tax rates than other high-income taxpayers. Instead, the White house says the important issues are that more low-income Americans are paying little or no tax, and that as a group, taxpayers with income of more than $200,000 are bearing a larger share of the total burden. ''Any way you slice it, the president's tax cut made the system more progressive,'' said Trent Duffy, a White House spokesman.

A Tax Gone Wild
 When President Bush took office, he called for tax cuts costing $1.8 trillion over 10 years. Congress would only agree to $1.3 trillion worth. The difference is being covered by the alternative minimum tax, which over the course of the decade will take back a third of the Bush tax cuts and which is falling increasingly on people making $50,000 to $500,000, Congressional tax and budget records show.
 The tax was adopted in 1969 to make sure that Americans with incomes of $1 million or more in today's dollars could not take so many deductions that they paid little or no federal income tax.
 But partly because of inflation, and partly because it was not coordinated with the changes wrought by the Bush tax cuts, the alternative minimum tax is falling increasingly on less wealthy taxpayers. For each dollar of alternative tax paid in 2000, those making $1 million or more will pay $2.60 in 2010, while those making less than $1 million will pay $19.40, the computer model of the Tax Policy Center shows. 
 Families who have two or more children and make $75,000 to $100,000 will lose 42 percent of their Bush tax cuts to the alternative minimum tax, the Tax Policy Center estimates.
 Stopgaps that protect some middle-class families from losing their tax savings to the alternative minimum tax would be allowed to expire under Mr. Bush's new federal budget. For 14 million Americans, this would be a tax increase totaling $29.4 billion next year if Congress goes along with the president.

The Deepening Debt
 Because spending has not been cut to match revenues, but instead is increasing, the federal debt is growing rapidly.
 That means that the tax cuts people are noticing today on their tax returns are, in the aggregate, just a deferral of taxes, along with interest, into the future. For everyone who pays federal income taxes this year, a dime of every tax dollar will go toward interest on the national debt, a portion expected to rise as the debt grows and interest rates rise.
 Mr. Anzardo said that while deficit financing is a tax on the future, ''that is not really a big issue to me.'' 
 ''It is a concern,'' he said, ''but I really would rather have that debt than lose the instant gratification of not having to pay so much right now.''

Rates and Realities
 While nominal income tax rates are progressive, rising to as high as 35 percent of earned income for the top 1 percent, the actual tax rates paid are no longer the highest for the people with the highest income, the latest I.R.S. data shows. 
 A major reason is the cut in the maximum wage tax rate, combined with lower taxes on dividends and capital gains, major sources of income for the richest Americans. Those who earned $500,000 to $1 million paid 27.9 percent of their income in federal income taxes in 2002. Those who made $10 million or more paid 26.1 percent, the I.R.S. tables show. The 400 highest-income Americans paid about 18 percent of their income in federal income taxes that year, a Sunday Business analysis applying 2002 tax rates to I.R.S. data for the year 2000 shows. The I.R.S. issued data on the 400 highest incomes for 1992 through 2000, but the Treasury Department has put a lock on later figures. 
 The shift is not limited to a change between the very well off and the superrich. 
 When both income and payroll levies like those for Social Security are counted, Americans making as little as $100,000 paid a larger share of their income in taxes in 2002 than those making more than $10 million. Those with incomes of $100,000 to $200,000 paid 20.6 percent of their income in these taxes, compared with 20.1 percent for those in the $10-million-and-up group, the Tax Policy Center computer model calculated.

Enforcement Problems
 The I.R.S. Oversight Board, created by Congress, reported last year that I.R.S. budgets had fallen so far behind the growth in the size of the tax system that the I.R.S. could not enforce the law effectively and fairly. The I.R.S. budget equals about $56 a tax return, the same figure that some retirement plans charge per worker just to maintain records and file reports. 
 Studies in tax journals have shown that one result of lax law enforcement is that cheating by those reaping big capital gains can be an easy and nearly risk-free proposition. Just one technique, overstating the cost of a stock or other assets, costs the government $250 billion in taxes annually, according to a study by Jay A. Soled, a business professor at Rutgers, and Joseph M. Dodge, a law professor at Florida State University. 
 Loopholes created because antiquated rules survive into an era of computer spreadsheets allow investors to buy financial derivatives that let them escape capital gains taxes. Because of the transaction costs, only the wealthiest investors can use these strategies.
 The difficulty in policing the taxes of those who rely mostly on investment gains and business income, instead of wages, has prompted many people to favor a shift to a consumption tax. Mr. Anzardo said he favors one, because it would provide a way to crack down on people who are paid in cash and don't file tax returns. 
 ''You are getting everybody,'' with a consumption tax, he said. ''Even people who are not actually paying any taxes, even the illegal aliens, you will get them paying taxes because they have to buy groceries, clothing.''
 While lax rules and weakened enforcement benefit both those paid under the table and cheaters among the richest taxpayers, the government efficiently and effectively taxes wage earners like the Anzardos.
 The I.R.S., in reports to Congress, has said that it captures nearly all wage income, but a much smaller share of income to investors, landlords and business owners -- perhaps less than 70 percent. That is because employers of legal wage earners must report these payments to the I.R.S., while Congress lets business owners, investors and landlords control most of what they tell the I.R.S. about their finances.
 Charles O. Rossotti, a former I.R.S. commissioner, has called this disparity in the agency's ability to identify income fundamentally unfair. ''Demands and resources are going in the opposite direction,'' he told Congress in November 2002 as he asked for a 50 percent increase in spending on tax law enforcement. ''This is systematically undermining one of the most important foundations of the American economy.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ivona and Matt Anzardo are paying less since the tax cuts went into effect. But if they become subject to the alternative minimum tax, their payment could rise sharply. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 27)
President Bush with Connie Mack III, left, and John B. Breaux. The fairness of the tax code will be examined by a panel led by Mr. Mack, a former Republican senator, and Mr. Breaux, a former Democratic senator. (Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters)(pg. 35)Chart: ''Whose Tax Cuts?''The wealthiest are not taxed as heavily . . .Under the tax cuts put in place during the Bush administration, people with incomes of $10 million or more pay a smaller share of their incomes to the federal government than those with incomes from $100,000 to $10 million.Income group: 0 - $30,000*Estimated share of 2004 cash income paid in taxFederal income tax: 6.7%Income group: $30,000 - $50,000Estimated share of 2004 cash income paid in taxFederal income tax: 14.5Income group: $50,000 - $75,000Estimated share of 2004 cash income paid in taxFederal income tax: 17.4Income group: $75,000 - $100,000Estimated share of 2004 cash income paid in taxFederal income tax: 18.9Income group: $100,000 - $200,000Estimated share of 2004 cash income paid in taxFederal income tax: 20.6Income group: $200,000 - $500,000Estimated share of 2004 cash income paid in taxFederal income tax: 21.6Income group: $500,000 - $1,000,000Estimated share of 2004 cash income paid in taxFederal income tax: 21.6Income group: $1,000,000 - $10,000,000Estimated share of 2004 cash income paid in taxFederal income tax: 22.3Income group: More than $10,000,000Estimated share of 2004 cash income paid in taxFederal income tax: 20.1*This group's share of income paid in federal taxes is negative.. . . while the A.M.T. is expected to expand . . .The alternative minimum tax, which was intended to make the very wealthy pay their fair share of taxes, is being imposed on many people with more moderate incomes.Income group: 0 - $30,000Projected share of taxpayers paying the alternative minimum tax2004: N.A.2010: N.A.Income group: $30,000 - $50,000Projected share of taxpayers paying the alternative minimum tax2004: N.A.2010: 2.8%Income group: $50,000 - $75,000Projected share of taxpayers paying the alternative minimum tax2004: 0.5%2010: 16.0Income group: $75,000 - $100,000Projected share of taxpayers paying the alternative minimum tax2004: 1.02010: 52.3Income group: $100,000 - $200,000Projected share of taxpayers paying the alternative minimum tax2004: 6.22010: 80.2Income group: $200,000 - $500,000Projected share of taxpayers paying the alternative minimum tax2004: 50.52010: 93.8Income group: $500,000 - $1,000,000Projected share of taxpayers paying the alternative minimum tax2004: 39.32010: 62.7Income group: More than $1,000,000Projected share of taxpayers paying the alternative minimum tax2004: 27.02010: 35.5. . . and taxpayers at the pinnacle are likely to benefit more.Virtually everyone has saved on taxes, but the wealthiest have gotten a disproportionately large share of the savings.Income group: Lowest fifthCumulative projections, 2001 to 2015All cash income, in trillions*: $ 3.4Share of total income: 2.4%Share of total tax cuts: 0.3%All tax cuts, in billions*: $ 9.7Income group: Second fifthCumulative projections, 2001 to 2015All cash income, in trillions*: 8.8Share of total income: 6.2Share of total tax cuts: 5.3All tax cuts, in billions*: 148.5Income group: Third fifthCumulative projections, 2001 to 2015All cash income, in trillions*: 15.7Share of total income: 11.2Share of total tax cuts: 9.5All tax cuts, in billions*: 268.0Income group: Fourth fifthCumulative projections, 2001 to 2015All cash income, in trillions*: 27.8Share of total income: 19.8Share of total tax cuts: 16.4All tax cuts, in billions*: 460.9Income group: Next 19%Cumulative projections, 2001 to 2015All cash income, in trillions*: 60.4Share of total income: 43.0Share of total tax cuts: 37.6All tax cuts, in billions*: 1,054.9Income group: Top 1%Cumulative projections, 2001 to 2015All cash income, in trillions*: 24.9Share of total income: 17.7Share of total tax cuts: 30.7All tax cuts, in billions*: 862.9Income group: Bottom halfCumulative projections, 2001 to 2015All cash income, in trillions*: $ 5.6Share of total income: 4.0%Share of total tax cuts: 5.4%All tax cuts, in billions*: $153.0Income group: Next 0.4%Cumulative projections, 2001 to 2015All cash income, in trillions*: 8.4Share of total income: 6.0Share of total tax cuts: 10.1All tax cuts, in billions*: 284.1Income group: Top 0.1%Cumulative projections, 2001 to 2015All cash income, in trillions*: 10.9Share of total income: 7.7Share of total tax cuts: 15.2All tax cuts, in billions*: 425.8Note: Projected data assumes that all tax cuts, except those related to the A.M.T., put into effect during the Bush administration will be made permanent
 many provisions are due to expire by 2011.*In 2004 dollars(Source by Tax Policy Center)(pg. 35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CHILDREN (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); SALES TAX (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%) Taxation; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); CONNIE MACK (71%) David Cay Johnston; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



286 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Grows More Dangerous. But . . .

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN. 
Roger Cohen writes the ''Globalist'' column for The International Herald Tribune.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq 

 BODY:
ARE things getting better or worse in Iraq? That is the basic question, on which much hinges for the United States and the world. Here are some impressionistic answers.
 Just over a year ago, on my last visit to the country, I was able to drive north to Tikrit, Saddam Hussein's home town, and south to the Shiite holy city of Najaf. These were not excursions for sitting back and enjoying the scenery. But they were feasible, at high speed and with some risk. 
 Today, no Westerner with any vestige of sanity would contemplate making such trips, even in the aftermath of an election that was a remarkable success. It is not merely that images of beheadings prey on the mind. It is not simply that this month's kidnapping of Giuliana Sgrena of Italy's Manifesto newspaper formed part of a pattern. It is that, by any rational assessment, the danger is unacceptable.
 By that crude yardstick, things are getting worse. 
 Jonathan Garratt, managing director of Erinys, a British security company with more than 1,000 employees here, calls Iraq ''the worst operating environment, as far as safety goes, anywhere I've ever known.'' Attacks on coalition forces, infrastructure and Iraq's nascent police and army have been running at 400 to 600 a week since last summer, with occasional spikes close to 1,000, even if their deadliness has tended to diminish of late. Such violence, of course, is not bad for Mr. Garratt's firm: security is Iraq's main growth industry.
 Another measure of Iraq's insecurity is that the drive into Baghdad from the airport includes what Mr. Garratt calls ''the most dangerous five kilometers of road in the world,'' a stretch known for its suicide bombers and other unappetizing intrusions.
 I had been ready to see the reopening of Baghdad International Airport since my last visit as a mark of progress. But if the road to it is still treacherous after 22 months of American presence, the airport has to go in the negative column.
 When I was here before, I heard much talk of improvised explosive devices or I.E.D.'s, the term that the military, with its genius for acronyms, had coined for roadside bombs of local manufacture.
 Now there is a whole lexicon of them. People talk of V.B.I.E.D.'s (for vehicle-borne) and V.C.I.E.D.'s (vehicle-concealed). The insurgency's penchant for hiding bombs inside dead dogs has even led to D.C.I.E.D.'s (dog-concealed). 
 The array of disaffected F.R.E.'s (former-regime elements) and jihadist fanatics battling the American-led transformation of Iraq is growing more sophisticated in its tactics. That, too, suggests that things are getting worse.
 No place in Iraq is more secure than the Green Zone, the four-square-mile city-within-a-city where American officers, diplomats, contractors, the interim Iraqi government and those Iraqis who dare to work for them are found. Fleets of sport utility vehicles purr past Saddam Hussein's battered faux-Babylonian palaces. This is not Switzerland, but neither is it Somalia. Even here, though, the trend is not encouraging. The Green Zone Cafe, a favored watering hole, was blown up by a suicide bomber last year. Rocket attacks have taken a toll. The gates into the area have become treacherous.
 I saw one Iraqi official in a ski mask in the Green Zone, something I had not seen before, and asked him to explain. ''It's cold,'' he said in perfect English laced with disdain. ''And I don't want anyone to see my face.'' Mark up another point for the Iraq-is-getting-worse school.
 But of course, most of this country's 28 million citizens do not think about the Green Zone or worry about being beheaded as infidel intruders. They worry about putting food on tables. John B. Taylor, the under secretary for international affairs at the United States Treasury Department, said on a visit here last week that ''we see a lot of economic growth and progress.'' He cited a booming retail trade, construction and growing financial reserves.
 Economic statistics are scarce, so it is hard to know whether Mr. Taylor is on to something or merely dreaming. The streets are busy; trade in everything from scrap metal to textiles is active. With no income tax and scant import duties, Iraqis have redefined their freewheeling economy. Attempts to sabotage the oil industry have not stopped production.
 But unemployment is high, gasoline lines are long and, beyond the construction and security businesses, growth is scarce. Investment awaits calm, and there is none. The economy, in short, is a mixed picture.
 One hindrance to its progress is the fact that the lights keep going out. L.Paul Bremer III, the American administrator of Iraq until last summer, set a goal of 6,000 megawatts. It has never been met; engineers have struggled to bring the electrical grid up even to prewar levels. But new generating hardware is now in place, and electricity is trending positive.
 Mr. Bremer and his unrealistic goals are now gone. The hard-headed diplomats who replaced him refer to his team as ''the illusionists.'' Now, they say, the American focus is on empowering Iraqis, not running their country. That is helping.
 Iraqis defied danger to vote in the Jan. 30 election; some walked past corpses to cast ballots. Their defiance, determination and dignity weakened the insurgency, improved the chances for a viable democracy and bolstered President Bush's contention that the thirst for liberty is universal. A big plus.
 Security at the 5,300 polling places was provided largely by the nascent Iraqi National Guard and police, their first successful big operation. Significant progress.
 The ballot counting is not yet over, but it is clear that Iraq's Shiite majority will emerge from the election with a claim on power that once belonged only to Sunni Arabs. The shift can be consolidated only if the Shiites have the good sense to negotiate political alliances with Iraq's other ethnic and religious groups. It seems possible that good sense exists. The intricate theater of Iraq's dawning democracy is something beautiful.
 It is still dangerous on the streets. But once they close the doors to their homes at night, Iraqis now know that no longer will anyone come knocking with cars waiting outside to whisk them away to anonymous deaths approved by Saddam Hussein. That is heady headway.
 The situation here is rough, and this vast investment of American blood and money could still be lost. But by a narrow margin, things are getting better in Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (87%); AIRPORTS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (74%); ARMIES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); DOGS (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) Roger Cohen; Saddam Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (77%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



287 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-13-05; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Freedom, From Want

BYLINE: By James Traub. 
James Traub, a contributing writer for the magazine, is at work on a book about the United Nations.

 BODY:
Why does foreign aid have such a dismal reputation in the country that financed the Marshall Plan? Maybe it's the term itself (which may explain why it has been replaced by the studiously neutral ''official development assistance''). For many Americans, ''foreign aid'' sounds suspiciously like ''welfare for foreigners.'' We don't like welfare, and we aren't quite sure what to think about foreigners. What's more, American giving typically proceeds from a sense of personal affiliation, whether to church or community or school; and we have, until very recently, thought of foreigners as a remote species. That era came to an end with 9/11, of course. In his Inaugural Address, President Bush vowed that ''all who live in tyranny and hopelessness'' will find a staunch friend in the United States. For all those around the world who live in poverty, however, he made no such promise. 
 Tyranny is a very great evil, and freedom a very precious good; but there are other evils, and other goods. The week after the president's address, Europe's three major leaders -- Tony Blair, Jacques Chirac and Gerhard Schroder -- addressed the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Blair, as ever, defended President Bush's self-assigned mission of democracy promotion. But he went on to say that ''if America wants the rest of the world to be part of the agenda it has set, it must be part of their agenda, too.'' And Blair, like Chirac and Schroder, defined the core of that agenda very differently from President Bush. For all three, strikingly, the great good worth striving for was the elimination of global poverty, and the paramount means was an increase in aid.
 The subject has barely dented the American debate; and yet there was an almost giddy sense at Davos that a transformative moment on aid and development was nigh. Gordon Brown, Blair's chancellor of the exchequer, spoke of ''a worldwide change of opinion'' on the subject. Blair himself asserted that he would dedicate his leadership of both the G8 and the European Union this year to the issue of Africa. And Chirac proposed a new scheme of taxes on international currency transactions to finance a big increase in aid. This is to be the year of development, but it's widely understood that very little will happen without the United States.
 The emerging development agenda includes debt relief, chiefly from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund; the reduction of trade barriers to benefit poor nations; and big increases in development aid. On the first two issues, the Bush administration is within hailing distance of its allies, though Washington is reluctant to appropriate money to cover the canceled debts. 
 Aid, however, has become the great symbol of American myopia and self-isolation. In 2002, the wealthy nations, including the United States, committed themselves to increasing development assistance radically so that each was spending at least 0.7 percent of its gross national income on aid by 2015. The Scandinavian countries are already close to that figure; others have committed themselves to a specific timetable to reach the threshold. The United States has not. Currently we rank 22nd and dead last among donor nations, at 0.15 percent of G.N.I. The Bush administration proudly proclaims that it has raised that figure by 50 percent; but even that assertion may prove illusory, since the administration has decided that next year it will seek $3 billion, rather than a promised $5 billion, for its chief new aid initiative.
 At a panel in Davos, someone asked former President Bill Clinton why Washington seemed so impervious to demands to increase aid. ''Because nobody will ever get beat for Congress or president for not doing it,'' Clinton shot back. That may have sounded too deflating, for Clinton quickly added that in the U.S., too, ''an effective political constituency'' over aid had begun to form. Conservative church groups, for example, backed President Bush's decision in 2003 to spend $15 billion on international AIDS programs over three years. Nevertheless, Americans appear disengaged on the development agenda, just as Europeans appear to us to be disengaged on the terrorism agenda. Each side seems governed by a reciprocal parochialism.
 And yet we know very well that our easy and self-satisfied ''sabbatical,'' as President Bush called it, came to a shattering end on Sept. 11. We are engaged now with the world, willy-nilly; we just remain unsure about the terms of that engagement. In his Inaugural, President Bush asserted that ''America's vital interests and our deepest beliefs'' impel us to help nations locked in tyranny to liberate themselves. Ought we say the same of nations locked in poverty? Probably not: here we are impelled more by our beliefs than by our vital interests. It will be conviction, not calculation, that will make us act to prevent 3,000 African children from dying of malaria every day. Nonetheless, there is an obvious connection between the political and the developmental agenda. ''Freedom'' is a meaningless luxury to a child who grows up without access to school or health care, and perhaps also to a nation too enfeebled by debt, disease and scarcity to provide these basic goods. 
 The Bush administration has acknowledged this problem, and thus moved the debate off the dead spot of aid-as-welfare, by establishing the Millennium Challenge Account, which will funnel money to well-governed nations. The program is widely hailed as a new paradigm for development assistance. The administration has said it will spend $5 billion a year on Millennium Challenge. Unfortunately, after two years the fund has yet to dispense a penny on actual poverty reduction; and it is this program that the administration is now proposing to cut. Restoring that $2 billion might not be a bad way of demonstrating to our steadfast friend Tony Blair that we take his agenda as seriously as he takes ours. 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Tim Dirven
 Panos Pictures)Chart: ''WHO GIVES?''Official Development Assistance, as proportion of Gross National Income, 2003:Norway: 0.92%Denmark: 0.84%Luxembourg: 0.81%Average Country Effort (out of 22 countries): 0.41%Japan: 0.20%Italy: 0.17%United States: 0.15% Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); TRENDS (62%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Aid 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (84%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (79%); JACQUES CHIRAC (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); GORDON BROWN (50%) James Traub

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); NORWAY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); DENMARK (70%); LUXEMBOURG (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



288 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: ANTIQUITIES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Picking Up the Stolen Pieces Of Iraq's Cultural Heritage

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
In 2003, a marine at an American military base in southern Iraq bought eight carved stones from a trinket vendor for several hundred dollars. When he returned to New York, he took the stones to an archaeology professor at Columbia University, who concluded they were ancient artifacts, some dating back 5,000 years.
 The Federal Bureau of Investigation, which has recovered the stones, will return them on Wednesday to Iraqi authorities at a ceremony at the University of Pennsylvania's archaeology museum, which plans to display the pieces -- before they are returned to Iraq -- as an example of the continuing threat to the country's cultural heritage.
 The stones, called cylinder seals, constitute a fraction of the antiquities believed to have been looted from Iraq since the American invasion, according to law enforcement officials and archaeologists. The artifacts include catalogued objects taken from museums and a large but uncertain number of items, like the cylinder seals, that were pillaged from archaeological sites around the country. 
 Zainab Bahrani, the archaeology professor at Columbia University to whom the marine took the stones last year, said looting in Iraq had increased almost uncontrollably since the American-led occupation. ''Tens of thousands of objects have just gone completely missing in the past two years,'' she said. ''It's a cultural disaster of massive proportions.''
 The account of the eight cylinder seals was provided by Ms. Bahrani and federal authorities. Law enforcement officials would not identify the marine, and he declined to be interviewed.
 The case is the first recovery of looted Iraqi artifacts by the F.B.I. since the war started, although last month immigration and customs officials returned to Iraq three cylinder seals found in the suitcase of a scholar arriving at Kennedy International Airport. ''Part of the investigative duty of the F.B.I. is investigating the looting of archaeological objects that come into the country, and we are interested in stopping that threat,'' said Robert K. Whitman, senior investigator on the bureau's art crime team. The team was recently established to address art fraud, stolen art and the widening antiquities trade.
 A senior counterterrorism official said the trade in illicit antiquities was increasingly run by organized rings of professional thieves, who use poor Iraqis in rural areas as diggers. Objects are funneled out of the country in concealed shipments along smuggling routes that have been plied for centuries, in a system in which artifacts are sold for cash or sometimes for weapons that wind up in the hands of insurgents in Iraq. Some archaeological experts estimate that the illegal antiquities trade may pump tens of millions of dollars into the underground economy in Iraq.
 Robert S. Mueller III, director of the F.B.I., alluded to the issue in a speech last November, saying British authorities had concluded in 2003 that ''there is a link between the removal and transport of cultural objects and the funding of terrorism.'' Mr. Mueller did not identify the countries or the terrorist organizations to which he was referring.
 The bureau has long had agents who specialize in investigating art crimes, but for the first time has deployed agents trained to fight this kind of illegal activity in a regional network. ''Art crimes fall into three basic categories: art theft, including antiquities; fraud; and forgery,'' said James P. Wynne, of the F.B.I.'s New York office. The new approach, he said, ''is a good way to keep us relevant and get good cases opened around the country.'' The eight cylinder seals bought by the marine date to the Mesopotamian period. Images were carved into the stones and the cylinders were then rolled over clay or wax, leaving an imprint that identified the owner. The symbols were used to safeguard doors, bags, boxes or other property.
 When the marine took the carefully boxed seals to Ms. Bahrani at her campus office, she immediately knew what they were. She recalled opening the box and saying ''Oh, my God!'' The marine bought the seals suspecting that they might be archaeologically significant, according to law enforcement officials.
 After meeting with Ms. Bahrani, F.B.I. officials said, the marine turned over the seals to the bureau in Philadelphia, where agents have jurisdiction over cases in the United States that are related to the looting of the Iraqi National Museum after Baghdad fell.
 Although it is a crime to bring such artifacts into the United States, law enforcement officials said the United States attorney in Philadelphia formally declined to prosecute. Officials praised the marine for turning over the seals.
 It is not known how often troops remove archaeological materials from Iraq. They are warned against taking antiquities before they leave the United States and again after they arrive in Iraq, said Maj. Flora Lee, a Pentagon spokeswoman in Baghdad. Moreover, she said, equipment and personal property is searched before troops leave Iraq, and packages are examined before being shipped. It is unclear how the marine got the eight seals out of the country. 
 Early accounts of looting at the museum in Baghdad indicated that as many as 170,000 objects had been taken in the chaotic two days after April 9, 2003, when the city fell to American-led forces. Those accounts later turned out to be overstated, but museum officials in the United States still contend that 10,000 to 15,000 objects are missing.
 Far less is known about the looters who are believed to be removing a large quantity of archaeologically significant objects at sites throughout Iraq. 
 John Malcolm Russell, a professor of art history at the Massachusetts College of Art who was a senior cultural adviser to the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq, estimated that in the last two years, hundreds of thousands of significant cultural artifacts have been taken, possibly as many as 400,000 to 600,000. That, he said, translates to a trade worth $10 million to $20 million a year.
 Mr. Russell based his estimates on seizures like one last year in which Iraqi authorities stopped a smuggler with about 3,000 cultural objects, mainly cuneiform tablets containing early examples of writing. The smuggler told authorities that he made two or three such shipments each week -- a statement Mr. Russell used to develop his assessment of losses. The total, he said, was supported in part by satellite photographs taken in 2003 and 2004 that show a proliferation of new excavation holes. 
 Mr. Russell said that in recent months, Iraq has tried to stop the looting by deploying more than 1,750 armed guards in 20 newly bought trucks to several well-known sites in southern Iraq. ''It cut the looting back dramatically,'' he said. ''If we could get 200 trucks, we could cut it back fundamentally. With $2 million, we could stop it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mesopotamians used a cylinder seal, like the one at left, to make imprints on clay or wax, above. A marine bought this seal and seven others in Iraq and brought them to the United States, where he showed them to Zainab Bahrani, below, an archaeology professor at Columbia. (Photo by University of Pennsylvania Museum)
 (Photographs by Keith Bedford for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (95%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (94%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ART THEFT (85%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); IMMIGRATION (68%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (68%); AIRPORTS (63%); TERRORISM (60%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Archaeology and Anthropology; Looting

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%)

PERSON: David Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



289 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Athlete Who Faced Down Toughs Is Mourned

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN; Janon Fisher contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
They remembered Fernando Corea Jr. yesterday in the working-class neighborhood in the Bronx where he had often lived amid danger and had dared to be different. He loved school and dreamed of a pro football career, they said, and stood up to the resentful thugs who lured him into fights.
 A dozen times in the last two years, as he progressed academically and became the captain of his high school football team, Fernando was set upon by neighborhood toughs who envied his successes, family members and friends said. Last Wednesday, signaling his unusual potential, Herman Edwards, the Jets coach, visited his school and singled him out for praise in a private meeting. 
 ''He impressed me with his warm personality and passion for football,'' Mr. Edwards said of Fernando, a 6-foot, 200-pound star linebacker at Alfred E. Smith Vocational High School. ''Fernando represented everything good about being a student athlete.''
 Two nights later, as Fernando walked home, a gunman stepped out of the shadows. It was not a robbery, the police said. Eight shots were fired. Fernando was hit twice in the heart and in the throat, head and back. He died a few doors from his home at on Brinsmade Avenue in Throgs Neck. He would have been 17 today.
 On Saturday, 12 hours after the shooting, the police charged a youth they identified as Quindel Francis, 16, of Dewey Avenue in Throgs Neck, with the shooting. They said it was the apparent result of a longstanding feud between the two youths, dating to 2003 when they were classmates at Intermediate School 192. No gun was found, but investigators said Quindel made statements implicating himself.
 As Fernando's parents, grandparents, siblings, friends and neighbors gathered to mourn the slain youth, his family and police officials gave differing accounts yesterday of the circumstances that led to the shooting and how the authorities responded to the family's insistence that the youth needed protection.
 Both the police and the family denied published reports that the slaying was gang-related. The police said the suspect, in a statement, said he had acted to avenge some incident involving his brother. 
 Family members said they had called the police a dozen times to report attacks and demand protection for Fernando, but the police said their records showed only three incidents. 
 Paul J. Browne, the deputy commissioner for public information, said the records showed that Fernando was attacked by five teenagers on Sept. 9, 2003, at Intermediate School 192, and that five youths were arrested. Fernando, in an affidavit, said the five had beaten him in a hallway and an empty classroom. He was treated for cuts and bruises at Jacobi Medical Center.
 In October 2003, Mr. Browne said, Fernando complained of harassment and said he had been slapped in the face by neighborhood youths. No arrests were made, Mr. Browne said. After another incident about a month later, he said, the youth's family filed a lost-property report.
 Evelyn Ortiz, Fernando's mother, said that a band of neighborhood thugs invaded a backyard pool party the family held last July, and attacked Fernando. His cousin, Christina Alvarez, 18, said she had intervened but had been punched and suffered a black eye. Ms. Ortiz said that the police were called, but that the officers refused to take a report because, she said, her son had no visible bruises. 
 ''They didn't respond when we needed them,'' Ms. Ortiz said. ''What? You have to wait until he dies for you to take a report?''
 Mr. Browne defended the police. ''The fact is, action was taken,'' he said. ''When Mr. Corea was a victim, action was taken, including arrests.'' 
 Last year, Ms. Ortiz said she arranged to have her son enrolled at Smith Vocational to keep him away from the neighborhood toughs who, she said, attended Herbert H. Lehman High School.
 Smith Vocational was just starting its first football program, and Fernando, who loved football, became the team's middle linebacker and captain. 
 ''He was my star football player,'' Kenneth Milani, the coach, said. ''He was a leader right from the beginning. He had a strong personality.''
 Fernando also moved up academically, friends and family members said. They said he loved science in particular, and was enthusiastic about all his studies. He also began to dress in designer jeans and oversize T-shirts, wore flashy jewelry and became a heavy-metal music fan.
 Family members said that his dress generated resentment among toughs in a neighborhood where a cultural and economic gulf appears to separate many residents.
 Along Brinsmade Avenue, a short street of brick row houses and shingled two-story homes with small neat yards and driveways, working-class families take pride in pools, small lawns and cars. At the end of Brinsmade looms the Throgs Neck Houses, a sprawling, seven-story project that, residents say, has been plagued with vandalism, drug dealers and other problems. Fernando lived on the avenue, Quindel in the project. 
 Carlos Ortiz, 19, a neighbor of Fernando's, said that packs of toughs, whom he called ''gangsta wannabes'', often picked fights with his friend. ''A lot of guys envied him,'' Mr. Ortiz said. ''They were jealous because of his apparel, his jewelry, and because Fernito had a lot of friends.''
 And they provoked him, Mr. Ortiz said. ''There's this thing called grilling,'' he explained -- hard looks, stare-downs.
 ''They were jealous because he was trying to make something of himself,'' said John Hopkins, 18, a friend.
 Martha Rodriguez, of Allentown, Pa., Fernando's aunt, quoted her nephew as saying that Quindel had threatened him recently. ''A week ago,'' she said, ''Quindel said, 'Next time I come around here, I'm going to come with a gun.'''
 She said that Fernando was not afraid. ''He wasn't intimidated by nobody,'' she said. ''They couldn't scare him. This has been going on for a long time.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fernando Corea Jr., 16, impressed the coach of the Jets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); FAMILY (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (77%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); ATHLETES (72%); JUVENILE CRIME (72%); ARRESTS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); GRANDPARENTS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); CONTUSIONS (60%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Children and Youth; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (83%)

PERSON: Janon Fisher; Robert D Mcfadden; Fernando Corea; Quindel Francis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



290 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1847 words

HEADLINE: Bloggers as News Media Trophy Hunters

BYLINE: This article was reported by Katharine Q. Seelye, Jacques Steinberg and David F. Gallagher, and written by Ms. Seelye.

 BODY:
With the resignation Friday of a top news executive from CNN, bloggers have laid claim to a prominent media career for the second time in five months.
 In September, conservative bloggers exposed flaws in a report by Dan Rather; he subsequently announced that on March 9 he would step down as anchor of the ''CBS Evening News.'' On Friday, after nearly two weeks of intensifying pressure on the Internet, Eason Jordan, the chief news executive at CNN, abruptly resigned after being besieged by the online community. Morever, last week liberal bloggers forced a sketchily credentialed White House reporter to quit his post.
 For some bloggers -- people who publish the sites known as Web logs -- it was a declaration that this was just the beginning. Edward Morrissey, a call center manager who lives near Minneapolis and has written extensively about the Jordan controversy, wrote on his blog, Captain's Quarters (captainsquartersblog.com): ''The moral of the story: the media can't just cover up the truth and expect to get away with it -- and journalists can't just toss around allegations without substantiation and expect people to believe them anymore.'' 
 Mr. Jordan, speaking at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in late January, apparently said, according to various witnesses, that he believed the United States military had aimed at journalists and killed 12 of them. There is some uncertainty over his precise language and the forum, which videotaped the conference, has not released the tape. When he quit Friday night, Mr. Jordan said in a statement that, ''I never meant to imply U.S. forces acted with ill intent when U.S. forces accidentally killed journalists.'' 
 Some of those most familiar with Mr. Jordan's situation emphasized, in interviews over the weekend, that his resignation should not be read solely as a function of the heat that CNN had been receiving on the Internet, where thousands of messages, many of them from conservatives, had been posted. 
 Nonetheless, within days of his purported statement, many blog sites were swamped with outraged assertions that he was slandering American troops. In an e-mail message yesterday, Mr. Jordan declined to be interviewed.
 But while the bloggers are feeling empowered, some in their ranks are openly questioning where they are headed. One was Jeff Jarvis, the head of the Internet arm of Advance Publications, who publishes a blog at buzzmachine.com. Mr. Jarvis said bloggers should keep their real target in mind. ''I wish our goal were not taking off heads but digging up truth,'' he cautioned.
 At the same time, some in the traditional media are growing alarmed as they watch careers being destroyed by what they see as the growing power of rampant, unedited dialogue.
 Steve Lovelady, a former editor at The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Wall Street Journal and now managing editor of CJR Daily, the Web site of The Columbia Journalism Review, has been among the most outspoken.
 ''The salivating morons who make up the lynch mob prevail,'' he lamented online after Mr. Jordan's resignation. He said that Mr. Jordan cared deeply about the reporters he had sent into battle and was ''haunted by the fact that not all of them came back.''
 Some on line were simply trying to make sense of what happened. ''Have we entered an era where our lives can be destroyed by a pack of wolves hacking at their keyboards with no oversight, no editors, and no accountability?'' asked a blogger named Mark Coffey, 36, who says he works as an analyst in Austin, Tex. ''Or does it mean that we've entered a brave new world where the MSM has become irrelevant,'' he asked, using blogger shorthand for mainstream media. 
 His own conclusion is that the mainstream media ''is being held to account as never before by the strong force of individual citizens who won't settle for sloppy research and inflammatory comments without foundation, particularly from those with a wide national reach, such as Rather and Eason.''
 It was a businessman attending the forum in Davos who put Mr. Jordan's comments on the map with a Jan. 28 posting. Rony Abovitz, 34, of Hollywood, Fla., the co-founder of a medical technology company, was invited to Davos and was asked to write for the forum's first-ever blog, his first blogging effort. In an interview yesterday, he said that he had challenged Mr. Jordan's assertion that the United States was taking aim at journalists and asked for evidence.
 Mr. Abovitz asked some of the journalists at the event if they were going to write about Mr. Jordan's comments and concluded that they were not because journalists wanted to protect their own. There was also some confusion about whether they could, because the session was officially ''off the record.'' 
 Mr. Abovitz said the remarks bothered him, and at 2:21 a.m. local time, he posted his write-up on the forum's official blog (www.forumblog.org) under the headline ''Do U.S. Troops Target Journalists in Iraq?'' 
 He did not think it would get much attention. But Mr. Jordan's comments zipped around the Web and fired up the conservative bloggers, who saw the remarks attributed to Mr. Jordan as evidence of a liberal bias of the big American news media.
 ''I think he was attacked because of what he represented as much as what he said,'' said David Gergen, who moderated the panel at Davos and who has served in the White House for administrations of both parties. He said he was troubled by the attacks on Mr. Jordan and said that his resignation was a mark of the increasing degree to which the news media were being drawn into the nation's culture wars. 
 While over the years Mr. Jordan had helped vault CNN to some of its most celebrated triumphs -- it was largely through his diplomatic efforts that CNN was able to broadcast the first live footage from the first Gulf War, in 1991 -- he also drew criticism. In one case, he wrote an article for the Op-Ed page of The New York Times in April 2003, saying that CNN had essentially suppressed news of brutalities so the network could maintain access and protect its people in Iraq. 
 Through the latest uproar, the substance of Mr. Jordan's initial assertion about the military targeting journalists was largely lost. Those who worked closely with Mr. Jordan at CNN, as well as on behalf of other news organizations, said he was aggressive and passionate about making life safer for journalists working in Iraq.
 Ann Cooper, executive director for the Committee to Protect Journalists, said that 36 journalists, plus 18 translators who worked for journalists, had been killed in Iraq since 2003. Of those 54, she said, at least nine died as a result of American fire.
 ''From our standpoint, journalists are not being targeted by the U.S. military in Iraq,'' Ms. Cooper said. ''But there certainly are cases where an atmosphere of what, at best, you can call indifference has led to deaths and other problems for journalists.''
 As an example, Ms. Cooper cited the shelling by American troops of the Palestine Hotel in Baghdad, well known as the residence of journalists, in April 2003, killing two journalists. .
 But the notion that journalists are "targeted" by the military did not first emerge with Mr. Jordan at Davos. Nik Gowing, a presenter, or anchor, for the BBC, has advanced the theory in writings and speeches that because the media can now convey instantaneously what is happening in a war zone, military commanders may find journalists a hindrance. The Pentagon has dismissed such theories.
 In any case, on Feb. 2, Rebecca MacKinnon, who worked under Mr. Jordan when she was a producer and bureau chief at CNN, and organized the blog from Davos, contacted him after seeing that conservative blogs had picked up on his remarks.
 ''I e-mailed him and said the same people who were after Rather appear to be after you,'' said Ms. MacKinnon, now a research fellow at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard Law School.
 Later that evening, she posted a response from Mr. Jordan, who wrote that on the panel he had been meant to say that when journalists are aimed at and shot, as opposed to being killed by wayward bombs, ''such a killing is a tragic case of mistaken identity, not a case of 'collateral damage.'''
 At about the same time, CNN became aware that trouble was brewing online, and in the wake of Mr. Rather's downfall, it tried to try to head off the storm. When he returned to Florida on Feb. 2 from the conference, Mr. Abovitz said he had messages from Mr. Jordan and from CNN. He sent an inquiry back to CNN but said he did not get a response.
 Also that day, CNN's public information division sent an unsolicited e-mail message to many of those who were writing about the controversy. Someone at CNN apparently posted the same statement on several blogs.
 The message, which was unsigned, read: ''Many blogs have taken Mr. Jordan's remarks out of context. Eason Jordan does not believe the U.S. military is trying to kill journalists. Mr. Jordan simply pointed out the facts: While the majority of journalists killed in Iraq have been slain at the hands of insurgents, the Pentagon has also noted that the U.S. military on occasion has killed people who turned out to be journalists. The Pentagon has apologized for those actions.''
 Christa Robinson, senior vice president for public relations for CNN, said that CNN sent the statement to those who sent e-mail messages to CNN or had written about Mr. Jordan online. Asked if the network was consciously seeking to head off the protracted criticism that devoured Mr. Rather last fall, Ms. Robinson said that the network was acknowledging the speed with which news now travels.
 Mr. Morrissey of Captain's Quarters said he was surprised to receive the message ''I'm sure that what they were trying to do was get people to stop talking about it,'' he said. 
 The only way for the network to really clear up the controversy, he and others said, would have been to push for the release of the videotape of Mr. Jordan's remarks. 
 Ms. Robinson of CNN said that the network had no transcript of the session or a videotape because the conference organizers said that they considered the session off the record. She said that the content of Mr. Jordan's remarks was not in dispute, but that assertion has not satisfied those critics on the Internet who contend Mr. Jordan and CNN have something to hide.
 The online attack of Mr. Jordan, particularly among conservative commentators, appeared to gain momentum when they were seized on by other conservative outlets. A report on the National Review Web site was followed by editorials in The Washington Times and The Wall Street Journal, as well as by a column in The New York Post by Michelle Malkin (a contributor for Fox News, CNN's rival).
 Mr. Abovitz, who started it all, said he hoped bloggers could develop loftier goals than destroying people's careers. ''If you're going to do this open-source journalism, it should have a higher purpose,'' he said. ''At times it did seem like an angry mob, and an angry mob using high technology, that's not good.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Abdullah Abdullah, Afghanistan's foreign minister, left, and Eason Jordan participated in a recent panel discussion in Davos, Switzerland. (Photo by Virginia Mayo/Associated Press)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (95%); CONSERVATISM (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); LIBEL & SLANDER (78%); LIBERAL MEDIA (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); ARMED FORCES (65%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (64%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (54%) Computers and the Internet; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Television; News and News Media

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%) Cable News Network

PERSON: Eason Jordan; Katharine Q Seelye; Jacques Steinberg; David F Gallagher

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



291 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Metropolitan Diary; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 829 words

BYLINE: By Joe Rogers

 BODY:

DEAR DIARY:
 On a recent Sunday afternoon my husband, our 14-year-old daughter, 11-year-old son and I ventured to Chinatown for an early dinner. Even though our children are growing up in Manhattan, they rarely get to Chinatown, and the excursion felt like a treat. 
 After a long, cold walk down Mott Street from the subway , we chose a restaurant and walked downstairs to an empty dining room. We were seated and handed menus with a selection of extremely basic, rather boring Chinese dishes made with standard ingredients. My husband's face fell. 
 He commented under his breath: ''Did we have to come to Chinatown to eat this? There's nothing interesting on this menu!''
 When the young waitress approached, I gingerly asked, ''Do you have any specials, or anything other than what's on this menu?''
 An older Chinese man rushed to our table and said, ''Oh, would you like a different menu?'' and handed around a multipage, elaborate one with dishes made with things like duck tongue, frog's legs, whole crab and scallops in the shell. 
 The four of us beamed. 
 The waiter then said, ''We thought you were American!'' to which I said, ''No, we're not tourists, we're New Yorkers!''
 It was a fabulous meal. Marita Altman

Dear Diary:
 Across the street from where I live on Third Avenue several old buildings remain, the kind I recall from the days of the El. 
 Rooftop activity usually consists of a sunbather on a warm summer day, an occasional fireman surveying a problem, or pigeons who make their home there. So it was with some surprise last fall when I heard the sound of a trumpet coming from somewhere nearby and glanced out to see on the rooftop directly across from me a young man struggling to play a scale.
 My initial response was that the occupants of his building probably had told him to take his ''music'' to the roof. And then I covered my ears hoping that the playing would end soon. 
 No such luck. 
 Each day he appeared midmorning to play for a bit. Gradually, the sounds became recognizable tunes. Since then, he has improved impressively. One day, he appeared with a young woman and played for her.
 ''How lovely,'' I thought,'' how sweet and romantic.'' Clearly his confidence was growing. 
 On a recent fiercely chilly day with a heavy rain, I was certain he would not appear. As I sat at my desk, I assumed the howling wind would be the only live music I'd hear that day.
 At the usual hour, however, the young man appeared, huddled in a heavy parka and gloves. He tried a few notes but the weather overpowered him. On another recent bitterly cold day, I was certain he would never show. But thus far, he has appeared daily, if only briefly. 
 Will he make it to Carnegie Hall? Probably not, but his playing continues to improve, and this appreciative listener no longer covers her ears but silently applauds his now-recognizable music and his unwavering perseverance.
 Rhoda M. Gilinsky

Dear Diary:
 Last year was my mother's 90th birthday. We wanted to celebrate at home with friends and family -- party and cake, of course. So I went to Jon Vie Pastries in the Village for an extra-special cake. 
 I wanted something beautiful and a bit out of season for fall -- a strawberry shortcake. And the price?
 ''It's $75, but don't worry, we'll take care of you,'' said Sydney Kryshka, the business manager. That sounded like a fair price, but the party was still two months away. So I went back a few weeks later to order it. And how much would the cake be?
 ''It's $82, but don't worry, we'll take care of you,'' was the response this time. Strange. Guess he didn't remember the first price quote. Or the price of strawberries went up.
 On the appointed day my son Michael picked up the cake and brought it to the party. When I asked him how much it cost, he said,'' No charge.'' Not wanting him to pay, I insisted on knowing the price.
 ''Mom,'' he said. ''There was no charge. The man in the bakery said that when your grandmother reaches 90, she deserves a cake.''
 The guests devoured the most delicious vanilla-flavored, whipped cream, fresh strawberry and butter cake in town, and a few days later we took a bottle of wine to the bakery in gratitude.
 ''The only thanks we need is for you to come back next year when she's 91,'' said the owner, Nathan Prusack.
 Jon Vie Pastries has closed because of the economic pressures of higher rents. Nathan Prusack and Sydney Kryshka have retired. While their generosity will live on in our family lore, we mourn the loss of a very special bakery in New York City. Nancy Eder
 A Valentine
 He, standing before her,
 their eyes drawn to one another,
 constant as the hum of the subway.
 Nothing breaks through
 their hypnotic vibes.
 A young love that comes late.
 42nd Street stop -- 
 fingers to his lips; a farewell,
 her eyes embrace him.
 The door slides shut.
 She bows her head,
 closes her eyes, smiles.
 Oblivious to the morning rush,
 she sits, in wonder,
 full to the brim. 
 Pud Houstoun


CORRECTION-DATE: February 18, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A report on Monday in the Metropolitan Diary column about the closing of Jon Vie Pastries in Greenwich Village misspelled the given name of the manager and misstated his current occupation. He is Sidney Kryshka, not Sydney. Mr. Kryshka works at the City Bakery on 18th Street; he is not retired.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Phil Marden) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); RESTAURANTS (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (67%); MUSIC (65%); WEATHER (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



292 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; E-Commerce; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: A cure for abandoned shopping carts: a Web checkout system that eliminates the need for multiple screens.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
FOR many e-commerce sites, the shopping cart is where transactions go to die. 
 About half of prospective customers bail out of their purchases sometime after selecting products and before hitting the buy button, according to Forrester Research, a technology consultant. That phenomenon has prompted sites like TJMaxx.com and HomeGoods.com to find new ways to shepherd customers smoothly through the checkout process. As traditional retailers sharpen their online operations, those kinds of improvements could be critical in winning business. 
 Take the TJX Companies, which owns T.J. Maxx, Marshalls and HomeGoods, among others. Last fall the company opened online stores for T.J. Maxx and HomeGoods, using a traditional checkout method that makes users click through multiple screens while typing in shipping information, credit card numbers and the like.
 During the holiday season, both TJMaxx.com and HomeGoods.com tested a new checkout system that lets customers use a single page for all shipping and billing information. Fifty percent more customers completed the one-page checkout process than finished the multipage process. 
 ''We make it as easy as possible to get in and out of our stores easily, so when we went to the Web, this seemed like a natural progression,'' said Sherry Lang, a spokeswoman for TJX.
 The technology is known in industry circles as a rich Internet application. Such applications work by loading a small, temporary software application onto the computer of a user who clicks on a particular Web page. The Web site feeds information to that software program in the background while the user is interacting with the page so when someone, say, types in an invalid ZIP code while checking out, the computer flags it and requests a correction.
 The technology is not new. Companies like Yankee Candle, a retailer based in South Deerfield, Mass., have used similar applications for years -- in Yankee's case, to help customers design candles without clicking themselves into a stupor. But recent advancements by software vendors have made the application considerably easier for less-sophisticated Web sites to use. 
 In recent months, tech-savvy companies like Kayak.com, a travel search site based in Norwalk, Conn., have deemed such applications important enough to build onto their own technology. As Kayak's site presents search results, it also loads into the computer's temporary memory details of hundreds of fares. Then, when visitors use the control panel to select different target prices or flight dates, the relevant fares instantly replace the previous set.
 Paul English, Kayak's chief technology officer, said it took a team of more than 20 developers a year to build the system, which completed its test phase last week. But the technology is critical, he said, because each time a Web site asks customers to click to a new page, 3 percent to 5 percent of them leave the site. ''We never make people wait to go to another page,'' he said.
 Sites with less programming muscle have also begun adopting rich Internet applications, thanks to Flex, a new software tool from Macromedia, the creator of the Flash multimedia software that runs on most computers. 
 Mr. English, of Kayak, said he tested Flex, then opted to build his own system because older computers can be slowed by the technology. 
 But other companies have found ways to work around the problems of both aged computers and slow connection speeds. Molecular, based in Watertown, Mass., that created the TJX checkout system using the Flex application from Macromedia, set up TJX's sites to detect a user's connection speed, and divert slower users to the older checkout method.
 TravelClick's iHotelier unit, which uses Flex to create single-screen reservation systems for hotels, sells its application in exchange for an undisclosed commission on each booking. On the roughly 2,000 hotel sites that use iHotelier's system, prospective customers click into the reservation page, select dates and are instantly shown available rooms. When users click on a room type on that page, they are shown a picture and description of the room without being taken to another page.
 William Sander III, general manager of XV Beacon, a Boston hotel that started using the iHotelier reservation system last year, said the technology paid for itself in a month. ''It was phenomenal,'' he said. ''We went from doing tens of thousands of dollars a year in revenues online to a couple hundred thousand.''
 Rich Internet applications have also found their way into the Web's most lucrative niche -- search. Blinkx, a new search company, incorporated this technology approach in its sites. The sites store five pages of search results on the user's computer so searchers can browse multiple results without having to wait for more pages to load.
 ''We've noticed a lot of the major search engines still define themselves around older machines and narrowband,'' said Suranga Chandratillake, Blinkx's co-founder and chief technology officer, using an industry term for low-speed Internet connections. ''We reckon there's a pretty good market that's more advanced than that.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: William Sander III, general manager of the XV Beacon Hotel in Boston, says that a streamlined online booking system has increased revenues dramatically. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (78%); CANDLE SHOPS (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Computers and the Internet; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: TJX COS INC (83%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (58%); KAYAK SOFTWARE CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Tjx Cos

TICKER: TJX (NYSE) (83%); FORR (NASDAQ) (58%); KYAK (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



293 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: For Vendors in Central Park, Saffron Exhibit Proves Green

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
Dennis Roman hardly had a moment to look up at the towering orange frames snaking through Central Park, their saffron fabric waving in the Sunday sun. Not that he minded; he had hot dogs to sell. 
 On a typical Sunday in February, Mr. Roman said, he usually makes about $100. By 3 p.m. yesterday, he had already taken in $1,000. 
 ''It's been like this all day,'' he said. ''It's never like this usually, never.'' 
 As the crowds flocked to the park yesterday to gaze at and ponder over ''The Gates,'' the huge, colorful installation by Christo and his wife, Jeanne-Claude, businesses inside the park -- from merchandise vendors to caricature artists to major restaurants -- were booming. Parking garages nearby were filled and restaurants along the park's perimeter were packed with people jockeying for a table. 
 City officials said they expected tens of thousands of people to show up for the exhibition, which is to be up for only 16 days, and whose $20 million cost is being borne exclusively by the artists. By the time the 7,500 gates are taken down in two weeks, the city expects to generate $80 million in business, with $2.5 million in city taxes alone, according to the city's Economic Development Corporation. 
 The Strand bookstore's mobile stand, along Fifth Avenue near the southeast corner of the park, is normally closed from December to March, but decided to open because of ''The Gates,'' according to a salesperson, Kevin Crow. He estimated that about 100 customers showed up on Saturday, 10 percent more than any other day. Books about ''The Gates'' and about previous projects of Christo and Jeanne-Claude made up most of the sales, he said. 
 While business slowed ''the tiniest bit'' yesterday, Mr. Crow said, it was still considered a major success. Dozens of other vendors who would typically spend winter in business hibernation came out yesterday, prompted in part by the sunny skies. 
 Stacey Berna, who makes and sells animal balloons for whatever customers are willing to pay, said she stayed home on Saturday, waiting to see how large the crowds would be and what the weather would bring. As she stood outside jacketless, she smiled at the sun and the crowds.. 
 ''This is just a lot of fun,'' she said, adding that she had about 150 customers by midafternoon. While she would typically see twice that in July, she was happy just to have a small bonus. ''At this time of year, I'm home with my children,'' she said. She continued, ''If it stays like this, it could be a busy couple of weeks.'' 
 The Boathouse restaurant usually shuts its doors for dinner in the winter, but the general manager, Fonda Tsironis, said it would stay open every night during the exhibit. There was a two-hour wait for a table early last evening and it was already booked for tonight, Mr. Tsironis said. 
 ''We've been turning away people all day,'' he said, motioning to the tables full of brunch diners. ''We love this, every minute of it. This is the kind of thing New York is made for.''
 He estimated that about 40 percent of customers were tourists and that during the week the number of lunch diners would more than triple, totaling 250 to 300.
 With panoramic windows stretching across the dining room, Mr. Tsironis had plenty of occasion to look at the way the fabric swinging from the gates changed with the wind and the light. Christo and Jeanne-Claude had stopped by earlier in the day and received a standing ovation, but had not stopped to eat, Mr. Tsironis said. ''I don't know where he's eating, or if he's eating,'' he said with a laugh. ''He probably doesn't have time.'' 
 Neither did the park's busy vendors, most of whom shrugged or laughed when asked what they thought of the spectacle that had brought out so many customers. 
 ''I don't really understand it,'' said Sharif Sadiq, a 45-year-old sketch artist from Ocean Parkway in Brooklyn. He'd sold three caricatures by 4 p.m. and was hopeful he would sell a few more before nightfall. ''Normally it's just one, so that's a major improvement,'' he said. ''I just hope there are tourists, because city people don't usually come to buy this.'' 
 Miguel Ixco was completely uninterested in discussing the finer points of art as he pulled out a thick stack of bills and counted his day's earnings from selling cotton candy. 
 ''It's not all that much,'' as he folded back $70. ''But it's more than I'd usually have. There are so many people here, they have to buy something eventually.''


GRAPHIC: Map of Central Park highlighting ''The Gates'' exhibit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); RETAILERS (88%); RESTAURANTS (88%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); CHILDREN (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); CITIES (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); BOOKSTORES (64%) Art; Vendors, Street; Public Art

PERSON: Jennifer Medina; Christo (Artist); Jeanne-Claude (Artist)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Central Park (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



294 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Technology Industry Researchers Find That Their Own Future Is Difficult to Analyze

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
Betting wrong on technology is many corporate executives' worst nightmare. Carleton S. Fiorina's decision to acquire Compaq Computer may have cost her the job of chief executive at Hewlett-Packard, and many other executives have paid a similar price for spending millions on computers, software or other technology that did not work.
 Such risk is why companies like Gartner, Forrester Research and the International Data Corporation earn more than $2 billion a year collecting data and helping clients decide how to spend the roughly $1 trillion that the corporate world lays out each year on information technology. (These companies also serve another valuable function: providing the media with the wisdom of their analysts to lend expertise to news articles.) 
 But the technology research business is at a crossroads. While spending on information technology has started to grow again, the research industry has not recovered from the dot-com bust. Research spending, which rose at annual rates of more than 30 percent in the late 1990's, remains about 6 percent below its 2001 peak, according to Outsell, a California company that analyzes the analysts.
 Like financial analysts, technology researchers have had to parry questions about the independence of their advice, amid allegations that their reports, some of them corporate-sponsored, helped inflate the previous bubble.
 Meanwhile, one of the technologies most hyped by research analysts, the Internet, gives executives alternative ways of finding the information they need, sometimes at a fraction of the cost.
 ''There's still new technology coming, but not at the double-digit clip of recent years,'' said Louise Garnett, vice president of Outsell. ''And new business models are blurring the lines between I.T. research and lots of other things, especially on the Internet.''
 Ms. Garnett, like some industry executives, predicts a new round of consolidation for a business that has already experienced several waves of deal-making. The new round may have begun, she added, with an agreement in December by Gartner, the dominant player, to acquire the fourth-largest technology research firm, Meta Group, for $162 million.
 In the wake of the Gartner-Meta deal, which created a company with nearly $1 billion in annual revenue and a market share of about 47 percent, Datamonitor, a broad-based market research company, agreed to buy Butler Group, a technology consulting firm based in Britain, for about $20 million.
 ''I see acquisitions as a core part of our strategy,'' Gene Hall, chief executive of Gartner, said in an interview. ''Where we can go out and buy something that helps us grow our strategy, that's something we'll continue to do.'' Acquisitions can help Gartner, which is strongest in the United States, improve its international reach, Mr. Hall said. Meta, for instance, has a strong presence in Germany.
 Mr. Hall said he was bullish on the outlook for the business. Only 20 percent of United States corporate buyers purchase research from the leading firms; outside the United States, about 10 percent do. ''In terms of market penetration, we're sort of where cellphones were 15 years ago,'' he said.
 Forrester, which like Gartner is publicly traded and based in the United States, also sees international markets as the most promising. In India, revenue is growing at a 50 percent rate, compared with overall growth in the single digits, said George Colony, the chief executive of Forrester.
 He said that 35 percent of the company's business was international now; by 2008, he expects a 50-50 split.
 Colony wants to turn Forrester into an ''idea factory,'' focusing on forward-looking projects that will anticipate, rather than simply track, new technology.
 Forrester's competitors have also been pushing into new areas, like consulting, conferences and programs for executives, in an effort to lessen their dependence on traditional research. 
 In each of those areas, the likes of Forrester and Gartner are butting up against new competitors. Technology consulting is a crowded field, where hardware manufacturers like I.B.M. as well as service providers like Capgemini of France have long-established claims.
 Conferences, meanwhile, are the traditional domain of trade publishers like Informa Media & Telecoms, a London-based concern that hosts the 3GSM World Congress, a cellphone event that opens Monday in Cannes. 
 Five thousand paying delegates will spend as much as $4,250 each to attend the event.
 With technology research companies moving into conferences, trade publishers are returning to favor. Analysts say corporate executives increasingly turn to technology publications, which sometimes offer similar information at a small fraction of the price. Particularly on the Internet, the distinction between an expensive research report and a low-cost piece of journalism is less apparent.
 ''The costs of entry in this field are very small,'' said Mark Newman, chief research officer at Informa. ''A bunch of guys with good contacts in the industry can do an awful lot with very little.'' That dynamic could threaten research companies and trade publications alike, particularly as the open-source ethos spreads on the Internet.
 After all, a free blog is cheaper than a magazine subscription. One advance that may support the growth of the research industry as spending on technology recovers is symbiotic relationships with information suppliers and customers. In some cases, they are one and the same.
 Some technology companies sponsor research by analyst firms. Research firms contend that rigorous ethics policies prevent conflicts of interest.
 Which model ultimately will prove most successful remains unclear, Garnett and others said. But Hall, at Gartner, said he was convinced there was a growing role for firms like his, for one simple reason: ''Basically, this technology stuff is hard to do,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); ETHICS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); DIVESTITURES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%) Computers and the Internet; Industry Profiles; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Research; Computer Software; Ethics; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GARTNER INC (84%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (83%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (57%)

TICKER: IT (NYSE) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

PERSON: Eric Pfanner

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



295 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Serbia Hails Surrendered War-Crime Suspect

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WOOD

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
When a retired Serbian general, Vladimir Lazarevic, agreed to surrender to the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague last month, he was treated here like a national hero.
 Serbia's prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica, described General Lazarevic's decision as ''patriotic, highly moral and honorable.'' The leader of the Serbian Orthodox Church gave him an audience and praised him as a defender of the nation. When General Lazarevic eventually flew to The Hague, he was accompanied by Serbia's justice minister. 
 The pomp surrounding the former general's surrender left a sour taste in the mouth of rights groups. He is accused, as the commander of Yugoslav troops in Kosovo in 1999, of overseeing the expulsion of 800,000 refugees and the killing of at least 700 people. Government officials here, on the other hand, characterized the surrender as the start of an era of cooperation with the tribunal, paving the way toward better relations with the rest of the world. 
 Politicians in Serbia's coalition government said they expected an agreement with the court by the end of the month on the fate of two other generals who had been charged under the same indictment as General Lazarevic. 
 They say the treatment given to General Lazarevic and promised to the other generals is the most effective way of securing their surrender for trial.
 The spirit of the government's strategy may not match the principles set out by the tribunal. But diplomats here said it was proof that the policy of the United States and the European Union on the tribunal -- to threaten penalties against countries that do not support the court -- was working.
 The same policy has led Croatia's governing nationalist party to jettison its opposition to the court and surrender all but one of its war crimes suspects in the past year, a move that could help lead to negotiations on European Union membership this spring. 
 While the surrenders of General Lazarevic and of another war crimes suspect in October suggest that the government here is trying to emulate Croatia's example, government ministers at federal and state levels -- Mr. Kostunica foremost among them -- have said they will not consider a tougher approach and do not intend to arrest any war crimes suspects by force.
 At least 11 men wanted by The Hague tribunal are still believed to be at large in Serbia or Montenegro, which is in a loose federation with Serbia, including the court's two most wanted suspects, the wartime leader of the Bosnian Serbs, Radovan Karadzic, and his military commander, Ratko Mladic. 
 The Serbian position stems from a decade of war as the former Yugoslavia split apart, in which much of the world accused the Serbs of responsibility for the bloodshed and the Serbs contended that they were only defending themselves from other hostile groups.
 But Serbia's current leadership understands that its reluctance to cooperate with The Hague has had financial and political costs. Serbia is just now undergoing a feasibility study by the European Union for membership, while Bulgaria and Romania -- countries that most Serbs used to regard as their poorer and less sophisticated neighbors -- have a date for possible European Union membership. Though Serbia's economy grew about 6 percent last year, government ministers and foreign business people alike say the rate of economic growth and investment could have been greater if not for the friction with The Hague. 
 ''The Hague is a sort of sword at our throats,'' said Velimir Ilic, Serbia's minister for capital investment, who was one of the leaders of the popular protests that led to the removal from office of Slobodan Milosevic, the former Yugoslav leader who is now on trial in The Hague, charged with war crimes. Many foreign companies, Mr. Ilic said, were unwilling to make long-term commitments in Serbia while cooperation with the court remained unresolved. 
 Mike Ahern, the president of the Foreign Investors Council, an association of foreign businesses in the region, said ''Serbia needs Chinese growth rates in order to catch up'' with its neighbors. 
 But the government's reliance on Mr. Milosevic's Serbian Socialist Party and the country's large nationalist opposition for support in Parliament mean that Serbia cannot proceed any faster on war crimes, leading politicians here maintain. 
 ''If the generals had been extradited by force, the government would have fallen,'' said Rasim Ljajic, Serbia's minister for human rights and for cooperation with the court at The Hague. 
 ''We need a period of political stability,'' he said, after six elections at state and federal levels in four years. 
 Were the government to fall, he said, Serbia's ultranationalist party -- the Serbian Radical Party, the largest bloc in the Serbian Parliament with 82 seats -- would very likely be the one to form a new government, jeopardizing any hopes of European integration. 
 Senior federal and state ministers maintain that pressure from the outside over war criminals is encouraging support for nationalists. 
 ''If the First World War ended in a way that had not humiliated Germany, Hitler would never have had a reason to come to power,'' said Zoran Sami, the speaker of Parliament and a close associate of Mr. Kostunica. He warned that the West's strategy on Serbia was having a similar effect. 
 But advocates of cooperation with The Hague say the government's reluctance to hand over suspects is based on ideology and not fear of electoral defeat. 
 ''Saying it's only due to having a minority government is an excuse,'' said Zarko Korac, a member of the opposition Democratic Party in the Serbian Parliament. 
 Mr. Ahern said, ''There is a false pride that is keeping the country back.'' 
 But neither the countries applying the pressure nor Serbia appear likely to change their policies soon. Asked about the situation, a senior Western diplomat here said he was ''cautiously pessimistic.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); GENOCIDE (73%); REFUGEES (73%); RELIGION (56%) War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) United Nations; European Union

PERSON: Nicholas Wood; Vojislav (Prime Min) Kostunica; Vladimir (Gen) Lazarevic

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (93%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) SERBIA (99%); NETHERLANDS (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOSOVO (92%); CROATIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); MONTENEGRO (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%) Serbia; Kosovo (Serbia); Serbia

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



296 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Securities Class-Action Settlement Sums Reach a Record

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Securities class-action settlements reached a record level in 2004 as corporations paid shareholders for losses in the stock market, according to a study to be released today by NERA, a consulting group. 
 The average shareholder settlement rose 33 percent, to $27.1 million, from $20.3 million in 2003, the study concluded. The median settlement fell 4 percent, to $5.3 million, from $5.5 million. 
 ''A jump of this magnitude was unanticipated,'' said Elaine Buckberg, one of four authors of the study. She predicted that the trend would continue as cases resulting from the fallout from the bear market of 2000 to 2002 make their way through the courts. 
 ''We have a lot more of these cases to work through to settlement,'' Ms. Buckberg said. 
 The study also concluded that Sarbanes-Oxley, the corporate reform law passed in 2002, has had no significant effect on settlement amounts or new federal filings, but might have been responsible for integrating corporate governance reforms into settlements. 
 The main factor behind the record high settlements, the study concluded, was high investor losses, which are calculated by estimating how much a particular stock rose or fell when compared to the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
 Investor losses in a lawsuit soared to an average of $2.5 billion in 2003, compared with $140 million in the average suit settled in 1996. In 2004, investor losses in the typical suit decreased to $1.7 billion. The median loss for investors in 2004 was five times that of 1996.
 The companies named in suits were also significantly bigger and the claimed losses were larger, the report showed. Settlements by WorldCom, Raytheon and Bristol-Myers Squibb, all concluded in 2004, ranked among the eight largest securities class-action settlements. Cendant's 2000 settlement ranks as the highest, at $3.5 billion (including a $341 million settlement in the suit over derivatives securities, called Prides) ; the partial WorldCom settlement ranked second, at $2.6 billion. (Some banks named in the suit have yet to settle, so the final figure could be much higher.)
 Another finding sure to roil corporate boardrooms is the increased likelihood that a corporation will face a shareholder class-action lawsuit. If suits continue to be filed at the same pace as in 2004, a public corporation faces a 10 percent probability that it will be named in at least one suit over the next five years, the study concluded. 
 The annual likelihood of a suit has risen substantially since 1995, to 2 percent, from 1.6 percent. Federal filings in 2004 were essentially flat, at 238, compared with 234 in 2003; the peak of the cycle was 2001, when 505 shareholder class-action suits were filed. 
 The report comes as companies and some lawmakers are pushing back against regulation and litigation. 
 The United States Chamber of Commerce is suing the Securities and Exchange Commission over a provision that mutual funds must have independent chairmen. And the Senate passed a bill last week that would limit the ability to file class-action lawsuits against companies by prohibiting state courts from hearing certain cases. 
 While the Senate legislation exempts securities class-action lawsuits, which were covered in the 1998 Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act, the passage of that bill reflects a significant shift from laws designed to rein in corporate America and shore up investor safeguards. 
 After the November election, businesses ''feel this is their time and their election, they should be able to roll back regulation and get back to laissez-faire as soon as possible,'' said James D. Cox, a professor of securities law at Duke University who has studied class-action lawsuits. 
 A feature of some settlements is the inclusion of corporate governance reforms, sometimes secured instead of higher cash payments. 
 Since the passage of Sarbanes-Oxley, at least nine settlements have incorporated reforms, including cases involving HCA Inc. and Sprint. 
 ''There may have been some trading off,'' said Ms. Buckberg, of NERA. ''Many potential beneficiaries of settlements are current shareholders -- why take money out and give it to them? Let's take a long-term interest in the economy and try to protect the long-term value of the company.'' 
 Mr. Cox, of Duke University, had a tougher view. Referring to plaintiffs' attorneys, he said, ''What drives them is they can't get another nickel out of the insurance companies or the companies and they need to show something to the court to justify their fees.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); BONDS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (79%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (79%); TRENDS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (73%); LEGISLATION (68%) Stocks and Bonds; Suits and Litigation; Securities and Commodities Violations; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: RAYTHEON CO (53%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NERA (Co)

TICKER: RTN (NYSE) (53%); VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%); BMY (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%)

PERSON: Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



297 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: Suddenly, Developers Yearn For the Gritty Far West Side

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
For more than 150 years, the tone of the Far West Side of Manhattan has been set by what was once the 30th Street Yard of the New York Central Railroad -- grimy but necessary, far enough from Midtown to be out of sight and earshot, important enough to be nearby.
 A pattern developed through the decades, as the city tore up the area in the 1930's for the Lincoln Tunnel, in the 1950's for the Port Authority Bus Terminal, and again in the early 1980's for the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff, the architect of the city's bid for the 2012 Olympics and the redevelopment of the Far West Side, called it a ''wasteland,'' arguing that a football stadium was necessary to transform the area.
 But this gritty industrial neighborhood is suddenly in the sights of many real estate developers hungry for land. Residential builders are pushing into the district from Chelsea. Developers are snapping up property. Land prices are rising. Developers say it is Manhattan's last big canvas for their construction visions. 
 And to some degree, the resurgence is directly due to the dream of Mr. Doctoroff and his boss, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who have spent years promoting the area's potential. Their actions, however, came back to bite them recently when Cablevision, the archenemy of the Jets stadium proposal, put in a bid to build housing and offices on the stadium site, bidding a price above the Jets offer that could be justified only by the increased interest in the area.
 The current battle between the Jets and Cablevision over whether football or housing should prevail above the yards clearly illustrates how quickly the real estate market is overtaking the area's utilitarian past.
 ''Right now land is being gobbled up all along the West Side for speculative purposes,'' said Michael T. Cohen, chairman of the executive committee at GVA Williams, a real estate company. ''Most of the buyers are developers anticipating some sort of residential construction, because the island is only so large and people will pay almost anything to live in Manhattan. Until that trend reverses, the appetite for dirt on the West Side will remain hearty.''
 One parcel of land at 30th Street and Ninth Avenue has languished without a tenant for more than two decades. But investors recently offered the owner, Brookfield Financial Properties, $309 million for the site, according to real estate executives, or about $110 million more than the owner thought the site was worth last year.
 In recent years, the blocks of 42nd Street west of Eighth Avenue suddenly became a high-rise residential canyon. On a drab block of 43rd Street west of Eighth Avenue, Steven C. Witkoff, a real estate investor, bought a garage, a four-story hotel and a third building, where he plans to build a condominium apartment tower.
 And now, in large part to compete with the football stadium it is trying to defeat, Cablevision has offered to pay $600 million for the rights to the railroad yard and the construction of a platform above, all to build a complex of housing and office buildings.
 ''I think the momentum has begun and there'll be an uptick from this point forward,'' said Harvey Shulweiss, who has owned a large development site at the southwest corner of Ninth Avenue and 33rd Street since the 1980's. ''The Far West Side is going to be a hotbed of development.'' 
 Much of the current interest in the Far West Side is fueled by the seemingly insatiable thirst for housing at any price and the Bloomberg administration's rezoning of the 42-block area for large projects. The Real Estate Board of New York reports a record-setting number of condominium and cooperatives sold in Manhattan, 3,145 in the third quarter of 2004, more than at any time in the last four years. And the average sales price of a condominium in Manhattan has soared past $1.2 million, according to the Corcoran Group, a real estate company.
 Developers say that interest rates remain low and it is still very easy to finance condominium projects.
 ''The Far West Side of Midtown is in all probability the last neighborhood in Manhattan with enough critical mass,'' said Jules Demchick, who is building a 46-story apartment tower on 42nd Street near 12th Avenue. ''It has huge potential because you have the ability to assemble large pieces of land.''
 The suddenly hot market is the backdrop for the current uproar over the sale of development rights at the railyards by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. 
 ''The whole process has drawn attention to the long term value of the public land,'' said Lynn Sagalyn, a professor of real estate at the University of Pennsylvania. ''The Cablevision bid has opened up the question of what's the proper price and procedure for capturing the public value.''
 In comparison to the Cablevision offer, the Jets had offered $100 million, with the city and the state splitting the estimated $375 million cost of a deck. The M.T.A.'s appraisal put the value of the rights at about $900 million. Since the Jets were using about one-third of the estimated development rights, the M.T.A. asked for $300 million.
 But transportation advocates and stadium opponents have claimed that the M.T.A. should be asking for full value, given that it is contemplating service cuts, fare hikes and a multibillion-dollar gap in its capital budget. Peter S. Kalikow, the authority's chairman, has said that his board will review the Cablevision offer, while continuing its year-long negotiations with the Jets.
 Although the city, the Jets and the Real Estate Board have assailed Cablevision's offer as a spoiler and a public relations event, company executives seem to think they cannot lose, because their offer is still below the value of the yards. 
 But developers view the Far West Side far differently today than when Mr. Doctoroff began his Olympic campaign. Several Manhattan developers, who requested anonymity, said that that they would bid for the rights for the railyard if the M.T.A. conducted an open sale, but had so far refrained from doing so because they did not want to incur Mayor Bloomberg's wrath.
 ''It's clearly valuable,'' said a major residential developer, who asked not to be identified. ''But can anyone in my position say so on the record? Everyone, including me, is scared to cross him on this. I've got too many things cooking in this town'' that require city approval.
 Mr. Shulweiss is ambivalent about the stadium.
 ''I don't believe the stadium enhanced the value of my property,'' he said. ''It was the zoning clarification on the far West Side.''
 ''The existence of the stadium,'' he added, ''might accelerate the development of the subway and other infrastructure that would enhance the value of everyone's property.''
 In any event, several developers said there were ''eerie parallels'' between the current battle over the railyards and the redevelopment of Times Square in the 1980's, a once vital district that had descended into a seedy, crime-ridden crossroad. The state and the city embarked on a plan in 1984 to transform a 13-block area--the same size as the railyards--into neon-infused entertainment and commercial area. They estimated that it would cost about $40 million to acquire the 42nd Street block between Broadway and Eighth Avenue.
 But the Durst real estate family, not unlike Cablevision, was anxious to protect its own nearby holdings, opposed the project, spearheading 47 lawsuits against the project. With the lawsuits failing in May 1989, the Dursts threw up another roadblock, buying the leases to the eight historic theaters on 42nd Street that the state's project was intending to revive. 
 The revival of Times Square was also delayed by a deep recession in the early 1990's, when the state finally redesigned the project. But by the late 1990's, when the real estate market was booming, developers and blue chip corporations no longer wanted to avoid Times Square.
 In a stunning turnabout, the first of four skyscrapers that comprised Times Square redevelopment was built, not by the state's chosen developer, but by Douglas Durst, in 1999. And in the end, the acquisition costs were not $40 million, but at least $420 million.
 ''The volatile story of 42nd Street should make people cautious about land values in a rapidly changing real estate market,'' said Ms. Sagalyn, author of ''Times Square Roulette; Remaking the City Icon.'' ''Long-term projects have a way of taking unexpected twists and turns.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The railyards on the Far West Side, where the New York Jets would like to build a stadium. (Photo by Chip East/Reuters)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (88%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); ZONING (76%); TRENDS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); EXECUTIVES (61%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (54%) Area Planning and Renewal; Zoning; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing

COMPANY: BROOKFIELD FINANCIAL PROPERTIES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (82%) Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) Charles V Bagli; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Daniel L (Deputy Mayor) Doctoroff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



298 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: The Making of an Ethical Executive

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 It is true that some people may see soaring executive compensation as the result of ''respectable'' market forces. Perhaps this is a way to rationalize their excesses amid the growing inequality in the United States, as if their success were solely the result of hard work and mental agility rather than any other influences like class or structural factors. 
 Standard economic theory would tell us that society as a whole would benefit from these outrageous pay packages, as their recipients are merely individuals maximizing their expected utility.

Kevin Porter
Huntington, N.Y., Feb. 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); BUSINESS ETHICS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ETHICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Executives and Management; Wages and Salaries; Ethics

PERSON: Kevin Porter; Robert J Shiller

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



299 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1839 words

HEADLINE: Abbas Declares War With Israel Effectively Over

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: GAZA, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
The new Palestinian leader, Mahmoud Abbas, said in an interview this weekend that the war with the Israelis is effectively over and that the Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, is speaking ''a different language'' to the Palestinians. Mr. Sharon's commitment to withdraw from Gaza and dismantle all Israeli settlements there and four in the West Bank, despite ''how much pressure is on him from the Israeli Likud rightists,'' Mr. Abbas said, ''is a good sign to start with'' on the road to real peace. 
 ''And now he has a partner,'' Mr. Abbas said.
 In a 40-minute interview in his Gaza office late on Saturday night, Mr. Abbas spoke with pride about persuading the radical groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad to respect the mutual declaration of a truce that he and Mr. Sharon announced last Tuesday at their first meeting, in Sharm el Sheik, Egypt, which was the highest-level meeting between Israelis and Palestinians in four years. 
 Mr. Abbas said the war with the Israelis would be over ''when the Israelis declare that they will comply with the agreement I made in Sharm el Sheik, and today our comrades in Hamas and Jihad said they are committed to the truce, the cooling down of the whole situation, and I believe we will start a new era.''
 In the interview with The New York Times, his first with a Western news organization since he was elected president of the Palestinian Authority five weeks ago, on Jan. 9, Mr. Abbas spoke with confidence and humor in nearly fluent English. He also spoke of several developments. 
 Hamas made a commitment to him to run in the July elections for the Palestinian legislature, continuing the group's ''conversion into a political party.''
 Mr. Abbas fired nine senior police and security officials in Gaza and was prepared to fire more if they did not get ''the first message'' that they are to enforce his cease-fire.
 He set the release of Palestinian prisoners as his first priority, and said it would be a measure of how much tensions have eased in the West Bank and Gaza.
 He rejected any idea of a sovereign Palestinian state in temporary borders before a final settlement.
 The Americans were talking to him ''in a very helpful way,'' and he hoped the Bush administration would deliver on its promises of political and economic aid.
 At nearly 70, he expected to retire after one term of five years. 
 Mr. Abbas wants progress to continue so that the two sides can move quickly to political discussions about the road map, a diplomatic process meant to lead to tackling the most difficult issues that have deeply stymied both sides: questions of final borders, refugees, Jerusalem and now, ''President Bush's initiative about a democratic Palestinian state,'' Mr. Abbas said. 
 While he is happy to coordinate Israel's withdrawal from Gaza with Mr. Sharon, he says, the Palestinians need a political horizon looking toward a real state. At their meeting in Sharm el Sheik, Mr. Sharon made many positive commitments, Mr. Abbas said, offering to form a joint committee to discuss releasing the 200 or so Palestinian prisoners held since before the 1993 Oslo accords, and the pullback of the Israeli military in the West Bank and the reopening of Gaza's seaport. 
 Israel acted further on Sunday to improve relations by agreeing to release 500 prisoners. 
 Mr. Sharon also spoke ''about the Palestinian independent democratic state'' and ''about the occupation, never to be an occupier anymore,'' Mr. Abbas said. ''So on all these things he was positive, but what we want to know is the implementation on the ground.''
 Asked about his first priority, Mr. Abbas was quick and explicit. ''Prisoners, prisoners are our priority, and we told everyone about it,'' he said, from the American secretary of state, Condoleezza Rice, to President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. ''The situation will be stabilized and will cool down in Gaza and the West Bank'' to the degree that Mr. Sharon ''helps us to release the prisoners,'' Mr. Abbas said. The Palestinian Authority says Israel holds nearly 8,000 Palestinians, but the Israeli government has had fierce debates about whether to release Palestinians held for attacks against Israelis, with Mr. Sharon expressing public understanding of Mr. Abbas's need to show Palestinians quick benefits from the new quiet. 
 But Mr. Abbas then wants to move quickly to political discussions with Mr. Sharon about carrying out the road map. He said he would be happy to coordinate Israel's withdrawal from Gaza with Mr. Sharon, but said the Palestinians need a political horizon looking toward a real state.
 Although the road map mentions the option of declaring a sovereign ''Palestinian state within provisional borders'' while talks continue about a final settlement, Mr. Abbas said, ''If it is up to me, I will reject it.'' Palestinians will see an interim solution as a trap, replacing a final settlement, and ''peace will not prevail anymore in the region,'' he said.
 ''So it's better for us and for the Israelis to go directly to final status,'' he said. ''I told Mr. Sharon that it's better for both sides to establish this back channel to deal with final status and go in parallel with the stages of the road map.'' 
 What did Mr. Sharon say, Mr. Abbas was asked. He laughed. ''He didn't respond,'' he said. ''But we'll talk more about it. Maybe he didn't like it. We have to repeat it more and more in our ongoing negotiations.''
 Less than a month after he took office on Jan. 15, Mr. Abbas spoke with surprising optimism. The Israelis say he started slowly and timidly, and then has done better, showing more courage when challenged. Mr. Abbas contends much has been accomplished, given the deterioration of the Palestinian Authority under Yasir Arafat, ''but we can't negotiate everything in 10 days.'' 
 With his upbeat mood, he may be trying to instill hope in the Palestinians, who, as he says, ''are observing, and they see progress, and they are happy with it, but they want more.'' 
 ''They want job creation, they want to eat, and they want security,'' he said.
 But Mr. Abbas will undoubtedly face serious challenges from Hamas and other radicals, whose support may be tactical, and some of whom want him dead. 
 Mr. Abbas said he was surprised that the armed militants, many wanted by Israel, embraced his candidacy. ''All the fugitives came to me from all factions and said: 'We are for you. You were with us, and we want you to solve our problems,''' he said. They want real jobs in the security forces of the Palestinian Authority ''and to be secure from Israeli assassination and attacks,'' he said. ''I promised them, and now it is realized.''
 Was the armed intifada of the last four and a half years a mistake? ''We cannot say it was a mistake,'' he said. ''But any war will have an end. And what is the end? To sit around the table and talk. And they realize that this is the time to come to the table and talk and negotiate.''
 Asked if Hamas and Islamic Jihad, which are labeled terrorist organizations by the United States, want what he wants, he laughed and said: ''No, of course they don't want what I want! They want to come to power if they can. For that they ran in municipal elections and after that they will go'' to the legislative elections. ''And if they win, of course they want power. And it is their right. It is the competition'' of democracy.
 Asked about Hamas's recent victories in local elections in 7 of the 10 cities and villages in Gaza, Mr. Abbas said: ''This is democracy. We have to congratulate Hamas and say, 'O.K., you won.' Why not?'' His own mainstream Fatah faction made many mistakes, he said. The vote ''is a good lesson for Fatah to realize its position toward this and that and prepare themselves for the coming elections'' for Parliament on July 17.
 Fatah is already working to renew itself and bring in a younger generation ''in parallel'' with preparations for the elections, Mr. Abbas said, including work to form a new government, expected within the next week. Some in Fatah worry that Hamas could win more a substantial share of the vote, and Mr. Abbas is negotiating a new law with Hamas about how much proportional representation, which Hamas favors, will be used to elect legislators.
 Mr. Abbas argued that democracy would help tame the radicals. ''Of course they should be converted into a political party,'' he said. ''It's good for us. We're talking about national unity.''
 He said he was not bothered that Hamas could construe the acceptance of Israel merely as a stage toward a Palestinian state, to be followed by a renewed desire to eliminate Israel. ''Whether they consider it a stage or not, they will accept an Israeli state within the 1967 borders and they declare it,'' he said. ''For me it is not a stage; for them it is a stage -- O.K.''
 The Israeli foreign minister, Silvan Shalom, speaking for the right, has said that a cease-fire is not enough, and is just a ''ticking bomb'' until Mr. Abbas confronts and dismantles Hamas and Islamic Jihad.
 Mr. Abbas rejected the argument, but not entirely, saying: ''If he will put preconditions, it will not work. It will not start. We say, 'We are now in a truce. Let's strengthen it, let us work to stabilize the whole situation.' Now Hamas and Jihad are running for the elections, and what does it mean? It means that they will be converted in time into political parties.''
 Mr. Abbas, who will be 70 on March 26, is a refugee, and says he will insist on the right of Palestinian refugees, under United Nations Resolution 194 of 1948, ''to return back or to be compensated.'' But he says he is willing to negotiate this, as all other matters, with the Israelis.
 ''I don't think the Israelis have the right to say, 'No, we won't discuss it,''' he said. ''We will ask them to discuss this resolution, and when we come to an agreement, on anything, of course we will accept it.''
 Mr. Abbas was born in Safed, in what was then British Mandate Palestine. He was 13 in 1948, during the Arab-Israeli war that followed Israel's establishment as a state. ''I remember everything,'' he said. ''It was 1948 when we have been deported from Safed to the Golan Heights to Damascus, and I remember every specific point,'' he said. ''There was a war. We had to leave the city. The Israelis invaded the city, the Haganah at the time. We left our country.''
 With Safed in Israeli hands, Mr. Abbas said, he could not return until 1995, after the leaders of the Palestine Liberation Organization were allowed to return to the territories after the 1993 Oslo accords. He wanted to go sooner, but the mayor of Safed organized demonstrations against the visit, he said.But in 1995, ''I did go back, but secretly,'' he said. ''The Israeli Ministry of Interior helped me to go discreetly there.'' He stopped, his face suddenly softer. ''I was there for 5 or 10 minutes only,'' he said. ''I was very, very sad. I was very sad.''
 He looked off toward the far wall, then continued, ''Every place, every quarter, every building I remember. I saw my house. But I didn't go inside.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mahmoud Abbas said the release of Palestinian prisoners was his first priority and would show how tensions have eased in the West Bank. (Photo by George Azar for The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 Mahmoud Abbas at interview. (Photo by George Azar for The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (92%); HAMAS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); RELIGION (88%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); POLITICS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%) Palestinians; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid; Elections; Politics and Government; Legislatures and Parliaments

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (83%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (83%); HAMAS (83%) Hamas (Militant Group); Islamic Jihad

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (94%) Steven Erlanger; Mahmoud (Pres) Abbas; Ariel (Prime Min) Sharon; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%) Israel; Gaza Strip; West Bank; Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



300 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Promises Crackdown After Nun's Shooting Death

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
An American nun and environmental activist was shot to death in the Amazon jungle on Saturday, heightening tensions between land speculators and peasant settlers in the region and bringing a government pledge to crack down on lawlessness.
 The nun, Sister Dorothy Stang, 74, was shot four times in the chest and head by a pair of gunmen while visiting a remote rural encampment near the Trans-Amazon Highway in Para State. She was renowned throughout the Amazon region for her work with the poor and landless and for her efforts to preserve the rain forest. 
 Officials view the attack as a challenge to the authority of the government, which has faced resistance from loggers and land speculators in the region over new land-use and ownership regulations. 
 Immediately after the killing, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ordered two members of his cabinet and a special police investigative unit to the area.
 ''Solving this crime and apprehending those who ordered and committed it is a question of honor for us,'' Nilmario Miranda, the government's secretary for human rights, told reporters late on Saturday before heading for the region. ''This is intolerable. We cannot permit impunity in a case like this.''
 A spokesman for the American Embassy in Brasilia said officials there were following the case and were awaiting additional information once the new workweek begins and weather improves in the region. ''We trust there will be a full investigation by the police,'' he said.
 Sister Dorothy was a native of Dayton, Ohio, and belonged to the order of the Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur. She had lived and worked in the Amazon region since the early 1970's, focusing on organizing and educating peasant groups about issues that included land tenure and the economic and environmental benefits of avoiding deforestation.
 ''This is a terrible, tremendous loss,'' Paulo Moutinho, coordinator of the Institute for Environmental Research in the Amazon and a longtime associate of Sister Dorothy, said in a telephone interview on Sunday. ''She was an extremely important person, a spokesman for the sustainable development movement with a capacity for leadership as big as that of Chico Mendes,'' the internationally known rubber tapper leader killed in 1988.
 In an interview late in 2001, Sister Dorothy complained that she was constantly receiving death threats, which she attributed to loggers and land speculators. But she had tense relations with the local police, who viewed her as a social agitator and once detained her on suspicion of inciting violence and supplying guns to peasant groups, and so could not look to them for protection.
 Just last week, Sister Dorothy met with Mr. Miranda to discuss a new round of death threats against religious, peasant and environmental groups in the region along the Trans-Amazon Highway, which Mr. Moutinho called ''perhaps the most violent in the Amazon.'' Her Brazilian associates said Sunday that they feared new attacks aimed at intimidating them and crippling their efforts.
 ''We're all incensed, but at the same time we're also very afraid,'' Ana Paula Santos Souza, a leader of the Movement for the Development of the Trans-Amazon and the Xingu, a peasant group with which Sister Dorothy worked closely, said Sunday in an interview. ''Sister Dorothy was an American citizen and a nun, and even with all that prominence, she was still killed publicly. What does that mean for the rest of us?''
 Two male associates traveling with Sister Dorothy were spared by the gunmen and are reported to have identified one of the killers. The suspect's name and background have not been disclosed, but the Pastoral Land Commission of the Roman Catholic Church issued a statement saying the killing could have been ordered only by the powerful economic and political interests Sister Dorothy had always fought.
 ''The hatred of ranchers and loggers respects nothing,'' the statement said. ''The reprehensible murder of our sister brings back to us memories of a past that we had thought was closed.''
 Sister Dorothy's killing comes at a time of mounting tension in Para State. Last month, responding to new government regulation of land use and ownership, loggers blocked highways and rivers, burned buses, threatened to pollute rivers with chemicals and warned that ''blood will flow'' if Mr. da Silva's government did not suspend decrees they found objectionable.
 Early this month, the government acceded to those pressures and rescheduled the timetable for enforcing the regulations. Environmental groups strongly criticized the action, saying it would only encourage more acts of lawlessness in a part of the country where the government's control has always been incomplete and tenuous.
 At the moment Sister Dorothy was attacked and killed, the environment minister, Marina Silva, was scheduled to be attending a ceremony to mark the creation of new ''extractive reserves'' in Para in which the government put large areas of jungle off limits to ranchers, loggers and land speculators. To some of Sister Dorothy's associates, that suggests that her murder had an even broader political motive.
 ''The timing wasn't a coincidence, because they could have killed Sister Dorothy anytime they chose,'' Ms. Souza said. ''But they saw they were losing areas, and they wanted to provoke the state and send a warning. Now it is up to the government to defend the principles Sister Dorothy represented.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A crowd gathered as local people and police officers carried a coffin with the body of Sister Dorothy Stang to a waiting car yesterday in Anapu, Brazil. Sister Stang, an American nun and environmental activist, was shot to death on Saturday in the Amazon forest. (Photographs by Paulo Santos/Associated Press)
 Sister Stang in the Amazon forest last year. She recently told a government official about death threats against religious groups and others. (Photo by Carlos Silva/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); RAIN FORESTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEFORESTATION (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); POLICE FORCES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); RIVERS (59%) Land Use Policies; United States International Relations

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (79%) Larry Rohter; Luiz Inacio Lula (Pres) Da Silva; Dorothy (Sister) Stang

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (54%) OHIO, USA (79%) BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) Brazil; Amazon River Basin; Brazil

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



301 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Shaping Plan to Pressure North Koreans

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
In the months before North Korea announced that it possessed nuclear weapons, the Bush administration began developing new strategies to choke off its few remaining sources of income, based on techniques in use against Al Qaeda, intelligence officials and policy makers involved in the planning say.
 The initial steps are contained in a classified ''tool kit'' of techniques to pressure North Korea that has been refined in recent weeks by the National Security Council. The new strategies would intensify and coordinate efforts to track and freeze financial transactions that officials say enable the government of Kim Jong Il to profit from counterfeiting, drug trafficking and the sale of missile and other weapons technology. 
 Some officials describe the steps as building blocks for what could turn into a broader quarantine if American allies in Asia -- particularly China and South Korea -- can be convinced that Mr. Kim's declaration on nuclear weapons last week means he must finally be forced to choose between disarmament and even deeper isolation. China and South Korea have been reluctant to impose penalties on the North. 
 To some degree the effort arises from Washington's lack of leverage over North Korea, and the absence of good military options, and it is far from clear that the administration's development of what one official calls ''new instruments of pressure'' will work. More than four decades of economic embargos of Cuba, tried by nine presidents, have failed, largely because European, Canadian and Latin American allies have not joined in. Nor have they succeeded against the Burmese, also a major source of drugs. The Secret Service has tried for years to halt North Korean counterfeiting dollars, and Australia and Japan have tried to end its sales of amphetamines and heroin. 
 In interviews over the past three weeks, administration officials have denied that the renewed effort is part of an unstated initiative to topple Mr. Kim. But several officials say North Korea has stepped up its illicit trafficking and counterfeiting in part to make up for lost missile sales and a crackdown on cash transfers from North Koreans living in Japan, some of which are illegal. 
 ''We think they are desperate to put more money into the nuclear program and we're trying to cut that off,'' said one senior official.
 Some officials acknowledge that undermining Mr. Kim's hold on power could be a side effect of the program, if it was successful. ''That wasn't the intent in drafting it,'' said one senior official involved in the process. ''Whether it could be one of the results is anyone's guess.'' 
 Several officials cautioned, however, that the new ''tool kit'' did not yet constitute a plan of action because the United States was only slowly trying to engage other nations in the strategy. They said some of the new techniques had already been carried out, but would not say which ones. 
 Details were described by officials in one intelligence agency and two other government agencies. One official of a foreign government who has been briefed on parts of it confirmed some of the elements. On Sunday evening, Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, cast the effort as ''complementary to our continued diplomatic efforts,'' but insisted that some of the techniques had been used for some time. 
 ''We have been working with our allies and partners for some time now to stop North Korea's illegal activities, especially in counterfeiting and narcotics,'' he said. ''We have a responsibility to protect our citizens, our allies and our economies. North Korea cannot continue its involvement in illegal activities. It must make a strategic decision and eliminate its nuclear weapons program.''
 Other officials said that while different agencies had been pursuing the North, the new effort represented the first time the White House was coordinating and expanding the tactics to put more pressure on Mr. Kim. 
 Several officials confirmed that the most recent proposal was drafted by Robert Joseph, the counter-proliferation chief at the National Security Council, before he left the administration in November.
 Mr. Joseph is widely expected to be nominated for the post of under secretary of state for arms control and international security. 
 Two American officials cited, as an example of new pressure tactics, a Japanese law that goes into effect on March 1 that requires all ships to carry liability insurance against spills and other accidents. Almost no North Korean vessel meets the requirement, so it could halt most shipping traffic with North Korea.
 Although the nuts and bolts of the proposed measures are not clear, officials appear to be working from lists they have been collecting of banks and companies that the North Koreans have been using. Tracking North Korean financial transactions has long been difficult; it often deals in cash, and through shell companies and unregulated banking centers. 
 White House officials have declined to say what role President Bush has played in the new strategy. But his dislike for Mr. Kim is well known, and his involvement in strategies to deal with him was described by one former official as ''a lot more intense than you might think.''
 Advisers, military officials and American and foreign diplomats who deal with Mr. Bush on North Korean issues say he frequently criticizes Mr. Kim's human rights abuses, referring to him as ''immoral'' and ''a tyrant,'' according to one official who sat in on a recent meeting. In a meeting in December with President Roh Moo Hyun of South Korea, Mr. Bush spoke about how Mr. Kim lets his people starve.
 ''Roh said to him, 'Yeah, he's a bad guy, but we don't have to say it in public,''' said one official who has reviewed notes of the session. Mr. Roh's point was that turning the nuclear dispute into a personal confrontation, the way the Bush administration did with Saddam Hussein, could undercut any chance of diplomatic success in disarming North Korea.
 Mr. Bush, the official recounted, responded, '''Alright, I won't say it publicly,' or words to that effect, and so far he hasn't.'' 
 Officially, the Bush administration has never declared that ''regime change'' is its objective in North Korea, and Mr. Bush has expressed a willingness to offer a ''security assurance'' to North Korea pledging that the United States will not invade. Such an attack is considered nearly impossible, given North Korea's ability to destroy Seoul, South Korea's capital, about 40 miles from the border, and the fact that American intelligence does not know where the North's nuclear arms or all of its nuclear facilities are.
 But Mr. Bush has never made any such assurances about attacking North Korea's economic lifelines. On Sunday, former Secretary of State James A. Baker III, who served under Mr. Bush's father when North Korea was making what the C.I.A. later concluded were its first two nuclear bombs, raised the possibility of a broad economic crackdown.
 Appearing on the ABC News program ''This Week,'' Mr. Baker told the host, George Stephanopoulos, that ''there's a big gap'' between abandoning the six-nation negotiations that had been sporadically under way for the past 18 months ''and going to military force.''
 ''There are many things we can do,'' Mr. Baker added.
 ''Quarantine?'' Mr. Stephanopoulos asked.
 ''Quarantine is one,'' Mr. Baker said. ''And perhaps the best one, of course, is sanctions by the United Nations Security Council for North Korea's violation of her promises to the International Atomic Energy Agency and the global community.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); COUNTERFEITING (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); HEROIN (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (57%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Arms Control and Limitation and Disarmament; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States Armament and Defense; Counterfeit Money and Financial Instruments ; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Arms Sales Abroad; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (89%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; Kim Jong Il

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); ASIA (79%); MYANMAR (79%); LATIN AMERICA (56%) North Korea; South Korea; China; North Korea; Japan; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



302 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: The Importance of Being Earnest

 BODY:
For all its talk of deficit reduction, President Bush's 2006 budget is a map of reckless economic policies and shows how they have backed the United States into a precarious position in the global financial markets.
 Mr. Bush needs to convince foreign investors that he's serious about cutting the budget deficit. Here's why: Each day, the United States must borrow billions of dollars from abroad to finance its enormous budget and trade deficits. Without a steady stream of huge loans, the country would face rising interest rates, higher inflation, a dropping dollar and slower economic growth. The lenders want to see less of a gap between what the government collects in taxes and what it spends, because a lower budget deficit always eases a trade deficit. A lower trade deficit also implies a stronger dollar. And a stronger dollar would reassure foreign investors that dollar-based assets remain their best choice. 
 As it is, their belief is being sorely tested: in 2003, the European Central Bank lost $625 million to the weak dollar and reportedly stands to lose $1.3 billion for 2004. Japan's central bank, which has the world's largest foreign stash of dollars -- some $715 billion -- could lose an estimated $40 billion if the dollar weakened to around 95 yen, a level many analysts expect to see this year. No wonder that a week before Mr. Bush released his budget, Japan's finance minister said that Japan had to be careful in managing those dollar-filled foreign currency reserves. 
 It's not hard to see what brought the United States to this juncture. Mr. Bush's first-term tax cuts were too expensive and too skewed toward top earners to work as effective, self-correcting economic stimulus. Instead, predictably, they've driven the nation deep into the red. Having reduced tax revenue to a share of the economy not seen since 1959, the cuts are a huge factor in the swing from a budget surplus to a $412 billion deficit.
 The administration also erred big in deciding to deal with the ballooning trade imbalance by letting the dollar slide. That might have been a winning gambit if it had been paired with a commitment to cut the deficit. Theoretically, a weakening dollar would have begun the process of easing the trade imbalance, while deficit reduction, which takes longer to bring about, would have addressed the gap in a more lasting way. Instead, Mr. Bush has unceasingly pursued deficit-financed tax cuts, even as the weak dollar has failed to fix the trade imbalance. The result is that the country's deficits -- and borrowing needs -- remain enormous even as dollar-based investments are becoming less attractive. 
 Lately, Mr. Bush has been talking the deficit reduction talk, but there's no sign that he is willing to walk the walk. In his 2006 budget, he pledges to slash spending, but largely in areas that would have only a small impact on the deficit and where cuts would be politically difficult, not to mention cruel, such as food stamps, veterans' medical care, child care and low-income housing. Meanwhile, he is pounding the table for more deficit-bloating measures -- making his first-term tax cuts permanent, at a 10-year cost of as much as $2.1 trillion; putting into effect two high-income tax breaks that were enacted in 2001 but have been on hold, at a 10-year cost of $115 billion; and introducing new tax incentives to allow high earners to shift even more cash into tax shelters, at a cost that would ultimately work out to more than $30 billion a year when investors cashed in their accounts tax-free.
 Oh, yes. Mr. Bush also wants to borrow some $4.5 trillion over two decades to privatize Social Security, which is a bad idea even without the borrowing and a horrendous one with it.
 The global financial community won't be fooled. The dollar may have bouts of relative strength, as it has recently. But these are due largely to currency traders' focus on short-term advantages, like Federal Reserve interest-rate hikes, which are perceived as a positive for the dollar, or the appearance of profit-taking opportunities. Inevitably, the budget and trade deficits will reassert their drag on the dollar, and then on Washington's ability to comfortably borrow money from abroad.
 Congress can avert this crisis-in-waiting by forcing Mr. Bush to be serious about deficit reduction. The first-term tax cuts should be allowed to lapse. Cuts that are not yet in effect should not be allowed to begin. And no new programs should be started that require megaborrowing. If the president doesn't see that he has more important tasks than cutting taxes for the rich and undermining Social Security, Congress should set him straight. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INFLATION (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (55%) Editorials; Taxation

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005



303 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Lawmaker Assails Albany's Tax Relief Program

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
A Rochester outsourcing company that has been booming in India, quadrupling its employee base there to 7,000 in the last 15 months, continues to receive state tax breaks for creating far fewer jobs in New York, a state assemblyman said on Monday.
 The taxpayer-financed benefits for the company, Sutherland Global Services, ignited a war of words between officials close to Gov. George E. Pataki, who has hailed Sutherland as a ''New York success story,'' and Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester, who charged that Mr. Pataki was subsidizing the shipment of New York jobs overseas. 
 Mr. Brodsky, who is running for attorney general, disclosed the tax breaks for Sutherland at a news conference and said that state aid to the company has totaled at least $2 million in tax breaks and grants since the mid-1990's.
 Officials close to Mr. Pataki, who are often leery of engaging Mr. Brodsky because of his investigations of state agencies, fired back on Monday, insisting that the legislator was misportraying Sutherland to make a politically motivated attack.
 The officials said the bulk of the aid to Sutherland was in state grants that the company qualified for by creating about 1,700 jobs in New York. The tax breaks were separate from those grants, officials said. Sutherland claimed the tax breaks in 2001 and 2002 in return for locating 69 jobs in a vacant building in Rochester, amounting to a benefit of about $100,000 a year.
 Mr. Brodsky assailed the tax breaks at a news conference where he called for overhauling the state Empire Zones program, which provides tax relief for companies that bring jobs to economically depressed parts of the state. The Empire Zones program is set to expire at the end of March.
 ''Lenin once said, the last capitalist will be hung with the rope that he sells,'' said Mr. Brodsky, who has made a name for himself in Albany with investigations of state agencies like the Empire State Development Corporation, which oversees Empire Zones. ''You get in a situation where the taxpayers of this state are ponying up to have jobs removed from the state. It's bizarre.''
 Mr. Brodsky said he could not provide a precise number or description of jobs that Sutherland has outsourced overseas, either from companies in New York or elsewhere. The Empire State Development Corporation has failed to provide him this information, he said, but claimed that Sutherland has worked with its huge corporate clients to relocate jobs in foreign countries where labor is cheaper.
 Mr. Brodsky said he planned to question the chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, Charles A. Gargano, about the matter during a legislative hearing on the agency's budget on Wednesday.
 But Mr. Gargano was in no mood to wait, labeling Mr. Brodsky's charges as ''absurd and false.''
 ''We are running an economic development agency, not running for public office, and unfortunately politics are motivating the claims about the Empire Zones program,'' Mr. Gargano, who was appointed by Mr. Pataki, said in a statement.
 Stephen Minarik, chairman of the state Republican Party, also volunteered a statement last night comparing Mr. Brodsky's inquiry to Attorney General Eliot Spitzer's investigations of corporate malfeasance, saying the two men seek ''a meaningless headline at the expense of New York's economy.''
 Aides to the governor referred calls to the Empire State Development Corporation. A spokeswoman at Sutherland did not respond to two phone messages seeking comment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); LAWYERS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); RELOCATIONS (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (55%) Labor; Unemployment

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (66%); SUTHERLAND GLOBAL SERVICES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Sutherland Global Services

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Patrick D Healy; George E (Gov) Pataki; Richard L (Assemblyman) Brodsky

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (92%) New York State; India; New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



304 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Tough for the Thin, Tougher for the Hefty

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN. 
Readers are invited to send stories about business travel experiences to businesstravel@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
All she wanted was a seat. Just a place to plant herself during the three-hour Southwest flight from Manchester, N.H., to Chicago. Some place to kick back and relax and review the speech she would be giving a few hours later. 
 But that was not to be. On that day, a warm June morning in 2003, Nadine Thompson, the chief executive of Warm Spirit Inc., a direct-sales company in Exeter, N.H., would not have a relaxing airplane ride. Instead, Ms. Thompson, who is 5-feet-8-inches and weighs about 280 pounds, was asked to purchase the seat next to her. When she refused to do that -- after all, she reasoned, the seat belt buckled just fine and the arm-rest slid down without a problem -- she was asked to get off the flight. 
 ''It was the most humiliating thing,'' said Ms. Thompson, who is 47 and is suing the airline for discrimination based on weight, race and gender. ''I fly twice a week and often on Southwest, and I've never had a problem before. But this day some manager was out to get me.'' 
 Southwest declined to comment on a pending lawsuit. 
 Traveling for business can be stressful enough when you are thin, but when you are plus-sized, it can be downright demoralizing. Either the seat belt does not fit, or it is painfully tight and you are too embarrassed to ask for an attachment. People cringe when they see you, praying that you're not going to sit in their row. 
 ''I'm always careful not to slide into another seat,'' said Jean Renfro Anspaugh, the author of ''Fat Like Us'' (Generation Books, 2001), who lectures nationwide on obesity and is often on the road. ''You have to sit really straight and contract your butt muscles. I don't want to deal with any of that in the overlap.'' 
 The treatment fat people get on the ground is not much better than what they have to endure in the air, either. 
 ''You're invisible if you're fat,'' said Ms. Anspaugh, who weighs about 220 pounds and lives in Fairfax, Va. ''You don't get service. I was at Dulles airport and this thin person just slid in front of me on line. They started waiting on her and I complained and they just looked at me. I said, 'You jumped the line,' and the woman said, 'Get a life,' and I know she thought, 'Oh, you fat pig.' She just assumed because she was thinner they'd wait on her. And they did.'' 
 Nick Yphantides, 36, a physician in San Diego, says traveling with his extreme heft -- he once weighed 467 pounds -- was such a ''nightmare'' that he went on a crash diet. Dr. Yphantides lost more than 267 pounds. He says fat people can generally cope in familiar settings, but are thrown off balance by travel into unknown territory.
 ''When you're in your element, even though it's an inconvenience, you can compensate,'' he said. ''You know your environment, you can make things fit. But there's an unfamiliarity and unpredictability when you're taken out of that comfort zone.'' 
 For instance, he said: ''My entire life I've been driving an Expedition or Explorer out of necessity. When I would travel on business, I'd have to rent a larger car, which had an impact on me economically. There were cars I could barely fit into, and cars where I couldn't get the seat belts around me. And people were uncomfortable having me in their cars because they were dogmatic about seat belts.'' 
 To compensate, Dr. Yphantides practiced survival skills like flying during off-peak hours, when he knew the plane would not be full and he could maneuver his way to an aisle seat or a row with another empty seat. 
 Unfortunately, the business world is full of traps that fat people cannot so easily wriggle out of. Once, at a conference in Phoenix, Dr. Yphantides went to dinner with a group of doctors but could not fit into the chair. So he stood there, red-faced, while the headwaiter brought out a ''dumpy metallic folding chair that was out of proportion for the dining room and inappropriate,'' he recalled. He laughed and tried to make jokes about his girth, but he was mortified. 
 Like Dr. Yphantides, Ruth Furman, a Las Vegas publicist, was motivated to lose weight after enduring humiliation on the road. ''Business-travel hassles are simply more challenging for someone carrying extra weight around,'' she said. Racing through airports as a heavy person toting a laptop case and a carry-on is also not fun, nor is getting yourself and your bags on the rental car shuttle. ''And lugging stuff up stairs at hotels is all the more challenging when overweight,'' she said.
 Packing poses a challenge for Wendy Shanker, 33, who is currently touring the country to promote her book, ''The Fat Girl's Guide to Life'' (Bloomsbury USA, 2004). ''Because my clothes are physically bigger, it's hard for me to pack in one of those teeny-weeny suitcases that everyone rolls onto the plane,'' she said. ''I usually have to check a bag; it's not like I can bunch up my halter top in a ball and stuff it in my pocket.''
 Another peril of travel for fat people who are determined to slim down, Ms. Furman says, is the temptation of junk food that is ubiquitous in airport restaurants. She also complains that hotels often charge extra for their gyms.
 Some hotels, aware that many clients are trying to stick to diets, have made adjustments. Marriott Hotels and Resorts recently introduced a food-and-exercise program called Fit for You, and offers to bring fitness equipment to rooms for guests who feel uncomfortable working out in public. And this month, Hilton Hotels and Resorts began offering guests the opportunity to work out with a certified personal trainer from Bally Total Fitness Clubs, either at the hotel or at a Bally center, for a fee. It also provides at no cost a yoga mat, elastic exercise bands, hand weights and a booklet of basic conditioning exercises to use in the room.
 For people who cannot or will not lose weight, though, business travel holds greater disadvantages than mere embarrassment or discomfort. Their girth, they say, often puts them at a disadvantage in their business dealings. Dr. Yphantides could not afford custom-tailored suits to accommodate his 62-inch waist and had to wear informal attire to meetings instead. ''A lot of times I'd be in khakis with a sweater while others were in suits and ties,'' he said. ''People judged me for that.'' 
 Ms. Thompson says her size counts against her constantly. ''When you're overweight, and a woman, and African-American, people tend to talk down to you,'' she said. ''People make assumptions about who I am because of my weight.''
 She says she spends a lot of money on clothes to mask her portliness, and agonizes in front of the mirror as she tries them on. Even so, she generally maintains an upbeat attitude. Her feelings of doubt evaporate when she walks into a room full of people, she says -- unless somebody shuns her or she mixes with ''accomplished, wealthy white women'' wearing size 8 dresses. 
 ''Unless I'm dressed really well, I'm afraid they will think I'm someone's overweight nanny,'' she said.
 Her dream is to get her weight down to 220 pounds from 280 and buy some size 18 suits at Saks. Meantime, she is counting her blessings. ''I have a husband, two kids, a beautiful home,'' she said. ''I have a full life despite my weight.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nadine Thompson, the chief executive of a direct-sales company in Exeter, N.H., was asked to get off a flight because of her size. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); OBESITY (72%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); LITIGATION (72%); WRITERS (63%) Travel and Vacations; Weight

PERSON: Abby Ellin

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (73%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); VIRGINIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



305 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Car Clones and Other Tales of the Mighty Economic Engine Known as China

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:

'China Inc.'
'How the Rise of the Next Superpower Challenges America and the World'
By Ted C. Fishman
342 pages. Scribner. $26.
 If the 20th was the American century, then the 21st belongs to China. It's that simple, Ted C. Fishman says, and anyone who doubts it should take his whirlwind tour of the world's fastest-developing economy. 
 The numbers are staggering. From 1982 through 2002, the United States economy grew at an annual rate of 3.3 percent, he writes, well above average for the world's most prosperous nations. China's economy grew at an annual rate of 9.5 percent, meaning it ''doubled nearly three times over,'' in the generation since market reforms were introduced. In 2003 it bought 7 percent of the world's oil, a quarter of its aluminum and steel, almost a third of its iron ore and coal, and 40 percent of its cement. It makes 40 percent of all furniture sold in the United States. Its 3,000 Christmas-decoration factories exported more than $900 million tree trimmings and plastic Santas in the first 10 months of 2003.
 ''China still only makes one-twentieth of everything produced in the world, but on the world stage it plays the role of a new factory in an old industrial town,'' Mr. Fishman says. ''It can spend, it can bully, it can hire and dictate wages, it can throw old-line competitors out of work. It changes the way everyone does business.'' 
 One of the most powerful weapons in China's economic arsenal is what businesses have come to know as ''the China price.'' A stampede from the countryside to China's new industrial boomtowns has created a vast low-wage army, working for an average of 40 cents an hour, that can turn out consumer goods of every description even cheaper than Mexican or Malaysian factories can. American factories that cannot deliver to Wal-Mart or General Motors at the China price often face two stark choices: they can go under or set up shop in China.
 Many choose option No. 2. But danger lies in that direction too. The Chinese are adept at copying and quite loose in their interpretation of intellectual property rights. One of Mr. Fishman's more striking examples is the auto industry, which looms large in China's economic plans. American and Japanese companies spend $1 billion to $2 billion to develop a new car. The Chinese, by forcing foreign car companies to form joint ventures with their companies and to share their technology in order to enter China, hope to leapfrog over those kinds of development costs. 
 Foreign companies, salivating at the thought of 100 million Chinese customers, cannot stop themselves from signing on the dotted line. Sometimes, rude surprises await. At the 2003 Shanghai auto show, G.M. executives unveiled a new $9,000 small family van, only to discover an identical vehicle, priced at $6,000, at a Chinese booth in the same row. The clone was made by Chery, a Chinese company owned in part by Shanghai Auto, G.M.'s joint-venture partner. 
 Americans who fret over Japanese-style assaults on major industries miss the point, Mr. Fishman maintains. The real competition, he argues, and the real source of China's strength, lie in local enterprises ''that spring on the scene lean and mean, planned and financed by investors who want to make money quickly.'' No one in Beijing analyzed the German toy industry and decided that China needed to move in. 
 Mr. Fishman describes China's miracle economy with a mixture of fear and admiration. He is a lively writer, and some of his most vivid pages are devoted to the wrenching transformations brought about by the government's controlled experiment in free enterprise. He paints a neon-lit portrait of Shanghai, the showcase city of the new China. He also walks through the market stalls and factory floors of new super-cities like Shenzhen, a fishing town of 70,000 20 years ago that now has 7 million people, making it larger than Los Angeles or Paris, swelled by migrants from the countryside looking for a better life in the city. They are part of the largest human migration in history, a tide estimated to be as high as 300 million Chinese who account for the dynamism of the Chinese economy.
 Their wishes, increasingly, will be our commands, Mr. Fishman says. Their production and consumption patterns are already changing the way Americans shop, the kinds of jobs, wages and pensions they can expect and even the air they breathe. The Asian Brown Cloud, a wind-borne industrial smog that originates on China's east coast, can be seen in California as it rides the jet stream. (China has 7 of the world's 10 most polluted cities.) 
 Mr. Fishman does not really have any convincing ideas on how to meet the Chinese challenge. The book goes a bit soft at the end, as he recommends better education to deal with the narrowing research and development gap between China and the United States. He would like to see Washington pay as much attention to China as to the Middle East. But he's a much better worrier than he is a problem solver. If it's any consolation, China is beating just about everybody in the world right now. How can you stop a nation where peasants figure out a way to sell on eBay? It's simple, Mr. Fishman seems to be saying. You can't.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ted C. Fishman (Photo by Alan Thomas/Scribner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); CHRISTMAS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (60%); JOINT VENTURES (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: William Grimes; Ted C Fishman

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



306 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:

EXPENSE ACCOUNT ALERT -- Almost half of the business travelers in Europe and the United States who were questioned in a survey released yesterday by American Express say their companies have tightened travel-spending policies over the last two to three years. More than a third say their travel and entertainment expense accounts are getting greater scrutiny. With good reason, apparently: more than a third believe it is either ''somewhat'' or ''quite'' common for business travelers to submit expense accounts with ''one or more completely false or bogus charges.'' But most road warriors also disapprove of such fraud. Those in the United States expressed the strongest support (77 percent) for careful audits of expense reports and receipts, while 72 percent in Britain agreed, as did 70 percent in Germany and 64 percent in France. For all their stepped-up vigilance, companies do seem to be loosening up on restrictions against traveling in style. In a survey conducted by the National Business Travel Association and the Travel Industry Association of America, the proportion of corporate travelers who reported their employers restricted the class they could travel on fell to 50 percent last year from 56 percent in 2002. The decline reflected a better economy and ''a departure from severe travel restrictions'' put into effect after the 2001 terrorist attacks, the survey said.

UPGRADE UPHEAVAL -- As turmoil churns through airline elite-status programs, with many top-level members complaining that upgrades on major airlines have become more elusive this year, Continental Airlines is changing its upgrade policy to favor those who pay the highest coach fares and check in earliest online. Effective March 16, Continental said, priority for upgrades will be given to OnePass elite members traveling on full economy fares, based on elite status and time of check-in. Next in line will be those traveling on fares less than full economy, with priority based on elite level, then fare paid, and then time of check-in. The policy for companion travelers accompanying Platinum Elite members also is changing. Companion upgrades will be sorted by the status level of the elite member and by the time of check-in. For instance, Continental said in an e-mail message to its elite members, passengers accompanying a Platinum Elite member will be upgraded only after all other Platinum Elite members have received upgrades.

SHOPPERS' PARADISE -- Airport Revenue News, a trade publication, has announced the results of its annual survey of airport shops, restaurants and other retailers. Among large airports, Cincinnati-Northern Kentucky International Airport was rated first in overall concessions; Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport ranked first in best concession design; Orlando International Airport was first in customer service; and Newark Liberty International Airport ranked first in a category for unique retail services.
 JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (83%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RANKINGS (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (69%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); RETAILERS (63%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Travel and Vacations; Finances; Frauds and Swindling; Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Travel and Vacations; Computers and the Internet; Retail Stores and Trade; Airports; Public Opinion; Restaurants; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (68%); MINNEAPOLIS-SAINT PAUL INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (60%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (82%); NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (82%) American Express Co; National Business Travel Assn; Travel Industry Assn of America; Continental Airlines; Airport Revenue News

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (68%); AXP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (68%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (68%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (74%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



307 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Market Place; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Business groups are seeking to restrain regulators from making rules through enforcement actions.

BYLINE: By Jenny Anderson

 BODY:
IT used to be that going after Goliath meant taking on the banks. Now it means banks taking on the regulators. 
 Late last week, IFG Network Securities, a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Dutch financial services group ING, won a case against the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the kind of fund shares that were appropriate to sell to investors. 
 The case, while small, was heralded by the lawyers who tried it and the business community as a significant step in restraining the S.E.C. from making rules via its enforcement actions, a complaint that Wall Street and the United States Chamber of Commerce has been expressing with increasing frequency. 
 Securities regulators like the S.E.C., NASD and the New York Stock Exchange have increased their enforcement efforts since the bursting of the technology bubble and the frauds associated with the collapse of blue-chip companies like Enron and WorldCom. 
 While investors and consumer advocates have welcomed the increased scrutiny as necessary to combat fraud, the business community, led by the Chamber of Commerce, has complained that the regulators have overreached and enforcement has become too aggressive, impeding the ability of business to effectively operate. 
 ''Companies and their boards frequently feel that they have no choice but to settle, even if they think they are innocent,'' said David Hirschmann, senior vice president at the Chamber of Commerce. ''Competition to enforce between the S.E.C. and attorneys general has created an environment that feels like they are on an enforcement quota system.'' 
 Consumer advocates disagree.
 ''The S.E.C. has responded to massive, systemic, pervasive corruption with a strong enforcement program as well they should,'' said Barbara Roper, the director of investor protection at the Consumer Federation of America. ''I think the S.E.C.'s done a good job. That's the problem.''
 The S.E.C.'s litigation record, while strong, has fallen in the last year. In 2003, the commission won 22 of the administrative cases it litigated and lost 1, for a 95 percent win percentage. In 2004, the enforcement staff won 19 cases and lost 6, for a 76 percent win percentage. In 2003, 19.3 percent of administrative cases that were filed were litigated. The S.E.C. has not released that number for 2004. 
 On July 15, 2003, the S.E.C. filed an administrative lawsuit against IFG Network; its president, David Ledbetter; and three registered brokers, accusing them of selling mutual fund shares to retail customers that the commission claimed were more costly to the investor and more lucrative to the broker than a readily available alternative. 
 The commission argued that the sales violated its antifraud provision, which prohibits brokers from deceiving investors or willfully omitting important information. The agency also accused Mr. Ledbetter of failing to adequately supervise his employees. 
 Last week, the administrative law judge at the S.E.C. ruled in favor of the firm and its employees.
 The question in the IFG Networks case focused on what rules govern the sale of Class A and Class B shares of certain mutual funds. Investors who buy Class A shares pay an initial sales charge when the shares are purchased, most or all of which is distributed to the broker. Investors who buy certain numbers of shares are entitled to volume discounts. 
 Class B shares do not carry an initial sales charge, meaning all of a buyer's money is invested in the shares. But investors pay the fees on B shares when they are redeemed (a fee that declines over time), as well as paying a regular fee for promotion and marketing. 
 Lawyers for the defendants argued that there was no law that required brokers to disclose that they made more on selling B shares than A shares. While the S.E.C. argued that A shares always outperform B shares, the administrative judge found that not to be the case. Even though each of the registered representatives admitted to not explaining that they would receive higher commissions for the B shares, they were able to prove that they engaged in substantive financial planning discussions with their clients and provided them with all the necessary disclosures. 
 ''The S.E.C. was in effect trying to create new laws,'' said Brian L. Rubin, a lawyer with Sutherland Asbill & Brennan, who represented IFG and Mr. Ledbetter. ''The S.E.C. alleged that reps should disclose that they would be making more commissions with B shares but there's no legal requirement to do that.'' 
 The S.E.C. has about three weeks to decide whether to appeal the case before the full commission. 
 ''Obviously, we are disappointed,'' said David Kornblau, chief litigation counsel for the enforcement division of the S.E.C. ''We're studying the decision and reviewing our options.'' 
 The case might not carry significant legal precedence. The S.E.C. originally said in its order against the company and its individuals that A shares always performed better than B shares with an investment of at least $250,000, a point the defendants were able to refute. 
 Both the S.E.C. and NASD have won several significant cases involving the improper sale of B shares. 
 The S.E.C. also has a tradition of applying the general principles of its laws to new facts. Two years ago, the commission clarified that company insiders cannot pass material nonpublic information to friends or family. 
 The lack of such a clarification of the insider trading rules had not, however, prohibited the S.E.C. from pursuing such charges in the past. ''Sometimes you adopt a rule to ensure that you have spoken specifically when you thought it was addressed generally but you want clarification,'' said an S.E.C. lawyer, who spoke on the condition of not being named.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); LITIGATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (77%); LAWYERS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); ETHICS (75%); DEREGULATION (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); JUDGES (71%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%) Stocks and Bonds; Suits and Litigation; Securities and Commodities Violations; Mutual Funds; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Ethics; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (83%) IFG Network Securities; Ing Group (Internationale Nederlanden Groep Nv); United States Chamber of Commerce

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



308 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; ASSASSINATION IN BEIRUT: THE REGION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seems Sure of the Hand Of Syria, Hinting at Penalties

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN; Warren Hoge contributed reporting from the United Nations for this article, and Richard W. Stevenson from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, condemning the assassination of the former prime minister, Rafik Hariri, in Lebanon, suggested Monday that Syria was to blame and moved to get a new condemnation of Syria's domination of Lebanon at the United Nations Security Council.
 American and European officials also said the administration was studying the possibility of tougher sanctions on Syria, effectively tightening penalties imposed in May, when Washington said the Syrian government had failed to act against militant groups in Israel and against a supply line from Syria to the insurgents in Iraq.
 ''We condemn this brutal attack in the strongest possible terms,'' said Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman, adding that the killing was ''a terrible reminder that the Lebanese people must be able to pursue their aspirations and determine their own political future free from violence and intimidation and free from Syrian occupation.''
 American officials said the killing was an ominous development on two counts: first, because it raised concern that Lebanon could plunge back into the civil war that it suffered throughout the 1980's, and second, because it underscored growing American impatience with the role played by Syria in the Middle East. 
 Mr. McClellan and other administration spokesmen said they had no concrete evidence of Syria's involvement in the killing of Mr. Hariri, a prominent opposition leader and critic of Syria's role in Lebanon, who died along with at least 11 others when a car bomb blew up next to his motorcade in Beirut. 
 And in fact the Syrian foreign minister, Farouk al-Sharaa, speaking at a news conference in Damascus, also condemned the attack.
 But the target of the American criticism was unmistakable, as several officials condemned Syria's role in Lebanon as part of their comments on the attack.
 ''We're going to turn up the heat on Syria, that's for sure,'' said a senior State Department official. ''It's been a pretty steady progression of pressure up to now, but I think it's going to spike in the wake of this event. Even though there's no evidence to link it to Syria, Syria has, by negligence or design, allowed Lebanon to become destabilized.'' 
 At the United Nations, the Security Council called for a meeting on Tuesday to discuss the bombing, but there was some doubt that the Council would vote to condemn Syria by name. In a resolution passed last year to condemn Syria's role in Lebanon, Syria was not specifically mentioned; there was only a reference to foreign forces in Lebanon.
 Syria has effectively controlled Lebanon since it moved troops into the country in 1976, at the outset of the civil war. In 1981 Syria forced the Beirut government to sign a treaty declaring that Syria would play the dominant role in its foreign policy.
 In the view of American analysts, Syria has in turn done the bidding of Iran, using Syrian territory to support Hezbollah, a major presence in Lebanon, and other Islamic groups that have attacked Israel.
 The United States has focused mounting attention on Iran in recent weeks, both because of its suspected nuclear arms program and because of its support of groups trying to disrupt a peaceful resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
 A Western diplomat said the United States, in condemning Syria's possible role in the Beirut attack, may also be trying to rebuke Iran, signaling that American tolerance of such behavior was diminishing. On the other hand, there are few sanctions available that the United States has not already imposed on Syria.
 Western diplomats have sometimes suggested that Syria is ''low-hanging fruit'' in the campaign against terrorists: a nation that could be punished by further isolation and sanctions because its economy is in poor shape. Iran, by contrast, is awash in oil revenues, and the difficulties of mounting an international campaign against it are becoming increasingly obvious as Europeans call for engagement with Iran rather than confrontation. 
 Some in the Bush administration have argued for the last two years that Syria's role has not always been destructive. In particular, some at the State Department and the Central Intelligence Agency have credited Syria with cracking down on some anti-Western militant groups and also with trying at least partly to stop the flow of arms and financing to insurgents in Iraq.
 That more benign view of Syria has lost favor, however, administration officials say. Earlier this year, Deputy Secretary of State Richard L. Armitage traveled to Syria and gave what a senior official said Monday was a very stern warning to do more to stop the Iraq insurgency and aid to militant anti-Israel groups.
 ''He went with a pretty tough message, because pressure is building in the administration to do something,'' said the official. ''We've seen some cooperation on the border with the Iraqis and some repatriation of some of the Iraqi money. But there's not been nearly enough action to make us satisfied.''
 Last May President Bush barred virtually all American exports to Syria, except for food and medicine, and barred flights between Syria and the United States, except for emergencies. The Treasury Department also moved to freeze assets of Syrians with ties to terrorists, lethal weapons or the Lebanon occupation.
 But those actions were described even in the administration as symbolic. Critics of Syria in Congress, including Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida Republican who sponsored a Congressional act calling for punishment of Syria, want a ban on exports or American investments in Syria.
 Administration officials have raised the pressure on Syria since President Bush's Inaugural Address and the Congressional testimony of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice during her confirmation hearings, when she called Syria one of several ''outposts of tyranny'' in the world.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreign Minister Farouk al-Sharaa of Syria condemned the attack on Lebanon's ex-prime minister. (Photo by Bassem Tellawi/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); TERRORISM (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; Bombs and Explosives; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%) United Nations

PERSON: Steven R Weisman; Rafik Hariri

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (93%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (95%); LEBANON (95%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%) Lebanon; Syria; Beirut (Lebanon)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



309 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Study Urges City to Require Building of Low-Cost Housing

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
A new study by researchers at New York University recommends that the city require developers to include lower-cost apartments in large apartment buildings in fast-growing neighborhoods.
 Although the Bloomberg administration and the real estate industry have said such actions should be voluntary, the study says that under the right conditions it would make financial sense to have developers set aside 10 to 20 percent of their units for lower-income residents, in exchange for building larger buildings than zoning now allows. The requirement would be most effective in developing neighborhoods like Greenpoint and Williamsburg in Brooklyn, the study says, and in condominium buildings, not rental units.
 The study, to be released today by the university's Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy, comes at a time when community activists have been redoubling their efforts to inject housing into the mayoral race, with many urging the city to require 40 percent of units for lower-income residents. Two weeks ago, more than 5,000 tenants, city employees, clerics and others staged the biggest housing rally in decades outside City Hall, demanding, among other issues, that the city adopt this requirement, known as inclusionary zoning. 
 The report does not analyze whether the zoning requirement would work on Manhattan's West Side, another developing neighborhood often mentioned in the debate over low-cost housing. But it suggests that the city use the report to analyze factors like land costs and interest rates in determining whether the requirement makes sense for a neighborhood.
 ''In certain market conditions, it could actually work,'' said Michael H. Schill, a former New York University professor who helped conduct the study and is now dean of the School of Law at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''You could get low-income housing without it affecting the supply of nonmarket housing, and it won't have all the negative effects that the real estate industry is claiming.''
 Called ''Reducing the Cost of New Housing Construction in New York City,'' the report also examines how much economic conditions have changed since 1999, when New York University found that excessive labor costs, rampant corruption and anachronistic regulations contributed to exorbitant construction costs.
 This time, the report said that progress had been made in several areas, including the Bloomberg administration's push for a uniform building code, but it also found that the disappearance of vacant land and a huge surge in land prices had contributed heavily to high construction costs. In the last year, the report found, 17 percent of all vacant land had sold for more than $100 a square foot, while no land was that expensive five years ago.
 Over all, the report found that it was 5 percent more expensive to build in the city than in Los Angeles, 15 percent more than in Chicago and 47 percent more than in Dallas. But it also found that the gap had narrowed slightly in the last five years, attributable in part to an increase in nonunion labor in boroughs other than Manhattan.
 Supporters of the zoning requirement welcomed the report. Brad Lander, the director of the Pratt Institute Center for Community and Environmental Development, said that he hoped that the city could combine a mandatory policy with a more aggressive voluntary one stocked with additional subsidies.
 But skeptics were not convinced. Julia Vitullo-Martin, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, said the market would do better at promoting housing than any government dictate, given the cyclical nature of real estate.
 ''To develop public policy based on the strongest real estate market the world has ever seen would be extraordinarily shortsighted,'' she said. ''If it's economically worthwhile, developers will do it. If it's not, and you're forcing them to do it, it will have deleterious effects.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); ZONING (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITIES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); MAYORS (88%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Housing; Condominiums; Renting and Leasing; Housing

ORGANIZATION: New York University

PERSON: David W Chen; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



310 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: Disturbed, or Just Plain Evil?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 If psychiatrists are going to create a useful hierarchy of evil, they will have to include acts beyond the obvious savage crimes of serial killers (''For the Worst of Us''). 
 Think about politicians who kill thousands while waging unnecessary wars, or corporate leaders whose pursuit of profit pollutes the environment and sickens people and whose acts of fraud destroy the economic security of their employees and investors. 
 These are evil souls whose crimes have longer-lasting and more wide-ranging consequences than the depredations of any mass murderer.

MICHAEL CARR
Toledo, Ohio


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); HOMICIDE (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (50%) OHIO, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



311 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
MOROSINI, HELEN SIMPSON

 BODY:
 MOROSINI--Helen Simpson, 71, of Walpole, NH, died February 10, 2005 from complications following surgery for ovarian cancer. Born September 9, 1933 in Boston, MA, the daughter of Mary (Donnelly) and William Simpson, Helen was a graduate of Boston University. Devoted wife and best pal to Charles J. Morosini, Jr., M.D. for 47 years, she and Chuck raised their family and lived for many years in Scarsdale, NY. A great lover of books and a voracious reader, she worked from home as a reviewer for Book - of - the - Month Club while providing a loving home for her family. She later became executive assistant to noted economist Elliot Janeway from 1978 to 1984 and then worked as editor and Sr. vice president at the New York City office of Lloyds of London Press. She and Chuck retired to Walpole in 2000 where she continued to work as a part-time copy editor and at the local library. In addition to her beloved husband, she is survived and deeply missed by her three daughters, Dr. Deborah Morosini-Huschle of Weston, MA, Dana Reeve (widow of Christopher Reeve) of Bedford, NY, and Adrienne Heilman of Harwich, MA, and one brother, William Simpson of Dennis, MA. She also leaves--in body but never in spirit--five cherished grandchildren: James, Peter, Will, Erik and Logan who will always adore and remember their loving and funny ''Nonni.'' A memorial service to celebrate Helen's life will be held at 2:30 PM on Saturday, March 5, at Alyson's Orchard, Walpole, NH. Donations in her name can be made to the Christopher Reeve Paralysis Foundation, www.christopherreeve.org 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PARALYSIS (78%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CANCER (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (76%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (75%); OVARIAN CANCER (73%); LIBRARIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



312 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Vote Nearing, Clean Air Bill Prompts Rush Of Lobbying

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
Heart-shaped boxes of Valentine's Day sweets sent by environmental groups reached Senate offices by Monday, but they came with distinctly sour words for the Clear Skies Act of 2005: ''Clearly a sweetheart deal for polluters.''
 A day earlier, union members fanned out across Illinois in support of Clear Skies, the Bush administration's preferred approach to pollution reduction. They distributed fliers intended to influence the state's freshman Democratic senator, Barack Obama, who is on the committee handling the measure.
 The burst of activity by forces for and against the bill reflects the approaching showdown over it. 
 Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma and chairman of the Committee on Environment and Public Works, has scheduled final consideration of the bill for Wednesday, followed by a vote. Committee members have been deadlocked 9 to 9, an impasse that will doom the measure unless the Republican leadership, through a special procedure, gives it floor time for debate.
 For now, Mr. Inhofe is holding to his plan, expressing optimism that continuing discussions may lead one opponent to switch sides. The split largely follows party lines, with Senator Lincoln Chafee, a Rhode Island Republican who prefers an alternative approach, expected to join the committee's seven Democrats and the ranking member, Senator James M. Jeffords, an independent from Vermont, in opposing the measure.
 Most major health and environmental groups oppose the bill, arguing that the promised reductions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury could be achieved faster through other approaches, including a bill co-sponsored by Mr. Chafee and Senator Thomas R. Carper, Democrat of Delaware. Many of the groups also favor legislation that includes caps on carbon dioxide, a heat-trapping gas that scientists say contributes to global warming.
 Besides the Valentine's candy, environmental groups began running advertisements against the bill in publications widely read by lawmakers and others active on Capitol Hill.
 The large unions that are strongly supporting the bill say economic benefits and job stability would derive from a law that forces power plants to spend billions of dollars for technological upgrades to lower pollution. One of the unions, the Teamsters, is promoting the measure through a partnership with the Council of Republicans for Environmental Advocacy, a partisan group that supports a balanced approach to improving the environment.
 As part of the campaign, Teamsters began hanging tens of thousands of fliers on doorknobs in Illinois, aimed at persuading Mr. Obama to support the bill in committee.
 The fliers include a tear-off postcard to mail to Mr. Obama that reads: ''You made an admirable pledge to be the nonpartisan leader for all of Illinois. Thank you for your commitment.'' 
 ''A vote for S.131,'' it continues, referring to the measure, ''is an opportunity to demonstrate that commitment. Unlike alternative proposals, S.131 is a vote for both clean air and jobs in Illinois and throughout America. Please vote yes for Clear Skies.''
 Mr. Obama, the only Democrat among the five freshmen on the committee, has talked openly in committee hearings about intense competing interests in his state, where environmental passions are matched with constant worries about the loss of manufacturing jobs and rising fuel costs.
 While he has suggested that enforcing the Clean Air Act, as is, may produce more beneficial environmental effects than Clear Skies, he has expressed the need ''to have an honest debate.'' To some supporters of the bill, the comment represented an open-mindedness that they believe other Democrats lack.
 ''He's a new senator who has not yet taken a position on Clear Skies,'' said Doug Wheeler, a consultant to the partnership between the Teamsters and the Republican group. ''He stated in his campaign that it's important to balance environmental quality with jobs, particularly in an industrial state where jobs are at risk.''
 Efforts to reach Mr. Obama for comment were unsuccessful. Phone messages left with his offices in Washington and Chicago were not returned.
 John M. Stanton, a lawyer with Clear the Air, an environmental group, said union support for Clear Skies under the promise of job stability was misguided.
 ''If they supported the more stringent Clean Air Act regulations,'' Mr. Stanton said, ''there'd be even more work. Besides, why would unions support a measure that impacts union families adversely? Many of the blue-collar communities where union members live are located close to power plants. Logically, I don't think you would put those families in harm's way.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); NITROGEN OXIDES (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (71%); POWER PLANTS (63%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%) Air Pollution; Law and Legislation; Lobbying and Lobbyists

PERSON: JIM INHOFE (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); TOM CARPER (58%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (58%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%) Michael Janofsky; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



313 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; ASSASSINATION IN BEIRUT: EXPLOSION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: BEIRUT CAR BOMB KILLS EX-PREMIER; STABILITY AT RISK

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH; Katherine Zoepf contributed reporting from Damascus for this article.

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
An enormous car bomb blasted the motorcade of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri on Monday, killing him and 11 others in the most serious blow to the stability of Lebanon in more than a decade. 
 Mr. Hariri, 60, a billionaire politician who resigned as prime minister in October to protest Syria's continuing influence here, was pronounced dead on arrival at the American University Hospital in Beirut.
 The Bush administration said that the attack was ''a terrible reminder'' of the need for Lebanon to break free from Syria, which maintains 15,000 troops in the country, and that it was studying whether to increase sanctions on Syria, which it accuses of supporting terrorism. [Page A6.] 
 Syria rejected the charge and condemned the bombing as criminal.
 In the blast, which ripped a 30-foot crater in the street, six bodyguards and five passers-by were also killed, and more that 100 people were wounded. A former minister of economy under Mr. Hariri, Bassem Flaeihan, who was in the convoy, was in critical condition.
 The bomb went off at midday in one of Beirut's wealthiest sections along the Mediterranean, demolishing one building, damaging many others and shattering windows blocks away. For many who came to see the site of the bombing on Monday night, the scene was reminiscent of the kind of bombings that befell Lebanon during 15 years of civil war. 
 ''This didn't just target one man but all of Lebanon,'' said Gebran Tuweni, a member of the opposition movement and publisher of the Lebanese newspaper An Nahar. ''It has shaken the country to the core. But the response now is to face off these encroachments as a united front.''
 Lebanon's pro-Syrian president, Emile Lahoud, said Mr. Hariri, his political foe, had died a "martyr for a united Lebanon,'' and he ordered three days of mourning and a state funeral, Agence France-Presse reported. 
 It remained a mystery at day's end who had killed Mr. Hairi. As the pivotal figure in Lebanon's political and economic life of the last two decades, doubtless many wished him ill. 
 ''One of the dilemmas of modern Lebanon is there are so many potential people who could have done this thing,'' said Rami Khouri, editor at large of the Daily Star, Beirut's English-language paper. ''But there also five to six dimensions of his character that could have generated opposition.''
 On Monday evening, a broadcast on the satellite channel Al Jazeera showed a man claiming to be a suicide bomber with a previously unknown militant group calling itself Victory and Jihad in Greater Syria. The speaker said he intended to kill Mr. Hariri for his support of the Saudi royal family.
 Lebanese security forces stormed the house of a Palestinian man named Ahmad Abu Adas, believed to be the man on the tape, who had been missing all day. 
 This led some experts to suggest that the culprit could be Al Qaeda, which has long made the Saudi royal family a target. ''This serves no one's interests at a critical time,'' said Mustafa Hamarneh, director of the Center for Research and Strategic Studies in Amman, Jordan. ''It was spectacular and meant to be seen.'' 
 Lebanon is a country of delicate confessional balance among Christians, Sunni and Shiite Muslims and Druse. Its civil war, from 1975 to 1990, saw the groups pitted viciously against one another, abetted by interference from Palestinians, Israel and Syria. While it has maintained reconstruction and calm in recent years, fear lurks just below the surface that the strife could return. 
 Mr. Hariri was a close confidant of the Saudi royal family and enjoyed its largess. He was often accused of having given Saudi Arabia greater influence in the region through his position as prime minister.
 Lebanon has long been a playground for vacationing Saudis, and it became more so after Sept. 11, 2001, when visas to Europe and the United States were harder to come by. 
 Yet many here accused Syria or rogue elements in the Syrian security services as the likely hand behind the bombing. Mr. Hariri tentatively supported a growing chorus of Lebanese politicians who supported a United Nations call for Syria to pull out of Lebanon. 
 He and Mr. Lahoud were bitter rivals, and Mr. Hariri quit as prime minister after Syria strong-armed the Lebanese Parliament into amending the Constitution to extend Mr. Lahoud's term in office.
 Syrian officials moved quickly to condemn the assassination. In a statement made through the government-run news agency, SANA, President Bashar al-Assad called the killing of Mr. Hariri a ''terrible criminal action.'' He emphasized Syria's ''brotherly'' feelings toward Lebanon, and suggested that those responsible sought to ''plant a schism among the children of one people.'' 
 In Damascus, even some Syrians wondered. Ammar Abdulhamid, a Syrian novelist and political analyst, said he feared that some members of the Syrian government might see Mr. Hariri's death as calculated to make other nations change their mind about enforcing the United Nations resolution calling on foreign troops to leave Lebanon.
 ''They might have thought that, in the uproar, people would start thinking about what a mess Lebanon would be in if the Syrians left,'' Mr. Abdulhamid said.
 On Monday evening, members of the Lebanese opposition movement issued a statement holding Syria and the Lebanese government negligent in Mr. Hariri's death. Mr. Tuweni, who signed the statement, called for the dissolution of the government and for an international investigation into the assassination.
 Mr. Hariri made his fortune in the construction business in Saudi Arabia, then returned to his war-ravaged country in 1990 with a vision of restoring it to its former glory. Through Solidere, the company he formed and partly owned, he spearheaded a reconstruction project that slowly brought Beirut back to life, complete with its art deco architecture. In some cases, Solidere rebuilt bombed-out buildings with the same drawings and engineering plans used to build the originals.
 Mr. Hariri was elected prime minister in 1992 and served three terms, shepherding the reconstruction of the country and serving as a symbol of stability that attracted many Lebanese emigres to return. In the process, he helped take Lebanon off the front pages and into the travel section, enticing foreign investment and development into the country.
 Saudi investment, especially, became a lifeline for the debt-ridden country of four million. Saudis and other Persian Gulf Arabs have been prime buyers in the newly revived Beirut central district. In a country where the average worker makes less than $500, some fancy apartments now reach $3 million or more.
 But Lebanon's peace has remained fledgling. On Monday night, many Lebanese feared t the killing could well bring surviving religious and ethnic factions to blows again.
 ''I'm afraid of what this means for us all,'' said Ahmad Taqoush, a clerical worker who viewed the wreckage on Monday night. ''This was intended to make sure we stay divided.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Tuesday about a car bombing in Beirut, Lebanon, that killed former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri misspelled the name of a former economics minister under Mr. Hariri who was seriously wounded. He is Basil Fuleihan, not Bassem Flaeihan.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Vehicles burned yesterday in Beirut after a bomb exploded on the motorcade of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, 60, killing him and 11 others. He was pronounced dead at the American University Hospital in Beirut. (Photo by Associated Press)
Workers inspected the scene of the bombing yesterday in Beirut as the shell of a building loomed behind. (Photo by Wael Hamzeh/European Pressphoto Agency)
Lebanese Red Cross workers removed the dead and wounded from cars and buildings after the bombing. (Photo by Norbert Schiller for The New York Times)(pg. A6)
A man shouted for help for another man wounded yesterday by a huge car bomb explosion in Beirut, Lebanon. Twelve people died in the attack. (Photo by Mohamed Azakir/Reuters)
 Ex-Prime Minister Rafik Hariri yesterday shortly before he died. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A1)Chart/Map: ''Bomb on the Waterfront''Rafik Hariri, the former prime minister, was killed when a car bomb exploded as his motorcade approached the St. George Hotel. Mr. Hariri had been at the Parliament earlier in the day.Map of Beirut highlighting site of bombing. (pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (92%); BOMBINGS (92%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ASSASSINATION (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); DEATHS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CIVIL WAR (70%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (62%) Bombs and Explosives; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; United States International Relations

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Al Jazeera

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: EMILE LAHOUD (78%) Hassan M Fattah; Rafik Hariri; Emile (Pres) Lahoud; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (98%) LEBANON (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%) Lebanon; Beirut (Lebanon); Syria; Lebanon; Saudi Arabia; Lebanon

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



314 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Rice Assures South Korean Of U.S. Pressure on North

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY and JAMES BROOKE; Joel Brinkley reported from Washington for this article and James Brooke from Seoul.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, in a meeting with the South Korean foreign minister on Monday, pledged to continue using diplomatic means to pressure North Korea to end its nuclear program and give up the nuclear weapons it claimed last week that it possesses. 
 For his part, the foreign minister, Ban Ki Moon, told Ms. Rice that his country believed that North Korea might be bluffing, an administration official said. That contention was amplified in Seoul on Monday by Chung Dong Young, South Korea's minister of unification, in a speech to the National Assembly in which he noted that the North had made similar claims at least 10 times since 2003. ''We see it as a claim to own nuclear weapons, not an official statement of being a nuclear weapons state,'' Mr. Chung said. 
 Along with the nuclear weapons announcement last week, North Korea also said it was pulling out of the six-party talks on ending its nuclear weapons program in exchange for security and economic considerations. No talks have been held since last June. North Korea wants direct negotiations with Washington, an idea the Bush administration rejects.
 Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman, said: ''I think you will see a very active pace of discussions between the various parties to the six-party talks. We've already been in touch with many of the other parties through our embassies in the capital, and we'll continue to pursue an active diplomacy aimed at making these six-party talks work.''
 Mr. Boucher noted that the administration had asked Christopher R. Hill, ambassador to South Korea, to be the American representative to those talks, should they resume. The other three members are Japan, China and Russia. Diplomatic contacts among the five nations have intensified in recent days. On Saturday, Japan plans to send both its foreign and defense ministers to Washington for discussions on North Korea.
 In Seoul, Mr. Chung dismissed the North's claims as nothing more than a bargaining ploy intended to ''compel the United States to change its stance.'' His Unification Ministry promotes peaceful coexistence with the North and rarely voices skepticism of it. But Mr. Chung also heads South Korea's National Security Council, and his comments seem to contradict a South Korean Defense White Paper issued 10 days ago.
 According to that policy document, North Korea probably has assembled one or two nuclear weapons and is believed to have conducted an aerial blast test, a step that could precede an actual nuclear weapons test.
 Also, analysts note, while North Korea has blustered about having nuclear capacity, last Thursday was the first time it publicly used the phrase nuclear weapons to refer to its nuclear program. 
 Minutes after Mr. Chung's speech, a member of the conservative opposition called for his resignation.
 ''As all rosy predictions regarding the six-party talks and others regarding North Korea have failed, is it not right for the Unification Minister to step down?'' asked Hong Jun Pyo, a leader of the Grand National Party, part of a conservative force that controlled the National Assembly for half a century until upset elections in April.
 Conservatives are pressing the South Korean president, Roh Moo Hyun, to curb South Korean trade, aid and investment programs that funnel hundreds of millions of dollars annually to the cash-starved Communist state.
 With the South Korean government determined to maintain its policy of economic aid and investment with the North, many analysts here agree that China is the only nation with leverage on North Korea. A Chinese mission is expected to travel to Pyongyang, North Korea's capital, later this week. 
 ''China is the only country that has carrot and sticks, and that is willing to use both,'' Peter M. Beck, Northeast Asia director for the International Crisis Group, an aid organization, said in an interview here on Monday. Referring to South Korea, he added, ''When you have half of your population in artillery range, when you have a relationship with the North that is so tenuous, you walk very cautiously.'' 
 According to Mr. Ban, South Korea is not yet ready to abandon its policy of engagement. ''With this increased and intensified diplomatic efforts,'' he said, ''I am confident that in the end North Koreans will come back to the dialogue table.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ban Ki Moon, South Korea's foreign minister, center, leaving the State Department after meeting with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); RESIGNATIONS (50%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (94%); BAN KI-MOON (88%) Joel Brinkley; James Brooke; Ban Ki Moon (Min); George W (Pres) Bush; Chung Dong Young; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) North Korea; South Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



315 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Bush Seeks $81.9 Billion More, Mostly for Forces in Iraq

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT; Elizabeth Becker, Carl Hulse and Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
President Bush sent to Congress on Monday a request for $81.9 billion in additional spending to cover the costs of military and intelligence operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, tsunami relief in Asia, revamping the Army, and new death benefits for families of service members killed in combat. 
 The White House announced the broad outlines of its request for this year nearly three weeks ago, saying about $75 billion would go to military activities, mostly for the Army. The rest would be devoted to reconstruction costs, mostly in Afghanistan and Iraq, and the activities of the State Department and other agencies, including the new Director of National Intelligence. 
 But it was not until Monday that the administration gave Congress a detailed wish list, which includes $12 billion to repair or replace tanks, helicopters and other weaponry damaged or destroyed in Afghanistan and Iraq; $5.7 billion to train and equip Iraqi military and police officers, and $5 billion to speed the restructuring of Army brigades. 
 ''The majority of this request will ensure that our troops continue to get what they need to protect themselves and complete their mission,'' Mr. Bush said in a statement. About $36.3 billion of the request would cover combat missions and about $6.2 billion go for intelligence operations. 
 The nonmilitary money requested includes $950 million to help areas affected by December's tsunami in the Indian Ocean, $658 million to help build a United States Embassy in Baghdad and money for the Darfur region in western Sudan where a two-year conflict has left tens of thousands of people dead and more than 2 million displaced.
 Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, who is to testify this week on the Pentagon's $419.3 billion budget for fiscal 2006, which starts Oct.1 and on the request for extra funds this year, is expected to face sharp questioning from lawmakers in both parties. Members of Congress have criticized the administration for using the supplemental budget request to finance the war. Supplemental budgets often do not receive as much scrutiny and often do not include the same amount of detail as regular budget requests.
 On Capitol Hill, the Blue Dog Coalition, 35 moderate and conservative Democrats known as fiscal and military hawks, criticized the administration's approach for financing the Iraq and Afghanistan operations. ''The Blue Dog Coalition recognizes that we must support our troops, but the Congress cannot continue to write blank checks,'' the group said. 
 But many Republicans dismissed the complaints. Representative Jerry Lewis, a Californian Republican who is chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, said his panel would begin considering the supplemental request next month, and he expressed hope that Congress could send Mr. Bush a completed bill by April. 
 The Pentagon scheduled and then cancelled a news conference on Monday to discuss details of the request. The White House later issued a four-page statement citing highlights. Congressional aides provided additional information from the formal detailed request. 
 Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Texas Republican on the Appropriations Committee, said military death benefits would increase to $100,000, from $12,000. Life insurance coverage for the troops would also increase, to $400,000, from $250,000. The increases will be retroactive to October 2001 for those killed in combat zones, she said in a statement. 
 The request would provide $250.3 million for establishment of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and ''other projects, including construction of a new facility to house the O.D.N.I., expanded National Counterterrorism Center, and other intelligence community elements.'' The document said additional details about the office and intelligence matters were contained in a classified annex. 
 The request also authorized the Pentagon to provide financing for the establishment of a regional training center in Jordan. ''The center will provide counterterrorism, special operations, border control, civil defense, emergency/first responder and other training and preparation for regional security forces,'' the document said. ''The U.S. government would provide funding to construct and outfit the training center; it would subsequently be owned and operated by the government of Jordan.'' 
 Also included in the request is $400 million in two funds that will provide economic aid or security assistance to countries ''that are fighting with the United States in Iraq and Afghanistan but can ill afford the costs of purchasing defense articles and materials,'' according to Joseph Bowab, a deputy assistant secretary of state for resource management. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will have authority over the spending and decide which countries receive money and how much. 
 Of the administration's supplemental budget request, $6.3 billion is earmarked for the State Department and foreign operations. Afghanistan will receive $2.2 billion in those State Department funds for counternarcotics programs, reconstruction aid and training for military police.
 Countries involved in seeking peace in the Middle East will be rewarded as well, including $200 million for the Palestinian territories, in addition to the $150 million requested in the 2006 budget, and $200 million for Jordan. The supplemental also includes requests of $780 million for United Nations peacekeeping operations in Haiti, Burundi, Ivory Coast and the Darfur region in Sudan. 
 As the Bush administration sought more spending for military operations in Iraq, Congressional Democrats held a session on Monday aimed at exposing what they characterized as widespread waste and fraud in the handling of contracts for the reconstruction there.
 One former official of the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq, Frank Willis, described a ''wild west'' atmosphere with lax accounting over billions of American dollars, often packaged in crisp new $100 bills. ''There was leakage, no doubt,'' said Mr. Willis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); DISPLACED PERSONS (72%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (69%); FAMILY (57%); HELICOPTERS (54%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: JERRY LEWIS (58%) Eric Schmitt; George W (Pres) Bush; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SUDAN (92%); ASIA (92%) Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



316 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Subpoenas Pull A.I.G. Shares Down, and Dow as Well

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Dow Jones Industrial Average retreated from its high for the year yesterday as the American International Group, the world's largest insurer, received subpoenas from state and federal regulators.
 Gains among energy producers including Exxon Mobil and technology companies like Apple Computer sent the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index higher for a third day.
 A.I.G. shares dropped after the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, and the Securities and Exchange Commission sought information on policies that may help companies smooth earnings.
 ''People are scared'' about Spitzer, who has prosecuted securities firms and mutual fund companies in addition to insurers, said Philip Dow, director of equity strategy at RBC Dain Rauscher in Minneapolis. ''He'll have a profound impact'' on insurance stocks, Mr. Dow added. 
 The Dow average fell 4.88 points, or 0.1 percent, to 10,791.13. Shares in A.I.G. were the biggest drag on the benchmark. The S.&P. 500 added 0.84 point, or 0.1 percent, to 1,206.14, while the Nasdaq composite index climbed 6.25 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,082.91.
 Trading on the New York Stock Exchange was the slowest this year, with 1.3 billion shares changing hands. About seven stocks rose for every six that fell at the Big Board.
 Some investors may be awaiting testimony from Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve. He is scheduled to present the Fed's semiannual forecasts for inflation and economic growth to Congress on Wednesday and Thursday. 
 A.I.G. shares, which led last week's rally in the Dow, retreated $1.63, or 2.2 percent, to $71.49. The subpoenas also sought information on accounting for certain insurance A.I.G. sold to other insurers. A.I.G. said it was cooperating with regulators.
 Last week, A.I.G. shares jumped 8.3 percent after the company reported better-than-expected profit and said an internal review sparked by Mr. Spitzer found few cases of employee misconduct.
 Other insurance stocks declined, including Marsh & McLennan, the broker that settled accusations of price fixing this month. The shares slid 69 cents to $32.30. Aon, the world's No. 2 insurance brokerage, dropped 21 cents to $25.03.
 Shares of OfficeMax Inc. slumped $1.73, or 5.5 percent, to $30.02 on a separate accounting-related issue. The company said that its chief executive, Christopher C. Milliken, resigned and that it would restate results for the first three quarters of 2004 as it investigates some accounting.
 Apple climbed $3.42 to $84.63. The maker of the iPod music player is likely to earn 45 cents a share in the second quarter, helped by sales of software, PowerBook and Mac Mini computers, and the iPod Shuffle music player, a UBS analyst, Benjamin Reitzes, wrote in a report. Mr. Reitzes, who previously estimated second-quarter profit of 41 cents, also raised his 12-month price target for Apple shares to $99, from $85.
 An index of energy stocks rose 0.5 percent, for the second-biggest gain among 10 industry groups in the S.&P. 500. Crude oil for March delivery rose 28 cents, to $47.44 a barrel, in New York.
 Exxon Mobil, the world's largest publicly traded oil company, added 72 cents, to $56.83. ConocoPhillips, the country's biggest oil refiner, rose $1.93, to $100.97.
 Verizon Communications slid after the company agreed to buy MCI for $6.7 billion and said it would cut 7,000 jobs. MCI rejected a higher offer from Qwest Communications International. Verizon lost 12 cents to $36.19, while MCI shares declined 82 cents to $19.93. Qwest fell 17 cents to $3.98.
 The cash and stock offer from Verizon values MCI at about $20.75 a share, where it closed Feb. 11. 
 Hewlett-Packard, which ousted Carleton S. Fiorina as chief executive last week, dropped 53 cents, to $20.77. The company may not sell its personal-computer operations soon, Barron's reported, citing comments from Patricia Dunn, the Hewlett chairman. Shares might fail to rise until the company reorganizes, Barron's wrote, citing analysts.
 Coca-Cola Enterprises, the world's largest soft-drink distributor, retreated 56 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $22.55. The company was reduced to underperform from market perform by a Sanford C. Bernstein & Company analyst, Robert Van Brugge.
 Monster Worldwide gained 67 cents to $28.06. The company acquired Emailjob.com for $26 million.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note gained 5/32, to a price of 9914/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dipped to 4.07 percent from 4.08 percent on Friday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.357	98.604	High Rate	2.540	2.760	Investment Rate	2.592	2.838	Low Rate	2.500	2.525	Median Rate	2.525	2.750	Total applied for	$50,324,292	$45,244,681	Accepted	$26,432,637	$23,191,516	Noncompetitive	$1,744,261	$1,208,798	

Both issues are dated Feb. 17, 2005. The three-month bills mature on May 19, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on Aug. 18, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); SUBPOENAS (91%); INSURANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); MISCONDUCT (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); PRICE FIXING (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (70%); OFFICEMAX INC (62%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); RY (TSX) (70%); RY (SWX) (70%); RY (NYSE) (70%); OMX (NYSE) (62%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); MMC (NYSE) (56%); MHM (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (70%); NAICS453210 OFFICE SUPPLIES & STATIONERY STORES (62%); SIC5943 STATIONERY STORES (62%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (75%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



317 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; The Underdog. No Kidding.; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: High-Energy Congressman Bids to Unseat Bloomberg

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
It took only three minutes before Anthony D. Weiner let loose his first one-liner at a recent event at the Stein Senior Citizen Center in Manhattan.
 ''I am not close to retirement,'' said Mr. Weiner, a 40-year-old congressman whose district includes parts of Brooklyn and Queens. ''Actually every two years I get close to retirement, but that's entirely up to you guys.''
 But all kidding aside -- and on the stump with Mr. Weiner there is plenty -- Mr. Weiner went on to deliver a lengthy, detail-filled critique of President Bush's Social Security proposal, displaying in this visit the political skills he believes will help propel him to victory in the race to unseat Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. 
 ''I love the politics part of this job, but I think I'm very good at the policy part as well,'' Representative Weiner said in an interview. ''I can talk to a group of seniors about Social Security in a way that they understand and relate to, but I dare say I can also speak to an economics postgraduate class at N.Y.U. and hold my own about the structural problems our economy faces.''
 With a base in sections of Brooklyn and Queens where turnout is traditionally high -- and a political acumen some of his rivals grudgingly acknowledge -- Mr. Weiner could pose a threat to Mayor Bloomberg and complicate the strategy of other Democrats who have a higher standing in the polls and have raised more money.
 Already, rivals such as the City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, and the former Bronx borough president, Fernando Ferrer, both of whom lead him in the polls and in fund-raising, are turning the political screws to Mr. Weiner's candidacy, courting voters in his backyard and lining up endorsements there.
 When three prominent Brooklyn political clubs recently decided to back Mr. Miller and Mr. Ferrer, the Weiner camp brushed it off, noting that Mr. Weiner won his Congressional seat in 1998 after a tight four-way primary without the backing of major party organizations.
 ''My whole identity as a candidate has been the underfunded underdog,'' Mr. Weiner said, before the endorsements were made public. ''I don't know how to run any other way except as an insurgent neighborhood candidate. So I'm very comfortable where I am right now.''
 Though he charms crowds, issues sharp attacks on opponents and churns out news media releases -- on everything from the impending death of Yasser Arafat (he supported it) to the closing of Catholic schools in Brooklyn and Queens (he opposed it) -- he is not well known outside his Congressional district, which hooks from Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, to Fresh Meadows, Queens. In independent polls, he places third among the Democrats when matched up against Mr. Bloomberg.
 He has raised nearly $1.7 million -- far behind the money leader, Mr. Miller, who has $4.25 million -- and that figure includes $225,645 transferred from his Congressional campaign account. About $773,000 remains in that account, and campaign aides said they believed most of it could be transferred to his mayoral campaign kitty.
 Mr. Weiner has returned some questionable donations, totaling $29,000, including those from relatives of a Brooklyn rabbi who had been accused of misappropriating federal funds and some from people whose incomplete identification on money orders appeared to run afoul of city campaign finance laws.
 His penchant for humor, endearing to some, has also raised eyebrows in the past, like a comedy routine he did in 2003 mimicking a Brooklyn tough and joking about having sex with another member of Congress.
 He has been belittled as Chuck Lite, a reference to the similarity in style and sometimes voice to his political mentor, United States Senator Charles E. Schumer, whom he worked for before running for the City Council in 1991. Like Mr. Schumer, he has an affinity for getting in front of television cameras.
 At the Manhattan event where he discussed Social Security, he delayed his formal remarks to wait for another television crew and bantered with Marcia Kramer, a veteran political correspondent at WCBS-TV, who was getting uneasy about the wait.
 ''It's A.B.M. -- all 'bout Marcia,'' he said with a laugh, as he rose and got started.
 Mr. Weiner often drives himself to events in a hybrid electric-gas sport utility vehicle and has delivered a series of policy speeches promising, among other things, a less bureaucratic Department of Education and expanded ferry service.
 His parents, Morton and Frances, sometimes show up and freely offer commentary, his mother correcting him from the audience at one event when he misspoke about language instruction in the schools, and his father informing Newsday after an economics speech last month, ''I told him to get some gravitas and I think this speech really did that.''
 Mr. Weiner, who moved to Forest Hills, Queens, nearly two years ago after living in Park Slope, Brooklyn, all his life, said he has studied the 1977 campaign of Edward I. Koch, when a congressman with a colorful character and appeal in the boroughs outside Manhattan vaulted to victory as a maverick over six other contenders in the Democratic primary. 
 ''His idea of not checking your personality at the door and using your seat in Congress to an advantage in pursuit of city issues,'' Mr. Weiner said, ticking off some of the parallels.
 But Mr. Koch, who is supporting Mr. Bloomberg, is among Democrats who doubt Mr. Weiner's chances.
 ''He's not going to pull this off; it's ridiculous,'' Mr. Koch said, going on to praise Mr. Weiner for his industriousness while saying he suspected his true motive in the race was to set up a more serious run four years from now.
 The consensus among analysts is that Mr. Weiner has a long way to go.
 ''He has got a lot of stuff going for him, like his base in Brooklyn, and he has got a pretty good track record as a Democrat in Congress, and a lot of insiders know him, so he doesn't have to introduce himself fresh,'' said Norman Adler, a veteran Democratic consultant.
 ''But his No.1 problem is, his name recognition is extremely low and that's the principal reason he doesn't score well in the polls and his fund-raising is not that great.''
 Mr. Weiner constantly needles Mr. Bloomberg for pretty much everything, but especially his plans for a football stadium on the West Side. He also says the mayor has not paid as much attention as he said he would to the small businesses and middle-and working-class residents outside Manhattan.
 ''These are things you would expect from the mayor of Charlotte, not the mayor of New York City,'' Mr. Weiner said of Mr. Bloomberg's stadium plans.
 If his rhetoric can seem strident at times, it is not by accident. But his hang-loose attitude sometimes lands him in trouble.
 He lands in the gossip pages frequently, perhaps most ingloriously in 2001 when a Vanity Fair story on romance among interns on Capitol Hill captured him wooing a prospective date a few days after the Sept. 11 attacks and introducing himself as ''Anthony, an auto parts salesman.'' Mr. Weiner, who is single, said he considered himself off duty at the time and is now more careful of watchful eyes when socializing. 
 At a comedy night fund-raiser for another member of Congress in May 2003, he donned a muscle shirt and joked about a liaison with another member, Ellen Tauscher, who represents a California district. ''I wouldn't mind having sex with Ellen Tauscher, but I'm afraid that it would be like a praying mantis deal and she'd bite my head off,'' he said to stunned colleagues, according to Roll Call, a Capitol Hill newspaper. Ms. Tauscher, who had missed that part of the show, later told the newspaper, ''Let's hope his pickup lines are better than his punch lines.''
 But Mr. Weiner makes no apologies and counts humor as an essential ingredient for any politician.
 ''As serious as I am as a politician, I think that one of the ways that you communicate to people that you understand their lives is you don't act self-important,'' he said. ''I think humor is a way of communicating to people that you understand them.
 ''And, listen, when you look like me you better be able to take yourself lightly.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Anthony D. Weiner speaking at a rally at Resurrection School in Gerritsen Beach, Brooklyn, one of 22 Catholic schools scheduled to be closed. (Photo by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); AGING (90%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); MAYORS (88%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CITIES (73%); FUNDRAISING (68%); CLOSINGS (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (50%) Public Opinion; Finances

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (94%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%) Randal C Archibold; Anthony (Rep) Weiner; Gifford (Speaker) Miller; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Fernando Ferrer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



318 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: PATAKI'S RATINGS DECLINE SHARPLY IN POLL OF STATE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and MARJORIE CONNELLY; Fred Backus contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Public support for Gov. George E. Pataki has dropped to its lowest level since his first year as governor a decade ago, with fewer than half of all New Yorkers approving of the way he does his job, according to a poll by The New York Times.
 In general, the poll paints a bleak picture for Mr. Pataki, a Republican, as he considers running for a fourth term and faces a challenge from Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, who has announced his plan to run for governor in 2006. Those interviewed said Mr. Pataki had made little progress in lowering taxes, improving schools, shepherding the economy or creating new jobs. In general, Mr. Pataki appears to take the blame for much that ails the state.
 The poll also showed attitudes shifting against the death penalty, whose fate the Legislature is debating since the courts struck down New York's capital punishment law last year. 
 Fifty-six percent of registered voters surveyed said they preferred either life in prison without parole or life in prison with the possibility of parole over the death penalty for people convicted of murder. Only 34 percent said they supported the death penalty, a significant drop from the 47 percent who supported it in 1994, when Mr. Pataki made instituting the death penalty a critical component of his successful drive to unseat Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
 The poll, of 1,822 people, was taken from Feb. 4 through Sunday, had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points and surveyed 1,481 people who said they were registered to vote. Of all those surveyed, 43 percent said they approved of the way Mr. Pataki has handled his job, a drop of 19 points from 2002. The decline was a sharp reversal for a governor whose job approval ratings hovered around 60 percent every year since 1995, when it was its lowest, at 33 percent. 
 Mr. Spitzer, on the other hand, enjoyed a job approval rating of 59 percent, which puts him in a politically enviable position for a challenger nearly two years before the race. In fact, the poll said that if the race for governor were held today between Mr. Pataki and Mr. Spitzer, Mr. Spitzer would win with 49 percent of the vote to Mr. Pataki's 34 percent.
 Mr. Pataki's low-key, neighborly style has, over the years, helped him win over voters. But 38 percent of those surveyed said they now had an unfavorable opinion of the governor personally, an increase of 16 points from two years ago. Of those questioned, 33 percent said that they had a favorable opinion of the governor, representing a drop of 19 percentage points from just two years ago.
 Some respondents said they blamed the governor for the problems in Albany, where lawmakers have been chronically late in passing state budgets and unable to agree on some major issues facing the state, like school financing and improving the way business is done in the capital.
 ''It upsets me that our entire state government is broken,'' said Robert Livingston, 58, a retired factory worker from Schenectady and a Republican, who was polled and agreed to be interviewed after the results were calculated. ''He accepted responsibility during his campaign when he said that he would fix it, and he hasn't.''
 Mr. Pataki's director of communications, David Catalfamo, tried to put the best face on the numbers, noting that polls are a snapshot in time and that as the economy improves, he expected Mr. Pataki's numbers to improve, too. The governor has said that he will decide whether to run again by the end of this year's legislative session.
 ''Polls go up and down -- what matters most to New Yorkers is leadership, and through crisis after crisis Governor Pataki has provided it,'' Mr. Catalfamo said in a statement. ''In 1995 we suffered a crisis in confidence, in 2001 we faced a crisis brought on by terror, and over the last three years the state has been coming through the worst fiscal crisis since the Great Depression. In the face of each and every crisis Governor Pataki has provided strong leadership and made the difficult choices that have allowed our state to move forward.''
 But for now, Mr. Pataki and his colleagues in the State Legislature are not enjoying high marks. Only a third of the respondents said they approved of how the Legislature was conducting itself, and almost half disapproved. And despite Mr. Pataki's efforts to spread the blame for the state's dysfunction to the legislative leaders, nearly half of the voters in New York State were unable to venture an opinion on the job performance of Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, or the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican.
 And so for many, the blame lands squarely with Mr. Pataki.
 ''The budget is always late,'' said Patricia Hahn, 59, an unemployed cafeteria manager who is a Republican from Fairport. ''I know he doesn't have a lot to do with that, but he's still the governor, and he still should put some pressure on those guys in Albany to get that budget passed.''
 Mrs. Hahn's discontent with Mr. Pataki cuts deeper still, as she said she had lost faith that he had empathy for lower-income people.
 ''I've just become disenchanted with him,'' she said. ''I expected him to be more for the working poor. Not just the richy rich, but also the working poor helped get him in office. Now we don't count. Back then he wanted our vote, and we were good enough for him.'' 
 If the voters are not enthusiastic about giving Mr. Pataki a fourth term in Albany, they appear even less eager to send him to Washington. When offered the choice of Mr. Pataki or Rudolph W. Giuliani as a candidate for president in 2008, most New Yorkers, or 55 percent, would choose the former mayor, according to the poll. Mr. Pataki was the choice of 16 percent, while 23 percent said they would not want to see either man run for president.
 Of course, there were still some people who expressed their continuing support for the governor.
 ''I see him as for the people, and I see him as listening to people,'' said Celeste Reyes, 45, a Republican who works as a high school math teacher in Brooklyn. ''He's somebody who would like to improve education by increasing its budget. I feel good about him. He's not arrogant.''
 The shift in attitudes toward the death penalty may be reflecting three factors: the sharp drop in crime in New York State, recent cases of DNA evidence resulting in convictions being thrown out, and a change in demographics around New York that has eroded support for the death penalty.
 On the federal level, the survey found high satisfaction for New York's two United States senators, with 63 percent of those polled saying they approved of Charles E. Schumer's job performance and 69 percent approving of Hillary Rodham Clinton's. And while a majority of those surveyed said they expected Mrs. Clinton to run for president in 2008, they also said it would not affect their decision to vote for her in 2006 -- a blow to any Republican opponent who might try to make Mrs. Clinton pledge to serve a full six-year term if re-elected.

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Feb. 4 through Sunday with 1,822 adults throughout New York State. Of these, 1,481 said they were registered to vote. Interviews were conducted in either English or Spanish.
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of active residential exchanges across New York State. Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
 Residents of New York City were oversampled for analytic purposes and then weighted to their proper proportion of the state.
 The overall results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to region of the state, sex, race, Hispanic origin, marital status, age and education.
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adult residents of New York State. For smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger.
 In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
 Complete questions and results are available at nytimes.com/politics.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Voters Rate Pataki on Specifics''In his 10 years as Governor, has George Pataki made a lot of progress, some, not much or none at all in . . .. . . improving public school education?A LOT: 6%SOME: 46NOT MUCH: 26NONE: 17NO OPINION: 5. . . protecting the environment?A LOT: 4SOME: 45NOT MUCH: 26NONE: 13NO OPINION: 11. . . improving the economy of New York State?A LOT: 2SOME: 41NOT MUCH: 36NONE: 17NO OPINION: 3. . . creating jobs in New York State?A LOT: 2SOME: 36NOT MUCH: 37NONE: 21NO OPINION: 4. . . reducing New York States debt?A LOT: 1SOME: 27NOT MUCH: 35NONE: 23NO OPINION: 14. . . reducing New York States taxes?A LOT: 2SOME: 25NOT MUCH: 34NONE: 33NO OPINION: 5Based on statewide telephone surveys conducted by The New York Times Feb. 4-13 with 1,481 registered voters.Numbers may not add up to 100 because of rounding. (pg. B5)Graph: ''Rating the Governor''Respondents to polls over the past 10 years were asked if they approved or disapproved of the way George E. Pataki was handling his job as governor.1995APPROVE: 49%DISAPPROVE: 33%2000APPROVE: 66%DISAPPROVE: 21%2005APPROVE: 43%DISAPPROVE: 41%Polls by The New York Times, some with CBS News. (pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (93%); GOVERNORS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); BUDGETS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); PAROLE (73%); SENTENCING (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); MURDER (69%) Public Opinion; New York Times Poll; Governors (US); Election Issues; Elections; Capital Punishment; Taxation; Education and Schools; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) Michael Slackman; Marjorie Connelly; George E (Gov) Pataki; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



319 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: An Overseer Is Chosen For All Work Downtown

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Charles J. Maikish, a former Port Authority official who was responsible for rebuilding the World Trade Center after the 1993 terrorist attack, was named yesterday to oversee rebuilding throughout downtown.
 He is to be the first executive director of the Lower Manhattan Construction Command Center, created three months ago by Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to bring some order to the building, demolition and roadwork in one of the city's densest and most constricted quarters.
 Neighbors and businesses have despaired about the prospect of so much work occurring simultaneously that streets will become impassable, noise will become deafening and the air will grow thick with dust, if not hazardous contaminants. 
 ''Within six months, we're going to have so much construction down here that it's good he's coming now,'' said Madelyn Wils, the chairwoman of Community Board 1. She said: ''Charlie is direct. He's a person of action. And when he starts this job, it will come together fairly quickly. He knows who he needs to talk to.''
 Mr. Maikish, 57, lives in New City, N.Y., and is currently the executive vice president of global real estate business services at J.P. Morgan Chase & Company.
 But his familiarity with the trade center site runs from the ground up. In 1968, as an engineering student, he joined the Port Authority as a provisional employee. Among his tasks was to strike bedrock around the twin towers' foundations with an iron bar to determine, from the sound, whether it was solid enough to build on.
 As director of the authority's World Trade Department from 1991 to 1996, Mr. Maikish supervised the recovery of the trade center after the first attack. Some measures he and his colleagues instituted were credited with saving lives on Sept. 11, 2001.
 Mr. Maikish and Frank Lombardi, the chief engineer of the authority, removed stores and created new corridors in the shopping concourse. In ''102 Minutes: The Untold Story of the Fight to Survive Inside the Twin Towers'' (Times Books and Henry Holt, 2005), Jim Dwyer and Kevin Flynn wrote, ''They had done underground what could not be done to the towers themselves: given more people better chances to get out.''
 In his new $200,000-a-year job, Mr. Maikish will supervise work in Lower Manhattan south of Canal Street and southwest of Rutgers Street. The command center will coordinate all roadwork and other construction projects that are valued at more than $25 million, that are financed by Liberty Bonds or that require government action or permits.
 Though his full-time transition from the bank to the command center will not occur until April, Mr. Maikish said in an interview yesterday that he intended to begin immediately. ''This is the right time,'' he said. ''Six months from now would be too late.''
 He added that there had been ''a lot of good planning and a lot of coordination'' leading up to his appointment, which was announced by the governor and the mayor. 
 Mr. Maikish will conduct a cacophonous orchestra -- cat herding may be a better analogy -- whose players include the city and state Transportation Departments, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the Battery Park City Authority, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, the city's Design and Construction Department, the Economic Development Corporation, Silverstein Properties, Verizon, Consolidated Edison, the Police and Fire Departments and at least five other agencies and bodies.
 ''It means getting people to put aside agendas,'' Mr. Maikish said. His goal, he said, was to keep everyone focused on the greater objective of rebuilding Lower Manhattan, ''so we don't get weighed down in minutiae and weighed down in obstructions.''
 Last month, Verizon warned publicly that without better coordination, telephone service downtown and the trade center development timetable might be jeopardized. Yesterday, Paul A. Crotty, the group president for New York and Connecticut, welcomed Mr. Maikish's appointment, citing his ''skills, experience, expertise and temperament.''
 Carl Weisbrod, the president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, said, ''It was worth the wait to get a quality appointment.'' (The Alliance said last month that if an executive director were not appointed soon, the command center risked ''becoming obsolete before it is even operational.'') Mr. Weisbrod said Mr. Maikish had been ''an intimate part of this community for a very, very long time.''
 Iris Weinshall, the city transportation commissioner, said Mr. Maikish would bring ''a wealth of experience in both construction and property management.''
 Before joining Chase Manhattan Bank in 1998, Mr. Maikish was vice president for facilities management at Columbia University. But most of his career was at the Port Authority, which yesterday also praised his appointment. He was principal attorney in the litigation division from 1977 to 1986 and director of ferry operations from 1986 to 1990.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles J. Maikish, named executive director of the Lower Manhattan Construction Command Center. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); TERRORISM (89%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%) World Trade Center (NYC); Area Planning and Renewal; Terrorism; Appointments and Executive Changes

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%)

ORGANIZATION: Lower Manhattan Construction Command Center

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%) David W Dunlap; Charles J Maikish; George E (Gov) Pataki; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



320 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Arms Buying By Venezuela Worries U.S.

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO; Brian Ellsworth contributed reporting from Caracas for this article.

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez's government is moving toward purchasing combat planes from Brazil, the latest step in what the Bush administration has cast as a worrisome arms buildup by the left-leaning government in an already tumultuous region.
 Meeting in Caracas, the Venezuelan capital, on Monday, Mr. Chavez and his Brazilian counterpart, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, signed agreements establishing a strategic, economic and military alliance between the nations.
 Though the deal is not yet sealed, Venezuela is negotiating to buy as many as 24 Super Tucano multipurpose combat aircraft from the giant Brazilian aircraft manufacturer Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica, known as Embraer. The deal would be worth $170 million, according to the Brazilian newspaper O Globo. 
 The two countries also signed energy and mining accords that permit Brazil's oil and gas company, Petrobras, to develop offshore natural gas projects and oil fields in Venezuela's lucrative Orinoco heavy oil belt. Trade between the governments doubled to $1.6 billion in 2004 from the year before and could reach $3 billion this year, a development that Mr. Chavez celebrated as a sign of Latin American integration at the expense of the United States.
 ''We are totally and absolutely convinced in Venezuela that the solution to our problems is not in the north, but here between us,'' Mr. Chavez told reporters on Monday.
 But it is Venezuela's procurement of high-tech military hardware that has raised eyebrows among American policy makers and officials here in Colombia, which shares a porous and violent 1,400-mile border with Venezuela.
 Mr. Chavez's government has been shopping to modernize its poorly armed 100,000-member military. The Venezuelans have agreed to buy at least 10 military helicopters from Russia and 100,000 assault rifles. Venezuela is also considering updating its air force with Russian MIG's.
 The Bush administration, which has been in an increasingly tense war of words since tacitly supporting a brief coup against Mr. Chavez in 2002, has warned that the arms purchases could benefit ''irregular groups,'' meaning Marxist rebels in neighboring Colombia.
 ''We have serious concerns about how Venezuela will secure these armaments and the thousands of rifles they will replace,'' Adam Ereli, a State Department spokesman, said Thursday. 
 Mr. Chavez has reacted angrily to the criticism, saying that Venezuela has the right to purchase arms from any suitable seller and that the United States lacks the moral heft to question the arms sales.
 ''They sold weapons to Saddam Hussein, and they armed Al Qaeda, but the serpent turned against them,'' Mr. Chavez said. The president has also accused the United States of delaying supplies of spare parts for Venezuela's aging fleet of F-16 fighters.
 The comments signal increasingly tense relations between the countries, which are bound economically because of Venezuela's role as one of the four top providers of oil to the United States. 
 In recent weeks, Bush administration officials as senior as Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice have criticized Mr. Chavez's governing style. 
 Mr. Chavez, recently warning of the possibility of an American invasion, has responded by announcing plans to expand so-called popular defense units, a sort of citizen militia, as well as the country's military reserves.
 ''Popular defense units should be born, units of different sizes -- 10 people, 100 people, 500 people,'' Mr. Chavez said in a speech.
 His costly military plans -- they would be worth hundreds of millions of dollars if fully pursued -- raise questions about Venezuela's ability to continue with a significant expansion of social spending aimed at lifting people out of poverty. 
 ''There is a case to be made that the Venezuelan military needed to be upgraded, but the timing of this is what concerns the Colombians and raises questions about his commitment to his social agenda,'' said Miguel Diaz, a senior analyst who tracks Venezuela at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
 Military analysts who study the region, however, say Venezuela's desire to buy Brazilian fighters may make sense, since both Venezuela and Brazil are increasingly interested in cooperating to patrol the Amazon. Drug traffickers move cocaine throughout that jungle zone and Colombian armed groups hide in the region's borders.
 Luis Bittencourt, a Brazilian analyst, said the Super Tucano, a turbo-prop plane, would be an ideal aircraft for patrolling Venezuela's jungle regions. 
 ''They fly well at low altitude, at low speed, and have wonderful maneuverability and they have good range, without using much fuel,'' said Mr. Bittencourt, director of the Brazil project at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington. ''They allow you to identify the enemy, or whatever it is you might be looking for, that are using the forest as cover.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, right, with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil, center, and Brazil's top Foreign Ministry officials, Marco Aurelio Garcia, left, and Celso Amorim, second left. (Photo by Miraflores Palace) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); OIL EXTRACTION (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%); HELICOPTERS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%); FIREARMS (62%) Arms Sales Abroad; United States International Relations

COMPANY: EMBRAER SA (93%); PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA (PETROBRAS) (58%); GLOBO PLC (56%)

TICKER: ERJ (NYSE) (93%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (93%); PETR3 (BOVESPA) (58%); PBR (NYSE) (58%); GBO (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (93%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (93%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) Juan Forero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Luiz Inacio Lula (Pres) Da Silva; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (55%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); COLOMBIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Venezuela; Brazil; Colombia; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



321 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; RESHAPING TELECOMMUNICATIONS: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1793 words

HEADLINE: Phone Mergers May Curb Price Wars

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL and KEN BELSON

 BODY:
American corporations could see an end to the price war of recent years in telephone and Internet services as a result of the sudden consolidation in telecommunications that was punctuated by yesterday's announcement that Verizon Communications would acquire MCI for $6.7 billion.
 The deal pairs Verizon, which is based in New York and is the nation's largest regional telecommunications company, with the second-largest provider of telephone and Internet service to corporations across the country. The Verizon-MCI pact comes just two weeks after SBC Communications, the No. 2 regional phone company, based in San Antonio, agreed to pay $16 billion to acquire the long-distance leader, AT&T.
 Neither deal is expected to have an immediate effect on customers for residential telephone or Internet service, given the shrinking presence of AT&T and MCI in the consumer market.
 But the deals, intended to expand Verizon's and SBC's rosters of corporate customers, mean that after benefiting from the price wars of recent years many American businesses will have only two main options for buying a full range of voice and data services, instead of the four big stand-alone vendors that were competing just last month. The deals also have the potential to transform Verizon and SBC, the two largest operators of local telephone networks, into national powerhouses. 
 If antitrust regulators and the Federal Communications Commission approve the deals, analysts said, the curtailed competition could be especially evident in New York and other metropolitan areas on the East Coast where Verizon, MCI and AT&T have competed fiercely.
 ''If the merger proposals go through, that choice goes away,'' said Brian Moir, a Washington lawyer and lobbyist who directs a trade group representing the largest telecommunications customers. Mr. Moir said that those large companies are going to see an increase in the amount of money ''they have to give to dominant suppliers that they don't have any choice but to use.''
 Several major corporations that use tens of millions of dollars a year in telecommunications services, including Gap, Levi Strauss and Bank of America, declined to comment for this article. One corporation said it was declining specifically because it used AT&T as a provider and did not want to risk upsetting a main supplier. 
 For Verizon, though, ''this is the right deal at the right time,'' said Ivan G. Seidenberg, the company's chairman and chief executive. Mr. Seidenberg has helped build the company through a series of mergers and has so far avoided the stumbles that have led to the downfall of many other longstanding industry executives. 
 The company's chief financial officer, Doreen A. Toben, said in an interview yesterday that corporate customers would benefit from the merger because it would result in the greater efficiencies of dealing with a single large telecommunications company for all their local, national and even international voice and data traffic.
 Until now, she said, large corporations have too often had to rely on partnerships comprising, say, Verizon and MCI, to achieve such end-to-end communications capabilities. ''This is a great benefit for the customer,'' Ms. Toben said. ''There will be a single point of accountability.''
 Whatever the long-term effect on corporate communications users, there is little doubt that the Verizon-MCI deal, like the SBC-AT&T agreement, is a response to basic economic shifts in the telecommunications business in recent years. 
 Because of technological changes as well as a glut of long-haul fiber optic cable that was paid for before the telecommunications boom of the 1990's went bust, the bills of corporations have fallen 15 percent each time they have signed a new contract in recent years, according to the Yankee Group, a market research firm.
 In this environment, the revenue of long-distance communications specialists like AT&T and MCI have dwindled, while companies with strong local, last-mile links to customers -- companies like Verizon and SBC -- have fared better. 
 Qwest -- which was a long-distance carrier of voice and data traffic that acquired the regional Bell company US West in 2000, before it was laid low by an accounting scandal -- had been hoping to wield its local leverage into a deal with MCI. 
 But MCI, the company that emerged from the WorldCom bankruptcy and is led by Michael D. Capellas, deemed Verizon's better balance sheet a better bet than the higher offer -- $7.3 billion -- that Qwest offered late Sunday. Industry analysts expect Qwest, based in Denver, to continue seeking a partner, perhaps the other remaining regional Bell company, BellSouth, which is based in Atlanta and is the dominant phone company in the Southeast. Mergers have already reduced the original seven Baby Bells, born in the 1984 breakup of the Bell System, to the current four. 
 American corporations spent $138 billion on telecommunications services in 2004, according to the Yankee Group. The two leading players serving that market have been AT&T and MCI, with Sprint a distant third. For many years, it was mainly those companies that had the expertise to set up and operate networks that carried data and phone traffic over long distances. Before the Telecommunications Act of 1996 relaxed the rules, in fact, the regional Bell companies were not allowed to carry long-distance traffic. 
 But the local phone companies have always controlled the most crucial last piece of the network -- the so-called tail that carries traffic from the long-distance network to a company's front door. Typically, AT&T and MCI leased that portion from a Bell company like Verizon.
 Corporations currently spend 25 percent to 40 percent of their telecommunications bill to pay for this local tail. As a result, SBC and Verizon already have a huge chunk of the revenue from the corporate market. According to the Yankee Group, Verizon receives about 15 percent of all telecommunications dollars spent by corporations, compared with 15 percent for AT&T, 12 percent for MCI and 14 percent for SBC.
 If the SBC-AT&T merger and the Verizon-MCI union are approved by regulators, the long-haul network and the last mile to local customers would be owned and controlled by the same company in many parts of the country. Advocates of consolidation assert these mergers will make the market for these services more efficient and lead to lower prices.
 But many industry analysts and some executives said the mergers could give a few big carriers new power over corporate customers. In New York, for instance, if SBC-AT&T wanted to compete for a contract, it would still have to pay Verizon to use its network tail. 
 Raul Katz, the chief executive of Adventis, a consulting firm that works with major telecommunications companies, predicted that major corporations would find it increasingly difficult to pit the phone companies against each other. 
 But over time, Mr. Katz argued, such an outcome may be positive because the current situation, with prices having fallen rapidly, has not been economically sustainable. ''This is a cycle,'' he said. ''In two or three or four years, you'll see the level of competition increase because the rates of return will improve.''
 If Verizon's deal with MCI is the latest evidence that the telecommunications balance of power is shifting, it is also a sign of the patience of Mr. Seidenberg.
 Like the other Baby Bells, Verizon was the product of a series of mergers that began in the 1990's. The core of the company, Bell Atlantic, was based in Philadelphia and operated in six Middle Atlantic states and the District of Columbia. Until then, the company was focused on building operations overseas and in the wireless business.
 In 1997, Bell Atlantic doubled in size when it bought the Bell company Nynex, which served New York and New England, for $25.6 billion. Three years later, Bell Atlantic spent $53 billion to buy the biggest independent phone company, GTE, which had local lines scattered throughout the country. The company renamed itself Verizon, an amalgam of the Latin ''veritas'' and the word ''horizon.''
 In both deals, Mr. Seidenberg showed himself to be a patient politician. As Nynex's chief executive, he let Raymond W. Smith of Bell Atlantic take the chairman's spot, while sharing the chief executive role after their merger. Mr. Seidenberg eventually outlasted Mr. Smith and took over as chief executive.
 The same thing happened when Bell Atlantic bought GTE; that company's chief executive, Charles R. Lee, initially took the top job, only to give way to Mr. Seidenberg in a few years.
 Mr. Seidenberg has also proved a shrewd negotiator.
 Rather than take part in the frenzy for wireless carriers that characterized the industry in the late 1990's, he let the British company Vodafone buy a coveted American wireless leader, AirTouch. In a matter of weeks, though, Mr. Seidenberg approached Vodafone and formed a joint venture that combined AirTouch with Bell Atlantic's wireless operations.
 The venture ultimately became Verizon Wireless, in which Verizon is the majority shareholder and is now the country's second-largest mobile phone carrier.
 ''Ivan is a very astute buyer of assets,'' said Dan Reingold, a former Wall Street analyst who is now affiliated with the Columbia Institute for Tele-Information. ''He's constantly looking for the assets that people are neglecting.''
 Indeed, Mr. Seidenberg had a chance in 2001 to buy MCI, then called WorldCom. Because the long- distance market was already in steep decline, Verizon's interest was only tentative. WorldCom's managers, meanwhile, concerned that outsiders would detect their accounting fraud, pulled out of the talks rather than open the books, according to courtroom testimony last week by WorldCom's former chief financial officer, Scott D. Sullivan.
 Mr. Seidenberg said several times recently that he was more interested in expanding into the corporate business market without acquiring a competitor. But SBC's deal with AT&T forced him to move quickly to buy MCI, lest it fall into a competitor's hands.
 He nonetheless got a good price for the company: $4.8 billion in stock and $488 million in cash, which will barely make a dent in Verizon's balance sheet. Even with the special dividend Verizon will pay, the price carries no premium, but is equal to the market value of MCI, which itself has $5.6 billion in cash and relatively little debt.
 Unlike his past deals, though, Mr. Seidenberg may not share power this time. While MCI said yesterday that the two sides had not reached any conclusions about the role of Mr. Capellas, most analysts expect him to stay only briefly. If he leaves, Mr. Capellas could walk away with more than $20 million in cash and stock.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 16, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, a chart in Business Day yesterday with articles about the acquisition of MCI by Verizon Communications omitted from some copies the text that compared changes in the telecommunications industry with those in the corporate world. A revised version can be found online at www.nytimes.com/corrections.html.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Verizon was formed in 2000 after Bell Atlantic bought GTE, a deal that was announced in July 1998 by Ivan G. Seidenberg, left, the chief executive at Bell Atlantic, and Charles R. Lee, the chief executive at GTE. (Photo by Peter Morgan/Reuters)
''This is the right deal at the right time,'' said Ivan G. Seidenberg, Verizon chairman and chief executive. (Photo by Adam Rountree/Bloomberg News)(pg. C6)
(pg. C1)Graph tracks Long-Distance Price -- Cumulative change in the consumer price index for long-distance calls since 1980. (Source by Census Bureau)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Betting on Business''Verizon, the nations largest regional telecommunications company, plans to acquire MCI, the second-largest company selling telephone and Internet service to corporations across the country.Graph tracks revenue and daily closes for MCI and Verizon since 2003.MCIHEADQUARTERS -- Ashburn, Va.CHIEF EXECUTIVE -- Michael D. CapellasEMPLOYEES -- 41,000MARKET CAP* -- $6.3 billionSHARE OF CORPORATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS MARKET THIRD QUARTER '04) -- 12%VERIZONHEADQUARTERS -- New YorkCHIEF EXECUTIVE -- Ivan G. SeidenbergEMPLOYEES -- 203,000MARKET CAP* -- $100.2 billionSHARE OF CORPORATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS MARKET THIRD QUARTER '04) -- 15%*As of yesterdays close(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
company reports
 Yankee Group)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); MERGERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); LOBBYING (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); DIVESTITURES (71%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (65%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Industry Profiles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Computers and the Internet; Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%) Verizon Communications; Mci Inc ; Sbc Communications; At&t Corp

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (52%)

PERSON: IVAN SEIDENBERG (89%) Matt Richtel; Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005



322 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Cuts, Then More Cuts, in the Buffalo Area Budget

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Feb. 15 

 BODY:
Facing its worst crisis after years of budget maneuvers and close calls, the Erie County Legislature decided to wipe out thousands of jobs and eliminate services it had long struggled to preserve, rather than raise the sales tax.
 A day after slashing $40 million from an overdue spending plan, the Legislature chose on Tuesday to cut at least another $55 million, out of a budget of nearly $900 million. Legislators are scheduled to meet on Thursday to work out the details and try to pass a budget, more than two months past the Dec. 7 deadline. 
 The county executive, Joel A. Giambra, described the decision to cut deeper as ''a disaster'' for the county and its 940,000 residents, who for years have seen services erode as officials struggled to come up with the money to pay for them in a region that has never recovered from an exodus of industrial jobs in the 1970's and 80's. The county includes Buffalo, the state's second-largest city, with a population of almost 300,000. 
 But legislators decided to cut after an outpouring of antitax sentiment by county residents, who complained about patronage and other waste and balked at another increase in the sales tax.
 ''The Legislature's failure to enact a revenue to maintain vital county services inflicts serious injury on this community,'' said Mr. Giambra, a Republican, in a statement hours after the vote. Mr. Giambra had pushed for the sales tax increase but had found himself increasingly marginalized in the discussions. He did not even attend Tuesday's legislative session.
 Mr. Giambra added: ''As county executive, I will work closely with the sheriff, the district attorney and with our public health and public safety staff to try to maintain basic safety services. But make no mistake. This is a disaster for county residents.''
 If so, it was a disaster long in the making. The legislative session followed months of heated discussions and competing plans, escalating tension and political brinksmanship to try to close a shortfall that defied the customary budget gimmicks. County parks have been closed for two weeks to save money. The failure to find revenue means that funds for every county department, from public safety to social services, as well as for the Buffalo Zoo and many cultural organizations, will either be cut deeply or eliminated. The lawmakers even said they will lay off every member of their own staffs, except for the Legislature's clerk.
 In a sign of frustration, county employees, including the sheriff, comptroller, district attorney and clerk, are suing the county, saying the cuts could prevent them from carrying out their legally mandated duties.
 Mr. Giambra, an outspoken critic of Albany, has steadfastly blamed rising Medicaid costs for the fiscal crisis. Officials estimated that about 80 percent of the county's annual spending went to such mandated expenses as Medicaid, Medicare and employee pensions. 
 Mr. Giambra pushed to raise revenues by increasing the local sales tax rate by 0.75 percent, to 9 cents on every dollar. 
 But only six members of the 15-member Legislature voted for the increase, less than a week after nine had supported the measure. 
 ''This is a sad day,'' said George A. Holt, a Buffalo Democrat who is chairman of the Legislature and who was one of the legislators to change his vote. ''There were so many people who didn't want the tax -- we heard that loud and clear. We're going to show people what happens when you don't provide the resources necessary to pay for the services they've had in the past.''
 Legislators said they would try to come up with the savings by cutting back in virtually every county service. Mr. Holt said at least 1,400 to 1,700 layoffs from a work force of 9,000 county workers would be required to eliminate the deficit, adding that a ripple effect among companies who contract to provide services could push the total number of jobs lost closer to 3,000. That would spike an unemployment rate that already stood at 5.9 percent in December; the statewide figure is 5.2 percent.
 ''When you're looking for work in Erie County, it's not easy to find,'' Mr. Holt said.
 Last week, Patrick Gallivan, the Erie County sheriff, presented legislators with a plan to cut $4.2 million more from his budget. In December, he already accepted a $7.2 million reduction from 2004.
 ''We'll still have the ability to respond to emergencies and run the jail,'' Sheriff Gallivan said. ''But it will impact our ability to get to calls in an expedient manner and road safety in general.''
 The sheriff said he would eliminate crime-prevention efforts like antidrug programs in schools and be forced to cut back on narcotics investigations and traffic enforcement. He said the county's crime laboratory has been closed in anticipation of further cuts since last week, which left his department unable to process evidence in a rape over the weekend.
 ''If some of these services are not properly restored, it will lead to chaos,'' the sheriff said.
 In November, Mr. Giambra announced that the county faced a $108 million deficit, offering legislators two stark choices -- raise the sales tax by one percentage point, or close the gap with a package of cuts designed by his administration.
 Mr. Giambra, a longtime Democrat who served as Buffalo's comptroller before switching parties and winning the county executive's seat as a Republican in 1999, came up with a tough spending plan, which he called the ''red'' budget, but said he did not want it to pass. Critics said the plan, which called for closing all county libraries and eliminating both road patrols by sheriffs and plowing by the Public Works Department in an area notorious for big snowstorms, was a ploy designed to force legislators to insist on the tax increase and eliminate the need for substantive cuts.
 The plan had the opposite effect, causing an outpouring of protest from tax-weary citizens who flooded radio talk shows and besieged their legislators with calls, letters and e-mail messages. The Legislature tentatively approved the sales tax hike and accompanying ''green'' budget in December, but an early January amendment calling for new spending and protecting scores of patronage jobs led Al DeBenedetti, a Democratic legislator from Buffalo, to withdraw his support, making him the only member of his party to oppose Mr. Giambra.
 ''I've had thousands of calls to my office, as we all have, with a common theme -- cut the pork, cut the patronage -- and we did that yesterday,'' said Timothy M. Wroblewski, a Democrat, who voted for the tax increase. ''We further reduced excessive spending. But I don't think the sheriff's road patrol is excessive spending. Or that the district attorney's office is excessive spending. Or that having school nurses in city schools, or the libraries or parks that thousands of people use are excessive spending.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Andy Amato led a protest on Sunday over the closing of Chestnut Ridge Park. (Photo by Dan Cappellazzo for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Dave Gavadin gave his daughter Jessica, 6, a ride on a sled during a protest of a park closing near Buffalo. (Photo by Dan Cappellazzo for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); SALES TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); MEDICAID (73%); LITIGATION (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



323 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Economy Was Weak In Final Quarter of Last Year

BYLINE: By PAUL MELLER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Feb. 15 

 BODY:
A small contraction in the German economy helped hold growth in the 12-member euro zone to 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, according to official figures released Tuesday.
 The euro zone economy grew 2 percent for all 2004, Eurostat, the European Union's statistics agency, said Tuesday. Economists attributed the tepid year-end growth to a sharp increase in the value of the euro, higher oil prices and weak consumer sentiment, particularly in Germany. Germany's economy retreated 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, the government statistics office said Tuesday. 
 Eurostat said the economies of the Netherlands, Greece and Italy, all members of the single-currency area, also contracted in the last three months of 2004. 
 The euro zone economy grew 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter from the year-earlier quarter, Eurostat said.
 Amelia Torres, the European Commission spokeswoman, said the flagging growth at the end of last year would not lead to a revision in the 2 percent growth forecast for this year. She noted that the 2 percent growth for 2004 was still half a percentage point higher than in 2003, and the strongest annual growth since 2000.
 The commission expects growth in the euro zone to remain within a range of 0.2 percent to 0.6 percent in the first and second quarters of this year, Ms. Torres said. ''There is no reason to change our forecasts at the moment,'' she added.
 The euro zone's performance in the final quarter of 2004 was weak by international standards. The United States economy grew 0.8 percent in the same period, while that of Britain, which is not a member of the euro zone, grew 0.7 percent, Eurostat said.
 A survey conducted by the International Chamber of Commerce, which is based in Paris, and the Ifo Institute for Economic Research, based in Munich, said the global economy had entered a cyclical cooling-off phase that would be followed by a soft landing this year. Those surveyed warned, however, of continued threats from high oil prices.
 ''Most determinants of the short-term prospects remain positive,'' the survey said. ''However, further downward pressures remain: possible disruption in oil supplies as a result of terrorism or another attack on an oil-producing country in the Near East.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: An employment office in Berlin early this month. The economy of Germany contracted in the fourth quarter of 2004. (Photo by Manuela Hartling/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO ZONE (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); TERRORISM (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%) European Union; Eurostat

PERSON: Paul Meller

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (77%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); GERMANY (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (88%); GREECE (88%); BELGIUM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%) Europe; Germany; Netherlands; Greece; Italy; Great Britain; Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



324 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Buying of Treasuries Fell in December

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Japan and many hedge funds were sellers of Treasury securities in December, and China slowed its purchases significantly, according to new Treasury data. Over all, purchases by foreigners of Treasury securities plunged 75 percent, to $8.4 billion, from November.
 That could have been bad for the Treasury market. But it was not, as the monthly flow of foreign funds into the United States continued to produce market results counter to expectations. For investors in the Treasury market, this has been positive because longer-term interest rates have remained lower than might have been predicted. 
 Indeed, the price of the 10-year note rose in December, and the yield dropped to 4.22 percent, from 4.35 percent at the end of November.
 ''This just illustrates that foreign accounts are not driving our interest rate markets,'' said William Prophet, interest rate strategist at UBS. ''Of course, they are having an impact. But they are not determining whether rates are going up or down.''
 In bond trading yesterday, the release of the flow-of-funds data seemed to have little impact, according to traders. The small sell-off of the 10-year note, they said, was more a preparation for today's appearance by Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, before Congress.
 Mr. Prophet said that some investors were betting that Mr. Greenspan might indicate that Fed policy makers would be able to slow the pace of their increases in the central bank's short-term interest rate benchmark, which has been raised a quarter of a percentage point in each of six separate moves since June. 
 If that is the case, many investors would reverse what has been a popular trade recently: betting that longer-term interest rates will rise much less than shorter-term rates. So they would sell three-month and six-month Treasury bills and two-year notes and buy 10-year notes.
 But that trade was being reversed by some investors yesterday, Mr. Prophet said. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note rose to 4.10 percent, from 4.07 percent Monday, while the price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 7/32 to 99 7/32. The price of the two-year note inched up 1/32 and the yield slipped to 3.34 percent, from 3.35 percent Monday. 
 In foreign exchange markets, the dollar fell 0.7 percent against the Japanese yen, to 104.42, and 0.4 percent against the euro, which was valued at $1.3017. 
 The decline may have been restrained by the fact that overall foreign fund inflows, including Treasury securities, corporate and agency bonds and stocks, are still relatively strong and are more than adequate to cover the nation's current-account deficit, which measures the gap in trade and services with the rest of the world and is expected to top $600 billion in 2004. The total net foreign inflow into stocks and bonds was $821.8 billion in 2004.
 Another positive factor was the net purchase by foreigners of $40.8 billion of corporate bonds, the second- biggest monthly total in the history of the data. 
 The dollar responded more in line with expectations in December than the Treasury market did. It fell as net foreign fund flows in the last month of the year, including Treasury securities, corporate and agency bonds and stocks, slowed after a surprisingly strong November.
 Flows slowed to $61.3 billion in December, down from $89.3 billion in November, the biggest monthly inflow since May 2003 and the second largest since the Treasury began compiling this monthly data in 1977.
 But that near-record inflow in November did not provide a lift to the dollar, which dropped 3.6 percent against the euro and 2.6 percent against the yen that month. 
 In December, the dollar decline slowed a little, but it was still down 2 percent against the euro and 0.4 percent against the yen.
 This year the dollar has rebounded, rising 4.1 percent against the euro and 1.7 percent against the yen. At the same time, the yield on the 10-year note has fallen to 4.10 percent from 4.22 percent. So if the government reports that net foreign funds have slowed further in January and February, the link between the foreign funds flow and the Treasury and foreign exchange markets may be even more difficult to explain.
 The reason that the flow of foreign money has been watched so closely is the fear that if it slows it would not be enough to cover the current-account deficit, a fear that was heightened by comments in November by Mr. Greenspan. If there was such a slowdown, interest rates would rise and the dollar would fall, analysts say.
 But currency strategists at Bank of America suggested in recent reports to clients that the fear of a significant slowdown in foreign flows may be waning and that would help explain the dollar's rally this year.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BOND MARKETS (92%); HEDGE FUNDS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BONDS (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); EURO (70%) Foreign Investments; Hedge Funds; Credit; Interest Rates

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (55%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%) United States; Japan; China

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



325 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Professors At Harvard Confront Its President

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. Feb. 15 

 BODY:
President Lawrence H. Summers of Harvard was confronted at a meeting of his own faculty on Tuesday by some of the university's most influential professors, who expressed strong dissatisfaction with his leadership and charged that he was damaging the institution.
 These professors, including two department heads, said after the meeting that they had emphasized that their concerns went well beyond the furor that resulted from Dr. Summers's recent comments suggesting that innate sex differences could account for the lack of women in science and math careers. 
 ''Many of your faculty are dismayed and alienated and demoralized,'' Dr. Arthur Kleinman, chairman of anthropology in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, said at the meeting, referring to a ''crisis concerning your style of leadership and governance.'' 
 The comments came at the first full meeting of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, which includes the undergraduate college and the graduate school of arts and sciences, since Dr. Summers's remarks.
 Most speakers took aim at Dr. Summers for what they described as an autocratic management style that has stifled the open debate that is at the core of the university's values. While their comments were respectful, they were forceful and were greeted by strong applause.
 ''I've never seen a faculty meeting like it,'' said Diana Eck, a professor of comparative religion and Indian studies. ''So many people stood and spoke from the heart about how they felt about his leadership.''
 Professor Eck recounted part of what she had said: ''My question, Mr. President, is one I ask only with reluctance and respect: how will you now respond to what is clearly a widening crisis of confidence in your fitness to lead our university?''
 Dr. Summers, who has often been confrontational in his meetings with the faculty, began by apologizing yet again for his remarks and then seemed to take pains to listen. ''If I could turn back the clock, I would have said and done things very differently,'' he said, according to The Harvard Crimson, the only newspaper allowed to attend such meetings. 
 Dr. Kleinman said: ''He heard a lot of hard things and he seemed to listen. At the end he apologized for giving the sense that he was governing by fear and intimidation.''
 The 90-minute meeting ended with a unanimous vote to hold an emergency meeting of the faculty next Tuesday so professors could continue to discuss their lack of confidence in Dr. Summers's leadership. 
 Attendance yesterday was about twice the usual number, with more than 250 professors crowding into the meeting room at University Hall. 
 Several, including Barbara J. Grosz, chairwoman of a new task force on women in science and engineering, called on Dr. Summers to release a transcript of his remarks about science and women. Theda Skocpol, a professor of government and sociology, said, ''President Summers appears to be apologizing profusely, yet he refuses to release for honest discussion his actual remarks.'' The result was that commentators have cast his critics as ''unreasonable opponents of academic inquiry and openness,'' with Harvard ''ridiculed as a center of close-minded political correctness.''
 One of two professors who spoke in support of Dr. Summers was Ruth R. Wisse, the Peretz professor of Yiddish literature, who said her colleagues were allowing sexual politics to silence the open discussion Dr. Summers intended when he spoke about women at a conference last month, The Crimson reported.
 Lawrence Katz, an economics professor and admirer of Dr. Summers, said afterward that he thought Dr. Summers was ''humble and forthcoming, and he clearly articulated that he in no way intends to intimidate.''
 In the last several days, the faculty has been preoccupied with the outcome of Tuesday's meeting.
 ''It's as if the business of the university has ground to a halt until this matter is resolved,'' said Prof. Henry Louis Gates, the chairman of the African American and African studies department, adding, ''It is clear that much of President Summers's legacy will be determined by how he deals with this crisis.''
 In the past week, Dr. Summers has invited prominent female professors to meet with him, and asked their advice on how to repair his relationships within the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Several months ago, many of these professors met with Dr. Summers to voice concerns over the sharp decline in the number of offers of tenure to female professors since he became president. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); WOMEN (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); TRANSCRIPTS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (69%) Colleges and Universities; Women; Mathematics; Science and Technology; Teachers and School Employees; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) Harvard University

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (91%) Sara Rimer; Lawrence H Summers

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



326 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: Japan, Easygoing Till Now, Plans Sex Traffic Crackdown

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
After years of denying it had a problem with trafficking in humans, Japan is now putting the finishing touches on a law that would make the practice illegal in this country and help foreigners forced into the sex industry here.
 In the months to come, the new law, along with programs to assist victims testifying against traffickers, could begin to stanch the illegal flow of women into one of the world's biggest destinations for foreign prostitutes.
 In Japan, the foreign women who are victims of trafficking end up working everywhere from Tokyo's sprawling red-light districts to rural areas unfamiliar to most foreigners. They stand on street corners and sit behind glass windows; they serve as sex performers or hostesses at clubs outside of which they are expected to date customers.
 A 28-year-old Colombian woman, who spent four years working as a prostitute in Japan, mostly to repay $45,000 she owed criminals who sold and bought her, finally fled to her embassy here late last year. Having given testimony that could help arrest her traffickers, she now waits for authorization from immigration officials to return to Medellin, Colombia, to be reunited with her 12-year-old son and 11-year-old daughter. 
 ''We shouldn't be treated as criminals to be deported out of Japan, but as victims,'' she said in an interview at the Colombian Embassy.
 Starting in March, the government is expected to severely restrict the number of entertainer visas granted, a category that has allowed the entry of, and sometimes trafficking in, women with dubious skills as entertainers. The number of such visas granted Filipinos alone, now 80,000 annually, could be slashed to 8,000.
 But advocates for trafficking victims are watching cautiously. They say the government seemed ambivalent about addressing this problem, which they describe as a form of modern slavery, and began taking serious steps only after American pressure.
 John Miller, director of the United States State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons, said the Japanese authorities were skeptical about the problem one year ago.
 ''We had some frank and candid discussions, and there was a lot of tussle back and forth,'' Mr. Miller said. ''In the course of the succeeding months, there was a turnaround.''
 ''But the final result is not in,'' he added. ''We don't know whether the proposed law will lead to real change and whether these antitrafficking programs will be funded. Nonetheless, the foundation seems to be in the process of being laid.''
 Japan, which signed the 2002 United Nations protocol against human trafficking but could not ratify it without a law against it, has long been known for its lax attitudes on the issue. In June, the State Department placed it on a watch list in a report that ranks governments' efforts to fight human trafficking. It was the only developed nation on the list. 
 In Japan, some women come knowing they will work in the sex industry. But few are aware that they will incur huge debts to traffickers, who typically confiscate their passports, restrict their movements and sometimes sell them to criminals.
 Japan has always taken a businesslike attitude toward the sex industry, regarding it as necessary, and not necessarily evil. The Japanese government organized Asian sex slaves for its soldiers during World War II and brothels for American soldiers during the postwar occupation.
 Today, the Japanese authorities take a laissez-faire attitude. At the main crossroads in the Shibuya district here, the equivalent of Times Square, touts openly solicit young women for the sex trade. Japanese schoolgirls meet older men in a widespread practice euphemistically called ''compensated dating.'' The sex industry remains a part of the business culture, as was shown in 2003 when an Osaka company organized a three-day sex party with 500 prostitutes in Zhuhai, a city in southern China. The party infuriated the Chinese, especially because it ended on Sept. 18, the anniversary of Japan's invasion of China in 1931.
 For the first nine months of 2004, Japan's National Police Agency recorded 46 cases of human trafficking, and arrested 12 brokers on immigration or other charges. But the figures hide the problem's true magnitude, because most cases are never reported, according to diplomats, victims' advocates and the Japanese authorities. 
 Victims are said to number in the thousands, with the three largest sources being Thailand, Colombia and the Philippines.
 The Colombian Embassy estimates that 3,500 Colombian women work as prostitutes in Japan. How many were brought here by traffickers is unclear. But the number of women fleeing to the embassy -- more than 60 last year -- suggested the enormity of the problem to Francisco J. Sierra when he took over as ambassador two years ago.
 When Mr. Sierra approached the Japanese Justice and Foreign Ministries, each said it was the other ministry's responsibility, he said, adding, ''They were evading this topic.''
 Mr. Sierra attributed the lack of attention to a general permissiveness toward prostitution, saying, ''Normal people in Japan don't think it's a problem.''
 Yoko Yoshida, a lawyer for the Japan Network Against Trafficking in Persons, a private organization, said many Japanese women do not stop their husbands from hiring prostitutes. ''If the husbands really fall in love with the foreign women, that would be a problem,'' she said. ''But as long as that doesn't happen, there is little sense that these foreign women are human beings like them.''
 Each month the Thai Embassy here receives about 20 forged passports confiscated from women trying to enter Japan illegally, said Chaturont Chaiyakam, a consul at the embassy. Most of those entering know they will work as prostitutes, but, once here, are kept in servitude and saddled with debts averaging $50,000, he said.
 ''They may take years to repay the debts,'' Mr. Chaiyakam said. ''Or sometimes a Japanese customer will pay the debt and acquire the girl.''
 Motohisa Suzuki, the official coordinating the government's new antitrafficking campaign at the prime minister's cabinet office, said the Japanese had already started taking measures against trafficking, using criminal and labor laws.
 In addition to a new antitrafficking law that will punish offenders, revisions of immigration laws will exempt victims without proper papers from being deported so that they can cooperate in investigations against traffickers, Mr. Suzuki said. Until recently, the women -- even those few willing to testify against traffickers -- were deported immediately.
 How many of those with entertainment visas end up as trafficking victims and are coerced into prostitution is unclear, Mr. Suzuki said, but he added that the visa ''offered a tool for human trafficking.'' About 70 percent of them end up doing work other than entertainment, including working as bar hostesses, he said.
 But Joji Imai, president of the Association of Japanese Promoters Recruiting Foreign Entertainers, said cases of prostitution were isolated. ''Many of the customers who like to patronize clubs with foreign entertainers are interested in learning foreign languages or discovering foreign cultures,'' Mr. Imai said. ''They enjoy different cultures, such as Filipinos' cheerfulness.''
 Koki Kobayashi, a lawmaker in the governing Liberal Democratic Party, said the visas allowed Filipinos to earn good wages and support their families back home. ''It is Japanese economic aid,'' he said. ''Why is only Japan criticized?'' he added. ''I just can't help thinking that the Japanese government is targeting innocent people just because it has been told to do something by the U.S.''
 The 28-year-old Colombian woman waiting to return home was approached about working in Japan -- as a waitress -- four years ago by a Colombian woman in Medellin, she said. But three hours after arriving in Tokyo, she was dropped off in a red-light area, Shin Okubo, and taught four Japanese phrases: ''Good evening. Where are you going? Let's go to the hotel. Twenty thousand yen,'' or $200.
 She had to hand over $80 a night to two Japanese criminals and make regular payments on a $35,000 debt to her Colombian traffickers, allowing her to send home only $300 a month. Her passport was taken. She was largely confined in her off hours to a small apartment with other Colombian women.
 After she had repaid all but $5,000 of the debt, she was sold to one of the Japanese criminals, who demanded an additional $5,000. She repaid the Japanese, but then went into hiding. She worked by herself for six months to buy a plane ticket home.
 Deported from Japan, she went back to Colombia, with $130 left.
 But after only three days in Colombia, one of the Colombian traffickers called her at home, saying, ''You still owe me $5,000.'' He threatened to kill her children unless she returned to Japan and worked off the debt. A few weeks later, holding a forged passport that cost her yet another $5,000, she was back in Japan. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Japan takes a businesslike attitude toward the sex industry. At a brothel in the Kawasaki district near Tokyo, a transaction seemed under way.
 Brothels in the Kogane-cho section of Yokohama, which the police shut down at the end of 2004. Foreign prostitutes were numerous there. (Photographs by Ko Sasaki for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (91%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (90%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (90%); SEX TRAFFICKING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LABOR TRAFFICKING (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); WOMEN (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); SLAVERY (73%); DEPORTATION (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); ARRESTS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%) Prostitution; Law and Legislation; Prostitution

PERSON: Norimitsu Onishi

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) JAPAN (97%); COLOMBIA (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (75%) Japan; Tokyo (Japan); Thailand; Colombia; Philippines

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



327 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1951 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Feelings as Kyoto Pact Takes Effect

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: LUDWIGSHAFEN, Germany 

 BODY:
From the day that Jurgen F. Strube joined BASF in 1969, his company has been cleaning up its act. At that time, it was making plans for a wastewater treatment plant at its chemical production complex here, which stretches for nearly five miles along the Rhine. 
 The plant helped purify the river, which sparkles these days as it flows past a tidy forest of pipes and smokestacks. Downstream from the factory is a vineyard that produces a crisp Riesling wine -- which BASF, the world's largest chemical maker, buys in bulk to stock its million-bottle wine cellars.
 That is why Mr. Strube, chairman of BASF's supervisory board, responds with a hint of impatience when asked how European industry plans to comply with the Kyoto Protocol, requiring Germany and 34 other nations to cut their emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. 
 As the agreement takes effect on Feb. 16, worries about its fairness are mixed with mild resentment. Europeans have set some of the most stringent targets for reducing greenhouse gases, which trap heat in the earth's atmosphere and have been linked by climate experts to global warming.
 It is bad enough, in their view, that American and Chinese companies will not bear these extra costs. But worse, the ultimate goal of curbing greenhouse gases will not be realized because carbon dioxide emissions, unlike polluted rivers, are a global rather than a local problem. 
 ''We have already done so much in the past that we feel others should not get a free ride,'' Mr. Strube said. ''We could reach a situation where the leader is a lonely rider going into the sunset, and everyone else sits back and says, O.K., let's wait and see when he will return.''
 The pressure, he says, should be on the United States, which generates a fifth of the world's greenhouse gases but is staying out of the Kyoto system, or on nations with rapidly growing economies like China and India, which approved the agreement but are not required to reduce emissions -- even though together, they already account for 14 percent of the world's total.
 ''The basic message has to be that we need to bring the other countries aboard,'' said Mr. Strube, who also heads a leading business group, the Union of Industrial and Employers' Confederations of Europe.
 Still, in some ways, European fears may be overblown. Even in the United States, which formally rejected the pact in 2001, a growing number of companies regard mandatory reductions as inevitable. It is a future they must prepare for, whatever the politics of the moment.
 There is a sense on both sides of the Atlantic that the Kyoto Protocol is already changing corporate behavior in lasting ways. From costly investments in carbon-filtering technologies to a complicated new system for buying and selling carbon-emission credits, the agreement is forcing change on businesses, regardless of whether they operate in Kyoto countries.
 ''The globe doesn't know whether greenhouse gas is coming from Bangor, Me., or Beijing, China,'' said Michael G. Morris, chief executive of American Electric Power, the largest electricity generator in the United States and a top emitter of carbon dioxide. ''It simply affects the whole planet.''
 Mr. Morris said he thought that the United States would someday be party to a global treaty on greenhouse gases. At company headquarters in Columbus, Ohio, he said, they refer to it as ''son or daughter of Kyoto.''
 To get ready for such agreements, American Electric has pledged to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions from its plants 10 percent by 2006 -- a reduction that, while less radical than that levied on German industry, is in keeping with the spirit of Kyoto.
 To be sure, not all American companies are looking as far ahead as American Electric, particularly smaller ones without overseas operations. And the political balance in the United States remains heavily tilted against mandatory reductions in emissions.
 Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, have reintroduced a bill that would impose modest emission curbs. But the last time it came to a vote, in 2003, it lost 55 to 43. And the measure faces a harder struggle in this Congress. 
 American Electric is in the process of selling its power plants overseas, a decision Mr. Morris said it made for economic rather than environmental reasons. But he acknowledged that the unevenness of regulations could pose a competitive disadvantage for European companies.
 For the same reason, he added, American concerns could be handicapped compared with Chinese or Indian competitors, because environmental regulations are stricter in the United States, even without acceptance of Kyoto requirements.
 Still, there is little evidence that multinational companies are seeking to locate plants mainly in countries that do not adopt the protocol. Environmental regulations are one of several factors taken into account by businesses in making decisions on new sites, but they are less important than matters like labor costs.
 ''Companies like Dow and DuPont are keeping their overseas operations, and are learning to live with Kyoto,'' said Annie Petsonk, a lawyer for Environmental Defense, an advocacy group based in New York. 
 To live with the accord, the companies must master a bewildering new world. Negotiated in 1997 in Kyoto, Japan, it requires industrial nations -- with varying targets -- to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases below 1990 levels, in the five years from 2008 to 2012.
 For the European Union, the target is an 8 percent reduction below emissions levels in 1990. But the Germans went beyond that and agreed to a more ambitious target of 21 percent because they expected windfall gains by shutting down polluting, coal-fired power plants in the former East Germany. (It now seems likely to fall somewhat short of that.)
 BASF led the German chemical industry in vigorously opposing the mandatory reductions. It argued that the rules put an undue burden on companies that must make decisions, like whether to build a new plant, on a longer timetable than the five-year life of the Kyoto pact.
 Having lost that battle, the companies were required to take inventories of their emissions. They were allocated credits, typically for less than their current levels. These credits can be traded, which means that if a company is unable to meet the targets, it can buy credits.
 Conversely, if a company achieves greater-than-required reductions, it can sell its unused credits at a profit. It can also pick up credits by helping finance the building of ''clean'' power plants in developing countries, or by taking part in reforestation projects, because trees absorb carbon dioxide.
 The carbon market has developed rapidly in Europe, with credits for six million tons of carbon traded in January. (Each credit represents a metric ton.) The price of a credit fell 19 percent over the month, to about $9. Carbon, like other energy markets, is affected by the weather, with emissions rising when it is colder. 
 ''The winter has been warm and wet,'' said James Emanuel, a carbon broker at Evolution Markets in London. ''Plants aren't burning as much coal and because it's wet, hydro plants are producing lots of electricity.''
 Energy companies, which are used to trading electricity, have jumped into this market without hesitation. But for old-line manufacturers, the prospect of carbon trading can be daunting. ''It's mostly a matter of mentality,'' said Markus Huwener, a former investment banker at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein who advises clients on how to deal with the market. ''Germans like to have a law they have to comply with. The cap-and-trade system gives them too much freedom.''
 Indeed, the trading system is considered one of the Kyoto system's innovative features. Recognizing that greenhouse gases are fungible -- emissions in China are no different from those in Europe, and they all mix freely in the atmosphere -- it is an efficient way to reduce the overall level by allowing less-polluting companies to sell unused rights to emit. 
 For Mr. Strube, trading is a distraction from producing and selling chemicals. ''If you are interested in exiting your business,'' he said, ''then trading all your emissions rights might be an attractive opportunity.''
 BASF will not be able to avoid the trading game. Germany allocated it certificates for 1.2 million tons of carbon dioxide a year to operate its flagship factory complex here, which has two working power plants and one nearing completion.
 That is about 85,000 tons less than its current emissions, which means that the company will have to make deeper cuts or buy additional credits, costing up to $700,000 a year.
 This is not unmanageable for a company with $42 billion in sales. BASF also expects to lower its total emissions in Ludwigshafen, after it starts up a $300 million combined heat and power plant this year. That will enable it to sell credits, defraying at least part of its investment.
 By far BASF's biggest investment is in China, where it is building a $2.9 billion petrochemical plant in Nanjing. Because it is using the latest technology, it says it will have little trouble complying with any emissions curbs that China may impose. 
 What concerns BASF is the next round of regulations at home. So far, European authorities have limited mandatory cuts to emissions-intensive industries like power generating and cement making. But it could expand that to include chemicals, affecting more BASF operations.
 Mr. Strube and others are urging officials in Brussels to focus on luring new countries into participation rather than leaning harder on industry. The European Commission took some note of these concerns in its proposals for the post-Kyoto era, which it introduced early this month. It emphasized issues like halting deforestation, which appeals to the United States. But it also said emissions from planes and ships must be curbed, a proposal sure to be resisted because it could involve a fuel tax.
 ''There is still so much uncertainty about what the purpose of climate policy is,'' said Kevin Fay, a lobbyist in Washington who works on environmental issues. ''It can't be, 'you emit, we cut.' Companies need to know what the long-term goal is, and long term is not just 2012.''
 As American companies try to make sense of a carbon-constrained future, some are seeking advice from the Environmental Protection Agency, which sponsors a voluntary program called Climate Leaders. General Motors, one of the 28 participants, said it had achieved its target of a 10 percent reduction in North American plant emissions from 2000 to 2005. It has not applied the goals to Europe, where it operates 11 plants in eight countries. It expects to face mandatory cuts there, but said it was not yet sure of the size. ''It's still in a state of flux in Europe,'' said Kristin B. Zimmerman, G.M. manager of environment and energy policy. 
 For carmakers, of course, the issue is less how they run their plants than what they make. Two-thirds of carbon dioxide emissions come from cars and households -- sources that are difficult to home in on because there are so many of them. 
 BASF is pushing Germany to give incentives to homeowners to insulate their houses. It has refurbished a 1930's apartment block near its factories to show that it can cut emissions 80 percent. The motive is clear: BASF makes the insulation.
 ''Some say it's best to put this off as long as possible,'' said Eileen Claussen, president of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. ''The other way of thinking is, 'We know we're going to be in this world, and our best bet is to develop technologies to benefit from it.'''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Emissions reduction is more than a concept for BASF. (Photo by Hans Rudolf Oeser for The New York Times)Chart: ''A Market Grows in Europe''As the deadline for the Kyoto Protocol to take effect has approached, the market for trading allowances to emit greenhouse gases has grown. Although demand is increasing, prices have fallen because of an unusually warm and rainy winter that made it unnecessary for power plants to operate at high capacity.Graphs track trade volume (1 allowance metric ton of carbon dioxide-equivalent) and allowance prices from January 2004 through February 2005. (Trade volume through Feb. 11)(Source by Evolution Markets)(pg. C3)Chart/Map: ''Time to Check Emissions''Many countries have approved the Kyoto Protocol, which is intended to reduce global emissions of heat-trapping gases. Only industrial nations that have signed the agreement must reduce their emissions. The United States and Australia are among those that have not approved the accord.Graph tracks greenhouse gas emissions (millions of tons of carbon equivalent) according to the latest data available.PER CAPITA EMISSIONS -- TONS OF CARBON EQUIVALENTUnited States: 6.5China: 1.1*Russia: 3.6India: 0.5*Japan: 2.9*Germany: 3.4Brazil: 1.4*Canada: 6.4*Britain: 2.9*Italy: 2.6*France: 2.5South Korea: 3.1Australia: 7.3*Ukraine: 2.9Mexico: 1.7Indonesia: 0.7Iran: 1.9South Africa: 2.6*Spain: 2.7*Poland: 2.6Saudi Arabia: 4.3Argentina: 2.2Pakistan: 0.6Thailand: 1.2Venezuela: 2.7*Netherlands: 3.6North Korea: 2.6Uzbekistan: 2.0Egypt: 0.8Malaysia: 2.0*COUNTRIES BOUND BY KYOTO TARGETSEmissions figures include carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and three fluorinated greenhouse gases. Figures exclude carbon dioxide emissions resulting from land use change and deforestation. If included, the amounts would probably rise significantly for Brazil, Indonesia and Malaysia.Map of the world highlights countries which either ratified Kyoto accord as per their status as an industrialized or developing nation:INDUSTRIALIZED -- (Emissions must be reduced to below 1990 levels during the 2008-12 period)DEVELOPING -- (Voluntary commitment to develop ways to limit growth of emissions)(Source by Climate Analysis Indicators Tool from the World Resources Institute)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); WINE (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRENDS (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (77%); RIVERS (77%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); APPROVALS (69%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (55%) Weather; Treaties; Kyoto Protocol; Gases; Global Warming; Factories and Industrial Plants; Weather; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: BASF SE (95%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (59%)

TICKER: BFA (LSE) (95%); BASF (BIT) (95%); BAS (FRA) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (95%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (95%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (95%)

PERSON: Mark Landler; Jurgen Strube

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); INDONESIA (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%); UKRAINE (79%); SPAIN (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); THAILAND (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (67%) China; India; Europe; Australia

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



328 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Holy City Suffers Lack Of Utilities And Pilgrims

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: NAJAF, Iraq 

 BODY:
One of the holiest cities of Shiite Islam has become one of the loneliest. 
 Once thronged with pilgrims, its dusty lanes and twisting alleyways are empty of visitors.
 Gas and electricity shortages leave homes cheerless and uninviting after nightfall.
 Entire blocks of the Old City, clustered around the golden-domed shrine to the Prophet Muhammad's son-in-law, remain in ruins nearly six months after a fierce battle between the Americans and a Shiite militia.
 ''Even up until this moment we're still suffering,'' said Muamel Salim Aziz, 32, the owner of a perfume stall in the Old City's covered market. ''I feel pain deep inside when I look around at my country and at my city.'' 
 So goes life in Najaf, a power base as formidable as Baghdad that is home to the country's most revered Shiite clerics.
 The city's status as a second capital is being cemented by election returns showing that religious Shiite parties backed by the clerics will get the biggest share of seats in the constitutional assembly. 
 The Americans hold this city up as a model of stability, having pacified the militia of Moktada al-Sadr, the young rebel cleric. Unlike the practice in some parts of the country, American troops here make brief forays into crowded markets to talk with Iraqis, and this province was one of only two in the country that had no attacks for most of January, according to a report from a Western security company.
 But while Najaf, a city of half a million, holds more promise than most parts of Iraq, it is still mired in problems emblematic of the postinvasion era. Because of the violence afflicting much of the country, and because of the devastation strewn across downtown Najaf, Shiite pilgrims have stopped coming here, crippling the economy.
 The governor, Adnan Zurfi, is locked in a power struggle with the police chief, an appointee of the Interior Ministry in Baghdad, with each accusing the other of corruption. Mr. Zurfi is also trying to find the proper balance between muzzling radical elements and allowing them to have a voice.
 Prime Minister Ayad Allawi has been pressing the governor to let Mr. Sadr preach again at Friday Prayer, in the hope that doing so would help bring the firebrand cleric further into the political process, a senior American military officer said. But local residents and the Americans are wary, and many residents blame Mr. Sadr for the suffering inflicted on the Old City.
 On Feb. 4, for the first time since fighting ending, Mr. Zurfi allowed a cleric affiliated with Mr. Sadr to preach at a mosque in Kufa, a town nearby. Thousands attended. The cleric, Hashim Abu Righif, used anti-American language and called for the government to set a timetable for the withdrawal of American troops.
 ''Friday speech strengthens relations between the people if it is religious and unaccompanied by violence,'' Radi al-Fatlawi, an aide to the governor, said of weekly sermons. ''The dominant language in Iraq is the language of elections, not of the gun.'' 
 But the possibility that the mercurial Mr. Sadr may once again wreak havoc leaves residents uneasy.
 ''We think the person ultimately responsible for the mess is Moktada al-Sadr,'' said Mr. Aziz, the perfume merchant. ''Before the events of Moktada the city was doing well. Then he came along, and the economy fell.'' 
 Shiite pilgrims began flocking to Najaf centuries ago to pay homage at the Shrine of Ali and to bury their dead here. Religious leaders later set up a seminary to rival the schools of the Iranian holy city of Qum. 
 Under Saddam Hussein the government clamped down on the pilgrim traffic, though Mr. Hussein began allowing a few busloads from Iran in the final years of his rule. After the American invasion, the floodgates opened, with pilgrims streaming in from across the Shiite world.
 Mr. Sadr's first uprising last April put an end to that. Even after a cease-fire was reached in May, Mr. Sadr's militia, the Mahdi Army, continued to roam the streets and ambush Iraqi security forces. In August,a full-fledged battle erupted between the militia and the Americans, a battle that ended when Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the country's most powerful Shiite cleric and a resident of Najaf, persuaded Mr. Sadr to lay down his arms.
 The city was host to as many as 6,000 pilgrims a day before the April uprising, a number that has since plummeted by as much as 90 percent, said Maj. Gen. Ghalib al-Jezaieri, the police chief.
 The pilgrim trade has not recovered, even though violence here since August has been limited to a few car bombs.
 To get here, people have to brave roads made unsafe by insurgents and bandits. The main thoroughfare from Baghdad, 120 miles to the north, is known as the Highway of Death. It runs through hostile market towns teeming with armed Sunni Arabs.
 ''The pilgrims have fears that the situation is not secure,'' said Kadhum Muhammad Ridha, 40, owner of the Basra Hotel, tucked away in an alley near the central shrine. ''And they still think Najaf is in the hands of the militias.''
 Before the fighting in April, Mr. Ridha said, the hotel accommodated 150 pilgrims a week, at $1.50 a night each. The number of visitors has since dropped to 15 to 20 a week, he said.
 Besides the hazards of overland travel, pilgrims are put off by stories of the widespread devastation in the Old City, Mr. Ridha said. Piles of rubble still litter the landscape. Loose wires dangle along the streets. Hotels and shops remain scarred by explosions from tank rounds, mortar shells and aerial bombardment.
 Mr. Aziz, the perfume salesman and an archaeologist by training, led a visitor to a large two-story building that served as a prison in the days of the Ottoman Empire. During the Shiite rebellion of 1920, he said, British prisoners of war were kept there. Black chalk sketches of a Caucasian woman in a bonnet and a country home decorate the walls of one former cell. During the battle in August, a shell rammed through the outer wall, and no one has rebuilt it.
 Mr. Aziz walked a few blocks to the remnants of the Old City's original walled battlements. The entire top half of a curved tower had been obliterated in the recent fighting.
 ''It can't be replaced,'' he said. ''It's as if we had lost Iraq's heritage.'' 
 Mr. Ridha, the hotel owner, said a shell had ripped apart the front face of his building, destroying a third of the 16 rooms. The Americans have paid him $1,000 in compensation, he said, but he has had to spend $8,000 of his own money on reconstruction. Another hotel he owns is still in ruins, he said.
 But he is quick to thank the Americans for putting down the Sadr uprising. ''I'd hang Bush's portrait up there on the wall,'' he said, pointing across his cramped lobby, ''but I feel afraid. I can't be sure of who's around.'' 
 Since the August battle, the Marines have handed out $8.9 million in compensation, with $4 million of that from the Iraqi government, said Col. Anthony M. Haslam, the commander of the 11th Marine Expeditionary Unit. 
 The Americans have gone door to door assessing damage in the impoverished Judayda neighborhood south of the Old City. There they have compensated more than 3,000 homeowners, paying an average of $300 to $400 each, and renovated a covered market with more than 170 stalls.
 The most the Marines have paid anyone is $2,500, usually for the accidental killing of a child, the colonel said. ''This is a condolence payment,'' he said. ''We could not pay out over $2,500. There were a lot of buildings, hotels, that far exceeded that.'' 
 The Marines also cannot help repair buildings in the quarter-square-mile of the Old City, because of an informal agreement with city leaders that they not set foot in the area.
 On a recent afternoon, a pilgrim from the nearby city of Karbala walked out of the Shrine of Ali and pointed at the wrecked buildings.
 ''This city should be a worldwide center of tourism,'' said the pilgrim, Hussain Ali Radhi, 28. ''We're shocked when we see these scenes of destruction because they just don't belong next to the shrine.'' 
 Many pilgrims never even lay eyes on the devastation, because fear keeps them away. There is a story circulating here, perhaps an urban legend, about a Shiite man whose car broke down along the Sunni-dominated Highway of Death. The man walked to the nearest town and was invited into a home during prayer time. Several people were praying, but one man was just standing in a corner.
 ''Why isn't that man praying?'' the stranded Shiite asked.
 ''He's killed six Shiites,'' someone said. ''He already has the keys to paradise.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: On a Najaf street near the Shrine of Ali, a few vendors display wares to a reduced number of Shiite pilgrims. (Photo by Max Becherer/Polaris, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); POLICE FORCES (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); POWER FAILURES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); POLITICS (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); CORRUPTION (61%) Geographic Profiles; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Shiite Muslims

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%) Edward Wong

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Najaf (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



329 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: An Economist Who Didn't Just Play by the Numbers

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:

'John Kenneth Galbraith'
'His Life, His Politics, His Economics'
By Richard Parker
Illustrated. 820 pages. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $35.
 There was a time when John Kenneth Galbraith was the most famous economist in America, a man whose books regularly became best sellers. But today he is little honored in the economics profession, where, as Richard Parker remarks in his engaging and exhaustive biography, Mr. Galbraith is regarded as something of an outsider, a fine writer who never became comfortable with the detailed mathematical formulas that came to dominate economics.
 When a Galbraith book, ''The Affluent Society,'' spent months on the best-seller list in 1958, George J. Stigler, the University of Chicago economist who would eventually win the Nobel Prize in economics for his work on the economic effects of government regulation, was outraged. He called it ''shocking that more Americans have read 'The Affluent Society' than 'The Wealth of Nations,''' the classic work by Adam Smith.
 Mr. Galbraith's response was typical, witty and anything but self-deprecating. ''Professor Stigler's sorrow,'' he suggested, ''may be not that so many read Galbraith and so few read Smith but that hardly anyone reads Stigler at all.'' A man who grew up on a Canadian farm and who spent formative years trying to control wages and prices during the New Deal, and then did pioneering work assessing the effectiveness of strategic bombing at the end of World War II, Mr. Galbraith was acutely aware of the role of power in society at a time when many economists preferred to step around that issue.
 How does his work stand up now? Mr. Parker -- like Mr. Galbraith, a man who was trained in economics and who taught at Harvard while active in both journalism and Democratic politics -- is generally supportive. He praises Mr. Galbraith's ability to analyze how the economy really worked, as opposed to how models said it should work, and sees in his writing a precursor to behavioral economics, which has become a major force in the profession by moving away from assumptions that investors and consumers can be expected to act rationally. His early work showed that large companies in mid-20th-century America were run more for the benefit of their managers, who seldom owned much stock, than for the benefit of their shareholders, and were not as interested in maximizing profits as conventional economists assumed. But he did not see the renewal that was coming, as the threat of takeovers and new technologies revolutionized American business.
 Mr. Galbraith, 96, leaves no Galbraithian school of economists, although Mr. Parker quotes Amartya Sen, the Indian economist and Nobel Prize winner, as saying his work will endure. Reading ''The Affluent Society'' now, Mr. Sen said, is ''like reading 'Hamlet' and deciding it is full of quotations.''
 ''You realize,'' he continued, ''where they came from.'' 
 Mr. Galbraith's early days did not signal great academic success. After repeating 12th grade at a high school in rural Ontario, he graduated from Ontario Agricultural College, an institution whose entrance requirements did not include a high school diploma. Years later the college gave him an honorary degree, then considered taking it back after Mr. Galbraith described it as ''not only the cheapest but probably the worst college in the English-speaking world.'' 
 Such a comment bespoke a haughtiness that would characterize his career as he earned a doctorate at the University of California at Berkeley and then arrived at Harvard as an agricultural economist, a field that has largely died out but one that clearly influenced the critiques of the larger economy that made him famous.
 Mr. Galbraith had a way of getting under conservatives' skins. In 1954, on the 25th anniversary of the 1929 crash, he testified before Congress on the dangers of excessive speculation, and the stock market promptly stumbled -- a move for which some blamed him. Homer E. Capehart, a Republican senator from Indiana, saw evidence of Communism in the idea, and then another of Mr. Galbraith's opponents, Secretary of Commerce Sinclair Weeks, demanded that J. Edgar Hoover conduct an F.B.I. investigation.
 In due course, the report came back to Mr. Hoover, and was forwarded to Mr. Weeks: ''Investigation favorable except conceited, egotistical and snobbish.'' Republican enmity toward Mr. Galbraith -- which was richly reciprocated -- endured for decades. In 1971 he testified before Congress that the government should consider wage and price controls. President Richard M. Nixon told his treasury secretary that the testimony had ''unmasked'' the real aim of ''all these bright New Dealers'' and could be used to destroy Mr. Galbraith. ''Make the Democratic candidates and spokesmen repudiate him,'' he said. Less than three weeks later, Nixon announced his New Economic Policy, which featured wage and price controls. Mr. Galbraith told a reporter he felt ''like the streetwalker who had just learned that the profession was not only legal but the highest form of municipal service.'' 
 His own service to the government came as President John F. Kennedy's ambassador to India. Mr. Parker credits him with doing excellent work to defuse a war that broke out between China and India in 1962, just as the Cuban missile crisis was preoccupying Washington. He was also an early critic of the Vietnam War inside -- and later outside -- the government. 
 It was characteristic of Mr. Galbraith that his nomination to the Indian post was threatened by his willingness to speak what he saw as common sense but that others saw as ''virtual treason,'' as Mr. Parker puts it. At his confirmation hearing in 1961, he suggested that the United States might consider offering diplomatic recognition to the Chinese government in Beijing if that government would accept the right of Taiwan to exist independently. When the United States finally did recognize China, it made no such demand, and today China threatens war if Taiwan formally proclaims an independence that has in fact lasted more than half a century.
 This book may tell some readers more than they want to know about the details of politics, economics and public policy in the mid-20th century. But it also shows how good Mr. Galbraith was at both assessing problems and dealing with them.
 It was 52 years ago, after Adlai E. Stevenson lost to Dwight D. Eisenhower despite witty speeches written by Mr. Galbraith, that this economist summed up the problem in words that sound as if they could have been written last year. ''American liberals have made scarcely a new proposal for reform in 20 years,'' he wrote. ''It is not evident that they have had any important new ideas.'' In the following years, Mr. Galbraith helped to provide the ideas that shaped the Kennedy and Johnson administrations. Liberals could use a new Galbraith now.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Parker (Photo by Farrar, Straus & Giroux) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (89%); AFFLUENT MARKET (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (88%); BESTSELLERS (77%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); MATHEMATICS (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); TAKEOVERS (69%); WORLD WAR II (64%); BOMBINGS (64%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (58%) Floyd Norris; John Kenneth Galbraith; Richard Parker

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



330 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: 2 Reporters Express Dismay But Say They're Resolute

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
The two reporters at the center of the case involving disclosure of the identity of Valerie Plame, a C.I.A. operative, said yesterday that they were disappointed with the decision upholding a lower court's ruling that found them in contempt for refusing to name sources. But they vowed to fight to the last appeal.
 One of the two, Judith Miller, a veteran reporter for The New York Times, said: ''A case like mine is a warning to people not to talk because the government will come after you, and that's what we're fighting. That's what the press ought to be concentrating on: the threats to the First Amendment and the free press.'' 
 Ms. Miller was among a group of Times journalists who won a 2001 Pulitzer Prize for reporting they did on Al Qaeda, and much of her work has focused on national security and government secrecy. Most recently, she has written about the controversy surrounding the United Nations oil-for-food program.
 The other reporter involved in the contempt case, Matthew Cooper of Time magazine, has a side career doing stand-up comedy, including dead-on impersonations of politicians. He writes about politics and politicians, and was the first to disclose, in June, that President Bush had been given Saddam Hussein's pistol and kept it in a small room off the Oval Office.
 Mr. Cooper said he kept the Plame case in perspective by thinking about his Time colleague Michael Weisskopf, who was in a Humvee in Iraq when someone tossed in a hand grenade. Mr. Weisskopf picked up the grenade and threw it out, saving the lives of several people but losing his right hand in the process.
 ''He sits down the hall from me,'' Mr. Cooper said. ''I think yes, what I'm putting up with is tedious and unsettling, but it's nothing compared to that kind of personal sacrifice.''
 Ms. Miller, 57, grew up in Miami and Los Angeles, and attended Ohio State University, Barnard College and the Institute of European Studies at the University of Brussels. She earned a master's degree in economics from the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton in 1972.
 She joined The Times's Washington bureau in 1977 and in 1983 became the first woman to be chief of the paper's Cairo bureau. She has written four books.
 Ms. Miller has been a target of media critics who contend that her articles on unconventional weapons helped provide the Bush administration's justification for going to war in Iraq.
 In an interview yesterday, she said she hoped to separate the issue of her own career from that of protecting sources. 
 ''My strategy is to tell anyone who will listen that this is not about me, this is really about their right to know,'' she said, adding, ''For all the mistakes that we journalists make at times, try running a functioning democracy without us.''
 She added that the Plame case had been ''debilitating'' for her and had limited her ability to do her job. ''It's tough to travel, to be away, in case there are developments or a decision,'' she said. 
 Mr. Cooper, 42, grew up in South Orange, N.J., and studied history at Columbia University. He was an editor at The Washington Monthly, wrote about the White House for The New Republic and covered politics for three years at Newsweek before moving to Time in 1999 as deputy chief of the Washington bureau.
 He said yesterday that he was going about his daily duties of covering the White House and going on trips with President Bush, focusing on the Plame case only when he had to.
 He said he was not dwelling on the chance that he might go to jail, and had yet to explain his situation to his 6-year-old son.
 ''Why worry him until you have to?'' Mr. Cooper said. ''I'm teaching him about respect for the law and the rule of law, and it's hard to explain why Daddy finds himself in a legal predicament.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); WRITERS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IRAQ WAR (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%) Freedom of the Press; News and News Media; Contempt Actions

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); AL-QAEDA (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) Central Intelligence Agency; New York Times; Time (Magazine)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) Katharine Q Seelye; Matthew Cooper; Valerie Plame; Judith Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (69%) OHIO, USA (79%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (69%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



331 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- Manhattan and Brooklyn; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: A Makeover for Cruise Ship Terminals

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP

 BODY:
New York is beginning a vast $200 million effort to make itself more attractive, as well as more convenient, for modern cruising vessels and their luggage-laden passengers.
 It has begun an overhaul of the 70-year-old passenger ship terminal on the West Side of Manhattan, which with its forbidding, industrial-like exterior, relatively narrow berths and antiquated waiting rooms has long needed an update. And next month, construction is scheduled to begin on a new 180,000-square-foot passenger cruise terminal in Brooklyn, a first for the borough. 
 As in many other cities, the cruise business in New York is growing, buoyed in part by faster ships and also by the attacks of Sept. 11, when many travelers began turning to local ports to eliminate both the headaches and the expense of having to fly to distant ports, like those in south Florida. According to the New York City Economic Development Corporation, almost 900,000 cruise passengers passed through Manhattan's cruise terminal in 2003, up from an annual average of 400,000 during the 1990's. 
 In August 2003, the Economic Development Corporation began working with a Miami architecture and engineering company, Bermello, Ajamil & Partners, to draw up a master plan for both the Manhattan and Brooklyn terminals. The project is the Miami company's first large job in New York, but it has worked as a consultant to the Port of Miami for the last two decades and is now working on more than a dozen cruise terminals around the world, in cities like Hong Kong, St. Petersburg, Seattle and San Diego, according to Luis Ajamil, a founder of the firm. 
 Kate Ascher, the executive vice president for the infrastructure division at the Economic Development Corporation, said her agency considered three design firms for the projects, but decided to go with Mr. Ajamil's company because ''we really needed planning and analysis.'' 
 ''There are only a few premier cruise design firms in the world,'' she said, adding that a final design plan for the Manhattan terminal is expected by the end of the year. 
 In Manhattan, the biggest hurdle at the existing terminal, which sits along the Hudson River between West 47th and 53rd Streets, has long been a lack of space. Built in the early 1930's and last renovated in the early 1970's, the facility now has three finger piers -- Piers 88, 90 and 92 -- that are about 1,000 feet long and about 400 feet apart. A terminal building sits atop each.
 The piers provide a total of five berths, but they were designed when cruise ships were often only about 80 feet in width. Modern ships now average about 136 feet, with some as wide as 142 feet, Mr. Ajamil said. As a result, he said, two modern vessels can no longer fit comfortably in the same slip between two of Manhattan's piers. 
 The city wants to redesign the Manhattan cruise terminal to handle only three ships at a time, at Piers 88 and 90, but with more berth space for each ship. Pier 92 and its building, they say, will continue to be used through 2008, but over the next year the Economic Development Corporation will evaluate other uses for it. 
 Meanwhile, the agency hopes to redesign the terminal buildings on the two remaining piers to tackle the passenger jams that often occur when ships are late. When the terminal was designed, cruise ships typically carried fewer than 1,000 passengers, unlike the 3,000 to 4,000 that may be aboard now. 
 Each of the cruise terminal buildings has an unfinished ground floor that measures about 130,000 square feet; these areas are mostly used to house the trucks that provide support services for the ships. To get on and off ships, passengers use the buildings' second floors, where the waiting areas are crowded, outdated and unattractive. 
 The city plans to redevelop both buildings and roughly double the waiting areas. Passengers will be able to use both floors and will have easier access to bus, taxi and limousine areas.
 To accommodate the trucks that service the ships, the agency plans to extend the four-and-a-half-foot-wide aprons that run along the terminal building on both sides of the piers, so that they are 50 feet wide and 1,100 feet long, allowing trucks to go out on the pier. 
 Some changes have already been made at the terminal. For example, overhead heating systems were recently added to two outdoor waiting areas at Piers 88 and 90 to accommodate the growing number of cruise passengers who use the terminal in winter. In late 2003, Norwegian Cruise Line became the first company to operate a cruise ship from the terminal year-round, and it plans to add a second ship in November. 
 Eventually, the Economic Development Corporation hopes to put roofs over the 1,000 parking spaces atop the terminal buildings. Plans also call for adding more glass siding and public viewing areas to the outside of each terminal building and replacing aged escalators. Because the terminal's escalators are now only about two and a half feet wide, cruise passengers are not allowed to get on them with their luggage. 
 In Brooklyn, the new cruise terminal will be built in the vacant area that surrounds Pier 12 in Red Hook. Plans call for a terminal building that will be able to accommodate 4,000 passengers, parking space for about 500 cars and a pier that will be able to accommodate very large ships, like the Queen Mary 2, that are more than 1,100 feet long.
 Brooklyn's terminal is also planned to be one of the first transportation terminals in the country to have space -- 20,000 square feet -- where arriving passengers, once they collect their luggage, can go through customs and immigration at the same time, rather than separately. 
 It is still uncertain which cruise lines will operate from the Brooklyn terminal, Ms. Ascher said, but she said she expected the terminal to start receiving some ships this fall. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: A plan to overhaul New York's passenger ship terminals would provide a nicer waiting room at the West Side piers. Overhead heating, left, has already been installed at the curb. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)Chart: ''Data Update''National housing starts, sales and completions, seasonally adjusted annual rates through December.Graph tracks starts, sales, and completions from 2000-2004.(Source by Census Bureau, Construction Statistics Division)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (93%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (54%) Ships and Shipping ; Cruises ; Stations and Terminals (Passenger); Restoration and Rehabilitation; Ships and Shipping 

COMPANY: BERMELLO AJAMIL & PARTNERS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: Sana Siwolop

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Red Hook (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



332 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2131 words

HEADLINE: Puerto Rico, Flavored With Contradictions

BYLINE: By R.W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R. 

 BODY:
THE native Taino Indians, the Spanish who conquered the island in the 16th century, the Africans brought here as slaves to work in the cane fields, the Americans who seized the reins of power from the Spanish in 1898, and recent immigrants from elsewhere in the Caribbean, notably Cuba, have all contributed mightily to the rich alloy of Puerto Rican life.
 You can't spend five minutes here without realizing that you're on American territory, and you can't spend six without feeling that you're abroad. English-speaking and Spanish-speaking, economically heavily dependent on the mainland and culturally fiercely independent, politically evenly divided between advocates of statehood and supporters of commonwealth status, the present constitutional halfway house, Puerto Rico is a place of awkward juxtapositions struggling to define itself. 
 ''We're all Hispanic gringos or gringo Hispanics,'' said Eliot Holt, a public-relations man from the mainland, married to a Puerto Rican, who has lived here for several decades. ''Fortunately you can't really tell which is which.'' 
 Walk through Ponce or Old San Juan, with their Crayola-colored buildings in a multitude of styles -- neo-Baroque, Spanish Colonial, Art Deco, Art Nouveau, even faux-Arab -- and you can imagine yourself in New Orleans or Sicily. Like the food in those places, Puerto Rican cooking, perhaps the region's most sophisticated, reflects the tastes of all who have ruled here, and some who haven't. In the 21st century Puerto Rico finds itself with a compound cuisine enriched by Japan, Italy, Thailand and India.
 Amazingly it works well enough to make the visitor forget all the banal food on the French-, British- and Dutch-tinctured islands scattered hereabouts.
 Puerto Rico is big enough, and well organized enough, that it raises and catches much of the food it consumes. It is therefore less dependent upon the vagaries of air-shipped produce than many islands. It has a well-established middle class that provides a solid, year-round customer base.
 And it takes real pride in its history. You sense that at La Bombonera, a cafeteria on Calle San Francisco in Old San Juan, dating from 1902, with an old tile facade and an interior pitilessly lighted by fluorescent bulbs. Dignified waiters serve orange juice squeezed to order, coffee brewed from local beans in an ancient Rube Goldberg contraption, and pan de Mallorca, an eggy breakfast bun to die for, dusted with sugar and toasted with butter on the kind of griddle used in Miami to make Cubano sandwiches.
 Most household kitchens on the island rely upon adobo and sofrito, the traditional seasonings made of herbs and spices including garlic, salt, cilantro, oregano, sweet peppers and sometimes recao or culantro, an elongated herb also used by the Vietnamese. Achiote or annatto seeds impart a bright yellow color to numerous dishes.
 But chefs like Roberto Trevino, a Mexican-American, have added new layers of flavor. Mr. Trevino is Puerto Rico's ranking culinary celebrity, chosen to do battle (unsuccessfully) with Mario Batali on the Food Network's ''Iron Chef America'' series last month. Still only 35 years old, he came from northern California in 1993 to work in a hotel kitchen and now owns four hot-stuff restaurants with Emilio Figueroa and Gigi Zafero, three of them in a single block on Fortaleza Street (is this SoFo?). Lines form outside each early in the evening, and Mr. Trevino dashes from place to place as dark descends.
 My wife, Betsey, and I peered into Dragonfly, a minuscule, dimly lighted spot with red walls, loud music and a sleek, youthful, mostly black-clad crowd of Marc Anthony doubles and Jennifer Lopez wannabes. The Peking duck nachos with wasabi sour cream and other Latin-Asian dishes sounded tempting enough, but we realized right away that we didn't quite fit the (ahem!) customer profile and kept moving along.
 Bigger, brighter and marginally quieter, the Parrot Club suited us better. Mr. Trevino started us off with a trio of ''ceviches'': raw fish (mahi-mahi, tuna, bass and salmon), conch and octopus cooked in olive oil and vinegar on low heat with onions and red pepper, then chilled, and Veracruz-style parboiled shrimp and scallops with lime juice, scallions and a Tabasco-boosted red sauce. Only one was a true ceviche of course, but all were copious and delicious. So were the crunchy plantain, cassava and taro chips that came with them.
 Menus are written in slightly silly Spanglish (''quesadilla spring rolls con Chinese sausage y lime sour cream''), but there was nothing silly about the Parrot Club's house specialty, a slab of blackened tuna resting in a pool of dark rum sauce whose richness was tempered by orange essence. It arrived with a heap of yucca mash. Nor about the churrasco steak, served with a garlic- and herb-laden chimichurri sauce.
 If Dragonfly feels a bit like an opium den, and the Parrot Club has the look of a tropical bistro, Aguaviva resembles an aquarium: all white walls and blue light, with hanging fixtures shaped like jellyfish. It was designed by Ms. Zafero, one of the three partners. There Mr. Trevino plays further variations on the ceviche theme, including one with mango and mahi; ''I think ceviche will be as popular in the States in five years as sushi is now,'' the chef told me.
 Aguaviva serves an assortment of fresh East Coast oysters, different each night, and a more than credible version of Oysters Rockefeller. But its reputation is built on its wonderfully moist grilled swordfish chop, cut from the neck of the fish, glazed with olive oil and spices, including Spanish paprika, and grilled until the exterior turns a lovely shade of bronze. The interior stays white as snow. With side dishes of mushrooms in vinegar and a posole-potato mixture, and a bottle of Martin Codax's elegant Albarino from the mainly Spanish and North American wine list, we were set for the night, even before a dish of uniquitously alluring banana-coconut ice cream topped with shaved chocolate mysteriously appeared on our table.
 Far from the cobbled streets of Old San Juan, in the shimmering new Museum of Art of Puerto Rico, Wilo Benet has developed a menu at once sophisticated, innovative and (with few exceptions) grounded in indigenous traditions and ingredients. After stints in the vaunted kitchens of the Water Club and Le Bernardin in New York, Mr. Benet came home to Puerto Rico and continued to soak up influences from chefs as diverse as Paul Prudhomme in New Orleans and Jean Vigato of Apicius in Paris.
 Now he presides over Pikayo, off the museum's lobby, a restaurant filled with modern Puerto Rican art, divided by frosted glass partitions and gauzy screens, furnished with ample chairs (with a pillow at the base of the diner's back) and washed by changing, soft-hued lights. This is a big-time room, frequented by the city's elite.
 Betsey and I and our chum Susana Torruella Leval, San Juan-born but long resident in Manhattan, were impressed by the kitchen's artistry: not only the way the food was cooked but the way it looked on the plates. All of us loved a buttery dish of tender Japanese squid, flavored with roasted garlic and cilantro, and tuna tartare with spicy peanut sauce, a ribbon of balsamic vinegar and pine nuts. I was completely hooked by fat, flavorful grilled shrimp topped with smoky, finely shredded chorizo, nestled on a beurre blanc infused with soursop, a lushly sweet-and-tart tropical fruit. Orange shrimp, deep-red chorizo and off-white sauce: it made an edible color study.
 Some of the dishes at Pikayo bring an astonishing degree of refinement to humble ingredients. Mr. Benet stuffs chayote, the squashlike vegetable known to Cajuns as mirliton, with a stew containing salt cod and okra, and he cooks spicy minced lamb in fried plantain strips formed into rings called piononos and baked in molds.
 He serves red beans and rice with several dishes, yet another reminder of the common cultural heritage that Puerto Rico shares with south Louisiana.
 Not surprisingly, Pikayo's cheese souffle, made with a mixture of manchego, Parmesan and cream cheeses, and served with a lustrous guava sauce infused with cloves and cinnamon, is probably the most talked-about dish in San Juan. 
 I noticed some micro-greens on one of the plates and asked where they came from. ''A farmer in the north somewhere,'' the waiter said. That had to be Lee Jones, owner of the much-admired Chef's Garden near Huron, Ohio. And so it was, further proof, if any be needed, that Mr. Benet, like his peers from Boston to Seattle, goes to great lengths to buy the best ingredients.
 Things have changed since Mr. Benet returned to Puerto Rico 15 years ago to discover that basil and heavy cream were all but impossible to find.
 Today, as he said in the recently published ''Puerto Rico: Grand Cuisine of the Caribbean,'' by Jose L. Diaz de Villegas (University of Puerto Rico Press, 2004), the new cooking appears to have a firm foothold here. ''There are young people with impetus,'' he commented. ''There are young people willing to brave the waters.''
 One of them is Esteban Torres, trained at the Culinary Institute of America, who cooks at a modestly beguiling place called Pamela's, a brick-floored, glass-walled pavilion that opens directly onto the beach in the artsy Ocean Park section of town. He turns out robustly flavored sandwiches of shrimp and mango on yeasty rolls and giant prawns in tempura batter, given a lift with tamarind barbecue sauce.
 Other stars are Mario Pagan at Chayote, one of the restaurants that pioneered Puerto Rican-Asian fusion (if you go, try the ginger flan for dessert), Miguel Martinez at Urdin (halibut with banana chutney) and Ramesh Pillai, the Indian-born chef at Tantra, who combines classic tandoori chicken with cheeses and tropical fruits.
 Not every invention at every place works. At Tangerine, the restaurant at the Schrageresque Water Club hotel, which has mini-waterfalls in the bar, the lobby and even the elevators, the curried crab and avocado rolls, studded with black and white sesame seeds and complemented by mango-soy marmalade, justified the giddy menu heading, ''Love at First Sight.'' But the watermelon-star fruit gazpacho didn't add up to much, and I fear that my Maine lobster paella with mussels was a soggy mess.
 A surfeit of creativity cries out for a dose of grandma's cooking. Ajili Mojili, housed in a beautifully restored mansion overlooking the Condado lagoon, is the place for that. Try the mofongos (garlicky boiled and mashed green plantains stuffed with chicken, meat or shrimp), rather starchy for my taste; shellfish asopao, a hearty gumbo-like soup with rice; and bunuelos de bacalao, fat codfish fritters. If you find the food a little bland, do as the locals do: ask for pepper sauce, or salsa de aji.
 But on no account fail to join in one of the national sports (along with cock-fighting and baseball), a Saturday or Sunday excursion to the mountains around Cayey, less than an hour south of the capital. There you will find dozens of lechoneras, plain roadside shacks that sell 25, 30 or more roast pigs a weekend. Everyone has his or her favorite -- El Mojito and Los Pinos are two of the best known -- and we went with Mr. Holt and his wife, Mercedes, to theirs, El Cunado (the Brother-in-Law).
 The pork was preceded to the table by glistening chunks of morcilla, a mild blood sausage; a big pile of cueritos, or crunchy pork rinds; and rice with pigeon peas, another of Africa's culinary gifts to Puerto Rico. Our drink of choice was beer, freezing cold. The bottle should always wear a ''vestida de novia,'' the locals say (''a bride's dress''), meaning a mantle of frost.
 Cut from a 300-pound hog that had been brined in a solution of salt and adobo for two or three days beforehand, then roasted over the coals and basted with a marinade containing garlic, cilantro and culantro, among other things, the pork was indescribably succulent. I kept thinking that plain roast meat had no business being so magnificently juicy, so meltingly tender, so very good to eat. Just like Southern barbecue, except that in Cayey, nobody would dare add sauce.

Island Sampler
Some popular restaurants in San Juan:

AJILI MOJILI -- 1006 Ashford Avenue, (787)725-9195
Aguaviva -- 364 Calle Fortaleza, (787)722-0665
La Bombonera -- 259 Calle San Francisco, (787)722-0658
Chayote Olimpo Hotel, 603 Miramar Avenue, (787)722-9385
Dragonfly -- 364 Calle Fortaleza, (787)977-3886
Pamela's -- 1 Calle Santa Ana, (787)726-5010
Parrot Club -- 363 Calle Fortaleza, (787)725-7370
Pikayo Museum of Art of Puerto Rico, 299 de Diego Avenue, (787)721-6194
Tangerine Water Club Hotel, 2 Jose M. Tartak Street, (787)728-3666
Tantra 356 Calle Fortaleza, (787)977-8141
Urdin -- 1105 Magdalena Avenue, (787)724-0420


GRAPHIC: Photos: WORLD VIEW -- Dishes like the tempura shrimp at Pamela's show the international flavor of San Juan's cuisine. (Photo by Laura Magruder for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
COOL LOOK -- At Aguaviva jellyfish lights and a turquoise glow give diners the sense of being inside an aquarium.
HOT CHEF -- Robert Trevino, at Aguaviva, is Puerto Rico's ranking food celebrity.
BRIGHT FLAVOR -- Blackened ahi tuna in rum sauce, above, is the specialty at Parrot Club. Tangerine calls its curried crab and avocado rolls, left, ''Love at First Sight.'' (Photographs by Laura Magruder for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Herminio Rodriquez/Associated Press, for The New York Times)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%); CRAYOLA LLC (55%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3952 LEAD PENCILS & ART GOODS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) PUERTO RICO (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%); ITALY (69%); THAILAND (68%); NETHERLANDS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



333 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Accord Limits I.P.O. Liability of 300 Start-Ups

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Legal storm clouds gathered over Wall Street yesterday when a federal judge granted preliminary approval to a $1 billion settlement between nearly 300 companies that went public during the 1990's technology boom and investors who say they were defrauded.
 The agreement leaves 55 investment banks as the investors' main target. 
 According to the investors, the 55 banks awarded shares in hot initial public offerings to favored clients, made deals with institutional investors to buy the shares after they started trading to drive up their price artificially, and issued bogus research to win the deals in the first place. 
 The settlement limits the companies' exposure in the case. If the investors recover more than $1 billion from the investment banks, the companies will not have to pay. If the amount is less than $1 billion, they must pay the difference. 
 As part of the agreement, the companies agreed to cooperate with the investors' lawyers, a development that Judge Shira A. Scheindlin noted in a 52-page opinion issued in United States District Court in Manhattan yesterday.
 ''The value of 298 willing allies in litigation, as opposed to the specter of hundreds of uncooperative opponents, is significant,'' she wrote.
 Alan Bromberg, professor of securities law at Southern Methodist University, commented, ''It's a significant development in shifting the cost and therefore the responsibility from the companies to the underwriters.'' He added that ''the court is accepting the fact that if you look back to the I.P.O. bubble of the 80's and 90's, it was primarily the responsibility of the underwriters; the companies took advantage of it, but they weren't the prime movers.''
 Gandolfo V. DiBlasi, a partner in the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell who represents Goldman Sachs in the I.P.O. case and has acted as a liaison for the group of defendant banks, declined to comment on the decision. 
 The banks have sought to end the case. Early in 2003, Judge Scheindlin denied requests by the banks for dismissal, arguing that the investors ''put forth a coherent scheme by underwriters, issuers and their officers to defraud the investing public.'' 
 Last year, the banks tried to block the agreement between the companies and the investors, arguing that it encouraged collusion between the parties, creating an incentive for the companies to implicate the investment banks while at the same time reducing their own exposure.
 ''This argument lacks merit,'' the judge ruled.
 Melvyn Weiss, chairman of the investor plaintiffs' executive committee, said the judge's action yesterday was significant because she ''preliminarily approved a billion-dollar partial settlement which the underwriter defendants were fighting to destroy.'' He added, ''It gives our clients the ammunition to continue to fight the 55 biggest investment banks.'' 
 The companies, mostly technology start-ups, reached an agreement in principle in June 2003, when they agreed to pay the $1 billion to investors who had been harmed. The parties hammered out a formal agreement in 2004.
 Wall Street firms have faced a steady stream of litigation since the technology bubble burst, and the banks' role in assembling deals and delivering them has come under tremendous scrutiny. Many investment banks have settled separate cases with the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASD and the New York Stock Exchange with respect to claims in the initial public offering class action.
 For example, in April 2003, 10 top Wall Street firms agreed to pay $1.4 billion to settle civil charges that they misled investors by issuing research intended to win initial offerings rather than educate the investors. 
 This week, NERA, an economic consulting group, issued a study concluding that 2004 was a record year for class-action settlements, and predicting that the trend would continue in 2005. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ETHICS (79%); LAW SCHOOLS (79%); LEGAL SERVICES (79%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (79%); LAWYERS (79%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Computers and the Internet; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (85%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Shira A (Judge) Scheindlin; Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



334 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Clear Skies, No Lies

BYLINE: By Gregg Easterbrook. 
Gregg Easterbrook, an editor at The New Republic and a fellow of the Brookings Institution, is the author of ''The Progress Paradox.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
SUPPOSE Al Gore had become president and proposed a law to cut pollution from power plants by about 70 percent at a low cost, to discourage the lawsuits that often stall clean-air rules from being enforced, and to serve as a model for a future system to regulate greenhouse gases. Chances are Mr. Gore would have been widely praised. Instead George W. Bush got the White House and announced a plan to do those very things, yet it has been relentlessly denounced by Democrats, environmentalists, editorial pages and even characters in a Doonesbury cartoon. 
 Critics both real and drawn assert that the program, which is called Clear Skies and is scheduled to be voted on by the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee today, is a shocking assault on clean-air law, an insidious weakening of environmental protections wrapped up with an Orwellian label. These criticisms are off target, except it is true that Clear Skies is a really dumb name. 
 Mr. Bush's proposal would cut by more than 70 percent the amounts of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury emitted by power plants. The first two substances cause acid rain and contribute to respiratory disease; the third is a poison. The plan would also permanently cap plant emissions nationwide, meaning that pollutant levels must not rise no matter how much more power is generated in the future. The proposed cap for sulfur dioxide is 90 percent lower than the amount emitted in 1970; the cap for nitrogen oxide is 94 percent lower than 1970.
 So, under the Bush plan -- supposedly a sellout to industry -- sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide, the two power-plant emissions of most concern to public health, would be nearly eliminated as compared with levels in 1970. Clear Skies would also moot the long-running controversy over the ''new source review'' rule, which may require operators of the old power plants in the Midwest to add pollution controls when those plants are modified. Those plants too would have to participate in the 70 percent overall reduction, a deeper cut than required by any interpretation of the ''new source'' standard.
 Opponents of Clear Skies rightly note that existing Clean Air Act language already mandates somewhat greater reductions than the Bush plan -- for instance, a 93 percent cut in sulfur dioxide from the levels in 1970, versus Clear Skies' 90 percent -- and that the reductions must be complete by 2012, rather than by 2018 as in Mr. Bush's bill. But here's the rub: the existing Clean Air Act, though successful, is a complex set of rules that requires a case-by-case drawing up of plans for states, localities and even individual power plants. A raft of lawsuits often accompanies every Clean Air Act regulation -- it is common for both industry and environmental organizations to sue to block the same set of rules. This is why, on average, it takes about a decade to complete a Clean Air Act rulemaking. 
 The Clear Skies plan would replace that case-by-case system with a streamlined ''cap and trade'' approach. This plan simply sets an overall reduction for the power industry as a whole, then leaves it up to companies and plant managers to decide for themselves how to meet the mandates, including by trading permits to one another.
 In practice, cap-and-trade systems have proved faster, cheaper and less vulnerable to legal stalling tactics than the ''command and control'' premise of most of the Clean Air Act. For example, a pilot cap-and-trade system, for sulfur dioxide from coal-fired power plants, was enacted by Congress in 1990. Since then sulfur dioxide emissions have fallen by nearly a third (the reason you hear so little about acid rain these days is that the problem is declining -- even though the amount of combustion of coal for electricity has risen.) 
 A pleasant surprise of that 1990 program was that market forces and lack of litigation rapidly drove down the predicted cost of acid-rain controls. Now Mr. Bush proposes to apply the same cap-and-trade approach to the entire power industry, in the hope that market forces and fewer lawsuits will lead to rapid, relatively inexpensive pollution cuts.
 Here is the real beauty of the Clear Skies plan, something that even its backers may not see: many economists believe that the best tool for our next great environmental project, restraining greenhouse gases, will be a cap-and-trade system for carbon dioxide. Should President Bush's plan prove that the power industry as a whole can be subjected to a sweeping cap-and-trade rule without suffering economic harm or high costs, that would create a powerful case to impose similar regulation on carbon dioxide, too. 
 Though you'd never know it from the press coverage, the administration's idea has respectable support -- from the National Research Council, which is a wing of the National Academy of Sciences, and from the former Environmental Protection Agency administrator Christie Whitman, who since leaving the administration has become a leading critic of the Republican right. 
 Yes, as in any lawmaking, there is a legitimate danger that factions in Congress will insert into the Bush bill language that does dilute environmental protection. But the underlying idea of the president's proposal is sound and deserves support, even from the comics page. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by Glynis Sweeny)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NITROGEN OXIDES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AIR POLLUTANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ACID RAIN (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (53%) Air Pollution; Law and Legislation; Nitrogen Oxide; Sulfur Dioxide; Air Pollution; Factories and Industrial Plants; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Air Pollution; Electric Light and Power

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%) Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: AL GORE (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Gregg Easterbrook

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



335 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: No Problems, Even if She Is Buried Up to Here

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
It's certainly possible to imagine a more ill-conceived production of Samuel Beckett's ''Happy Days'' than the Worth Street Theater Company staging currently on view at the Classic Stage Company, with the comic Lea DeLaria rampaging through the central role, laying thorough waste to Beckett's acidic vision.
 Carol Channing, buried in a mound of sequins, might be marginally more preposterous.
 But the manic Ms. DeLaria, under the direction of Jeff Cohen -- misdirection would be a more precise word -- sets a high standard here. 
 ''Happy Days'' is admittedly an acting challenge of a rare order. Winnie, the play's indomitable central character -- its only one, really -- spends the first act buried to her chest in a mound of earth, the second submerged to her neck. Despite this apparently inalterable inconvenience, Winnie remains in steadfast good cheer, going through the small motions of daily life with a dogged self-sufficiency that mimics, in microcosm, the psychological bulwark we all construct to sustain us through the long journey from morning to night.
 Her careful routine, her ceaseless chatter, her timid efforts to maintain a connection with her beloved Willie, who makes only a few brief appearances, are the defenses she uses to ward off knowledge the audience cannot so easily avoid, as it seeps through the interstices of her mindless talk: a cosmic futility hangs over all human effort, solitude is our natural habitat, existence a running practical joke.
 There is a sturdy tradition of casting comedians in Beckett's major plays, of course, because there is a sturdy streak of black humor running through all of them. Bert Lahr famously starred in the American premiere of ''Waiting for Godot.'' A 1988 Lincoln Center Theater production of the play, directed by Mike Nichols, found Steve Martin and Robin Williams treading the boards as Beckett's tramps.
 And, to be fair, Ms. DeLaria, a brashly funny comic who also happens to be a darn good jazz singer, has some creditable stage performances on her resume, most significantly a turn on Broadway as Hildy in George C. Wolfe's revival of ''On the Town.''
 But she refuses to set aside her natural comic persona to fully embark on the more rigorous and sustained acting challenge of inhabiting this peculiar character. On the contrary, Ms. DeLaria mostly turns the potentially heartbreaking Winnie into a belligerent standup comic modeled after guess who, albeit one who doesn't have legs to stand on.
 Language is paramount in Beckett. The economy and precision of its use are central to the power of his writing. And with their precise stage directions detailing every pause, the plays can also be compared to musical scores. But Ms. DeLaria and Mr. Cohen seem to treat Beckett's streams of words as indistinguishable chunks of matter, to be molded at will, like Play-Doh. They ignore dictates as to tempo and inflection and impose their own.
 Alternately racing through Beckett's dialogue or stretching it out needlessly, Ms. DeLaria grimaces and mugs, flaps her arms, tries out a half-dozen funny voices: W.C. Fields, Bette Davis, a Southern belle who may or may not have been Vivien Leigh as Blanche DuBois. She sprays the text with mannerisms that decimate the character, allowing the play's affecting power to dribble away amid a welter of inappropriate comic business. (David Greenspan also manages to be laborious in the minuscule role of Willie.)
 Some of the choices are painfully wrong-headed: more than once Ms. DeLaria delivers Winnie's affirmations of her happiness in a tone of clanging sarcasm, dragging to the play's surface the subtext that should be left to linger in its silences. But often the choices are just pointless.
 The endless activity is a sure indication that Ms. DeLaria and Mr. Cohen either doubt her ability to hold the audience's attention in the role or don't trust Beckett's writing to do the same. Either way, she's wasting our time. In their ungainly grasp, Beckett's mordant comic allegory is thoroughly travestied. It's just shtick in the mud.

'Happy Days'
By Samuel Beckett; directed by Jeff Cohen; sets by David P. Gordon; costumes by Kim Gill; lighting by Scott Bolman; sound by Jill BC Du Boff; production stage manager, Michal V. Mendelson; production management, Dynamic Productions; general manager, Vern T. Calhoun; technical director, Ron L. Voller; CSC general manager, Lisa Barnes. A Worth Street Theater Company production, Carol Fineman and Vern T. Calhoun, producers; Mr. Cohen, artistic director, presented by the Classic Stage Company, Brian Kulick, artistic director; Jessica R. Jenen, executive director. At the Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village. Running time: 2 hours.

WITH: Lea DeLaria (Winnie) and David Greenspan (Willie).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lea DeLaria in Beckett's ''Happy Days'' at the Classic Stage Company. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); JAZZ & BLUES (66%); MUSIC (61%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (50%) Theater; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Worth Street Theater Co

PERSON: MIKE NICHOLS (79%) Charles Isherwood; Samuel (1906-89) Beckett; Jeff Cohen; Lea Delaria

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



336 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Recalls Its Envoy in Syria, Linking Nation to Beirut Blast

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN and HASSAN M. FATTAH; Steven R. Weisman reported from Washington for this article, and Hassan M. Fatah from Beirut. Warren Hoge contributed reporting from the United Nations.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 15 

 BODY:
The Bush administration recalled its ambassador to Syria on Tuesday to protest what it sees as Syria's link to the murder of the former prime minister of Lebanon, as violent anti-Syrian protests erupted in Beirut and several other Lebanese cities.
 At the United Nations, the administration also demanded that Syria withdraw its troops from Lebanon, and the Security Council called for an urgent investigation into the killing of the former prime minister, Rafik Hariri, who died Monday with 13 others when a huge car bomb blew up his motorcade in downtown Beirut. 
 Investigators in Lebanon said they had come to no conclusion yet as to who carried out the attack. But Lebanese opposition leaders joined with the Bush administration in linking Syria to the bombing. 
 Mr. Hariri, a billionaire developer, was the central figure in the country's rebuilding after a 15-year civil war that ended in 1990, and his death aroused fears that the country could descend again into unrest. 
 In Beirut, large crowds went to the site of the explosion, which investigators said appeared to be the work of a suicide attacker who managed to drive in between cars of Mr. Hariri's motorcade. Another theory was that the bomb had been placed in a sewer or under the pavement.
 Though there were some in Lebanon who argued that the murder might have been engineered by Al Qaeda, presumably to punish Mr. Hariri for his ties to Saudi Arabia, demonstrators mobilized throughout the country to blame Syria. In Damascus, Syrian officials continued to vigorously deny involvement in the explosion.
 In Sidon, Mr. Hariri's hometown, Syrian workers were attacked by dozens of protesters before the police intervened, and hundreds of Lebanese marched with black banners and pictures of the slain leader. A mob also attacked a Beirut office of Syria's ruling Baath Party.
 Thousands of protesters also massed in the northern port city of Tripoli, according to Reuters. Many analysts in Lebanon said Syria had reason to punish Mr. Hariri because he had been the leader in trying to block a new term for President Emile Lahoud, a Maronite Christian who is an ally of Syria.
 Failing that effort, which had the backing of the United States and France, Mr. Hariri supported a resolution at the United Nations Security Council last year also pushed by Washington and Paris demanding that Syria withdraw its 14,000 troops.
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and other American officials said the suspected Syrian complicity in the bombing was the latest in a series of hostile acts, including what they contend is Syria's support of the insurgency in Iraq and of groups carrying out violent attacks on civilians in Israel that are aimed at disrupting peace talks with the Palestinians.
 The Syrian information minister called the bombing ''an act of terrorism, a crime that seeks to destabilize Lebanon.''
 The minister, Mahdi Dakhl-Allah, also deplored the anti-Syrian violence and called on the Lebanese to ''remain united and strong and continue to reject domestic strife and foreign intervention.'' Syria has played the dominant role in Lebanon's politics since it moved troops into the country in the 1970's.
 At the United Nations, meanwhile, at the behest of the United States the Security Council deplored the bombing as a threat to Lebanon's democratic process. Without assigning blame, it called on Secretary General Kofi Annan to report back to Council members on what happened.
 In recent weeks, the United States has been increasing pressure on Syria, focusing on Syria's troop presence in Lebanon and its suspected support of the Iraq insurgency and of anti-Israel violence. Ms. Rice acknowledged that the recall of Ambassador Margaret Scobey was prompted by more than Mr. Hariri's death.
 The removal of Ambassador Scobey, she said, ''relates to, unfortunately, the fact that the relationship has been for some time not moving in a positive direction, but this event in Lebanon, of course, is the proximate cause of the withdrawal.''
 Appearing at a meeting with the Egyptian foreign minister, Ahmed Aboul Gheit, Ms. Rice also acknowledged, however, that the identities of those who carried out the bombing attack were unknown. ''We're not laying blame,'' she asserted. ''It needs to be investigated.''
 For a time last year, some American officials had argued that cooperation of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, on some issues should be rewarded, citing Syria's limited help in shutting down Syrian bases used by insurgents fighting in Iraq, and curbing the flow of money across the border that is suspected of aiding the insurgents.
 But in recent weeks, the United States changed its approach, in part influenced by mounting concerns in Israel over Syria's alleged help to Hezbollah and other militant organizations accused of supporting attacks on Israelis.
 In going after Syria, the Bush administration also appeared to be sending a tough message to Syria's ally, Iran, which Washington says is supplying the financing for the attacks on Israelis. 
 Included in the reasons for withdrawing the American ambassador from Damascus, the State Department spokesman, Richard A. Boucher, said Tuesday, was ''the continued presence and operational activities of international terrorist groups and the Iranian regime on and through Syrian territory.''
 The decision to withdraw Ambassador Scobey was acknowledged by American officials as a symbolic step tantamount to a downgrading of diplomatic relations, because no date was announced for her return.
 In Lebanon, meanwhile, the talk of Syria's involvement was strong. 
 ''Lebanon is essential to Syria,'' said Adnan Arakchi, an associate of Mr. Hariri who serves in Parliament, explaining why he thought Syria sought to punish Mr. Hariri for trying to reduce its influence. ''Giving Lebanon up is like putting a noose around its neck.''
 Since the 1970's, Syria has used its troop presence in Lebanon to dominate Lebanese politics, at the time with the blessing of American and Israeli leaders. Now, however, Syria's presence is widely regarded as a destructive factor in the region even as some concede that it has added a measure of stability.
 Opponents of Mr. Lahoud and his Syrian backers were the quickest to blame Syria for Mr. Hariri's death.
 In Washington, some consideration was being given to invoking the Patriot Act, signed after the Sept. 11 attacks, which might allow the United States to act against financial transactions between American and Syrian businesses or subsidiaries. 
 That step appeared to be held in reserve, for the time being, to give Syria more of a chance to cooperate with American demands. But some experts said an American-led confrontation with Syria, and by extension Iran, in the name of democracy and demanding removal of Syrian troops, could backfire.
 ''Syria is low-hanging fruit compared to Iran,'' said Martin Indyk, a former Middle East official in the Clinton administration and now director of the Saban Center at the Brookings Institution, meaning that Syria, a poor country, may be easier to pressure than oil-rich Iran. 
 Mr. Indyk explained that the danger of getting pulled into a war in Lebanon is that it would make more difficult the pursuit of American interests in more strategic parts of the Middle East, particularly Iraq, Israel and the Palestinian territories. 
 ''The administration may find that what started out as a sideshow in Lebanon could become a main game,'' he added. ''If Lebanon descends into hell, and it can, and Hezbollah starts firing into northern Israel, we may find ourselves preoccupied in a situation of questionable importance to the United States.'' 
 ''This regime is backed by the Syrians,'' said Walid Jumblatt, a Druse leader in Lebanon. ''This is the regime of terrorists and terrorism that was able yesterday to wipe out Rafik al-Hariri.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hundreds gathered to offer condolences yesterday at the home of the former prime minister, Rafik Hariri. (Photo by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times)
 OCTOBER 2004 -- Mr. Hariri, right, meets with Mr. Lahoud at the presidential palace. Following the meeting, Mr. Hariri announces his resignation and the dissolution of his Cabinet. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A12)Chart: ''History of Political Brokering and Bloodshed''Monday's bombing harks back to Lebanon's violent past, including assassinations of leaders in the 1980's.JUNE 1982 -- After years of Palestinian incursions into its north, Israel invades Lebanon. The Syrian Army is ousted from Beirut and thousands of Palestinian guerrillas under Yasir Arafat leave after a 10-week siege.AUGUST 1982 -- A peacekeeping force of French, Italian and American troops arrives to oversee the withdrawal of Palestinian Liberation Organization fighters.SEPTEMBER 1982 -- Bashir Gemayel, the head of the Lebanese Christian militia and an ally of Israel, is killed just weeks after being elected president. His brother Amin replaces him. Israel captures Beirut. Hundreds in Palestinian refugee camps are killed by Christian militiamen allowed in by Israeli troops.OCTOBER 1983 -- Shiite Muslim suicide bombers kill 241 American service members and 58 French paratroopers. The multinational peacekeeping force withdraws over the next few months.MARCH 1984 -- A peace agreement with Israel is canceled under Syrian pressure.JUNE 1987 -- Prime Minister Rashid Karami is killed by a bomb in an army helicopter in Tripoli while serving his ninth term.NOVEMBER 1989 -- The Parliament elects Ren Moawad president, but he is killed by a bomb in West Beirut days later.OCTOBER 1992 -- Rafik Hariri is elected prime minister.1998 -- The Parliament elects an army commander, mile Lahoud, as president. Mr. Hariri resigns in a power struggle with him.MAY 2000 -- Israel ends its 22-year occupation of south Lebanon.OCTOBER 2000 -- Mr. Hariri is chosen prime minister after popular discontent over the economy.SEPTEMBER 2004 -- Despite international criticism, the Parliament votes to extend the term of Mr. Lahoud, who is backed by Syria.(Source by Reuters)(pg. A12)Map of Lebanon shows the location of Beirut: Crowds protested against Syria in Beirut and other cities yesterday. (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (94%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); ASSASSINATION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); DEATHS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); RIOTS (67%); AL-QAEDA (65%); MURDER (58%) United States International Relations; Bombs and Explosives; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; Demonstrations and Riots

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); AL-QAEDA (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) United Nations

PERSON: EMILE LAHOUD (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%) Rafik Hariri; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Margaret (Amb) Scobey; George W (Pres) Bush; Steven R Weisman; Hassan M Fattah; Emile (Pres) Lahoud; Ahmed Aboul (Min) Gheit

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (99%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) SYRIA (99%); LEBANON (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); FRANCE (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) Lebanon; Syria; Beirut (Lebanon); Lebanon; Egypt; Lebanon

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



337 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Using Retail Sales as a Guide, Investors Bid Up Shares

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Investors cautiously bid stocks higher yesterday, pleased by growth in retail sales but wary about Congressional testimony starting today by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 46.19 points, or 0.43 percent, to 10,837.32, a new 2005 high. The Dow is up 0.5 percent for the year. Broader stock indicators were modestly higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 3.98 points, or 0.33 percent, at 1,210.12, a new year-to-date high, though it is still down from its 2004 finish. The Nasdaq composite index gained 6.30 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,089.21, but remained well off its 2005 high. 
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was down 0.08 point, or 0.01 percent, at 634.94.
 Wall Street welcomed the Commerce Department's report that overall retail sales fell 0.3 percent in January, less than the 0.5 percent that economists had expected. Taking sluggish auto sales out of the equation, retail sales rose 0.6 percent, also better than expected.
 Some investors, however, remained hesitant before hearing Mr. Greenspan's take on the economy and monetary policy, coming today and tomorrow on Capitol Hill. While most on Wall Street expect Mr. Greenspan to reiterate the Fed's current stance, calling for measured interest rate increases, some analysts say that the markets' recent gains may prompt him to sound a cautionary note.
 ''Greenspan has a history of using this meeting to try to curb the market,'' said Bill Groenveld, head trader for vFinance Investments. ''I wouldn't be surprised if you end up seeing him making a statement that we weren't expecting. The way long-term rates are going, he may have to shake things up a bit.''
 Volume was somewhat light yesterday because of concerns over Mr. Greenspan's testimony, but some analysts took comfort that the major indexes did not give back their gains over the last two weeks.
 ''You've had the market holding its ground in these slow days, and that could be encouraging to traders,'' said Brian Williamson, equity trader with the Boston Company Asset Management. ''I think that's helping to restore confidence and push things along.''
 Investors welcomed reports that a private investment firm had made an unsolicited bid for the struggling electronics retailer Circuit City Stores. Circuit City surged $2.30, or 16.2 percent, to $16.53, after Highfields Capital Management made a $3.25 billion bid. The company's board said it would carefully evaluate the $17-a-share proposal.
 Qwest Communications International added 6 cents, to $4.04, after it reported a narrower-than-expected fourth-quarter loss, crediting stronger broadband Internet sales and sales of bundled products. The company did not discuss any merger or acquisition plans after its failed bid for MCI.
 Medco Health Solutions, the pharmacy benefits manager, said increased use of generics and mail-order offers helped cut costs and increase fourth-quarter profits. Medco was up 89 cents, to $44.69.
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by about five to four on the New York Stock Exchange.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.816
High Rate: 2.355
Coupon Yield: 2.392
Low Rate: 2.320
Median Rate: 2.340
Total applied for: $43,843,329
Accepted: $23,308,369
Noncompetitive: $113,699
The four-week bills mature March 17, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); RETAIL SALES (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (83%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); BONDS (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); RETAILERS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); BROADBAND (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index

COMPANY: CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (51%); BOSTON CO ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (51%); CENTURYLINK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: CTL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (51%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005



338 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2088 words

HEADLINE: On Maneuvers With the Army's Game Squad

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL

DATELINE: CAMP GUERNSEY, Wyo. 

 BODY:
THE seven-vehicle United States Army convoy set out from grid coordinate EG223785 just after 1:30 p.m. on Feb. 8, bound for an improvised landing zone a few miles southwest. Intelligence reports indicated that enemy forces equipped with small arms, rocket-propelled grenades and mortars were active in the area.
 The convoy's hulking five-ton trucks bore nervous civilians in need of evacuation. As the convoy bounced along snow-dusted trails and high plains, Clayton Montgomery, a wiry 24-year-old known to his colleagues as Monkey, swiveled from side to side. ''Anyone spot any Opfor?'' he said, using shorthand for opposition forces as he scanned the looming ridges.
 ''I have the feeling they'll see us first,'' said another passenger, Randy Brown. 
 He was right. At 2:25 p.m., as the convoy pushed slowly through a wooded ravine, the air erupted with automatic-weapons fire. Green smoke wafted through the truck's open sides. Through the haze, the camouflaged ambush team could be seen behind boulders and brush as the convoy's machine-gunners returned fire.
 The fight was over in a minute, and the convoy rushed toward the landing area. Soon two Black Hawk helicopters were swooping through canyons, carrying the evacuees to safety.
 There were no casualties. That was probably because the ambushers and the convoy guards were shooting blanks. But the guns were real. The helicopters and the trucks were real. The subzero wind chill was real. 
 Rather than evacuating a crew of aid workers, the Army detachment was shepherding a few dozen programmers, designers and marketers who have been working on one of the Army's latest recruiting tools: a computer game called, simply enough, America's Army. Rather than the mountain passes of Afghanistan, the convoy was traversing the equally rugged terrain at this remote Army base 100 miles north of Cheyenne, which is sometimes used to train Special Forces units. 
 America's Army lets users play soldier online, band together with other Internet warriors and battle enemies in detailed 10-minute scenarios that the Army says are more realistic than any other game. It is available free for downloading at americasarmy.com. (A retail version for console systems will be released in the summer.)
 Since its introduction on July 4, 2002, America's Army has registered about 4.7 million users, and on a typical day more than 30,000 people log on to the game's official servers, in addition to the thousands who play in unofficial leagues. That makes it one of cyberspace's more popular combat games. Since the game's release, the Army's civilian developers have released updates on the Web every few months. Now, the Army is beginning to use the game's technology to help train its own people. 
 The Army regularly sends soldiers to advise the project's civilian designers, who are Pentagon contractors. But when it comes to making the game realistic, nothing compares to sending programmers to the Army. So twice a year the Army sends the designers to play war games for a few days in what it calls Green Up events. 
 ''The whole idea is for the designers to get a feel of what it's like to be with soldiers, what they do for a living, what it sounds like, what it feels like, even what it smells like,'' said Col. Casey Wardynski, who dreamed up America's Army as the director of the Army's Office of Economic and Manpower Analysis, at West Point. ''You can't put a lot of that into the game, but the experience helps make the game more realistic.''
 The Army has no detailed figures on the game's success in encouraging young men and women to enlist, but a 2003 survey indicated that the game, which costs the Pentagon about $6 million a year, is more effective at delivering the Army's messages to young people than the hundreds of millions of dollars a year the Army spends on advertising, Colonel Wardynski said. 
 Just about every Army recruiting station stocks copies of the game, and some recruiters are organizing America's Army tournaments. The game's latest update, to be released online shortly, is called Firefight. The focus of the update is adding administrative tools to streamline online tournament play.
 The way the Army sees it, the game's appeal is rooted in its realism. And the Green Up events are an important way of instilling it. As James Cowgill, a designer of the project, said as he braced for another potentially tongue-severing pothole in the back of the truck: ''It's the new Wyoming dude ranch. You go on a convoy and get ambushed.''

The Soldier's Life
 Strapped into a bucket seat and wearing earplugs to protect him from the Krakatoan roar, Erich A. Blattner, 34, the game's quality-assurance director, could not make himself heard as the Black Hawk helicopter lifted off from a landing zone. 
 But it was easy to read his lips and the teeth that showed through his broad smile.
 ''You can't buy this!'' he shouted into the din. 
 It isn't often you can elicit expressions of pure wonder (tainted by hints of queasiness) from a dozen adults packed in close quarters. Racing them barely 50 feet above the spectacularly coarse Wyoming landscape in a military helicopter at more than 100 miles an hour is a good way to do it. 
 A couple of the developers indicated that they were attracted to the job largely because the Army probably wouldn't go out of business any time soon (as small game companies do all the time). But for many of the programmers, artists and designers, working on America's Army seemed a way to indulge their yen for things military without the boot camp. 
 As they took apart assault rifles, shot with simulated and real weapons, peered through night-vision goggles and rode on military vehicles, it seemed that at least some of the developers were feeding an underindulged part of themselves.
 ''This whole experience kind of makes me wish I had joined,'' Mr. Blattner said between rifle training sessions. ''Essentially I'm very much a cynic, and in my job being cynical comes in handy because as a Q.A. manager I have to question everything. But the people I see in the military genuinely believe and feel that they are doing the work of good.'' His age and physical condition would be barriers to enlistment now, he said, and besides, ''I'm not good at following orders.''
 Mr. Montgomery, aka Monkey, a 3-D level designer, often appeared more military than the soldiers. Walking out of the mess hall about 7:15 a.m. swathed in camouflage and a black balaclava and face mask, and draped with numerous pouches and straps, he looked ready to infiltrate enemy lines. 
 Maj. Randy Zeegers, a Special Forces commander who has been the main liaison between the project and the operational Army (he is scheduled to return to Afghanistan at the end of the month), called Mr. Montgomery the Ninja.
 ''These guys are passionate about their work, and you can see that in how seriously they take it,'' Major Zeegers said. ''It's their way of contributing to the war effort.''
 Rea M.K. Giner-Sorolla, 42, a quality-assurance manager and the only woman on the game development team, had a different perspective.
 ''I never considered joining the military,'' she said in the back of a five-ton truck on the way to observing an airdrop from a C-130 cargo plane. ''For me, this is a look into a different way of life, and I think this is where I differ from some of the boys on the team. I've enjoyed firing the weapons, but I'm more interested in seeing how these Army men relate to one another, how they behave and work together.''
 Aside from the atmospherics and surrogate soldiering, the developers came away with a lot of concrete information. Toward the end of the summer they hope to release a module called Special Forces: Overmatch, which will allow gameplay as a member of the Green Berets. Many of the vehicles they rode and weapons they fired will appear in the game. 
 The elements they took from the mountains were more subtle. One developer said he wanted to add a jostling video effect when the players were in the back of a truck. After spending a few minutes under the targets at a 100-meter firing range, another developer said he would change the ''whizzing'' sound effect when a bullet passed by to a more realistic ''crack'' that emulates the miniature sonic boom that a military round really creates.
 ''The players may not notice each thing, but this trip will find its expression in the game's overall realism,'' said Michael J. Aubuchon, known as Ace and the game's 29-year-old associate producer.
 But even realism has its bounds. For all of the olive drab trappings, there was no pretense in Wyoming that the game experts were actually experiencing combat conditions. The designers (and accompanying journalists) had to get up early, but at least they had beds. The weather was cold, but a morning session planned for the obstacle course was canceled because of icy conditions.
 Likewise, while the equipment and uniforms in the game are designed with maximum realism in mind, the same approach does not apply to other aspects of the military experience, like death and injury. In contrast to other popular computer games, in America's Army limbs are never blown off. Instead, wounds are marked by a puff of red smoke. Maimed foes never writhe or scream in agony.
 ''We have a Teen rating that allows 13-year-olds to play, and in order to maintain that rating we have to adhere to certain standards,'' said Chris Chambers, a retired Army major who is now the project's deputy director. ''We don't use blood and gore and violence to entertain. That's not the purpose of our game. But there is a death animation, there is a consequence to pulling the trigger, and we're not sugarcoating that aspect in any way.
 ''We want to reach young people to show them what the Army does, and we're obviously proud of that. We can't reach them if we are over the top with violence and other aspects of war that might not be appropriate. It's a choice we made to be able to reach the audience we want.''

The Work Is in the Details
 The search for that audience begins on the bluffs of the Monterey Peninsula in California, where the America's Army development team is based. Except for its location in a former military hospital protected by guards, the office may resemble that of any other game company. The shades are usually drawn, so as to block out any possible glimpses of the Pacific Ocean and so the designers can better view the gargantuan computer monitors before them.
 The week before the Wyoming event, Major Zeegers and Sgt. First Class Doug Davidson, another Special Forces soldier, spent a few days reviewing the game team's latest efforts. When they weren't encased in motion capture suits to record the latest urban assault techniques, they reviewed the game's latest mission assignment documents to ensure that they conformed with Army argot. When they were not recording video clips that will be used to explain various Special Forces roles to the game's players, they were engaging in arcane exchanges with the developers about the latest Army hardware.
 ''In the next-generation version of the game we're going to have the new 249,'' Mr. Aubuchon said to Sergeant Davidson, referring to a type of machine gun. ''And it will have the new Picatinny Rail on top, but do you know if that uses the ACOG?''
 ACOG is the Advanced Combat Optical Gunsight, but it is apparently not best suited for the 249.
 ''Well, the ACOG is used mostly on the M4, not on the 249,'' Sergeant Davidson replied. ''On the 249 you would normally use an M145,'' another kind of gun sight. 
 In a few minutes, the sergeant moved on to comparing an informal Army training video on demolition techniques, set to Jimi Hendrix's ''Voodoo Chile'' and AC/DC's ''Back in Black,'' with the explosives-charging animations in a recent version of the game. ''Ah, so it's more of a pulling motion than a twisting motion, is that right?'' Mr. Aubuchon asked the sergeant.
 The emphasis on technical minutiae is all part of what Mr. Chambers called the game's mandate to ''strategically communicate the Army's values to the American public.'' 
 In the game, if players try to run off on their own rather than work with their team, they will almost surely lose. If players consistently kill civilians or their own teammates, they end up in Leavenworth.
 ''We don't expect that a young person is going to play the game and run out and join the Army,'' Mr. Chambers said. ''That was never the point. We want the game to help us form a more long-term connection with the young person.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: AN ADVENTURE -- Members of the America's Army video-game team, including Josh Reynolds, above left, and Kendal Carson, getting a feel for weapons used by the Army, and the game. At right, Clayton Montgomery, a 3-D level designer, rode in a convoy during an exercise at Camp Guernsey, Wyo. (Photographs by Carmel Zucker for The New York Times)(pg. G1)
AIMING FOR REALISM -- Scott Dossett, right, the lead animator for America's Army, working with Sgt. First Class Doug Davidson to get the game's details just right. Twice a year the Army sends the game's designers to participate in war games. Those experiences will resurface, right, in the look of certain scenes or in the crack of a military round. (Photo by Sherry Tesler for The New York Times)
 HANDS-ON TRAINING -- Rea M.K. Giner-Sorolla, far left, a quality-assurance manager for the game, learning how to handle an assault weapon in Camp Guernsey, Wyo. Of the experience, Erich A. Blattner, left, the game's quality-assurance director, said, ''You can't buy this!'' (Photographs by Carmel Zucker for The New York Times)(pg. G7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (95%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (88%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); FIREARMS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); WEATHER (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); HELICOPTERS (65%); MOUNTAINS (62%) United States Armament and Defense; Computer and Video Games; Draft and Recruitment (Military); Advertising and Marketing; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Seth Schiesel

GEOGRAPHIC: CHEYENNE, WY, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



339 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 6; Sports Desk; HOCKEY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: It's O No Canada As Nation Reacts

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Colin Campbell contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: TORONTO, Feb. 16 

 BODY:
As the talks to save the N.H.L. season came to a fateful end on Wednesday, Canadians expressed a collective sigh of resignation and anger over their long winter without big-league hockey. 
 But the longing for their national pastime was mixed with a defiant sense that the National Hockey League had lost its way and needed a makeover. A majority of respondents in some recent newspaper polls went so far as to say that it did not matter to them whether there would be a season or not, a sentiment echoed Wednesday on radio talk shows across the country, which were filled with unalloyed rage.
 ''I don't care; I've lost interest now,'' Wilma Bain, a 47-year-old bookkeeper from Calgary, Alberta, said minutes after the announcement. She was here visiting the Hockey Hall of Fame wearing a Calgary Flames T-shirt. ''They let the fans know that there are other things to do during winter, like skiing.'' 
 Anthony Rowland, a 37-year-old police officer from Whitby, Ontario, who was visiting the museum with his family, expressed disappointment in the news. ''The N.H.L. is no longer about the love of the game,'' he said. ''It's too bad it's about money and greed.'' 
 Those are tough words in a country where hockey is at the core of the national mythology and identity. The sport is the one thing that unites French-speaking Quebec separatists with the rest of the country. The hockey rink is the social center in nearly every town, the place where Canadians of every class dare to dream. 
 The sport is a constant backdrop in Canadian literature and television commercials, an enjoyable survival response to the long, freezing winter and a source of slang, with new verbs constructed from the names of N.H.L stars. A scene of youngsters stick-handling on a pond is embossed on the $5 bill.
 In a country where many feel that they live in the shadow of the United States, even Canadians who are not sports fans express pride that hockey has been played in 65 countries since modern rules were established in the 1870's in Montreal.
 ''We feel our national pride through our hockey teams and hockey players, and when it is taken away from us, we lose part of our country and part of ourselves,'' said Doug Beardsley, a professor at the University of Victoria, where he teaches a course on hockey literature and the Canadian psyche.
 But Rose DiManno, a sports columnist with The Toronto Star, captured the jaundiced national mood about Canada's national obsession in a column Wednesday: ''There are no good guys in this mess, only self-absorbed millionaires versus self-absorbed billionaires. They have done inestimable damage to a game that was already ailing, a game that needed succor and thoughtful evolution, not further diminishment.'' 
 The disappointment about the lost season has had a ripple effect. Attendance at the Hockey Hall of Fame has declined since the N.H.L. lockout began last September. The Canadian Broadcasting Company canceled its traditional telecast of ''Hockey Day in Canada,'' a 13-hour extravaganza that showcased grass-roots hockey in communities across the country.
 Bars and restaurants near arenas are suffering so much that the shutdown has caused measurable damage to the Canadian economy, producing by one estimate $130 million in losses to the gross domestic product. 
 ''Canadians are angry and they are upset, because if you care about something, you get passionate,'' said Bob Lorimer, a retired defenseman who played with the Islanders and the Devils and is now a marketing executive at a Toronto investment management firm.
 Lorimer said he had had an endless number of conversations about the lockout at cocktail parties, business meetings and family gatherings over the past several months in which ''the overlying thread of the comments has been both the owners and players pay lip service to fans but the fans are forgotten.''
 Whatever shape the league finally takes, many say it will take a long time for the N.H.L. to improve its image. 
 ''It's like finding out something that is special to you is really just mediocre and the same as any other business,'' said Julie Stevens, a professor of sports management at Brock University in St. Catharines, Ontario. ''When the N.H.L. labor dispute is resolved, I think the Canadian hockey fan will come back a bit more jaded and demanding about the product they are getting.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS FANS (77%); SKIING (77%); WRITERS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); DALLAS STARS (58%); EDMONTON OILERS (58%); CALGARY FLAMES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) ALBERTA, CANADA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%) CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



340 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: Housing Construction Reaches 21-Year High

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Construction of homes and multifamily dwellings unexpectedly rose to a 21-year high in January, led by record construction of single-family homes, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.
 A separate report showed that industrial production was unchanged as warm weather dampened demand for energy. 
 A 4.7 percent rise in construction, to 2.159 million housing units at an annual rate, came after a revised 14 percent surge in December that was higher than first reported, the Commerce Department said. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had expected a decline, to 1.925 million housing units.
 Construction of single-family homes rose 2.7 percent, to 1.76 million, the highest ever, from 1.71 million in December. Construction of townhouses, apartments and other multifamily dwellings rose 14 percent, to 399,000 units at an annual rate. 
 The combined pace for single-family and multifamily starts was the fastest since 2.26 million in February 1984.
 Building permits, an indicator of future construction, also rose last month, advancing 1.7 percent to an annual rate of 2.105 million.
 Production at United States factories, mines and utilities was unchanged last month, held back by a decline in energy demand, the Federal Reserve reported yesterday. Economists had expected a 0.3 percent increase.
 The share of industrial capacity in use slipped to 79 percent from 79.1 percent.
 Automakers, including Ford Motor and General Motors, have said they are cutting back on production in the first quarter to reduce inventories as sales in January have fallen.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Single-family homes being built in Henderson, Nev. A 4.7 percent rise in construction last month followed a 14 percent surge in December (Photo by Barry Sweet/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''Housing Construction''New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, in millions, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.JanuaryStarts: 2.159Permits: 2.105Graph tracks new private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, in millions, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace from August 2003 to January 2005.(Source by Commerce Department)Chart: ''Industrial Production''Index of total industrial production, 1997 = 100, seasonally adjusted.Jan.: +0.0%Dec.: +0.7Nov.: +0.1Graph tracks Index of total industrial production, 1997 = 100, seasonally adjusted from September 2003 to January 2005.(Source by Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (92%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVENTORIES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PLANT CAPACITY (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); BUILDING PERMITS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%) United States Economy; Housing; Building (Construction); Production; Records and Achievements; United States Economy

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%); FORD MOTOR CO (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Commerce Department; Federal Reserve System

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (55%); F (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



341 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: LEAGUE CANCELS HOCKEY SEASON IN LABOR BATTLE

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE; Rick Westhead contributed reporting from Toronto for this article.

 BODY:
The National Hockey League season ended before it began yesterday when Commissioner Gary Bettman canceled all of the remaining games after a five-month lockout of players.
 It is the first time a North American professional team sport's entire season was lost because owners and players could not agree on a financial arrangement. A salary cap was the principal issue, but even after the union accepted the idea this week, a deal could not be reached.
 ''We are truly sorry,'' Bettman said at a news conference in Manhattan. ''This is a sad, regrettable day.'' 
 He said his business was in ''economic chaos.'' Asked how he felt, Bettman said, ''Terrible.''
 Bob Goodenow, executive director of the N.H.L. Players' Association, said at a news conference in Toronto that the cancellation was unthinkable. ''Yes, we apologize to the fans,'' Goodenow said, but he added that Bettman had more to be sorry for.
 ''The players never asked for more money,'' Goodenow said. ''They didn't want to be locked out. Gary owes the apology. He started the lockout. We've done an awful lot to try to get to a fair resolution. We've always known this was a possibility. We never wanted it to happen.''
 Bill Guerin of the Dallas Stars, a union vice president, said, ''I think everybody is in a state of shock.''
 The future of the league is unclear. Almost 400 of the 700-plus N.H.L. players are working in Europe, and some may stay there next season. Some players and investors have talked of forming a new league in North America. Both leaders in the dispute said yesterday that their last, best offers were off the table.
 The decision to cancel the season is a risky tactic filled with, at the least, short-term damage to national and local revenues, franchise values and attendance, sports business experts said. [Page C16.]
 The Stanley Cup will not be awarded for the first time since 1919, when the championship round was canceled because of a flu epidemic.
 The cancellation came in the second lockout of Bettman's 12-year tenure, while the sport is facing declining national television exposure and network revenue and is struggling, even in the opinion of its strongest fans, to maintain its excitement and entertainment value as defensive systems stifle scoring and creativity.
 After the Rangers won the Stanley Cup in 1994, hockey seemed poised to challenge basketball as the premier indoor sport of the winter, but it has slipped in public consciousness.
 Last season, the three most prominent hockey stories outside its dedicated fan base involved a player seriously injured when attacked on ice by an opponent; a player who died in the crash of a car driven by a teammate; and a player convicted of plotting his business agent's murder.
 In the United States, where 24 of the 30 teams play, the lockout has been met with indifference among sports fans. In Canada, where hockey matters more, some polls have detected disenchantment among fans.
 Ken Dryden, a Hall of Fame goalie with the Montreal Canadiens in the 1970's and now a member of Parliament, recently suggested that hockey for Canadian fans might have been more of a habit than a passion, and that habits could be broken.
 Bettman said he did not expect franchises to fold in a league that expanded to 30 teams from 21 in the 1990's and placed teams in Sun Belt cities far from its traditional base in Canada, the Northeast and the Upper Midwest. 
 ''With the right economic system, we can have 30 healthy, competitive franchises,'' he said. ''Nobody should be concerned about our franchises surviving the work stoppage.''
 When asked about speculation that the league will seek to declare an impasse, impose new financial systems and use replacement players, Bettman was vague. 
 ''We're planning to have a season next season,'' he said. ''We will examine all of our options. We will decide as things get closer exactly how we want to proceed.''
 Bettman and the owners have said that the N.H.L. lost $497 million on operations over the past two seasons and that players had been paid 75 percent of revenue, which has reached $2.1 billion a year.
 The league has sought to lower the average player salary to $1.3 million a year from $1.8 million. Although the union disputes the N.H.L. figures, it has conceded that the league has financial problems and offered a 24 percent rollback in salaries Dec. 9.
 Bettman locked out the players on Sept. 16, at the start of training camp, and tried to obtain a salary cap resulting in what he called cost certainty, with payrolls tied to a fixed percentage of no more than 55 percent of declared team revenues.
 The players steadfastly opposed both concepts until early this week, after Bettman set a deadline for reaching an agreement or canceling the season. On Monday, after the owners proposed a salary cap that did not link payroll and revenue, the players offered to accept a cap. 
 Momentum continued Tuesday when the sides exchanged proposals, with the owners offering a cap of $40 million a team and raising it to $42.5 million. The players offered a cap of $52 million and dropped it to $49 million, with some exceptions. But there was no bargaining after midnight Tuesday.
 When asked whether the sides could have compromised around $45 million, their leaders were not specific.
 ''If they wanted $45 million, I'm not saying we would have gone there, but they sure should have told us,'' Bettman said. ''We weren't as close as people were speculating,'' he added, because the difference in the sides' figures would have meant $200 million a year to the league if all teams chose to pay the maximum. Bettman said that a salary cap would ''act as a magnet'' to force payrolls up.
 Goodenow said the magnet effect ''is not the case at all.'' 
 He said he would not speculate whether he would have accepted a compromise at $45 million. 
 ''Gary gave us a final offer, a take-it-or-leave-it offer,'' Goodenow said. ''We made a counterproposal and events ground down to a halt. The what-ifs aren't for real.''
 Bettman said the breakdown of negotiations was not a result of a personality conflict with Goodenow and added, ''Let me make one thing crystal clear: there is absolutely no animosity between the league and its players.'' 
 Trevor Linden of the Vancouver Canucks, the union president, disagreed, saying, ''I don't see how that is possible.''
 Bettman acknowledged that some players contacted the league in recent days outside union channels to inquire about a compromise, but he would not go into details. This splinter group urged acceptance of a salary cap without linking payroll to revenue, and negotiations in the past few days were within that framework.
 Goodenow said the players agreed to accept a salary cap only after the league dropped its demand to link revenue and payroll, and not because of pressure from the splinter group.
 Goodenow also said he talked to team owners recently who told him they would have accepted the last union proposal. But when asked how many owners there were and their identities, he said: ''There were a couple. I don't think it serves a purpose to get more specific.'' 
 Even after the news conferences, some people in hockey were clinging to the possibility that talks could restart and a compromise could be reached. 
 Tom Laidlaw, a player agent, said some players and management personnel were still expressing hope to him. ''I still don't think it's over with,'' he said. ''It's not something the players want to accept. There's a deal there to be made still.''
 But Don Meehan, a prominent agent, dismissed the idea of a groundswell among agents to reopen talks. ''I'm not one of them,'' he said. ''I haven't heard anything about it.''
 Ted Saskin, senior director of the union, dismissed the notion. ''I'm hearing nothing of this, and I suspect it bears no relationship to reality,'' he said in an e-mail message.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker at the empty Bell Center in Montreal. The N.H.L. is the first North American team sport to lose a season because of a labor dispute. (Photo by Shaun Best/Reuters)(pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOCKOUTS (91%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SPORTS INJURIES (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); EPIDEMICS (50%); INFLUENZA (50%) Hockey, Ice; Lockouts; Wages and Salaries; Organized Labor; Labor; Stanley Cup; Hockey, Ice

COMPANY: DALLAS STARS LP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS STARS (93%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (93%) National Hockey League Players Assn

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (66%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (66%)

PERSON: Joe Lapointe; Gary (Comr) Bettman; Bob Goodenow

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



342 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Asuncion Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: 'Paraguay' Author Finally Goes There, Finding an Uproar

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: ASUNCION, Paraguay, Feb. 15 

 BODY:
In the acceptance speech she delivered after her novel ''The News From Paraguay'' won the 2004 National Book Award in the United States, Lily Tuck made a surprising admission. ''Actually I have never been to Paraguay, nor do I intend to go,'' she said.
 That was in November. But late last week Ms. Tuck arrived here in the capital as a guest of the government and, by virtue of having addressed the most traumatic episode in Paraguay's history in her novel, found herself dragged into a perennial, intensely emotional and often bitter debate about national identity and honor. 
 Set in the mid-19th century, ''The News From Paraguay'' focuses on the love affair between the country's strongman, Marshal Francisco Solano Lopez, and his Irish mistress, Elisa Lynch. 
 It not only includes references to masturbation and oral sex, which would have been controversial enough, but also portrays Marshal Lopez as so arrogant, ''cruel and ambitious'' that he plunges the country into an ill-advised war in which more than half the population perishes.
 None of that particularly bothered the democratic government now in power, which is still struggling to overcome the problems left by Gen. Alfredo Stroessner, the dictator who ruled Paraguay from 1954 to 1989. The authorities initially saw the success of Ms. Tuck's book as a unique opportunity to promote their landlocked country of five million people, which is constantly overshadowed by its much larger and more prosperous neighbors, Brazil and Argentina, as a tourist destination. 
 No sooner had Ms. Tuck's visit been announced, though, than a controversy erupted. A business consultant and rancher named Roberto Eaton wrote a letter to the foreign minister and other officials to protest what he saw as an embarrassingly meek response to an insult to Paraguay's image and history.
 ''This book is disgusting, absolutely pornographic and a calumny,'' Mr. Eaton said in an interview. ''People can write whatever they want, but that doesn't mean we should be honoring the author. Just because her novel won a prize does not make it something magnificent. Yes, the book puts Paraguay on the map, but this is hardly the way to do it.''
 In an essay published last week by the country's main newspaper, ABC Color, Maria Eugenia Garay, a poet, also accused Ms. Tuck of succumbing to the ''typical Eurocentric vision'' of Latin America. 
 The book depicts Paraguay, Ms. Garay complained, as a savage country ''populated by uncouth and hairy aborigines, distinguishable from monkeys only by the fact that they know how to play the harp,'' Paraguay's national instrument.
 Though Ms. Tuck's novel has not yet been published in Spanish, newspaper headlines described it as lascivious and claimed that it portrayed Marshal Lopez as a ''sexual maniac.'' As a result, radio call-in programs were flooded with phone calls from offended listeners, and a local official called the book racist and demanded that Ms. Tuck be declared persona non grata. 
 But others, including some prominent historians and writers, defended Ms. Tuck, noting that she was writing fiction, not history. One of the nine surviving great-grandchildren of Francisco Solano Lopez and Elisa Lynch even ended up having dinner with Ms. Tuck, a bit of historical symmetry that much delighted her.
 ''I have no problem at all with the book, whose real message I think has been distorted,'' said the great-grandson, Miguel Angel Solano Lopez, a former ambassador to Japan and Taiwan. ''The novel has produced an effervescence that I think is healthy, reopening a national debate about our history.''
 Historians outside Paraguay have often been harsh in their evaluations of Marshal Lopez. They point to the folly of his provoking a conflict with Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay, his strategic mistakes in prosecuting the war, which began in 1864 and ended only with his death in 1870, and the brutality with which he often treated his own troops and people.
 But here in Paraguay he is regarded not as a crazed, inept tyrant but as a national hero, and the war he fought as a sacred cause. Paraguayans believe that he prevented the country from being swallowed up by Brazil and Argentina and blame their neighbors for the terrible damage done to the country: the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people, the destruction of the economy and the loss of much of its territory.
 ''Before the war this was a vigorous country that was developing rapidly and was in many ways more economically and technologically advanced than its neighbors,'' Evanhy de Gallegos, the secretary of tourism, argued. ''The war ripped the country apart in what was almost a genocide and left us with a pain that has never gone away, and with no compensation for our suffering.''
 Ms. Tuck, 66, is an American citizen born in France who spent part of her childhood in Peru and Uruguay and also lived in Thailand as an adult. She has written three other novels and a collection of short stories but seemed startled by the passionate, even visceral response to her latest novel.
 ''I'm glad I didn't come before I wrote the book,'' she said, ''because I would have been overwhelmed by all the factions and their points of view. I am a quiet person, not a politician, so I don't know if I would even have started to write if I knew all of the issues that were at stake.''
 During a six-day stay that ended Tuesday, Ms. Tuck visited tourist sites in the capital, as well as some battlefields of the Great War. But she also toured 17th-century Jesuit missions and Iguazu Falls, the settings for the Oscar-winning film ''The Mission,'' and the Itaipu Dam, by some measures the world's largest hydroelectric project.
 For safety's sake, Ms. Tuck was accompanied during her travels by a police bodyguard. But once she got past an initial news conference at which she was asked about the sexual habits of American soldiers in Iraq and the brutality of the combat there, she said she found the real, contemporary Paraguay to be much kinder and gentler than the imagined one that appears in her novel.
 ''Everyone has been so generous, from the chambermaid at the hotel who wanted to kiss my hand to people in government, and I am quite touched,'' she said. ''I just hope that I can live up their expectations.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Marshal Francisco Solano Lopez, left, ruled Paraguay in the 1860's. Above, Lily Tuck, center, whose novel is about Marshal Lopez's affair with Elisa Lynch, met their great-grandson and the tourism minister. (Photo by Hulton Archive/Getty Images)
 (Photo by Pablo Cabado for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HISTORY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); MASTURBATION (68%); POLITICS (66%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (50%); TOURISM (50%) Books and Literature; Politics and Government

PERSON: Larry Rohter; Lily Tuck; Francisco Solano (Marshal) Lopez

GEOGRAPHIC: PARAGUAY (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) Paraguay

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



343 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Market Place; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: The open approach to research: ThinkEquity starts a Web log to talk about investing and gather ideas.

BYLINE: By Jenny Anderson

 BODY:
BLOGGING transformed political commentary, rattled the media business and inundated the Internet. Does it have a place on Wall Street? ThinkEquity Partners, a boutique investment bank in San Francisco, will find out as it introduces a Web log today. The firm, which specializes in technology, health care and other fast-growing fields, is seeking to make its investment research department -- an albatross at most Wall Street firms -- relevant. 
 ThinkEquity is betting that the blog will attract analysts, bankers, investors, venture capitalists and anyone else interested in talking about growth investing, and in the process, help the company generate ideas. The firm's research is available to all and, once registered, anyone can post feedback on the site. The blog can be found at www.thinkequity.com/blog.
 ThinkEquity's co-founder, Michael T. Moe, who is the former director of global growth stock research at Merrill Lynch, compared the idea to the Zagat Survey of restaurants. 
 ''There are all sorts of information sources about where a restaurant is located and what the cuisine is, but that's just information,'' he said. ''What makes Zagat's powerful is you have 100,000 people contributing. Their insight is amazing, frightening and impressive.''
 Mr. Moe said he did not see an immediate way to make money from the blog, but viewed it as a way to generate ideas -- the lifeblood of research and investment banking. 
 ''Our mission is to identify and partner with the stars of tomorrow, today,'' he said. 
 He said he got the idea from Tony Perkins, a founder and former editor of Red Herring magazine who has started AlwaysOn, which is using blogs to discuss business and technology issues.
 The blog format can transform research from a document into a discussion. ''There can be more insight into decision making,'' said Anil Dash, a vice president at Six Apart, the company that makes the software ThinkEquity is using for its blog. ''They can participate in the conversation.'' 
 General Motors recently began a blog for Robert A. Lutz, its vice chairman, so he could have a more nuanced conversation with people about the automotive industry. 
 For Wall Street, the blog promises both opportunity and potential regulatory challenges. ''A blog is not a solution to all the problems facing Wall Street research,'' Mr. Moe said, ''but we think it's a component of the future service offering that research can provide.''
 The problems Mr. Moe referred to are abundant. After years of promoting Internet and telecommunications stocks, many of which went bust when the technology bubble burst, Wall Street research came under tremendous scrutiny. In 2001, the New York attorney general began investigating conflicts of interest among Wall Street analysts, finding evidence that research was being written solely to win investment banking business. Nearly two years later, a group of Wall Street firms agreed to pay $1.4 billion to settle accusations that they lured investors to buy billions of dollars worth of shares in companies they knew were troubled. 
 Regulators offered a variety of solutions to these problems, like requiring that analysts certify their reports as their own thinking and altering how banks compensate analysts. 
 A result, however, has been that most firms have cut research, mainly because it is difficult to get investors to pay for it. (Investment banking previously subsidized it.) 
 ''The research environment is in disarray,'' Mr. Moe said. Firms that sell research, like investment banks, ''are trying to rationalize and come up with a model where they can make a research department make sense,'' he said. 
 Some people are skeptical of the blog approach. ''The trend in research is to differentiate yourself, especially for a research boutique,'' said one Wall Street analyst who insisted on anonymity because of the regulatory issues about analysts' discussing their profession. ''They will do what they can to make their voice be heard, but I don't know if I would expect it to catch on in the investment banking research world.''
 Richard X. Bove, a research analyst with Punk Ziegel & Company, called the idea ''a bust.''
 ''I don't know of any way to get really serious customers other than contacting them directly,'' he said.
 Perhaps. But the world of information has changed, and getting distinctive insight has become significantly harder. Regulation FD, for fair disclosure, requires companies to disclose material information at once to all investors rather than a select few. That rule stripped analysts of a principal asset: access to management and, ideally, information that management would give to them first. 
 At the same time, regulators are in overdrive to find violations. In mid-January, NASD fined an analyst at Fulcrum Partners, a boutique institutional research firm, $75,000 for perpetuating a rumor. 
 Mr. Moe said his firm's compliance officer had vetted the blog and found it did not present any regulatory obstacles. 
 An official at the Securities and Exchange Commission, who insisted on not being identified, said that the blog did not appear to violate any rules but would probably require more disclosures. 
 The blog idea may take hold or may go bust, Mr. Moe acknowledged, but he is willing to try it.
 ''The blog doesn't replace an expert who can dissect a balance sheet and do rigorous financial analysis and can make a judgment on the value of a security, but it will absolutely be a powerful complement to that process,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (93%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); BONDS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Computers and the Internet; Research

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ThinkEquity Partners

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: Michael T Moe; Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



344 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: If firmly believed, the theory that self-interest is the sole motivator appears to be self-fulfilling.

BYLINE: By Robert H. Frank. 
Robert H. Frank is an economist at the Johnson School of Management at Cornell University and the author, most recently, of ''What Price the Moral High Ground?''

 BODY:
A NEW YORKER cartoon depicts a well-heeled, elderly gentleman taking his grandson for a walk in the woods. ''It's good to know about trees,'' he tells the boy, before adding, ''Just remember, nobody ever made big money knowing about trees.''
 If the man's advice was not inspired directly by the economist's rational-actor model, it could have been. This model assumes that people are selfish in the narrow sense. It may be nice to know about trees, it acknowledges, but it goes on to caution that the world out there is bitterly competitive, and that those who do not pursue their own interests ruthlessly are likely to be swept aside by others who do. 
 To be sure, self-interest is an important human motive, and the self-interest model has well-established explanatory power. When energy prices rise, for example, people are more likely to buy hybrid vehicles and add extra insulation in their attics. 
 But some economists go so far as to say that self-interest explains virtually all behavior. As Gordon Tullock of the University of Arizona has written, for example, ''the average human being is about 95 percent selfish in the narrow sense of the term.'' Is he right? Or do we often heed social and cultural norms that urge us to set aside self-interest in the name of some greater good? 
 If the search is for examples that contradict the predictions of standard economic models, a good rule of thumb is to start in France. During my recent sabbatical in Paris, I encountered many such examples, but one in particular stands out. One mid-November afternoon, I asked my neighborhood wine merchant if he could recommend a good Champagne. It was the week before Thanksgiving, and my wife and I had invited a few American friends to our apartment for a turkey dinner. 
 He just happened to have an excellent one on sale for only 18 euros. (Normal price, 24 euros.) Fine, I said, and then asked if he could also recommend a bottle of cassis, since I knew some of our guests would want a kir royale -- a cocktail of cassis and Champagne. In that case, he said, I would have no need for the high-quality Champagne, because no one would be able to tell the difference once it was mixed with cassis. Well, then, what should I buy? He brought back a bottle that he said would be just right for the purpose. 
 That particular Champagne, however, was not on sale. When he told me it was 20 euros per bottle -- 2 euros more than the better one -- an awkward pause ensued. Though I thought I knew the answer, I felt I had to ask whether a kir royale would taste worse if made with the better Champagne. He assured me it would not. And because I knew that some of us would be drinking our Champagne straight, I bought several bottles of the better one. He did not protest, but I could feel him reclassify me as yet another American barbarian. 
 For many French, the logic of the self-interest model is trumped by an aesthetic principle about what Champagnes are right for specific applications. This particular principle leads to a better outcome over all, because it directs the best Champagne to the uses in which quality matters most. So even though I personally was better off for having ignored the merchant's advice (because I got to drink a better Champagne and spent less), at least some of the better Champagne I bought was wasted. 
 France is, of course, not the only place in which the self-interest model's predictions fall short. 
 Most Americans, for example, leave tips even after dining in restaurants they will never visit again. We take the trouble to vote in presidential elections, even though no single individual's vote has ever changed the outcome in any state. We make anonymous donations to charity. From society's perspective, our willingness to forgo self-interest in such instances leads to better outcomes than when we all act in a purely selfish manner.
 Does what we believe about human motivation matter? In an experimental study of private contributions to a common project, two sociologists from the University of Wisconsin, Gerald Marwell and Ruth Ames, found that first-year graduate students in economics contributed an average of less than half the amount contributed by students from other disciplines. 
 Other studies have found that repeated exposure to the self-interest model makes selfish behavior more likely. In one experiment, for example, the cooperation rates of economics majors fell short of those of nonmajors, and the difference grew the longer the students had been in their respective majors.
 My point is not that my fellow economists are wrong to stress the importance of self-interest. But those who insist that it is the only important human motive are missing something important. Even more troubling, the narrow self-interest model, which encourages us to expect the worst in others, often brings out the worst in us as well. 
 Perhaps the theories of human behavior embraced by other disciplines influence their practitioners in similar ways. A core principle of behavioral biology, for example, is that males are far more likely than females to engage in ''extra-pair copulations.'' Does teaching this model year after year make male biologists more likely to stray? 
 Several years ago, I attended a dinner with a group of biologists that included a married couple. After describing the research about how economics training appears to inhibit cooperation, I asked whether anyone had ever done a study of whether males in biology were more likely than scholars from other disciplines to be unfaithful to their partners. The uncomfortable silence that greeted my question made me wonder whether I had stumbled onto a data point relevant for such a study. 
 But if biologists are like economists in being influenced by their own theories, they are different from us in another respect: Their most cherished hypothesis is much less likely than ours to be contradicted by the French.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A decision about which Champagne to serve for a party in France turned into a test of the self-interest model. (Photo by Derek Hudson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (86%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (63%); THANKSGIVING (62%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (53%) Economics

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%)

PERSON: Robert H Frank

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (54%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



345 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Builders Wary Of Pursuing Site Sought by Jets For a Stadium

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
A day after the Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced that it would allow anyone to bid on the development rights to the West Side railyards, which the Jets want for a stadium, real estate executives began wondering who would dare to take up the offer.
 Some of the city's most active developers said yesterday that they were reluctant to make an offer on the rights without being assured they could get the zoning that would allow them to build apartment houses and office buildings. Many also said they were reluctant to follow Cablevision, now the highest bidder for the site, in challenging the Bloomberg administration, which considers the stadium a centerpiece of its bid for the 2012 Olympics and for redeveloping the Far West Side.
 ''It'll be an excellent site down the road,'' said Gary Jacobs, executive vice president of Glenwood Management, one of the largest residential owners and developers in Manhattan. 
 But he added: ''We would not have an interest in bidding because it doesn't have the right zoning. We would only buy it subject to rezoning.''
 Several other developers coupled their zoning reservations with a fear of retaliation either by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg or by Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff, who controls the housing, planning and economic development agencies that builders must deal with every day. 
 ''If some developer bids a high number and actually buys it and then Doctoroff orders city planning not to rezone the property, what are you going to do with it?'' said another prominent residential developer, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
 Jennifer Falk, a spokeswoman for Mr. Doctoroff, said yesterday that it was unlikely he would allow the land to be rezoned for any buyer but the Jets.
 The issue of the site's zoning is so crucial to its future that some stadium opponents criticized the authority for telling potential bidders to assume that the zoning would not be changed -- a position that could favor the Jets' bid.
 ''This one little phrase makes all the difference,'' said Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, which opposes the stadium and favors developing residential and commercial buildings at the site. ''You will not get serious proposals from other developers, and the M.T.A. will not get fair value. The authority's own appraisal says residential is the highest and best use. They ought to make a commitment to provide the same override that they'll grant the Jets.''
 The current zoning on the 13-acre site is for low-scale manufacturing, which would not permit either the 75,000-seat stadium or the large-scale residential development that Cablevision and others prefer. The state has the right to overrule local zoning laws on property it owns, and the Jets already have a deal with the state and the Bloomberg administration to override the zoning for a stadium. But Mayor Bloomberg is dead set against Cablevision, or anyone other than the Jets, building there. 
 The Jets have offered $100 million for the development rights, with the city and state splitting the estimated $375 million cost of a deck over the yards. Cablevision, in turn, offered $600 million for the rights and a deck, though many details are up in the air.
 At a news conference yesterday, the mayor said other developers could have tried to build on the land at any point in the last 30 years but did not do so because the economics of building housing over the yards makes no sense. The only reason Cablevision has made a bid, he said, was to preserve the monopoly that its Madison Square Garden subsidiary has on sports events in midtown.
 ''This is 8.1 million people's future versus one company's selfish interest,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''Don't make any mistake about it: one company stood up and said, 'I've got a monopoly; the hell with everybody else. I'm going to do everything I can to keep it.' In terms of maneuvering, there's always people who want to stop things, there's always people who are selfish.''
 The mayor said he understood why the transportation authority thought it was necessary to open the bidding, in order to get the most money for its assets. But he said the Jets had made the only legitimate bid. 
 Tom Kelly, a spokesman for the authority, said it had asked buyers to assume the zoning would stay the same in order to put all the risks on the bidder. Prospective buyers who offer an upfront payment and additional money upon getting the appropriate zoning will be considered, he said, along with one-time cash offers.
 ''Anybody who wants to bid can go to the Empire State Development Corporation or the city to get the same zoning variances the Jets got,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''Our main purpose is to eliminate any risk of our getting involved in the zoning.''
 Supporters of the stadium also argue that the city should not have to wait years for Cablevision, or any other developer, to get the necessary zoning and environmental approvals.
 Another developer acknowledged that a bid would be fraught with political risks for major developers who did business with the city. But he said a less politically entrenched builder might jump at the chance. 
 ''We won't look at it because of the politics, but, boy, it's tempting,'' he said. ''You lick your chops for a piece of land of that size when you're a developer. But there's going to be a developer without the political sensitivities that may jump on this.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 18, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the hesitancy of developers to bid for the rights to the railyards on the Far West Side of Manhattan gave an incorrect attribution and timing in some copies for a statement that the city was unlikely to rezone the site for projects that did not include a Jets stadium. It was made by Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff at a news briefing on Monday, a day before a new bidding process was announced, not by Jennifer Falk, his spokeswoman, on Wednesday. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The railyards on the Far West Side, where the Jets hope to build a stadium. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority controls the site. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ZONING (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); CITIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); PROPERTY LAW (72%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



346 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; HOCKEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: The N.H.L., Saddled by Its Own Stagnation, Faces an Uncertain Future

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The National Hockey League's decision to cancel its 2004-5 season is a risky strategy fraught with, at the least, short-term damage to national and local revenues, franchise values and attendance, sports business experts said yesterday.
 ''It was on a collision course with the abyss,'' said David Carter, principal of the Sports Business Group, a consultant. ''But despite massive short-term pain, it's necessary to do to be taken seriously as one of the Big Four sports.''
 How much self-inflicted damage the league has done is difficult to quantify. It is a $2.1 billion industry that has shrunk to nothing by not playing, and in its return, it could see its revenue fall steeply. Empty arenas, no televised games and the absence of sponsors have pushed the sport to the brink of marketplace irrelevance. 
 ''I think everyone understood the season would not be played,'' said Sal Galatioto, a sports investment banker at Lehman Brothers. ''But if they're out for two years, people will wonder if hockey will ever be played.''
 Even before the season began, the league's minuscule ratings had diminished its appeal. NBC cut a revenue-sharing deal with no guaranteed cash. ESPN renewed its deal at $60 million a year, half its average payments for the previous five years. The deal with ESPN is so one-sided that it will decide in April whether to pick up its option for the 2005-6 season, which is already in peril without a new collective bargaining agreement. ESPN can reject the option and negotiate an even lower fee. 
 ''Our rights fee was cut 50 percent, but a lot of people thought it should be more,'' said Mark Shapiro, executive vice president of ESPN. 
 With a diet of mainly college basketball games, ESPN2 is drawing ratings double that of hockey games last season. ESPN, which this season was to cease showing regular-season games, has had its ratings for ''Tilt,'' a weekly original series about poker in Las Vegas, double last year's average hockey rating.
 ''To retain a future on ESPN, the N.H.L. has to come back as a better on-ice product,'' Shapiro said, adding that the higher ratings for replacement programming ''is not a good prognosis'' for the struggling league.
 Sponsors are not paying money into the league, with games not being played. National sponsors, like Dodge, Anheuser-Busch, MasterCard and MBNA had been paying an estimated $4 million to $5 million annually, according to the IEG Sponsorship Report, an industry publication. Reebok, also a sponsor, issued a statement promising its ''unwavering'' support of the league, the players and the sport.
 Jim Andrews, editorial director of IEG Sponsorship Report, said that the lockout and season cancellation have probably turned potential sponsors away from considering the N.H.L. ''There seems to be no end in sight,'' he said, but added that sponsors ''will go where fans go, and if they're forgiving, the sponsors will be there.''
 Canceling the season was the tipping point for the league's business. It was always an option, but so was a last-minute settlement. But if wiping out the 2004-5 season means the league can negotiate -- or in a more draconian move -- impose a more viable economic system, the long-term prognosis may be better.
 ''I don't think there's any damage'' from canceling the season, said Dean Bonham, a sports-industry consultant. ''Gary Bettman drew a line in the sand at precisely the right time.''
 He added: ''There is a chance to fix the picture.'' He cited steps that include cost certainty in a new labor agreement, the growing acceptance of high-definition television, which makes hockey easier to watch, and a major fan initiative that must feature reduced ticket prices.
 Mending the frayed relationship with the league's modest base of fans, the experts said, is crucial to its survival. Bettman said that better economics would yield healthier, more competitive teams, which would presumably lure fans back.
 Bonham said that research he had conducted for the league showed that hockey fans had become more attuned to the sport's business aspects and wanted Bettman and the league to fix its failed economic model. ''Fans will come back quicker than baseball fans did,'' Bonham said, referring to past baseball labor disputes. ''But that's just a prediction.''
 Baseball's total attendance reached a record level last season.
 But average per-game attendance has still not exceeded what it was before the 1994 strike that wiped out that season's World Series. Last season, baseball's average attendance reached 30,401, second to 31,337 in 1993.
 ''One of the benefits of being the N.H.L.,'' said Bob Gutkowski, the former Madison Square Garden president, who oversaw the Rangers when they won the Stanley Cup in 1994, ''is you have less fans to bring back. That' s the harsh reality.''
 Another harsh reality is that fans have almost completely abandoned buying hockey merchandise. According to SportScan Info, which tracks retail sales at large stores, sales of licensed merchandise like jerseys and T-shirts totaled $2.9 million in the first six weeks of 2005, down from $18.3 million in the same period last year.
 In the comparable time frame, retail sales of sticks, pucks, pads, skates and other hockey equipment fell from $13 million to $9.6 million, SportScan Info said.
 The aftermath of the season's cancellation may be a tough time to sell a team. Michael Ozanian, senior editor of Forbes Magazine, said that teams that were worth $100 million in Forbes's most recent valuation of N.H.L. teams would now be worth $80 million. ''Big-market teams will take a small hit, but this kills teams like Phoenix and Carolina,'' he said.
 Galatioto said that efforts by Lehman to help the Walt Disney Company sell the Anaheim Mighty Ducks are continuing unabated. 
 All suitors, he said, ''expected the season to be canceled.''

Ticket Refunds Are Available
 The three local National Hockey League teams will allow their season-ticket holders to obtain refunds or leave their balances in their accounts.

RANGERS -- Season-ticket holders are entitled to a refund that will include 3 percent interest through the end of February. All season-ticket holders retain rights to their seat locations, if they choose. The Rangers are also expected to honor a guarantee by James L. Dolan, the Madison Square Garden chairman, of a 10 percent price rollback when play resumes.

ISLANDERS -- Season-ticket holders who decide to keep their balances on account with the team will not face a season-ticket price increase for the 2005-6 N.H.L. season and are guaranteed the same seat locations. If a season subscriber requests a refund, all full refunds will be processed with applicable interest and mailed within three weeks.

DEVILS -- Season-ticket holders can keep money in their accounts with the team, with the team increasing interest on that money from 2 to 5 percent. Season-ticket holders can keep a minimum deposit with the team that would secure the seats that they have held. They can also cancel their ticket plans and receive a full refund.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Plenty of Devils items were hanging on the rack yesterday at a sporting goods store in Secaucus, N.J. Discounts have not been a help in getting the jerseys to sell. (Photo by Mike Derer/Associated Press)(pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); SPORTS (91%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (62%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ESPN INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); DALLAS STARS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (59%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (50%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



347 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Saudi Arabia's Meager Election

 BODY:
For a demonstration of why the mere act of holding an election is not an adequate path to democracy, look no further than the voting in Saudi Arabia last week. While it's good to see any sign of public life in such a repressed society, a ritual conducted in the name of democracy but without a democratic process or a democratic outcome devalues real democracy. It is as apt to reinforce the status quo as to hasten representative government. 
 By excluding women from the election -- as they are from virtually all aspects of Saudi society -- the kingdom's rulers turned the voting into another exercise in repression. By limiting the election to seats on municipal councils, they prevented even male voters from flexing true political muscle. The councils are largely advisory boards for mundane tasks, not power centers -- and, in any event, only half of the seats were up for grabs. The other half, including the equivalent of the office of mayor, are still filled by appointees of the Saudi rulers. Functioning neither as forums of power nor as places for debate, the councils are far removed from issues like corruption, unemployment, women's rights and constitutional governance, which preoccupy Saudi reformers -- some of whom are currently in jail. 
 Two more elections are scheduled, in March and in April. At that point, all of the kingdom's eligible men will have had a chance to cast ballots. (Only about one-fourth of those eligible registered for the first of the three elections.) If, against the odds, the elections were to move the kingdom toward some power sharing, that would be good. Success should be measured by the extent to which the Saudi people gain a true voice in their most important affairs. 
 But if the elections result in further consolidation of the royal family's power, the United States must be critical. That may be hard, given American dependence on Saudi oil and the high price Americans are paying -- in blood, money and reputation -- to promote elections in the Middle East. But the point of voting -- and democracy -- in Saudi Arabia and its neighbors is to remedy the dissatisfactions feeding Islamic extremism. If elections only solidify authoritarian rule, as they did in the Soviet Union and Saddam Hussein's Iraq, and still do in Syria and Egypt, they are worse than counterproductive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); WOMEN (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); RELIGION (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%) Editorials; Elections; United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights; Women

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (72%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



348 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMPANY NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: INDEPENDENCE AIR PARENT SKIPS AN INTEREST PAYMENT

BYLINE: Reuters

 BODY:
FLYi Inc., the parent of the low-cost carrier Independence Air, said yesterday that it skipped an interest payment as it negotiates a new agreement on its obligations with lenders and lessors. FLYi, which is based in Dulles, Va., has 30 days to restructure its loan agreements with aircraft lessors. 
If it fails, it could file for bankruptcy protection from its creditors, analysts said. The carrier said it would make the payment, which was due Tuesday, within a 30-day grace period if it can ''successfully and timely'' conclude its restructuring. Standard & Poor's said its rating on FLYi was not affected by the news, but that the airline's failure to provide information on its restructuring could force the agency to withdraw its ratings on the company's debt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (88%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (87%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (71%) Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: FLYI INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Flyi Inc; Independence Air

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



349 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 79 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Mexico: Economic Growth Surges

BYLINE: By Elisabeth Malkin (NYT)

 BODY:
Mexico's gross domestic product rose 4.4 percent in 2004, the Finance Ministry said, its strongest growth since 2000. 
Driving the increase was growth in the United States, which buys about 90 percent of Mexico's exports. The economy was helped by a 14.7 percent increase in exports, a domestic construction boom and rising consumer credit. Fourth-quarter growth was 4.9 percent. Analysts expect slower growth this year as the American expansion cools. Elisabeth Malkin (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (85%); CONSTRUCTION (83%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



350 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: GREENSPAN BACKS IDEA OF ACCOUNTS FOR RETIREMENT

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 16 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, gave his blessing on Wednesday to the creation of individual investment accounts in Social Security but expressed unease that the change could lead to trillions of dollars in additional government borrowing in the next few decades.
 Mr. Greenspan's cautiously hedged support for the core of President Bush's plan to overhaul the retirement system came as Mr. Bush, in newspaper interviews published Wednesday, left the door open to raising taxes on upper-income people to help deal with Social Security's projected financial problems.
 In what appeared to be an effort to show Democrats that he is serious about bipartisan compromise, Mr. Bush, responding to questions from a group of regional newspaper reporters, did not rule out raising or eliminating the cap on earnings that are subject to the payroll tax that pays for Social Security benefits. 
 The tax is currently levied on wages up to $90,000. Until now, Mr. Bush has said he is against raising ''payroll taxes'' but has been vague about whether he was talking about the earnings cap as well as the payroll tax rate of 12.4 percent, which is split equally between workers and their employers.
 ''The one thing I'm not open-minded about is raising the payroll tax rate,'' Mr. Bush said in the interviews, which took place on Tuesday at the White House. ''And all the other issues are on the table, and that's important for people to know.''
 Asked specifically if he was open to raising the earnings cap, he replied, ''I've been asked this question a lot, and the answer is, I'm interested in good ideas.''
 Taken together, the developments reflected the continued wariness on all sides about the costs, ideological ramifications and political risks of trying to reshape Social Security and put it on a sounder financial footing as the American population ages.
 Mr. Bush has put the issue at the top of his domestic agenda but has had little success pushing it ahead in Congress, where many members of his own party have qualms and Democrats are spoiling for a fight.
 Some Democrats have suggested that raising the earnings cap is a more attractive alternative than cutting benefits, and if Mr. Bush's statement was an overture to them, it got a cold shoulder on Capitol Hill. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York said his fellow Democrats viewed it as ''a bit of a ruse'' that would probably end with the White House's disavowing any willingness to consider tax increases.
 ''Democrats are not going to be taken in by smoke signals,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''The president says this is a crisis, so it's up to him to put a concrete, complete, comprehensive plan on the table.''
 Even before Mr. Schumer offered his analysis in an interview, the White House was playing down Mr. Bush's statements about the earnings cap. Trent Duffy, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, said the president believed it was important to keep all options for dealing with Social Security's solvency on the table, but ''that doesn't mean he has embraced any one of them.''
 By taxing the earnings of those making more than $90,000 a year -- a figure that is adjusted each year in line with inflation -- the Social Security system could go some way toward restoring solvency over the next 75 years. That would ease the need for any benefit cuts to bring the pay-as-you-go system into balance between revenues and payments. 
 Mr. Greenspan's comments, in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee, gave Mr. Bush some support on the private accounts component of his approach to Social Security, but also gave ammunition to Democrats who have asserted that establishing investment accounts is, among other problems, unaffordable.
 ''I think the existing structure is not working,'' Mr. Greenspan told members of the committee, declaring that private accounts would be ''a good thing to do'' but urging lawmakers to ''start out slowly'' and be wary about the trillions of dollars in additional federal borrowing that might be necessary.
 ''If you're going to move to private accounts, which I approve of, I think you have to do it in a cautious, gradual way,'' he said.
 The comments were reminiscent of those Mr. Greenspan made just over four years ago, when he endorsed Mr. Bush's goal of cutting taxes on the theory that the government should gradually reduce its budget surpluses. 
 On Wednesday, Democrats had been hoping that Mr. Greenspan, who has long advocated steps to bring down the federal budget deficit, would wave a red flag about the potentially huge borrowing that Mr. Bush's Social Security plan is likely to entail.
 He avoided doing so. Mr. Greenspan said his warning about the risks of ''large'' additional borrowing applied to amounts of ''more than $1 trillion'' over 10 years.
 White House officials have estimated that Mr. Bush's plan would require borrowing about $754 billion over the next decade. That figure, however, reflects Mr. Bush's strategy of delaying introduction of the accounts until 2009 and to phase them in over a number of years, a step he has said was intended in part to hold down the costs. 
 Vice President Dick Cheney has acknowledged that the costs would be in the trillions of dollars in subsequent decades once the program is fully up and running, and some outside experts estimate that total borrowing could exceed $4 trillion over the next several decades.
 Mr. Greenspan agreed with Democratic lawmakers that private accounts would do nothing in themselves to solve Social Security's long-run financial shortfall or to increase national savings, which he said was the crucial underlying problem.
 Mr. Greenspan also warned that financial markets might not agree with White House claims that borrowing to pay for ''transition costs'' of private accounts would have no effect on the United States' long-run indebtedness.
 ''We don't know how the markets respond to that,'' Mr. Greenspan said. ''And if we were to go forward in a large way and we were wrong, it would be creating more difficulties than I would imagine.''
 Mr. Bush has yet to offer a detailed proposal on Social Security, but he is already barnstorming the nation with the message that today's system of guaranteed retirement benefits will soon be ''bankrupt'' and needs to be replaced, in part, with a system of ''personal retirement accounts.''
 Thus far, White House officials have only outlined their plan for the individual accounts. Under the plan, workers under the age of 55 would be allowed to divert up to 4 percent of their earnings subject to the payroll tax into private accounts and invest the money in a limited array of stock and bond funds.
 In the interview on Tuesday, Mr. Bush suggested that he foresees the plan to divert 4 percent of earnings into private accounts as a first step toward a longer range transformation of Social Security.
 ''The relevant question there is how best to afford the transition from one system to another,'' he told reporters from The Orange County Register, The New Haven Register, The Birmingham News, The Tennessean of Nashville and The South Florida Sun-Sentinel. ''It's a feasible place to start to enable us to introduce a novel concept into a Social Security system that needs to be reformed.'' 
 Mr. Bush traveled on Wednesday to Portsmouth, N.H., to drum up support for the plan, saying he would make his case to the nation ''over and over and over again'' to overcome Democratic opposition and the queasiness within his own party. 
 The White House press secretary, Scott McClellan, said Mr. Bush still wanted to deal with the issue this year, a timetable that appears increasingly ambitious.
 Mr. Bush has crisscrossed the country, hoping to generate grassroots pressure on Congress, especially the Senate. In traveling to Portsmouth, he was not targeting New Hampshire's two Republican senators, Judd Gregg and John E. Sununu, both of whom are with him on the issue, but their counterparts next door in Maine, Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins, both Republicans. Ms. Snowe has openly expressed doubts about Mr. Bush's approach, and Ms. Collins has been noncommittal.
 Administration officials contend the extra borrowing for these transition costs would not increase the national debt because it would simply be replacing ''implicit'' debt in the form of unfunded future benefit obligations with regular treasury bonds.
 But Mr. Greenspan was skeptical, noting that many investors may have never believed those benefits would be paid and may not believe that any savings envisioned by Congress today would actually materialize in the future.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 18, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about proposals for the overhaul of Social Security misstated the present method of adjusting the cap on wages subject to the payroll tax. The cap, currently $90,000, is adjusted annually for the rise in average wages, not for inflation. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: As Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, testified before the Senate Banking Committee, Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, a Maryland Democrat and member of the committee, conferred with his staff yesterday. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); WRITERS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); BONDS (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%) Social Security (US); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Government Bonds; Social Security (US); Social Security (US)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); JOHN P SARBANES (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (54%) Edmund L Andrews; Richard W Stevenson; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



351 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Suggests Rates May Increase Without Pause

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 16 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, strongly suggested on Wednesday that the central bank would keep raising short-term interest rates without any pause in the months ahead.
 Indeed, in a rare acknowledgment of his own puzzlement at market behavior, Mr. Greenspan, testifying on Wednesday before Congress, suggested that money had become even more plentiful after six rate increases since last June. 
 Though Mr. Greenspan made no reference to the central bank's policy of raising rates at a ''measured'' pace, he told members of the Senate Banking Committee that the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks remained ''fairly low.''
 But the Fed chairman admitted his own surprise that long-term interest rates were lower today than they were last year, calling the trend a ''conundrum'' that defied all of the easy explanations.
 The implication was that Fed officials, far from being ready to pause in their rate increases, might feel even more need to keep going.
 Since last June, the Fed has raised the overnight rate in a series of quarter-point increases to 2.5 percent, from 1 percent. But yields on 10-year Treasury bonds were 4.16 percent on Wednesday, far below their level of 4.7 percent last June.
 Mr. Greenspan noted that mortgage rates were lower than when the Fed started raising rates. And credit spreads -- the additional risk premiums that financial institutions demand from riskier borrowers -- have narrowed as well. Fed surveys of bank lending officers indicate that banks have eased their standards on business loans. 
 ''This development contrasts with most experience,'' Mr. Greenspan said on Wednesday in his semiannual testimony before the Senate Banking Committee. ''It will be some time before we are able to better judge the forces underlying recent experience.''
 One standard theory is that bond investors expect an economic slowdown, which would reduce the demand for money in the future. But Mr. Greenspan said that explanation ''does not mesh'' with the rise in stock prices and the narrowing of credit spreads. 
 A second theory is that foreign central banks were responsible, because they have been buying Treasury bonds and other American securities to keep their currencies cheap in relation to the dollar. Asian central banks, mainly those of Japan and China, bought hundreds of billions of dollars worth of Treasury securities last year. 
 But Mr. Greenspan noted that long-term rates had also declined in Europe and other parts of the world.
 A third explanation is that global investors are simply more confident about the global outlook for inflation and growth than they have been in the past, but there is nothing particularly new in the broader economic outlook to account for a sudden change in behavior.
 ''For the moment, the broadly unanticipated behavior of world bond markets remains a conundrum,'' Mr. Greenspan concluded.
 Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, a forecasting concern in Valhalla, N.Y., said, ''It is safe to assume that Mr. Greenspan views the overall monetary environment as rather more stimulative than he would have expected.'' 
 ''Joining the dots,'' Mr. Shepherdson said, ''the message seems to be that if the curve keeps flattening, the Fed will have to push short rates higher than would have otherwise been the case.''
 On Thursday, Mr. Greenspan will testify before the House Financial Services Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); TRENDS (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds; Housing; Mortgages; Credit; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%) Edmund L Andrews; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



352 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoy to Japan Assails North Korea's Arms Program

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 16 

 BODY:
The United States ambassador to Japan criticized North Korea on Wednesday for proliferating nuclear weapons materials and called its nuclear program ''a deadly threat.''
 ''The thing I worry most about with the North Koreans, to tell you the truth, is not that they're going to bomb Tokyo, but rather that they have a demonstrated record of selling any military device they own,'' Howard H. Baker Jr. said in a press briefing as he prepared to leave Japan. ''A regime such as the North Koreans, with that record, selling nuclear material to all comers, is a very serious issue.'' 
 Mr. Baker said the world should not have any doubts that North Korea had nuclear weapons.
 ''They have said now, more than once, that they have nuclear weapons, and I accept that at face value,'' Mr. Baker, a former Republican senator from Tennessee, told American reporters. ''What is the upside of not believing them?''
 As Mr. Baker spoke, North Korea was celebrating Wednesday the 63rd birthday of Kim Jong Il, the nation's hereditary leader.
 American, Chinese and South Korean diplomats, in the meantime, embarked on an urgent round of talks prior to a high-level Chinese visit to North Korea on Saturday.
 China, North Korea's main economic partner and military ally, is seen as the only country with the leverage to force North Korea to return to the talks and to negotiate a formula for nuclear disarmament. Two years ago, when North Korea was refusing to enter talks over its nuclear arms program, China closed ''for cleaning'' the lone oil pipeline to North Korea, which then agreed to attend talks in Beijing.
 From Saturday to Tuesday of next week, Wang Jiarui, head of the Chinese Communist Party's international liaison department, will visit North Korea, Reuters reported. American and South Korean negotiating teams are to arrive in Beijing on Thursday in an effort to hammer out a common approach with China.
 The American envoy is Christopher Hill, United States ambassador to South Korea. On Tuesday, Mr. Hill, a veteran of negotiations in the Balkans, was appointed to lead the American team to what North Korea's neighbors hope will be a resumption of the six-nation talks in Beijing. Japan and Russia also participate in the talks.
 On Wednesday, Japan's foreign minister, Nobutaka Machimura, and his Chinese counterpart, Li Zhaoxing, held their first phone conversation since North Korea said last Thursday that it had nuclear arms and was boycotting talks. In what may be a first step toward coordinated regional pressure, South Korea's foreign minister, Ban Ki Moon, said Wednesday after returning from Washington, ''We told the U.S. there won't be any large-scale economic cooperation with North Korea until its nuclear problem is resolved.'' 
 Ambassador Baker, about to be freed of diplomatic constraints, called North Korea ''a major problem'' and ran down the list of options.
 ''But I don't think military intervention is imminent'' Mr. Baker said. ''Sanctions are a tool, but it is seldom effective unless it's a multilateral undertaking. It probably wouldn't be really effective unless you've got South Korea, China, and maybe Russia on board, and I presently do not see that in the cards.''
 Mr. Baker said the best approach would be a start of serious disarmament talks.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Visitors at a flower show yesterday in Pyongyang, North Korea, helped celebrate the 63rd birthday of Kim Jong Il, the nation's leader, shown in the poster. The banner above offers praise for his father, Kim Il Sung. (Photo by Ren Libo/New China News Service, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (95%); MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); BOYCOTTS (65%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (56%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Arms Control and Limitation and Disarmament

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (88%); BAN KI-MOON (58%) James Brooke; James H Jr (Amb) Baker; Kim Jong Il

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (87%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) North Korea; China; South Korea; Pyongyang (North Korea); North Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



353 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Rice Says Syria Is at Least Indirectly Responsible for the Blast

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 16 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice roundly criticized Syria during Senate testimony on Wednesday in extended and animated remarks that struck a chord with several senators, who urged her to find new ways to penalize the Syrian government.
 While acknowledging that the United States does not know who was behind the Monday bombing that killed the former Lebanese prime minister, Rafik Hariri, Ms. Rice said Syria should be held at least indirectly responsible, ''given their continued interference in Lebanese affairs.''
 Ms. Rice was testifying before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on the State Department's 2006 budget request, and through most of the testimony her manner was calm and careful. But as one Republican senator after another asked increasingly angry questions about Syria, her responses grew longer, more detailed and more critical. 
 ''We have an increasing list of problems with Syria,'' she said, detailing many of them. She said Syria was giving aid to guerrillas carrying out attacks against American forces in Iraq and cooperating with others that carry out attacks in Israel, and she noted the continued presence of Syrian forces in Lebanon.
 Syria has not responded in detail to attacks from Washington over the last two days, except to say it had no role in the Monday bombing. 
 But on Wednesday, Syria announced that it would form a common front with Iran to face challenges and threats. 
 ''We are ready to help Syria on all grounds to confront threats,'' Vice President Mohammad Reza Aref of Iran said in Tehran after meeting Prime Minister Naji al-Otari of Syria.
 And the Syrian ambassador, Imad Moustapha, interviewed on CNN, said: ''Syria is trying to engage constructively with the United States. We are not enemies of the United States, and we don't want to be drawn into such an enmity.'' In her testimony, Ms. Rice said that the assassination of Mr. Hariri was ''the culmination of a long series with the Syrians, including ineffective and incomplete efforts to deal with the fact that Syrian territory is contributing to the insurgency in Iraq.''
 The Bush administration announced Tuesday that it was recalling its ambassador to Syria, Margaret Scobey. She left Wednesday. Ms. Rice described the recall as ''a very strong signal'' and said its length would depend on ''how seriously the Syrians take this signal.''
 Ms. Rice also said that Syria ''created a destabilized environment in Lebanon in what is a developing democratic process.'' And she charged that ''terrorists operate in southern Lebanon with Syrian forces in close proximity to them.''
 Ms. Rice said Syrian efforts in recent months to address American concerns had been disappointing. ''We frankly did not get very much help, and the Syrians need to understand that the United States is very serious.'' 
 George Allen, Republican of Virginia, was one of several committee members who heartily endorsed Ms. Rice's tough stance. 
 ''I urge you to tighten sanctions on Syria,'' he said. ''We cannot let them off the hook.'' 
 Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, and Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, also endorsed the criticism of Syria.
 Last May the Bush administration imposed economic sanctions on Syria and blocked exports with the exceptions of food and medicine. Administration officials said few possible sanctions remain.
 Ms. Rice said she hoped Syria would face broader international pressure so that ''then the Syrians will start to worry about their isolation.'' But Europe has not been quick to endorse the administration's approach toward Syria.
 Senator Mel Martinez, the Florida Republican, told Ms. Rice that ''the lack of sovereignty of the Lebanese people ought to be something we keep uppermost in our minds.''
 Senator Allen said he feared that Syria would finance terrorist groups ''that would actually take out Abu Mazen or Mahmoud Abbas,'' the Palestinian prime minister. ''This is a terrorist state.'' 
 Midway through the hearing on Wednesday morning, the committee paused to vote unanimously to approve the nomination of Ms. Rice's proposed deputy, Robert B. Zoellick. The committee held his confirmation hearing on Tuesday, and he is expected to receive final Senate approval later this week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ASSASSINATION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); TERRORISM (72%); BUDGETS (55%) United States International Relations; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; Bombs and Explosives; United States International Relations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (93%); MUHAMMAD NAJI AL-UTRI (58%) Joel Brinkley; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; George W (Pres) Bush; Rafik Hariri; Margaret (Amb) Scobey

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (54%) UNITED STATES (99%); SYRIA (99%); LEBANON (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (92%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAN (54%) Lebanon; Beirut (Lebanon); Syria; Lebanon

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



354 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Do Gas Guzzlers Aid Our Enemies?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman points out the major economic and security benefits of conservation and increased energy independence. 
 A substantial federal gasoline tax appears unlikely: large regions of this vast country do not have adequate public transportation, and millions of Americans depend on their cars for jobs and routine mobility. Taxing every gallon of gas would be politically difficult. 
 The solution? Place a large and progressive tax on automobile purchases, based on fuel efficiency. A car with excellent fuel economy would not be taxed; the tax would escalate as a vehicle's miles per gallon decreased. 
 This would give auto producers and drivers a powerful economic incentive to do the patriotic thing and reduce gas consumption, while allowing those who are truly dependent on cars to pay no additional tax merely by choosing the appropriate vehicle.

Richard Fuchs
Bronx, Feb. 14, 2005


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (88%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); AUTOMAKERS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005



355 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: 2 Big Appetites Take Seats at the Oil Table

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: MUMBAI 

 BODY:
India, sharing a ravenous thirst for oil, has joined China in an increasingly naked grab at oil and natural gas fields that has the world's two most populous nations bidding up energy prices and racing against each other and global energy companies.
 Energy economists in the West cannot help admiring the success of both China and India in kindling their industrialization furnaces. But they also cannot help worrying about what the effect will be on energy supplies as the 37 percent of the world's population that lives in these two countries rushes to catch up with Europe, the United States and Japan. And environmentalists worry about the effects on global warming from the two nations' plans to burn more fossil fuels.
 With engineering expertise and equipment more available around the world, one result is that oil executives and drillers in remote spots increasingly speak Mandarin or Hindi, not English. Their newfound commercial confidants live in pariah states like Sudan and Myanmar, one sign that the political dynamics of the world oil market pose a difficult challenge for the Bush administration. 
 The prospect of China's consuming ever growing lakes of oil has been noted over the years, although it is gaining new urgency as Chinese consumption continues to soar. China's oil imports climbed by a third last year as its oil demand exceeded Japan's for the first time.
 Now India is joining China in a stepped-up contest for energy, with both economies booming recently just as their oil production at home has sagged. China trails only the United States in energy consumption; India has moved into fourth place, behind Russia. 
 Voracious energy demand is coming from people like Kalpana Anil Gaikar, a 35-year-old unemployed widow with three children here who keeps running up costly electricity bills. Her appetite, millions of times over, is pushing India and China to vie for control of oil and natural gas fields from Sudan to Siberia.
 Both countries are also expanding their navies as they become increasingly dependent on lines of oil tankers from the Mideast, posing the beginnings of an eventual challenge to American influence in the Indian Ocean and South China Sea.
 As millions of Indians and Chinese buy cars, television sets and air-conditioners, the fossil fuels burned to power their purchases have become some of the fastest-growing contributors to global warming. Chinese emissions alone soared close to 15 percent last year.
 Under the Kyoto Protocol, neither India nor China faces any specific limits on its emissions of global warming gases. Both countries joined the agreement with promises to try to restrain emissions, but even environmentalists hesitate to demand stringent restrictions on China or India. That is because their energy consumption per person remains less than one-sixth the American level.
 Ms. Gaikar pays $9.30 a month in rent for her tiny apartment in a public housing project here in Mumbai, formerly known as Bombay, but up to another $4.50 a month for electricity to power the lights, ceiling fan and other amenities. That is a hefty electrical bill for someone who earned less than $30 a month at a bedsheet factory until she lost her job in late December because of a broken leg.
 Her children need the lights to study for school, however, and she has no intention of cutting the power. ''Whatever my leg, I'll have to go back to work,'' she said.
 To meet the demand, India's government, like China's, is looking to tap countries the Bush administration and the European Union have tried to isolate.
 During a recent conference in New Delhi, a succession of top Indian officials saluted Omer Mohamed Kheir, the secretary general of the Ministry of Energy and Mining in Sudan, who sat beaming in the middle of the front row. The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, which is controlled by the Indian government, recently began producing oil in Sudan in cooperation with Chinese state-owned companies. It is now building a pipeline in Sudan and negotiating to erect a refinery as well.
 ''The Asians came to Sudan in a very difficult time, and we created a very good strategic relationship with them,'' Mr. Kheir said in an interview.
 He dismissed Western accusations that militias with links to government forces have been raping and murdering large numbers of villagers and refugees in the Darfur region. ''Darfur is not a deeply rooted problem; we think it is quite artificial,'' he said.
 Three government-controlled Indian companies concluded a $40 billion contract with Iran on Jan. 7 for the purchase of liquefied natural gas over 25 years and for stakes in oil fields there. The Indian government followed up on Jan. 13 by concluding a deal with the military government of Myanmar for the construction of a gas pipeline.
 Subir Raha, chairman and managing director of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, said that Western countries had been arbitrary in their imposition and removal of sanctions on countries like Libya, so his company could not be expected to follow their practices for countries like Sudan and Myanmar.
 ''If you talk about pariah states, Libya is an excellent example,'' he said. ''One fine morning, you see there are no sanctions.''
 China has also been in the spotlight lately because of suspected sales of missile technology to Iran, one of the biggest sellers of oil to China and other Asian markets. 
 China's deputy foreign minister, Zhou Wenzhong, took similar positions to India's in an interview in the summer of 2004. ''Business is business,'' he said then. ''We try to separate politics from business. Secondly, I think the internal situation in the Sudan is an internal affair, and we are not in a position to impose upon them.''
 India's oil imports climbed by 11 percent in 2004, and China's by 33 percent, straining the capacity of production operations, pipelines, refineries and shipping lines and helping to keep oil prices above $40 a barrel. The International Energy Agency expects them to use 11.3 million barrels a day by 2010, which will be more than one-fifth of global demand. 
 Western engineers and equipment for complex drilling are now readily available for hire, making it easier for India's and China's state-owned companies to work together and undertake ventures on their own. 
 Around the world, countries ''are using their state oil companies to ally with each other,'' said William Gammell, the chief executive of Cairn Energy of Scotland, one of the biggest foreign oil companies operating in India. ''The majors used to have all the technology, and now you can get the technology by buying it.''
 India's recent enthusiasm for energy security has extended to assets that are the subject of legal scrutiny as well. Companies controlled by the Indian and Chinese governments are the two main bidders publicly pursuing large stakes in the Yukos oil and gas assets that the Russian government recently confiscated in a tax dispute. The confiscation is the subject of litigation in Texas.
 Mr. Raha said he would not be dissuaded from the pursuit by the controversy over how the Russian government obtained the assets. ''I haven't seen a single deal or transaction basically that didn't have legal issues,'' he said.
 A vigorous debate has emerged in India over whether this country's need for oil will inevitably put it at odds with China. Mani Shankar Aiyar, India's minister of oil and natural gas, said that India and other Asian nations needed to pursue their own interests in oil markets and that he wanted to cooperate with China, not compete with it.
 Greater private automobile ownership and expanding industries have increased energy demand in China and India just as traditional sources of energy are fading away. In India, thousands of villages are switching from burning dried dung or brush for fuel to buying liquefied petroleum gas for stoves or plugging into the national electricity grid to power everything from ceiling lights to computers.
 Beijing and now New Delhi are following a long tradition of rising economic powers seeking to secure energy supplies. Britain, Japan and the United States wheeled and dealed in the years leading up to World War II for control of oil fields around the world, with diplomats often working with oil company executives. Through the 1980's and early 1990's, government-controlled oil companies from Malaysia and Brazil also invested in distant oil fields, notably in China and the South China Sea.
 As Chinese and Indian companies venture into countries like Sudan, where risk-averse multinationals have hesitated to enter, questions are being raised in the industry about whether state-owned companies are accurately judging the risks to their own investments, or whether they are just more willing to gamble with taxpayers' money than multinationals are willing to gamble with shareholders' investments.
 ''Sudan is the beneficiary,'' said Philip Andrews-Speed, a former BP geologist in China who now runs an oil policy study center at the University of Dundee in Scotland. ''If these state-owned companies were not in the game, there would not be much interest in Sudan.''
 China made many of its investments in the 1990's, when oil fell as low as $10 a barrel, and signed large contracts for liquefied natural gas in 2002, before recent sharp increases in gas prices. India made its first big investment in Sudan three years ago, but its national leaders are calling for a greater effort to secure oil fields now despite high prices.
 Some Western countries, like Germany, have dismissed as outdated the whole idea of owning far-flung oil fields. They have relied on being able to buy oil in world markets, instead of buying oil fields, and have emphasized energy conservation, notably through high gasoline taxes.
 China and India have not only avoided imposing steep taxes, but have even regulated energy prices directly and indirectly for years. India in particular still keeps domestic prices for natural gas below world levels to subsidize power generation and fertilizer production, two industries with customers who still have the political power to prevent price increases.
 ''This is a basic reality of the Indian market,'' said Proshanto Banerjee, the chairman and managing director of GAIL (India) Ltd., a big state-controlled gas company, ''and it would not be proper to ignore this.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker for the Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation checked the flow of a new oil well about 25 miles southwest of Ahmadabad, India, last September. (Photo by Pankaj Nangia/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 A petrochemical plant in Daqing, China. China and India are global competitors, and partners, in energy. (Photo by Doug Kanter/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)Chart: ''A Thirst for Oil''China and India still import far less oil than Japan and the United States, but their imports are growing rapidly. Percentage changes are annual growth rates from 1994 to 2004.Average daily oil importsIn millions of barrelsUNITED STATES: +4%'94: 8.1'04: 11.8JAPAN: -1%'94: 5.5'04: 5.3CHINA: +31%'94: 0.1'04: 3.0INDIA: +8%'94: 0.7'04: 1.6(Source by Energy Information Administration)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (84%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); TRENDS (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); ENGINEERING (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (64%); NAVIES (61%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Global Warming; Kyoto Protocol; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Consumer Behavior; Gases; Treaties; Weather; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (89%) PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); WEST INDIA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (59%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (58%) INDIA (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%) China; India; Europe; Japan; Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



356 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Furor Lingers as Harvard Chief Gives Details of Talk on Women

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER and PATRICK D. HEALY; Sara Rimer reported from Cambridge for this article, and Patrick D. Healy from Albany.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Feb. 17 

 BODY:
Bowing to pressure from his faculty, the president of Harvard University, Lawrence H. Summers, on Thursday released a month-old transcript of his contentious closed-door remarks about the shortage of women in the sciences and engineering. The transcript revealed several provocative statements by Dr. Summers about the ''intrinsic aptitude'' of women, the career pressures they face and discrimination within universities.
 Dr. Summers's remarks, which have only been described by others until now, have fueled a widening crisis on campus, with several professors talking about taking a vote of no confidence on the president next week. That idea alone is unprecedented at Harvard in modern times. 
 Among his comments to a conference of economists last month, according to the transcript, Dr. Summers, a former secretary of the United States Treasury, compared the relatively low number of women in the sciences to the numbers of Catholics in investment banking, whites in the National Basketball Association and Jews in farming. 
 He theorized that a ''much higher fraction of married men'' than married women were willing to work 80-hour weeks to attain ''high powered'' jobs. He said racial and sex discrimination needed to be ''absolutely, vigorously'' combated, yet he argued that bias could not entirely explain the lack of diversity in the sciences. At that point, the Harvard leader suggested he believed that the innate aptitude of women was a factor behind their low numbers in the sciences and engineering.
 ''My best guess, to provoke you, of what's behind all of this is that the largest phenomenon -- by far -- is the general clash between people's legitimate family desires and employers' current desire for high power and high intensity; that in the special case of science and engineering, there are issues of intrinsic aptitude, and particularly of the variability of aptitude; and that those considerations are reinforced by what are in fact lesser factors involving socialization and continuing discrimination,'' Dr. Summers said, according to the transcript.
 ''I would like nothing better than to be proved wrong, because I would like nothing better than for these problems to be addressable simply by everybody understanding what they are, and working very hard to address them,'' he added.
 Over and over in the transcript, he made clear that he might be wrong in his theories, and he challenged researchers to study his propositions. 
 He also urged research on ''the quality of marginal hires'' to the faculty when efforts to diversify are under way. How many of these hires, he asked, have ''turned out to be much better than the institutional norm who wouldn't have been found without a greater search?'' Or are ''plausible compromises'' that are not unreasonable additions to the faculty? And ''how many of them are what the right-wing critics of all of this suppose represent clear abandonments of quality standards''?
 Several Harvard professors said they were more furious after reading the precise remarks, saying they felt he believed women were intellectually inferior to men. 
 Everett I. Mendelsohn, a professor of the history of science, said that once he read the transcript, he understood why Dr. Summers ''might have wanted to keep it a secret.''
 ''Where he seems to be off the mark particularly is in his sweeping claims that women don't have the ability to do well in high-powered jobs,'' said Professor Mendelsohn, part of a faculty group that sharply criticized Dr. Summers's leadership at a meeting of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences on Tuesday. ''There's an implication that they've taken themselves out of that role. But he brings forward no evidence.''
 Howard Georgi, a physics professor who has been part of a successful effort in his department to recruit women for tenured positions, said, ''It's crazy to think that it's an innate difference.'' He added: ''It's socialization. We've trained young women to be average. We've trained young men to be adventurous.''
 After releasing the 7,000-word transcript, Dr. Summers said in a letter to the faculty that he should ''have spoken differently on matters so complex'' and that he had ''substantially understated the impact of socialization and discrimination.'' 
 ''The issue of gender difference is far more complex than comes through in my comments,'' he wrote.
 The senior member of Harvard's governing corporation, James Houghton, released a letter after the transcript was made public, offering praise and support for Dr. Summers.
 In recent weeks, the Summers controversy has led to a wider debate among academics about not only sex differences but also the state of campus political correctness -- with Dr. Summers's supporters insisting that a left-wing cabal on the faculty was seeking to bring down his presidency over his remarks. 
 Among his critics on the faculty, the current outrage against him amounts to a culmination of reaction to three years of sharp-edged remarks, actions and displays of attitude that to these professors have been divisive and unworthy of one of the world's leading universities. Dr. Summers gained notoriety several months into the job by offending a leading professor of black studies at Harvard, Cornel West, who promptly decamped to Princeton University. 
 Yet some Harvard professors and leaders said that the critics were focusing too narrowly on remarks that were meant to be private and provocative, and that they were losing sight of Dr. Summers's accomplishments at the university.
 ''My primary response to the transcript is that President Summers has profoundly apologized,'' said Edward Glaeser, a Harvard economics professor who is a strong supporter of Dr. Summers. ''At this point the university will be much better served by looking forward rather than by parsing his comments.''
 After the transcript was issued, Dr. West volunteered his reaction to the latest imbroglio.
 ''I've been praying for the brother, hoping he would change,'' Dr. West said in an interview. ''It's clear he hasn't changed. I feel bad for Harvard as an institution and as a great tradition. It was good to see the faculty wake up. The chickens have come home to roost.''
 While Harvard professors plan to convene Tuesday to discuss the transcript and Dr. Summers's leadership, and some have spoken of a vote of no confidence, it is the Harvard Corporation that has decisive influence over Dr. Summers's fortunes. It stood behind him on Thursday. 
 Several female scientists who were at the National Bureau of Economic Research forum and who expressed outrage at Dr. Summers's remarks there said they felt vindicated. Critics had accused them of misinterpreting him and overreacting out of political correctness. 
 ''I'm glad his words are finally out there,'' said Shirley Malcom, who grew up in segregated Alabama and is now the director of education for the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington. ''Because so many of us have been accused of implying that he said things he did not, and now people can actually judge for themselves.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence H. Summers, president of Harvard, spoke last month in Davos, Switzerland, two weeks after making his remarks about women. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WOMEN (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); MARRIAGE (72%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); BASKETBALL (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); RELIGION (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (53%) Colleges and Universities; Teachers and School Employees; Mathematics; Science and Technology; Discrimination; Women; Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%) Harvard University

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (92%) Patrick D Healy; Sara Rimer; Lawrence H Summers

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



357 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Varied Phases of Damien Hirst (Sliced-Up Cow Not Included)

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
''A Selection of Works by Damien Hirst From Various Collections,'' at the Museum of Fine Arts here, is a perfect introduction to the art and enterprise of the famously controversial British artist whose intentions are perhaps still unclear even to people familiar with his work.
 Not a greatest-hits show, it consists of just seven works, from 1994 to 2004, borrowed from private collections. The big shark and the sliced-up cows are not included.
 The virtue of the show, which was organized by the museum's contemporary art curator, Cheryl Brutvan, is that each piece represents a phase of Mr. Hirst's multifaceted work, and they all fit together like slices of a whole pie. Wall labels, usually a bad idea for contemporary art shows, are surprisingly helpful. 
 The exhibition highlights Mr. Hirst's strategically provocative play with the big themes of art, science and religion. 
 His posture on the surface is that of a puritanical moralist excoriating contemporary society for its materialism and vanity.
 What more immediately, if not deeply, animates his project, however, is a calculating blend of satire, cynicism and grandiosity.
 The first piece you encounter is an enormous circular painting mounted on a motor so that it revolves continuously. (It hangs out in the lobby because the ceilings in the contemporary galleries are too low to accommodate it.) 
 The attractively lush, radiating layers of paint were produced by the same means as amusement-park spin art, made when customers squirt paint on spinning cardboard panels.
 This makes the work a deflating parody of Abstract Expressionist action painting, something akin to what Gerhard Richter's squeegee paintings are thought by many critics to do.
 In the gallery an easel-scale gridded composition of colored dots on white similarly comments on formalism. The wall label explains that Mr. Hirst's assistants made more than 300 of these spot paintings during the 1990's: a style once associated with utopian ideals of rational design in de Stijl and Russian Constructivism becomes mere product for a market that demands an adequate supply of works by trendy artists.
 The label also notes that the dot paintings have titles taken from prescription drugs, which might be interpreted as mocking the popular idea of art as spiritual therapy. Arginine, from which this example takes its title, is for heart and circulatory diseases.
 The dot painting hangs next to a hospital-size medicine cabinet. Behind its glass doors, real drug boxes and bottles are lined up and stacked on shelves, creating a neat grid composition. Like a collaboration among Haim Steinbach, Peter Halley and Andreas Gursky, it connects the dots running through science, industrial design, art and commerce.
 The show's biggest and most ambitious piece is ''The Collector,'' a life-size tableau. Inside a large glass box, a mannequin in a laboratory outfit sits at a table peering into a microscope. Big potted plants grow around the figure, engulfing it in greenery. Meanwhile, live butterflies flutter about the space or hang upside down on the ceiling screen.
 Unlike Mr. Hirst's other works, this one does not make its point readily obvious. The label quotes his saying that collecting butterflies is somehow sexy: ''It seems like something to do with girls.'' 
 Could this be a coy reference to the John Fowles novel ''The Collector'' (and the movie based on it) about a fellow who kidnaps, imprisons and kills a young woman he has fallen in love with? Collectors of butterflies kill the objects of their affections, too, and perhaps Mr. Hirst means to suggest the same of art collectors. 
 Two works mock the pretensions of art. One is an oval canvas to which colorful, iridescent butterfly wings have been glued in a beautiful mosaic pattern. 
 The other, hanging adjacent, is a square panel heavily encrusted with dead black flies, called ''Judgment Day.'' The moral is inescapable: the fantasy that art lives forever is an evasion of the ineluctable fact that we are all going to die.
 And if you think religion is going to help, you had better think again. That would seem to be the lesson of ''Away From the Flock,'' a tank in which a woolly lamb has been suspended in formaldehyde. It is, in part, as the wall label explains, a reference to ''the lamb as a symbol of the sacrificed Christ.'' But, it might be ventured further, transformed into a lifeless zoological specimen, the lamb and its attendant metaphysical hopes have been sacrificed to the soulless imperatives of modern science.
 There are two ways to think about all of this. One, for sympathizers, is to view Mr. Hirst as a resourceful artist-philosopher with a broad, deep and comprehensive vision of modernity and its spiritual plight. 
 Detractors may see him as a clever showman trafficking in academic platitudes: a third-rate Warhol, a second-rate Koons. 
 Either way, this unusually lucid and economical exhibition sets the table for an informed debate about his merits and demerits.

''A Selection of Works by Damien Hirst From Various Collections'' remains on view at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, 465 Huntington Avenue, (617)267-9300, through April 24.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Damien Hirst's show in Boston includes a life-size tableau called ''The Collector,'' left
''Nothing Sacred,'' a medicine cabinet with its contents carefully aligned in a grid pattern, above
and a circular painting, 144 inches in diameter, that revolves on a motor. (Photographs courtesy of the artist and Jay Jopling, London)
 (Photo by Broad Art Foundation, Santa Monica, Calif.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); RELIGION (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Museum of Fine Arts (Boston, Mass)

PERSON: Ken Johnson; Damien Hirst

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



358 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Kurds Detail Demands For a Degree of Autonomy

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Dexter Filkins contributed reporting from Baghdad for this article.

DATELINE: SULAIMANIYA, Iraq, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
From his snow-covered mountain fortress, Massoud Barzani sees little other than the rugged hills of Iraqi Kurdistan and green-clad militiamen posted along the serpentine road below.
 The border with the Arab-dominated rest of Iraq is far off. Baghdad lies even farther off and, if Kurdish leaders like Mr. Barzani have their way, will fade almost entirely out of the picture here.
 Since the fall of Saddam Hussein, the Kurds have made known their determination to retain a degree of autonomy in the territory they have dominated for more than a decade. Now, after their strong performance in the elections last month, Kurdish leaders are for the first time spelling out specific demands. 
 From control of oil reserves to the retention of the Kurdish militia, the pesh merga, to full authority over taxation, the requested powers add up to an autonomy that is hard to distinguish from independence. 
 ''The fact remains that we are two different nationalities in Iraq -- we are Kurds and Arabs,'' Mr. Barzani said as he sat in a reception hall at his headquarters in Salahuddin. ''If the Kurdish people agree to stay in the framework of Iraq in one form or another as a federation, then other people should be grateful to them.''
 Kurdish autonomy is expected to be one of the most divisive issues during the drafting of the new constitution, alongside the debate over the role of Islam in the new Iraq. The Kurds' demands are already alarming Iraq's Arabs, particularly the majority Shiites, and raising tensions with neighboring countries, where governments are trying to suppress Kurdish separatist movements within their own borders. 
 In interviews, top Kurdish leaders like Mr. Barzani, head of the Kurdistan Democratic Party, set out a list of demands that are more far-reaching than the Kurds have articulated in the past: 
 $(6$)They want the ownership of any natural resources, including oilfields, and the power to determine how the revenues are split with the central government. 
 $(6$)They want authority over the formidable militia called the pesh merga, estimated at up to 100,000 members, in defiance of the American goal of dismantling ethnic and sectarian armies. The pesh merga would be under nominal national oversight, but actual control would remain with regional commanders. No other armed forces would be allowed to enter Kurdistan without permission from Kurdish officials. 
 $(6$)They want power to appoint officials to work in and operate ministries in Kurdistan, which would parallel those in Baghdad. These would include the ministries that oversee security and the economy.
 $(6$)They want authority over fiscal policy, including oversight of taxes and the power to decide how much tax revenue goes to Baghdad. The national government would make monetary policy but would not be able to raise revenue from Kurdistan without the agreement of Kurdish officials.
 Moreover, the region's borders would be changed, in the Kurds' vision. The ''green line'' that defines the boundary between the Kurdistan and the rest of Iraq would be officially pushed south, to take in the oil-rich city of Kirkuk, the city of Khanaqin and the area of Sinjar. Kurdish leaders argue that this would just reestablish historic borders where Mr. Hussein had drastically altered the demographics by displacing Kurds with Arab settlers.
 ''It must be clear in the constitution what is for the Kurds and what is for the Iraqi government,'' said Fouad Hussein, an influential independent Kurdish politician.
 The fierce political drive of the Kurds, who make up a fifth of Iraq's 28 million people, became apparent during the Jan. 30 elections, when turnout across the three provinces of Iraqi Kurdistan -- Sulaimaniya, Erbil and Dohuk -- averaged 84 percent, well above the national average of 58 percent.
 Those votes secured for the main Kurdish alliance 75 of 275 seats in the constitutional assembly. The alliance finished second, behind the main Shiite slate, which ended up with a slim majority of 140 seats, which is short of the two-thirds needed to form a government. 
 The Kurds are now in the position of kingmaker, courted by the Shiite parties and competing smaller groups like the secular slate led by Prime Minister Ayad Allawi.
 The Kurds are asking for Mr. Barzani's main rival, Jalal Talabani, to be chosen as president. More audacious is their insistence on broad powers for their region under a federal system. The autonomy envisioned by the Kurds is likely to inflame the formerly ruling Sunni Arabs, who lack officially authorized militias and rich natural resources in their own traditional territory.
 But it is the Shiites, having finally achieved here after decades of struggle, who are likely to offer the strongest opposition to Kurdish autonomy.
 The top Shiite clerics ''are very difficult,'' said Nawzad Hadi Mawlood, the governor of Erbil Province, the largest Kurdish province. ''They're hard negotiators,'' he said. ''They're inflexible. The Shia do not want to admit the federal system for the Kurds.''
 Many Shiite leaders complain that the Kurds press too many demands and already exercise power in the interim government out of proportion with their numbers. Kurds hold the posts of deputy prime minister, foreign minister and the head of Parliament, as well as one of two vice presidencies.
 ''There is a sense that the Kurds have taken more privileges than the others,'' said Sheik Humam Hamoudi, a senior official of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, a powerful Shiite party. ''So we advise the Kurds to be more Iraqi.''
 Besides holding more than a quarter of the seats in the constitutional assembly, the Kurds have another powerful tool in the transitional law approved last spring. Under that law, a two-thirds vote in any three provinces can veto a national referendum on the constitution. Kurdish leaders could easily mobilize such a vote.
 The relatively secular Kurds might also make a deal with the religious Shiites in which the Kurds would gain significant autonomy in return for agreeing not to block Shiite efforts to establish an Islamic form of government elsewhere in Iraq. 
 Kurdish leaders argue that their push for federalism is nothing more than an attempt to maintain the status quo. Iraqi Kurdistan, a mountainous area the size of Switzerland, has existed as an autonomous region since the end of the Persian Gulf war of 1991, when the American military established a no-flight zone in northern Iraq.
 ''Like all the nations of the world, all the people of the world, we have the ability to rule ourselves, and we've proven that in the last 14 years,'' Hezha Anoor, 18, said as he and his friends stood outside a Chinese restaurant here in Sulaimaniya, the capital of eastern Kurdistan.
 Iraqi Kurdish leaders maintain that while they would like to see an independent Kurdistan in their lifetimes, secession is not practical now.
 The threat from countries like Turkey is too great, they say. And the economy of Kurdistan, which depended on smuggling during the United Nations sanctions against Iraq imposed in the 1990's, would benefit from sharing in revenues from the vast southern oilfields, said Barham Salih, the deputy prime minister of Iraq and a top Kurdish official.
 Yet if the Kurdish leaders do succeed in winning strong autonomy, that could inspire greater calls for independence. ''Iraq is a beast,'' Pire Mughan, 63, a grizzled poet and former pesh merga fighter, said as he sipped tea in the shadow of the citadel of Erbil. ''Arabs are beasts, because their entire history is one of killings and massacres. 
 ''I didn't vote for anyone in the elections, because I believe in independence, not in federalism. If I had voted, it would have meant voting for federalism, and that would have been treason for future generations.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: One of the Kurdish leaders' demands is keeping their militia, the pesh merga, intact. An anti-terror brigade trained Wednesday near Sulaimaniya. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)Map of Iraq highlighting Sulaimaniya: In Sulaimaniya, the Kurds are seeking to control their affairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POLITICS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); ARMED FORCES (65%); RELIGION (64%); INTERVIEWS (63%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%) Kurds; Elections; Constitutions; Politics and Government

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Edward Wong

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



359 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Escapes; HAVENS: LIVING HERE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Pieds-a-Terre: Little Homes in Places You Like to Visit

BYLINE: As told to Bethany Lyttle

 BODY:

WHO -- Karl Manheim, 57, a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles
WHAT -- 2-bedroom condominium
WHERE -- Vancouver, British Columbia
 Last August, my sister, my nephew and I went sailing in the San Juan Islands with my cousin Larry and his family. They'd never been up to Vancouver before but visited toward the end of the trip. They fell in love with the city. So, when they heard I'd been considering buying a place here with my father and sister, they wanted in. This purchase has been a family venture.
 The condo is in a high-rise with a great view of the city and False Creek to the south and a view of the mountains to the north. When I'm here, I still do a lot of things tourists would do. I walk around Yaletown, go to Chinatown or stroll along the seawall at Stanley Park. Oh, and eat. The restaurants here are great. In fact, I had my first dim sum here. But that was in 1976 on a trip across Canada on a motorcycle.
 Vancouver is one of the greatest cities in the world. It has the critical mass to provide the cultural diversity that makes any city great, but it's more manageable than most American cities. In addition, there's something very attractive about its infrastructure. Take the library, for instance. It has a cafe inside. You see things like that here, and you get the sense that everything is just a little more civilized. Combine that with the facts that it's probably a wise investment given the state of the United States economy, that it's easy to get here from any major U.S. city, including Los Angeles, where I live, and it's hard to imagine a reason for not buying here. The only thing it really lacks is a Trader Joe's. As told to Bethany Lyttle

ON THE MARKET
Information was provided by the listing companies.

WHERE -- Vancouver, British Columbia
WHAT -- 1-bedroom condominium
HOW MUCH -- $242,000
This new 669-square-foot loft-style condominium is in the Mount Pleasant neighborhood within minutes of the Granville Island Public Market, the South Granville shopping area and downtown. It has mountain and skyline views, high ceilings, brick walls, Douglas fir wood floors, a small room suitable for an office, a soaker tub in the one bathroom, a fireplace and granite counters. Folding doors separate the living and sleeping areas. Agent: Anne LeBlanc, Royal LePage Northshore, (604)787-6080; www.anneleblanc.com.

WHERE -- San Francisco
WHAT -- 1-bedroom condominium
HOW MUCH -- $649,000
This 722-square-foot unit is in a year-old 112-unit building in the South Beach area, a block from SBC Park, home of the San Francisco Giants. It has maple floors, high ceilings, granite counters, one bathroom, parking, a washer, a dryer and floor-to-ceiling windows with views of a Zen garden. An alcove can be used as an office. Agent: Masti M. Pahlbod, Prudential California Realty, (415)264-1296; www.prurealty.com.

WHERE -- Miami Beach
WHAT -- 1-bedroom condominium
HOW MUCH -- $715,000
This two-level condominium is south of Fifth Street in South Beach and within easy walking distance of shopping and restaurants. It is 1,310 square feet and is on the first floor of the four-acre Murano Grande complex, which has 325 units, 700 feet of bay frontage, an exercise center, a swimming pool, a sauna and beach access. The unit has a private entrance, hardwood floors, granite counters, a harbor view, one bathroom and a walk-in closet. Agent: Paul Hansen, Turnberry International Realty, (305)935-0300; www.hansenhomesaventura.com.

WHERE -- New Orleans
WHAT -- 1-bedroom condominium
HOW MUCH -- $195,000
This 575-square-foot French Quarter condominium is on the third floor of a 19th-century building on Royal Street at Governor Nicholls Street, a five-block walk from Jackson Square and an easy walk to shops and restaurants. The condo has hardwood floors, a spiral staircase to the loft-style bedroom, exposed beams, one bathroom and a nonworking fireplace. The building has eight units and a landscaped courtyard with a swimming pool. Parking is not provided. Agent: Michael Wilkinson, French Quarter Realty, (504)949-5400; www.fqr.com.

WHERE -- Boston
WHAT -- 1-bedroom condominium
HOW MUCH -- $499,000
This 879-square-foot condominium has views of the Charles River and the city. It is on the 38th floor in a concierge complex designed by I.M. Pei. It is on the Boston Harbor Walk next to Rowes Wharf. The complex has an outdoor pool and 624 units. Downtown Boston, Faneuil Hall, the North End and the Financial District are within minutes on foot. A pocket door between the living and sleeping areas opens to enhance the view. There is one bathroom. Agent: Carmela Laurella, Otis & Ahearn Real Estate, (617)227-6070; www.otisahearn.com.

WHERE -- Seattle
WHAT -- 1-bedroom condominium
HOW MUCH -- $595,000
This 1,088-square-foot condominium is in the heart of Seattle overlooking Elliott Bay. The Seattle Art Museum, galleries, restaurants and shops are within walking distance, as is the Pike Place Market. It has 12-foot ceilings, a parking space, a terrace garden, a wood-burning fireplace, one bathroom, a walk-in closet and hardwood floors. It has views of Puget Sound and the Olympic Mountains. The building is 23 years old and has 82 units. Agent: Jeannie Butler, Windermere Real Estate/Wall Street, (206)399-4594; www.windermere.com.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Bayne Stanley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (52%) Housing; Travel and Vacations; Condominiums

COMPANY: TRADER JOE'S CO (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (53%)

PERSON: Karl Manheim; Bethany Lyttle

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) Vancouver (British Columbia)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



360 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Rumsfeld Warns of Concern About Expansion of China's Navy

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said Thursday that the Pentagon was closely monitoring the growth of China's navy as part of that country's overall military buildup. 
 ''It is an issue that the department thinks about and is concerned about and is attentive to,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said when asked at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing about intelligence projections that the size of the Chinese fleet could surpass that of the United States Navy within a decade. 
 The expansion of China's navy is just one aspect of Beijing's military expansion that Pentagon and intelligence analysts are watching. Mr. Rumsfeld noted that the Chinese military budget had experienced double-digit growth in recent years. 
 The concerns come as Mr. Rumsfeld has agreed in principle to pay an official visit to China later this year in what many analysts have interpreted as an effort toward mending military ties damaged after a Navy surveillance plane and a Chinese fighter jet collided in international airspace in 2001.
 But a recent Chinese policy paper challenging the American military presence in the Pacific, and the Bush administration's concern about China's military buildup across the Taiwan Strait from Taiwan, has prompted some statements of tension. 
 ''The People's Republic of China,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said, ''is a country that we hope and pray enters the civilized world in an orderly way without the grinding of gears and that they become a constructive force in that part of the world and a player in the global environment that's constructive.'' 
 But, he said, ''They've got competing pressures between the desire to grow, which takes a free economy as opposed to a command economy, and their dictatorial system, which is not a free system. And there's a tension there, and I don't know how it'll come out, but I quite agree with you that we need to be attentive to it.''
 Lawrence Di Rita, the Pentagon spokesman, said later that Mr. Rumsfeld did not mean to suggest China was not a civilized nation, only that it had been ''an inward-looking government for decades and was now emerging as a global actor.''
 On Wednesday, Porter J. Goss, the central intelligence director, also warned of China's military expansion. Before the Senate Armed Services Committee, he said: ''Beijing's military modernization and military buildup could tilt the balance of power in the Taiwan Strait. Improved Chinese capabilities threaten U.S. forces in the region. In 2004, China increased its ballistic missile forces deployed across from Taiwan and rolled out several new submarines. China continues to develop more robust, survivable nuclear-armed missiles, as well as conventional capabilities for use in regional conflict.'' 
 On Wednesday Mr. Rumsfeld also offered a cautionary assessment of China's military activities. 
 ''They're growing rapidly and they're making significant investments in defense capabilities, military capabilities,'' he told the House Armed Services Committee then. 
 ''They are buying a great deal of equipment from Russia,'' Mr. Rumsfeld continued. ''They're making an increasing amount of equipment. It's more advanced technologically. They're actively trying to get access to European technology by getting the arms embargo ban lifted from the European Union, which it looks like the European Union is along the track to do at some point. They're increasingly moving their navy further distances from their shores in various types of exercises and activities. And that's a reality.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); NAVIES (79%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (79%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (70%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (67%) Armament, Defense and Military Forces; United States International Relations; Military Aircraft; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (57%)

PERSON: Eric Schmitt; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (94%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



361 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: A Former Gas Station Attendant's Big Bet on a Refinery Has Paid Off

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: JAMNAGAR, India 

 BODY:
The vast refinery and petrochemical complex here is the size of Manhattan south of Central Park. It could have been a costly white elephant.
 Instead, the quirky project, which includes the world's largest mango plantation, has become one of the most profitable bets in the global refining industry. The success of the complex shows the changing economics of refining, a business once regarded as an unglamorous backwater by oil executives more interested in finding the next big oil field. 
 Completed by Reliance Industries of Mumbai in 1999 at a cost of $6 billion, the operation's $7 billion a year in sales equals 4 percent of the entire revenue of India's corporations. It is one of the few refineries in the world that can take very thick high-sulfur highly acidic grades of crude oil and process them into extremely pure, low-polluting gasoline and diesel fuel.
 The New York region, with its demanding environmental standards, has become the biggest single destination for shipments from here, said Captain Sunil Pradham, who manages a four-mile-long jetty that stretches into deep water where tankers pick up cargos, four at a time.
 Crude oil tankers with deeper drafts unload their cargos even farther offshore, pumping the oil through an undersea pipeline to the refinery.
 Rapidly rising energy demand from China and India in the last several years has benefited the refinery in two ways. Saudi Arabia and other oil exporters have stretched their output by producing more thick grades of crude oil with lots of sulfur and other contaminants; they were already pumping better grades of crude at close to full capacity before the surge in Asian demand.
 So much low-quality crude has flooded the market that it now sells at a discount of up to several dollars a barrel compared with better grades. That has meant savings for refineries like the one here that can handle poor-quality crude.
 At the same time, Asia has run short of refinery capacity, as oil companies failed to foresee the soaring car sales that have driven up the region's demand. That has allowed refineries to charge higher markups for gasoline and other refined products.
 Gross pretax profit margins run $10 to $14 a barrel, said P.K. Kapil, the president of the complex here. That is remarkably high by the standards of the refining industry, where margins have often been $1 or $2 a barrel and sometimes disappeared altogether in the 1990's.
 The complex here is the creation of Reliance's founder, Dhirubhai Ambani, who died in 2002. As a young man working as a gas station attendant in Yemen in the 1950's, Mr. Ambani dreamed of someday owning his own oil empire, from drilling to refining to marketing.
 Returning to India with $100 in his pocket, Mr. Ambani entered the textile business, then moved into the production of polyester and other chemicals needed for synthetic fabrics, becoming one of India's wealthiest tycoons. Hobbled by a debilitating stroke, he ordered the construction in 1996 of what remains the world's largest refinery complex built as a single project.
 The refinery is the third largest in the world, trailing ones in Venezuela and South Korea that grew to their current size through a series of expansions.
 Critics of Reliance often accuse the company of wielding tremendous influence with local and national governments in India and being obsessed with secrecy. The refinery complex here, which includes a 350-megawatt power plant and two chemical plants, shows signs of both.
 The government of Gujarat granted the company a 10-year holiday from steep sales taxes to attract the refinery. The Indian Air Force has moved a squadron of F-14 fighter jets to an airfield three miles away, along with a battery of surface-to-air missiles, to protect the site from any possible attack from Pakistan, a little over 100 miles away.
 The complex has two command centers, one above ground and another in a subterranean bunker in case of bombing raids. Cameras on the complex's fences can spot a snake more than a half mile away.
 Employees not only must wear badges, but even have their palm prints scanned by devices to confirm their identities. ''You can steal a card; you can't steal a hand,'' said S.C. Malhotra, the Reliance senior vice president who oversaw construction.
 Most unusual of all are the extensive orchards of mangos, avocados, figs and more. Excess heat from the refinery is used to desalinate seawater for the irrigation of the fruit trees, and teak is grown with treated effluent from the refinery.
 Hital R. Meswani, a great-nephew of Mr. Ambani who is now the Reliance board member responsible for the oil and manufacturing businesses, said that the giant refinery's location in a militarily sensitive area near the Pakistani border made sense. The harbor here is deep and well protected from storms, the sailing times from Mideast oil fields are short and modern weapons systems would make it possible for the refinery to come under attack even if it were deeper in India, he said.
 Since Mr. Ambani died, his sons, Mukesh and Anil, have quarreled over control of his empire. But their father's influence still pervades the refinery, where visitors are strongly urged to watch videos extolling him, including one in which he floats in a chair in front of his orchards, a faint white light radiating from his image.
 And the founder's many sayings about the virtues of hard work and achievement are still recited reverently by executives.
 ''His words,'' Mr. Kapil, the president, said, ''were like gospel truth to us.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Reliance refinery is the third largest in the world, trailing refineries in Venezuela and South Korea. (Photo by Keith Bradsher/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PETROCHEMICALS (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (89%); GAS STATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CITIES (74%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (73%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (67%); ENERGY DEMAND (65%); TEXTILES (60%); BULK SHIPPING (56%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Refineries; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Reliance Industries

TICKER: RIGD (LSE) (58%); RELIANCE (NSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS313110 FIBER, YARN & THREAD MILLS (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher; Dhirubhai (1932-2002) Ambani

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); YEMEN (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ASIA (79%) Jamnagar (India); India; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



362 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 16220 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:

Theater

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy Broadway, Off Broadway and Off Off Broadway shows this weekend. Approximate running times are in parentheses. * denotes a highly recommended show.
+ means discounted tickets were available at the Theater Development Fund's TKTS booth for performances last Friday and Saturday nights.
++ means discounted tickets were available at the TKTS booth for last Friday night. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.

Broadway

++'BROOKLYN BOY' One of the mortifications of middle age is being forced to admit the truth in those extra-mossy cliches that you mock when you are young and arrogant. The past always catches up with you; blood is thicker than water; be careful what you wish for. These are among the stale-but-true bromides that are acknowledged by the title character in Donald Margulies's sincere but doggedly unsurprising new play about the midlife crisis of a suddenly successful novelist (Adam Arkin). While this comic drama is steeped in an admirably humble and often touching spirit of acceptance, it seldom does what Mr. Margulies has achieved repeatedly before: make the familiar seem fresh. Polly Draper and Ari Graynor stand out in an excellent cast, smoothly directed by Daniel Sullivan (2:20). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $26 to $79.
BEN BRANTLEY

+'FIDDLER ON THE ROOF' From the moment it sounds its first word in David Leveaux's placid revival, the voice of Harvey Fierstein (who has replaced Alfred Molina in the central role of Tevye) makes the audience prick up its ears. Heard not so long ago issuing from the plus-size form of Edna Turnblad in the musical ''Hairspray,'' Mr. Fierstein's voice is one of the most distinctive in theater, variously evoking a kazoo, a congested saxophone, wind in a bottle and echoes from a crypt. It is, in a way, its own multicolored show. Whether it fits comfortably into the little Russian village of Anatevka is another issue. But at least it brings a bit of zest to Mr. Leveaux's abidingly bland production (2:55). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (212)307-4100. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $35 to $100.
BRANTLEY

+'GOOD VIBRATIONS' Even those who believe that everything on this planet has a purpose may at first have trouble justifying the existence of ''Good Vibrations,'' the singing headache that manages to purge all catchiness from the surpassingly catchy hits of the Beach Boys. But audience members strong enough to sit through this rickety jukebox of a show will discover that the production, directed and choreographed by John Carrafa, does have a reason to be. ''Good Vibrations'' sacrifices itself to make all other musicals on Broadway look good. As the show's washboard-stomached performers smile, wriggle and squeak with the desperation of wet young things hung out to dry, you feel their pain. It is unlikely, however, to be more acute than yours (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $76 to $101; a limited number of $25 student rush tickets are available at the box office on the day of the show.
BRANTLEY

+'LITTLE WOMEN' Sutton Foster never merely walks when she can scamper in this perky, sketchy adaptation of Louisa May Alcott's classic novel of a Civil War-era New England girlhood. Portraying Jo the tomboy, Ms. Foster creates a dizzyingly hyperkinetic creature who, were she living in the 21st century, would probably be on Ritalin. Ms. Foster (a Tony winner for ''Thoroughly Modern Millie'') shows a gift for fresh, comic line readings. But her energy is often less infectious than exhausting. The same can be said of the show, directed by Susan H. Schulman and featuring a book by Allan Knee, with songs by Jason Howland and Mindi Dickstein. Watching the production is rather like speed-reading Alcott's novel. And the cast members, who include the mellow-voiced Maureen McGovern, mostly bring to mind 1860's-themed editions of the American Girl series of dolls (2:20). Virginia Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $60 to $100.
BRANTLEY

Off Broadway

+'BELFAST BLUES' The ''Belfast Blues'' of Geraldine Hughes's solo show aren't the kind you'd expect. Yes, the ''troubles'' between Roman Catholics and Protestants that have roiled Northern Ireland for decades do cast an emotional shadow over this heartfelt and funny if unexceptional stage memoir, descriptively subtitled ''one wee girl's story about family, war, Jesus and Hollywood.'' But Ms. Hughes's title more directly refers to her big, inquisitive and exceptionally expressive eyes, which helped secure that wee girl a ticket to a happier life. ''Belfast Blues,'' which recounts her experience growing up amid poverty and violence in Belfast in the 1970's and 80's, does not bring any groundbreaking insights to familiar territory. But Ms. Hughes is a bright, inviting presence, and the surprising agent of her deliverance from the troubled atmosphere of her youth gives the show a modestly refreshing twist (1:25). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, (212)307-4100. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 4 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 4 p.m. Tickets: $25 to $45; a limited number of $20 student rush tickets are available at the box office one hour before the performance.
CHARLES ISHERWOOD

'THE CHERRY ORCHARD' In this stunningly powerful production, an intriguing balance arises between Lopakhin, the bourgeois former serf, and the aristocratic family that owns the cherry orchard and whose fortunes are all but dried up. The landowner Lyubov Ranevskaya (Petronia Paley), returning penniless from her life abroad, is as elegant as she is self-delusional. Against her beauty and her dignity, Lopakhin (Wendell Pierce), the archetype of the small-minded arriviste, is a hard man to like. But this production brings out their shared past in subtle but forceful gestures that complicate the audience's sympathies (2:00). Harlem School of the Arts Theater, 645 St. Nicholas Avenue, near 141st Street, (212)868-4444. Wednesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $25.
CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

'COUNSELLOR-AT-LAW' Entertainment in abundance radiates from the Peccadillo Theater Company's new production of this old Elmer Rice drama. Starring the Tony Award-winning John Rubinstein, ''Counsellor-at-Law'' is a drama that throbs with New York life and brims with touchstones of another time, like ''George White's Scandals'' and the Court of General Sessions. But it also retains relevance to ambition and success in the 21st century. It has a hero worth rooting for, a healthy dose of sacred and profane love, some sharp jabs at class difference, villains who merit a hearty hiss and plenty of New York attitude and humor (2:45). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212)868-4444. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $55; $20 student rush tickets available at the box office 15 minutes before the show.
LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

*'THE GODS ARE POUNDING MY HEAD! (AKA LUMBERJACK MESSIAH)' Even lumberjacks get the cosmic blues in the world of Richard Foreman, the Florenz Ziegfeld of avant-garde drama. In many ways, this show is a typical Foreman extravaganza: tightly orchestrated hallucinogenic visual effects, bruising slapstick and cryptic, fragmented dialogue. But there is also a newly wistful, elegiac note here. ''Gods,'' which features Jay Smith and T. Ryder Smith as a pair of weary woodsmen, is as majestically mad and funny as any Foreman spectacle. But it also has a sadness appropriate to what appears to be a farewell note of sorts, since Mr. Foreman has said he is giving up the kind of plays he has been creating since 1968 to focus on film (1:10). Ontological Theater at St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, (212)533-4650. Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, 8 p.m. Tickets: weekdays $20, $15 for students; $25 for Saturday performances.
BRANTLEY

'A LIFE A BROAD (MI VIDA EN JIRA)' Melanie Rey has a big bright voice, and her one-woman show is a musical. She style-surfs through multiple styles in English and Spanish: ballads, Anglo rock, R&B and Tex-Mex. She is an accomplished actor too, but the word ''accomplished'' often means that an actor with all the right moves shows them all too predictably. A one-person 90-minute show needs more. Ms Rey's real talent comes through unstrained when she plays her passionate, husband-hunting mother. When she plays herself, she is working too hard to win our love (1:30). Greenwich Street Theater, 547 Greenwich Street, (212) 252-2439. Sundays at 3 and 7 p.m.; Mondays at 8 p.m. Tickets: $30.
MARGO JEFFERSON

+'SABINA' Once a forgotten ghost in the annals of psychoanalysis, Sabina Spielrein is proving to have surprising staying power. A patient of Carl Jung and an acquaintance of Sigmund Freud who ultimately became a psychoanalyst herself, Spielrein has a history that has provided material for two movies and two plays. The first of these was Willy Holtzman's ''Sabina,'' first produced by Primary Stages in 1996 and now in revival as part of the company's 20th-anniversary season. The new production, directed by Ethan McSweeny, is hampered by an unsatisfactory performance from Marin Ireland in the title role. But the history of Spielrein's relationships with the founder of psychoanalysis and his protege turned apostate is nonetheless engrossing. It provides a provocative window into the much-studied relationship between Freud and Jung. Peter Strauss gives an admirably understated performance as a paternalistic Freud, and Victor Slezak, as Jung, gives persuasive dramatic life to a now-mythic figure. (2:15). Primary Stages, at 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212)279-4200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays though Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $55.
ISHERWOOD

'SHYLOCK' Deconstructing Shakespeare is a dangerous sport; it's impossible to be more imaginative or clever than the playwright himself, even if you are Harold Bloom. Gareth Armstrong gives it a game try, but ''Shylock,'' his 80-minute dissertation on the evolution of one of Shakespeare's most memorable characters, although deftly performed, is no exception. While his pocket synopses of anti-Semitism, Elizabethan England, Marlowe's ''Jew of Malta'' and even a Baedeker of famous actors' renditions of Shylock are edifying, they are not sufficiently enlightening or entertaining. The most riveting lines of Mr. Armstrong's monologue belong to Shakespeare himself (1:35). Perry Street Theater, 31 Perry Street, Greenwich Village, (212)868-4444. Wednesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $55; a limited number of $20 student/senior rush tickets available at the box office 30 minutes before the performance.
PHOEBE HOBAN

++'SLEEPING BEAUTY' Trust a British ''Sleeping Beauty'' to pivot on a fairy's flatulence. Yes, that surefire laugh trigger in old Blighty plays an unexpectedly large role in Rufus Norris's murky new version of the familiar fairy tale for the Young Vic Theater Company. Mr. Norris, a talented young British director whose Broadway-bound production of ''Festen'' snapped up many London theater awards, isn't interested in pretty pictures. His vigorously staged, grotesquely comic ''Sleeping Beauty,'' which unfolds in smoky darkness beneath a queasy yellow moon, is entirely in tune with the current vogue for teasing out thickets of disturbing subtext in children's literature. The production's eccentric designs accentuate the predominantly eerie air (2:00). New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, (212)239-6200. Tonight at 7; tomorrow and Sunday at 1 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $10, $20 and $30.
ISHERWOOD

*'THOM PAIN (BASED ON NOTHING)' Is there such a thing as standup existentialism? If not, Will Eno has just invented it. This monologue, which runs just over an hour and requires minimal stagecraft, is as unassuming in its means as it is astonishing in its impact. It's one of those treasured nights in the theater -- treasured nights anywhere, for that matter -- that can leave you both breathless with exhilaration and, depending on your sensitivity to meditations on the bleak and beautiful mysteries of human experience, in a puddle of tears. Also in stitches, here and there. Mr. Eno and his performer, the actor James Urbaniak, hereby reinvent that seemingly moribund theatrical genre, the solo show. They are immeasurably aided by the work of the director Hal Brooks. Mr. Eno's voice, or the voice of the narrator/protagonist/master of ceremonies played by Mr. Urbaniak, is alternately lyrical and affectless, ecstatic and flat, sardonic and sincere. Standup-style comic riffs and deadpan hipster banter keep interrupting the corrosively bleak narrative: Mr. Eno might be called a Samuel Beckett for the Jon Stewart generation. Let's try that again, minus the conditional: Mr. Eno is a Samuel Beckett for the Jon Stewart generation (1:10). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 6 and 9 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7 p.m. Tickets; $45.
ISHERWOOD

*'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' This lovably inconsequential, entirely adorable new musical brings to the stage the culture's current mania for celebrating that most revered of American virtues, the will to victory. A mock spelling bee, it pokes serious fun at its twitchy tween contestants -- in the loopy spirit of the movies ''Waiting for Guffman'' and ''Best in Show'' -- but also pays affectionate tribute to these quirky young spelling titans. William Finn's nimble, upbeat score provides the emotional underpinning for Rachel Sheinkin's more satirical -- indeed often riotously funny -- book. The director James Lapine, Mr. Finn's collaborator on ''Falsettos,'' is also in impeccable form, managing to transform into virtues two of the theater's most reliable pitfalls, namely audience participation and the usually ghastly conceit of adult actors' playing kids (1:45). Second Stage, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212)246-4422. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $75.
ISHERWOOD

'WE'RE STILL HOT' A sign onstage in this melodramatic musical reads ''Welcome back, class of 1970,'' but this is misleading. The show is not about the experience of a class reunion. It is about a musical revue being written for that reunion, starring three old high school friends, now in their 50's, and a Hungarian cleaning woman who happens to be passing by. One alumna is a successful businesswoman (Deirdre Kingsbury), one is a rich man's uptight wife (Marnee Hollis), one is a complete failure (Deborah Jean Templin), and the pushy cleaning woman (Jane Seaman) was a stage star back home. J.J. McColl, the playwright and lyricist, makes Act I painful, with numbers like ''Nothing Special'' (it certainly isn't), ''Hormones'' and ''Whirligig Glands.'' Things improve a bit in Act II, as the humor turns to the ravages of aging (2:00). Theater at St. Luke's, 308 West 46th Street, (212)352-3101. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $55.
ANITA GATES

'THE MUSICAL OF MUSICALS' The musical is the happy narcissist of theater. It is always paying homage to itself. Parody is the best form of narcissism. All it needs is smart writers and winning performers. That's what we get In the case of ''The Musical of Musicals!'' Two of the performers are also the creators: Joanne Bogart (lyrics) and Eric Rockwell. (music). Aided by Lovette George and Craig Fols, they offer spoofs in the styles of Rodgers and Hammerstein, Stephen Sondheim, Jerry Herman, Andrew Lloyd Webber and Kander and Ebb. The best parodists don't sneer, they tease, and share the form's joie de vivre.'' Aficianados will get every joke and neophytes will laugh too. ''The Musical of Musicals!'' creates its own lightly absurd world (90 minutes). Dodger Stages, 340 West 5oth Street, (212)239-6200. Tonight at 7, tomorrow at 4 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $55 to $59.50.
JEFFERSON

Off Off Broadway

'DAY OF RECKONING' This play about the anarchist and labor reformer Lucy Parsons is unevenly paced and clumsily staged, but it has this saving grace: unlike some other theatrical efforts associated with Black History Month, it is not shallow hero worship. Parsons was a decidedly flawed hero, and Melody Cooper, the playwright, leaves those flaws in plain sight. As a young woman, Parsons, played by Ms. Cooper, called herself Lucy Gonzalez and tried to pass as Mexican and American Indian, chafing at any suggestion that she was black. And in her militant-labor phase, with her white husband, Albert, she exhorted followers, ''Learn to use explosives.'' When the Parsonses' domestic bliss is shattered by the Haymarket Riot of 1886, Lucy loses her bearings, and her son pays an appalling price. Ms. Cooper's recounting of this fascinating life could benefit from a large infusion of understatement, but still, Parsons's story is one that deserves to be told, especially at a time when those with radical ideas are again under intense scrutiny (1:50). All Stars Project's Performing Arts and Education Center, 543 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212)941-1234. Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $15.
NEIL GENZLINGER

'THE FLID SHOW' With the drug Vioxx making headlines because of its recent recall over adverse side effects, Richard Willett's play gains an unsettling topicality. The play traces the history of Thalidomide, the sleeping pill widely distributed in Europe in the late 1950's and early 60's that caused birth defects when taken by pregnant women. Mat Fraser, a seasoned and charismatic British actor who was himself a ''Thalidomide baby,'' stars as Duncan, a lounge singer coming to grips with the anger and resentment fueled by his lifelong struggles. In Mr. Willett's fanciful dramatic scheme -- borrowed from a certain Dickens holiday favorite, as he acknowledges -- Duncan's psychological scars are healed by a series of ghostly visitors who sweep him through time and space. The documentary aspects of the play are absorbing and often poignant, but Duncan's personal story, centering on his rocky romance with a doctor and a reconciliation, in spirit at least, with his dead mother, is crudely drawn and cliched (2:15). Medicine Show Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212)352-3101. Fridays, Saturdays and Mondays at 8 p.m. Tickets: $15; $30 for a special benefit performance on Feb. 24.
ISHERWOOD

'THE SECRET NARRATIVE OF THE PHONE BOOK' Spouting cascades of words, like fireboats expelling water in a harbor parade, the four actors in Gordon Cox's satiric new play manage to keep the pressure high for the first half of the evening's 90 minutes. It's a feat, because the self-described ''romantic comedy hijacked by a conspiracy thriller'' ultimately falls victim to overearnest lecturing and a convoluted plot about media control by a Big Brother phone company. Still, the fact that Mr. Cox, a theater critic for Newsday, obviously loves language, makes the early scenes a kick to hear (1:30). Kraine Theater, 85 East Fourth Street, (212)868-4444. Thursdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; added performance Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $15; $8 for students.
ANDREA STEVENS

Last Chance

'THE CONFESSIONS OF PUNCH AND JUDY' The anarchist Punch and his wife, Judy, have been beating each other senseless for centuries, but while the famously warring married couple is usually performed by puppets, two real-life actors do the quarreling in this rigorously performed modern update with a surplus of energy and a deficit of direction. Ker Wells and Tannis Kowalchuk, who wrote the drama with the director Raymond Bobgan, play the pair in this pedestrian production, which mixes mime, ballroom dance, first-person monologues, puppetry and naturalistic acting (1:10). Here Arts Center, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212)868-4444. Tonight, tomorrow and, final performance, Sunday at 7 p.m. Tickets: $15.
JASON ZINOMAN

'BYE MOM! OR, HOW NOT TO BURY YOUR MOTHER' This tongue-in-cheek comedy is the debut play of Susan Austin Roth, whose gardening books have sold more than 1.5 million copies. Its eye-catching title hints at Ms. Roth's experience writing guide books and it's easy to see a commercial, if still green, sensibility in the play's broad comic caricatures When Ethel falls into a coma, her children fly down to her home in Florida and take this opportunity to really let the old woman have it. But two hours of complaints aren't just for petty revenge. It also allows the family to dredge up old fights, reveal secrets and embrace in the end -- you know, the way families do in contrived two act-plays. Ms Roth has written what feels like a rough draft with potential (2:00). 45th Street Theater, 354 West 45th Street, (212)279-4200. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $15.
ZINOMAN

'FINDING CLAIRE' In Kim Merrill's lovely, sensitive, engrossing one-act play, Geneva Carr does a remarkable thing. She begins to cry, so suddenly and so intensely, that the audience laughs. Then her pain asserts itself and the audience sympathizes. Finally, she turns little-girlish (''She was really nice,'' she says of her dead mother. ''Not like here with you''), and the audience laughs again. It's a neat trick that takes theatergoers along for the character's roller-coaster ride of emotion. Ms. Carr plays an affluent 30-ish New York dancer who seeks out her birth mother, Claire Defaux (Deirdre Madigan), and finds a new family with old problems. Helen Gallagher plays Claire's domineering mother; Shana Dowdeswell is Claire's 15-year-old pregnant daughter. The cast is outstanding, if not fully convincing as lower middle class. Ms. Merrill's graceful script and Susan Einhorn's assured direction smooth over the twinges of mild disbelief (1:15). Theater for the New City, 155 First Avenue, at East 10th Street, (212)254-1109. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $10.
ANITA GATES

'PYRETOWN' There is plenty in John Belluso's play that resonates about the lack of universal health care in this country and the harsh consequences for many Americans -- as seen through two characters: Louise, a welfare mother (the waiflike Deirdre O'Connell) , and Harry, a disabled Web designer (the adroit Christopher Thornton), who falls in love with Louise. But Mr. Belluso would do better to leave his message in the hands of his characters and let them deliver it in their own way (80 min). Urban Stages, 259 West 30th Street, (212)868-4444. Tonight and tomorrow at 8; final performance, Sunday at 2 p.m.. Tickets: $19.
STEVENS

'WASTED (THE MYSTERY/HISTORY OF PUBLIC EDUCATION IN THE UNITED STATES AND HOW IT GOT THAT WAY)' In ''Wasted,'' the Irondale Ensemble Project tries to answer a very difficult question: How do you make a play about the history of the public school system in American without being terribly boring? While they came up with a number of solutions, none were satisfactory. History is reduced to good guys and bad guys, who both talk in slogans: should school teach kids to think for themselves or prepare them for the workforce? The decline of the school system is told simply as a story of dark conspiracies motivated by corporate greed. In the end, you get the sense that this show is made by people who have spent little time reflecting on the ideas of the other side (2:00). Theater for the New City, 155 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212)352-3101. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 8 p.m. Tickets: $25; $15 for 65+, students and New York City Public School teachers.
ZINOMAN

Movies

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'ALIENS OF THE DEEP' Directed by James Cameron and Steven Quale. (G, 48 minutes). When Mr. Cameron proclaimed himself ''king of the world'' on winning the Oscar for ''Titanic,'' who knew that he also had designs on the rest of the solar system? His newest film is a grandiose hybrid of undersea documentary and outer-space fantasy that begins on our planet's ocean floor and ends many miles under the ice crust that covers Europa, the second moon of Jupiter. The movie's sneaky transition from undersea documentary to speculative fantasy of a journey yet to be undertaken is so seamless that you could easily mistake the last portion of the film for the record of an actual space voyage. Mr. Cameron's theory, supported by astrobiologists, is that the life forms found at the deepest levels of the ocean where no light from the sun penetrates may hold clues to the nature of possible life in outer space. Filmed in Imax 3-D, it is a visual adventure worthy of that much-degraded adjective, awesome.
STEPHEN HOLDEN

'THE AVIATOR' Starring Leonardo DiCaprio. Directed by Martin Scorsese (PG-13, 169 minutes). The famously eccentric and reclusive empire builder Howard Hughes was born alone and died alone -- two times when he was no different from anyone else. For the rest of his life, the high-flying Hughes seemed to have drifted in from some distant aerie, where exotic birds hatch far from everyday worries. At the age of 18, he was both an orphan and a millionaire, and while he could never be called ordinary, in the following two decades his wealth and all that it afforded brought him a very American kind of celebrity. It is that celebrity, fueled by money, stoked by matinee looks and playboy style, that preoccupies ''The Aviator,'' Mr. Scorsese's visually sumptuous if disappointingly hollow account of Hughes's early life. Written by John Logan, the story principally covers the late 20's through the 40's, when Hughes, played by Mr. DiCaprio, was gadding about both Hollywood and the aviation world.
MANOHLA DARGIS

'BOOGEYMAN' Starring Barry Watson. Directed by Stephen Kay (PG-13, 86 minutes). There are a lot of close-ups of doorknobs and water faucets in Mr. Kay's would-be horror film. There is a supernaturally speedy killing accomplished with heavy-duty plastic wrap. There is frequent whooshing and rapid camera movement. Despite all of that, it isn't scary. Mr. Watson, of ''Seventh Heaven,'' plays Tim, a grown man who has been afraid of the boogeyman ever since he was 8, when something creepy sucked his father into a closet and out of this life. After his mother's death, Tim vows to spend a night in his childhood home to allay his fears, but, sure enough, the boogeyman is back and after him and everyone he cares about (well, an uncle and two girlfriends). The house is very creaky; so is the movie.
ANITA GATES

'BRIDE AND PREJUDICE' Starring Martin Henderson and Aishwarya Rai. Directed by Gurinder Chadha (PG-13, 111 minutes). Because Ms. Chadha knows how to sell multiplex multiculturalism -- her last feature was ''Bend It Like Beckham'' -- the pitch for her new film probably ran something along the lines of: ''Jane Austen's 'Pride and Prejudice' recontextualized as a Bollywood musical (only shorter) and set against the backdrop of the new global economy.'' Whatever the case, the new film -- which transposes Austen's 1813 novel to 21st-century India, with layovers in swinging London and sunny Los Angeles -- is as high concept and rife with cliche as anything churned out by Hollywood, but with worse production values and a load of sanctimony. Think ''My Big Fat Sari Wedding'' tricked out with clumsy song-and-dance numbers and delivered with much finger-wagging about cultural tolerance. The kicker here being that the wagging finger belongs to the story's heroine, here called Lalita (Ms. Rai, radiantly beautiful but inert), and the object of her high-mindedness is none other than a wealthy American, Will Darcy (Mr. Henderson, just inert).
DARGIS

'COACH CARTER' Starring Samuel L. Jackson, Rob Brown and Rick Gonzalez. Directed by Thomas Carter (PG-13, 137 minutes). In this solid, unsurprising inspirational-coach drama, Mr. Jackson plays Ken Carter, who returns to his old high school in the tough Northern California city of Richmond to turn a squad of underachieving misfits into winners, both on and off the court. Based on a true story, the movie combines sports-picture suspense with heroic-educator uplift when Carter, dismayed that his players are slipping academically, padlocks the gym in the midst of an undefeated season. Mr. Carter (the director, not related to the coach) infuses this sentimental warhorse with some flourishes of realism, which are bolstered by the hip-hop soundtrack and by the performances of the younger cast members, especially Mr. Brown as a talented forward struggling with his responsibilities, Ashanti as his girlfriend, and Mr. Gonzalez as a player sliding toward a life of crime.
A.O.SCOTT

*'HEAD-ON' Starring Birol Unel, Sibel Kekilli and Guven Kirac. Directed by Fatih Akin (Not rated, 118 minutes; in German and Turkish, with English subtitles). Love doesn't just hurt in this jagged German romance; it cuts and bleeds and even kills. A story about a lonely man and a still-lonelier woman fighting against their worlds and what often seems like their own best interests, the film has caused a stir in Germany for the murky, troubling light it sheds on the lives of the country's Turkish immigrants. Its popularity made it a fleeting social phenomenon and a minor cultural footnote. But it doesn't explain why this film about two strangers with suicidal tendencies and a deep commitment to self-aggrandizing drama is the first very good movie of this very young year. One of the truisms about romances, even those shaded pitch black and set to banging rock music, is that you have to fall in love with the characters when they're falling for each other. It takes a long time for Cahit (Mr. Unel) and Sibel (Ms. Kekilli) to get inside each other's heads, much less anywhere else, but it doesn't take us long to care about these two perfectly imperfect beings.
DARGIS

'HIDE AND SEEK' Starring Robert De Niro, Dakota Fanning, and Amy Irving. . Directed by John Polson. (R, 105 minutes). In this downbeat, sufficiently unsettling film, Mr. De Niro plays a New York City shrink, David, who's married to a somnolent type (Ms. Irving), whose love for their daughter, Emily (Ms. Fanning), can't disguise her unhappiness. Soon after the story starts, violence descends on the family, and David and Emily move to the country for some healing. Once there, things go from lousy to worse, as Emily starts staring blankly into the surrounding woods and palling around with a sinister invisible friend called Charlie. Blood drips into the story; then it pours. One of the most gifted child actors around, Ms. Fanning has both chops and a preternaturally intense screen presence; even when you don't believe the setup, you buy what she is selling. That's a good thing when it comes to this horror-thriller hybrid, which was written by Ari Schlossberg and needs all the help it can get from its actors.
DARGIS

'HITCH' Starring Will Smith, Eva Mendes, Kevin James and Amber Valetta. Directed by Andy Tennant (PG-13, 115 minutes). As soft and sweet as a marshmallow, and about as interesting, this genial romantic comedy features the ever-charming Mr. Smith as a dating coach who helps hapless Manhattan men snag women much better looking than they are. His own head is turned by Ms. Mendes, playing surely the most kindly gossip columnist ever to grace the pages of a New York tabloid. Complications, as always, ensue, but nothing too challenging or painful, either for the central couple or for the audience. Mr. James, best known as the portly King of Queens on television, is around for comic relief as an especially needy client, who is smitten with the willowy Ms. Valletta.
SCOTT

'LOST EMBRACE' Starring Daniel Hendler, Adriana Aizenberg and Atilio Pozzobon. Directed by Daniel Burman (not rated, 100 minutes; in Spanish, with English subtitles). Set in a shabby Buenos Aires shopping mall, this antic, melancholy comedy gives a Latin American twist to a story of young, male Jewish identity crisis that will be familiar to fans of Philip Roth, Neil Simon and Woody Allen. Ariel (the fast-moving, nervous-looking Mr. Hendler) is a young man in a hurry, without much of a sense of direction. He carries on an anxious affair with an older woman, pines for his former girlfriend, and fantasizes about emigrating to Poland, from which his family fled two generations before. Mostly, though, he is haunted by the absence of his father, Elias, who abandoned him as a baby to go to Israel to fight in the 1973 war. The film, while busy and diffuse, is also touching and funny, and its modesty and haphazardness are among its charms.
SCOTT

*'THE MERCHANT OF VENICE' Starring Al Pacino, Jeremy Irons, Joseph Fiennes and Lynn Collins. Directed by Michael Radford (R, 127 minutes). Shakespeare's most problematic play -- at least with respect to modern sensitivities -- receives an intelligent interpretation from Mr. Radford and a superb cast. Mr. Pacino, showing welcome restraint after a series of overdone stage and screen performances, emphasizes Shylock's grief and estrangement, turning him into a fragile monster. But his villainy, however much it smacks of blood libel, cannot be discarded without compromising the play's complex ideas about justice and duty, and Mr. Radford does not try to wash away the stain of anti-Semitism that is woven into the heart of his source. He does remind us how much more is going on in the play, and along with his talented production designer and cinematographer, he renders Venice as a series of Renaissance paintings -- tableaus that in evoking Velazquez, Rembrandt, Titian and Vermeer immerse us in the ferment of early modern Europe. Mr. Irons is quietly mesmerizing in the title role, a creature of mysterious melancholy whose soul seems at once pure and rotted. The movie really belongs to Ms. Collins, who gives Portia her rightful wit and charisma, and makes her the play's cruel and lovely moral center.
SCOTT

*'MILLION DOLLAR BABY' Starring Clint Eastwood, Hilary Swank and Morgan Freeman. Directed by Mr. Eastwood (PG-13, 135 minutes). Mr. Eastwood takes what appears to be a conventional boxing-melodrama plot about a crusty old trainer whose heart is melted by a spirited young fighter and turns it into a glowing, somber meditation on friendship, ambition and death. The picture's scale is small, and its pacing leisurely, which gives you a chance to savor three lovely performances: from Ms. Swank as the young boxer, Mr. Freeman as a world-weary former contender and Mr. Eastwood as the trainer, Frankie Dunn. At 74, Mr. Eastwood has achieved a level of mastery that leaves him with nothing to prove, and so, unafraid of sentiment and willing to risk cliche, he has made a graceful, lyrical, devastating masterpiece -- the best film released by a major Hollywood studio in 2004.
SCOTT

*'NOBODY KNOWS' Starring Yuya Yagira. . Directed by Hirokazu Kore-eda (PG-13, 141 minutes; in Japanese, with English subtitles). Based on the true story of four children abandoned by their mother in a small Tokyo apartment, Mr. Kore-eda's fourth film is at once harrowing and tender, an urban horror story with overtones of fairy tale. Restricting himself to the children's point of view, the director creates an almost unbearable sense of dread in the audience; you can't help suspecting that, at every moment, something terrible is about to happen. But at the same time, because the children themselves do not perceive the full terribleness of their situation, the terror is mitigated by a sense of wonder and adventure. The keys to this meticulous and deeply humane film are Mr. Kore-eda's deft camera sense and the remarkable performance of the 12-year-old Mr. Yagira as Akira, the oldest of the four siblings, who must somehow preserve his own innocence while protecting his more vulnerable brother and sisters.
SCOTT

'ONG BAK: THE THAI WARRIOR' Starring Tony Jaa. Directed by Prachya Pinkaew (R, 101 minutes; in Thai, with English subtitles). Martial arts for purists who disdain wirework, computer-generated imagery and digital tweaking. Ting (Mr. Jaa) a country bumpkin trained in the deadly art of Thai Muay, travels to Bangkok to retrieve the stolen head of his village Buddha. Once there, his peaceful disposition is challenged by all manner of thugs and lowlifes. The story is beside the point: like the low-budget Hong Kong action pictures of the 1970's, this movie offers scrappy, ingenious fight choreography. The director is so enamored of some sequences that he treats himself -- and the audience -- to instant replays.
SCOTT

'POOH'S HEFFALUMP MOVIE' With the voices of Jim Cummings, John Fiedler and Kyle Stanger. Directed by Frank Nissen. (G, 63 minutes). In A.A. Milne's Winnie the Pooh stories, Piglet once thought he had seen a heffalump, but it was really just Pooh with a honey jar stuck on his head. In this adorable animated film, he and the other animals finally encounter the real thing. And it (Lumpy the baby heffalump) is too cute for words, largely thanks to the endearing voice and infectious laugh of 8-year-old Kyle Stanger. The plot involves Roo capturing Lumpy (who thinks a visit to the Roo's part of Hundred Acre Wood sounds like a fine game) and Pooh, Tigger, Eeyore and company learning that Heffalumps aren't scary at all. There is a dash of child-pleasing animated slapstick, a few nice Carly Simon songs and a crucial lesson about the dangers of misjudging people just because they are different from you.
GATES

'A VERY LONG ENGAGEMENT' Starring Audrey Tautou. Directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet (R, 133 minutes; in French, with English subtitles). If you like battleground carnage delivered with aesthetic brio, the kind that ensures that when a soldier explodes into confetti, his flesh will dapple a trenchmate as decoratively as pink rosettes on a cake, this new French film will serve you nicely. Set during World War I and its immediate aftermath, and directed by the cult favorite Jean-Pierre Jeunet, it follows the adventures of a young woman, Mathilde (Ms. Tautou), who holds fast to the hope that her young soldier fiance will return home from his apparent grave. Even when death seems to part them, the cord of her love remains unbroken. Best known for ''Amelie,'' a modern fairy tale also starring Ms. Tautou, Mr. Jeunet possesses a distinctive visual style that's part Rube Goldberg, part F.A.O. Schwarz, and generally enjoyable for about 15 minutes.
DARGIS

'THE WEDDING DATE' Starring Debra Messing and Dermot Mulroney. Directed by Clare Kilner (PG-13, 90 minutes). Ms. Messing stars as Kat Ellis, a New Yorker en route to London for her younger half-sister's wedding. Since there is no man in Kat's life, she turns to the classified ads for male escorts. In a fantasy worthy of ''Pretty Woman,'' the male prostitute she hires turns out to be a hunk (Mr. Mulroney) with beautiful manners and a degree in comparative literature from Brown. Both stars are highly appealing, despite a shaky script. After rowdy parties in London, everyone heads for the glorious English countryside for family-bonding activities. ''The Wedding Date'' proves that there is nothing inherently magical about a group of adults frolicking on a lawn with an old pop-music hit in the background. What charms it does have would be far more enjoyable if the movie weren't so in love with its own supposed cuteness.
GATES

'THE WOODSMAN' Starring Kevin Bacon. Directed by Nicole Kassell (R, 87 minutes). Ms. Kassell directs this story of a paroled child molester struggling to re-enter society after 12 years in prison in a lean, unassuming style, which suits the subject matter and gives the fine cast room to explore their complicated, unhappy characters. The story is not always plausible, and the atmosphere sometimes feels programmatically grim, but the film is a serious, compassionate attempt at psychological realism, anchored by Mr. Bacon's precise, unsettling performance as a man trying to untangle his decent impulses from his destructive, predatory urges.
SCOTT

Pop

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy rock and pop concerts in the New York metropolitan region this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended concert. Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

BABY MACARONI, the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212)219-3006. What's NRBQ without its two-fisted piano player, Terry Adams? It's Baby Macaroni, which features the other three members of the stalwart, rowdy, goodtimey band and assorted guests, and is likely to bring out their swinging rockabilly side. Tomorrow night at 7:30; tickets are $15 in advance, $17 tomorrow.
JON PARELES

BARBEZ, BAM Cafe, 30 Lafayette Avenue, Brooklyn, (718)636-4139. Barbez, a New York band, pushes sultry cabaret vocals and the violin and accordion of tango toward skewed extremes; its repertory includes songs by Weill and the Residents. Tomorrow night at 9; cover is free, with a $10 minimum.
PARELES

*DAVID BROMBERG, Town Hall, 123 West 43d Street, Times Square, (212)840-2824 and Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street, Red Bank, N.J., (732)842-9000. David Bromberg can play just about anything with strings -- guitar, dobro, mandolin, fiddle -- and his knowledge of American music spans blues, bluegrass, country and rock. He also has a gift for elaborate verbal riffs that turn his long-suffering blues into comedy. In recent years, Mr. Bromberg has cut back on touring to become a builder and dealer of American-made violins, making this appearance a rare one. At Town Hall tonight at 8; tickets are $30 to $55. At Count Basie Theater tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $25 to $50.
PARELES

THE CONCERT FOR DARFUR, the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212)219-3006. A benefit for Action Against Hunger, providing relief in the Darfur region of the Sudan, brings together pop-folk (Terre Roche of the Roches), blues-rock (Halley DeVestern, who sang with the revived Big Brother and the Holding Company), world music (Steve Gorn playing the Indian flute, the bansuri), gospel (the Broadway Inspirational Voices) and more. Sunday night at 6; tickets are $12 in advance, $15 Sunday.
PARELES

*DJ CAMEO, Supreme Trading, 213 North Eighth Street, near Roebling Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (212)560-0951. This British D.J. is the host of what should be one of the best President's Day Weekend parties: a night devoted to the ferocious, London-based beats-and-rhymes genre known (among other things) as grime. DJ Cameo is the host of "Pirate Sessions," the Sunday afternoon grime show on the digital radio station BBC 1Xtra. Expect to hear some of the tracks showcased on the excellent new grime compilation "Run the Road" (Vice), due out in America on March 8; the CD includes Dizzee Rascal and the Streets alongside emerging grime M.C.'s like Kano and Shystie. Sunday night at 11, with MC Deadly Crisis, DJ Dinesh and Greg Poole; free.
KELEFA SANNEH

*DJ HELL, Spirit, 530 West 27th Street, near 10th Avenue, Chelsea, (212)268-9477. This German D.J. and producer loves to push techno in two directions at once: he sees no reason that a severe, minimalist beat experiment needn't sit alongside an exuberant, maximalist new-wave rant. His new album (credited simply to Hell) is "NY Muscle" (International Deejay Gigolo), an unabashedly ridiculous but nevertheless engrossing CD full of hypnotic rhythm tracks and over-the-top vocals -- robots trying to sound like divas and vice versa. Sunday night after 11 (and long into Monday morning -- DJ Hell isn't scheduled to play until 3:15), with Savas Pascalidis, Mount Sims DJ Unknown, Terry Francis, Eddie Richards and more; tickets are $20 in advance, $25 at the door.
SANNEH

*FELIX DA HOUSECAT, Avalon, 662 Avenue of the Americas, at 20th Street, Chelsea, (212)804-8708. His new-wavey 2004 album, "Devin Dazzle & the Neon Fever" (Emperor Norton), was something of a disappointment: his continuing obsession with the sights and sounds of 1980's nightlife is starting to seem like a joke in search of a punchline. Still, he remains one of the country's most reliably entertaining D.J.'s, and at this party you can expect the usual: a casual set full of robotic dance tracks and vocal-driven originals. Tomorrow night after 10; admission is $25 before midnight, $30 thereafter.
SANNEH

THE FUNK BROTHERS, B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212)997-4144. One of Motown Records' secrets was the studio band that backed the Supremes, Marvin Gaye, the Temptations, the Four Tops and virtually everyone else on the label in its 1960's heyday. After getting belated recognition with the documentary "Standing in the Shadows of Motown," the surviving members have stayed together to tour with guest singers, still knocking out those indelible beats and hooks. Tonight at 8 and 10:30; tickets are $45.
PARELES

*JIMMIE DALE GILMORE, Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)539-8778 or (212)239-6200. Jimmie Dale Gilmore was a member of the primordial West Texas songwriters' alliance, the Flatlanders, before embarking on a solo career of songs filled with tenderness and down-home mysticism. Sunday night at 9:30; tickets are $25 in advance, $30 at the door
PARELES

SANDRA LUNA, Satalla, 37 West 26th Street, (212)576-1155. The Argentine singer Sandra Luna is devoted to the imperious tragedy of the tango in all its generations: from old romantic songs in classic style, to Astor Piazzolla's modernist tango nuevo, to new songs infused with jazz. Her album "Tango Varon" (Times Square) was nominated for a Grammy Award. Sunday night at 7; tickets are $20 in advance, $23 Sunday.
PARELES

ILYAS MALAYEV ENSEMBLE/ROSHEL AMIN, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212)864-5400 or (212)545-7536. The Bukharan Jews of Central Asia soaked up music from Persia, Turkey and the Arabic world in the improvisatory pieces called shashmaqam, mastering poetic and musical traditions with Islamic roots. Ilyas Malayev, who performed for stadium-size audiences in Uzbekistan before immigrating to the United States in 1994, plays the tar, the Central Asian lute, and is renowned for his deep knowledge of traditions dating back to the 15th century. Roshel Amin is part of musical dynasty, playing the tanbur, another kind of lute, in the style of his father, the renowned Bukharan musician Neryo Aminov. Tonight at 8; tickets are $26, or $22 for World Music Institute and Symphony Space members, $15 for students.
PARELES

*BUDDY MILLER, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111. Last year Buddy Miller, the guitarist and singer who has long been a mainstay of Emmylou Harris's band, released "Universal United House of Prayer" (New West), a highly personal album of country gospel songs. Singing about devastation and divine mercy, he could sound ornery and awestruck at the same time. Tonight at 8, with Ollabelle opening; tickets are $20.
PARELES

RHETT MILLER, Fez (downstairs at the Time Cafe), 380 Lafayette Street, at Great Jones Street, East Village, (212)533-2680. As the singer and songwriter with the Old 97's, Rhett Miller turns his travails into twangy, reckless songs. When he plays the songs alone, as he does here, their pain moves closer to the surface, though the resilience remains. Tonight at 7 and 9:30; admission is $18.
PARELES

YOKO ONO AND SEAN LENNON, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212)358-7503. Tonic, the independent-minded haven for improvisation and avant-rock, is trying to stave off closing with a series of benefit concerts. Yoko Ono, who celebrates her 72nd birthday with this concert, has written benevolent pop-rock songs and hooked up with dance producers for remixes, and when John Lennon was alive she let loose vocals on songs like "Don't Worry, Kyoko (Mummy's Only Looking for Her Hand in the Snow)" that startled or inspired singers on the fringe. She's joined by her son, Sean Lennon, who has worked with downtown, genre-splicing New York bands like Cibo Matto and made his own album as well as backing his mother. Tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $50.
PARELES

MARIANNE PILLSBURY, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212)260-4700. On her debut album, "The Wrong Marianne" (www.mariannepillsbury.com), Marianne Pillsbury is as frank as Liz Phair and as tuneful and upbeat as the Go-Go's, dissecting romantic disasters and then bouncing back with light-hearted choruses. Sunday night at 8, with Paranoid Social Club at 10, Johnny 5 at 9 and Cuaxbei at 7; admission is $8.
PARELES

*LUCIA PULIDO, Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)539-8778 or (212)239-6200. Lucia Pulido, a singer from Colombia, has recorded versions of traditional songs that surround her gutsy voice with arrangements for a modern jazz rhythm section and horns and had new ones written for her by Sebastian Cruz, who will be performing with her at this concert. As Susana Baca has done with Afro-Peruvian songs, Ms. Pulido holds on to the rawness of the original melodies while giving them a sophisticated new context. Tonight at 9:30; admission is $15.
PARELES

THE RADIATORS, Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201)653-1703. The second-line backbeat of New Orleans funk is the heartbeat of the Radiators, a rock band that has been together since the 1970's. As band members sing about woman trouble and other frustrations, the groove keeps people shimmying. Tomorrow night at 9 and Sunday night at 7; admission is $25.
PARELES

ROBBERS ON HIGH STREET, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700. There's a lot of the Beatles, especially their piano-pumping side, in the songs of Robbers on High Street, updated with Elvis Costello's gruffness and a matter-of-fact desperation. Tonight at 9:30, with the Upwelling at 11:30, Bishop Allen at 10:30, the Head Set at 8:30 and God or Julie at 7:30. Admission is $10.
PARELES

*SOUND TRIBE SECTOR NINE, Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place at 15th Street, Union Square, (212)777-6800. Jam-band fans come to dance; dance-music fans strive for communal utopia. It was inevitable that they would meet, and in the instrumental jam band Sound Tribe Sector Nine they do, as the live musicians embrace the rhythms of drum-and-bass, house and other current dance music. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, with Genetic opening; tickets are $22
PARELES

*RICHIE SPICE, Elite Ark, 900 Sheffield Avenue, at Wortman Avenue, Canarsie, Brooklyn, (718)649-6535. This fiery roots-reggae singer released one of 2004's best reggae albums, "Spice in Your Life" (www.fifthelementrecords.com). He loves midtempo reggae grooves, but he's a restless singer, by turns sweet and swaggering and sometimes both at once. The album includes his biggest hit, ''Earth a Run Red,'' an exhilarating protest song where Spice decries the hard-knock life ( '''Watch out fi de vampire who will sneak up in the dark/Watch out fi de big-time thief who claim say that dem smart/Stop bringing the crack and the gun, come mash up the youth dem heart'') before arriving at a refrain that makes the apocalypse sound like the world's best party. Sunday night after 10, with Chuck Fenda, Anthony Cruz and Jamesy P; the price of admission is $30 in advance, more at the door .
SANNEH

TAMMY FAYE STARLITE AND THE ANGELS, Rodeo Bar, 375 Third Avenue at 27th Street, (212)683-6500. God and country (music) get some raunchy, funny twists in the songs of Tammy Faye Starlite, who keeps mining the comic possibilities of country-singing evangelism. Lately, she has been singing some Loretta Lynn songs, too. Tonight's first set begins at 10; free.
PARELES

THE STRAWBS ACOUSTIC TRIO, Satalla, 37 West 26th Street, (212)576-1155. The Strawbs, led by David Cousins, were part of the British trad-rock movement of the late 1960's and 1970's, reaching back to modal Celtic melodies and the lore of ancient ballads. This version of the band is unplugged, with Mr. Cousins, Dave Lambert and Brian Willoughby. Tomorrow night at 7:30; tickets are $25 in advance, $30 tomorrow.
PARELES

Cabaret

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy cabaret shows in Manhattan this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended show. Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

RUTH BROWN, Le Jazz au Bar, 41 East 58th Street, (212)308-9455. This rhythm-and-blues legend has weathered one personal disaster after another, but misfortunes that might have silenced a less determined performer have only added dimension to Ms. Brown's already larger-than-life musical personality. Exhibiting a flamboyant showmanship that recalls her peer James Brown, she proudly presents herself as an indomitable member of royalty and stylistic descendant of the Queen of the Blues herself, Dinah Washington. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30 and 9:30, and Sunday night at 8. Cover: $50 tonight and tomorrow; $35 on Sunday; no minimum.
STEPHEN HOLDEN

*BLOSSOM DEARIE, Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212)265-8133. To watch this singer and pianist is to appreciate the power of a carefully deployed pop-jazz minimalism combined with a highly discriminating taste in songs. She remains the definitive interpreter, at once fey and tough, of the pop-jazz satirist Dave Frishberg, as astute and unforgiving a social critic as exists. The songs -- her own and other people's -- date from all periods of a career remarkable for its longevity and for Ms. Dearie's stubborn independence and sly wit, which have never gone stale. Tomorrow night at 7; Sunday night at 6:15. Cover: $25, with a $15 minimum; a $54.50 dinner-and-show package is available.
HOLDEN

*BRIAN STOKES MITCHELL, Feinstein's at the Regency, 540 Park Avenue, at 61st Street, (212)339-4095. With his heroic baritone and dashing stage presence, Brian Stokes Mitchell has been called Broadway's last leading man in the tradition of Alfred Drake and John Raitt. His performances in the revivals of ''Kiss Me Kate'' and ''Man of La Mancha,'' and in City Center's Encores series (''Do Re Mi''), as well as assorted Gershwin tributes, have lent the swashbuckling archetype a modern slant. Glinting through all the heavy lifting are an innate ebullience, a sense of humor and a strain of tenderness. In ''Love/Life,'' his cabaret debut at Feinstein's, traditional Broadway chest-beating is kept to a minimum, except in a commanding version of ''The Impossible Dream'' at the end of the show that rolls through the club like a clap of thunder echoing in the mountains. (Tonight and tomorrow, final performances, at 8:30 and 11, Cover: $60; $40 minimum at the early shows, $30 at the late shows.)
HOLDEN

UTE LEMPER, Cafe Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, (212)570-7189. This imperious, Dietrichesque cabaret singer, who is performing with a pop quartet through next weekend, lends the entire nightclub enterprise a German Expressionist seriousness. If her latest show is entirely different from the program of original songs she performed last year at Le Jazz au Bar, its attitude is similar. Most of the material doesn't deal directly with politics, history and literature, like the sprawling topical broadsides of the earlier show. But she still invests it with a ferocity that infuses the art (and artifice) of cabaret with an unrelenting dramatic intensity. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8:45 and 10:45. Cover: $65; $40 at the bar; no minimum.
HOLDEN

Jazz

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy jazz concerts in the New York metropolitan region this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended concert. Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

J.D. ALLEN TRIO PLAYS THE MUSIC OF BUTCH MORRIS, Louis 649, 649 East Ninth Street, East Village, (212)673-1190. J.D. Allen, a young tenor saxophonist who has played with Betty Carter, Cindy Blackman, Orrin Evans and others, is doing his part in Butch Morris's monthlong ''Black February'' series of nightly performances. He's playing in most of the large improvising ensembles conducted by Mr. Morris through the month, and he's also playing this weekly gig with his own trio, including Ameen Saleem on bass and Jeremy Clemons on drums. On the music stand will be Mr. Morris's own compositions going back to the 1970's, which graced a number of old David Murray albums. They're powerfully appealing melodies; it's been too long since they've been heard. Tomorrow night at 8 pm; free.
BEN RATLIFF

IGOR BUTMAN ORCHESTRA, Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, midtown, (212) 581-3080. The saxophonist Igor Butman occupies a position in Russia roughly comparable to that of Wynton Marsalis here: besides the fact that the two musicians were both born in 1961, he's an adaptable, highly skilled practitioner and jazz's most appealing popularizer there. His brawny post-bop improvisations are crowd-pleasers, and he'll play with his big band, seldom heard over here. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 9 and 11; cover charge is $30; minimum, $10.
RATLIFF

*BILL CHARLAP TRIO, Allen Room, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Broadway at 60th Street, Manhattan, (212) 721-6500. For about eight years running, Mr. Charlap has had a steady trio with the bassist Peter Washington and the drummer Kenny Washington; his performances have become extraordinary displays of discipline and improvisation -- the wonders of an organized, creative mind. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30; tickets are $10 to $150.
RATLIFF

JOHN HICKS TRIO, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue South, Manhattan, (212) 885-7125. Notes bunch up in John Hicks's piano chords. They're always filling his fists, and he keeps a few fingers agitatedly moving around within the chords, keeping a bebop pulsation constant through the wall of sound. He wears time loosely, letting himself fall behind the beat; his ideas scramble around to become realized, and he makes thick, heavyweight brocades of post-Coltrane jazz. Sets are tonight at 9 and 10:45; cover charge is $15.
RATLIFF

JAVON JACKSON QUARTET, Smoke, 2751 Broadway at 106th Street, Manhattan, (212)864-6662. A member of Art Blakey's Jazz Messengers in their later days, the saxophonist Javon Jackson has made a number of records in the last decade that experiment with repertory, going outside all the usual jazz songbooks. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 9, 11 and 12:30; cover charge is $25.
RATLIFF

*JORGE BEN JOR, SOB's, 204 Varick Street, South Village, (212)243-4940. When the great Brazilian singer-songwriter Jorge Ben Jor slipped into disco rhythms in the late 70's and 80's, it fit him perfectly, and he's still there. He breaks up his chugging electric-guitar rhythms into sharp, syncopated patterns close to those of Nile Rodgers of Chic, and his percussionists play samba-school rhythms around the central driving pulse. Live, he keeps the party going, fusing tunes or scratching out a new rhythm-guitar line as soon as the last song has stopped. He'll likely play new music from a new album, "Reactivus Amor Est" (Universal Brasil), his best work in ages. Tomorrow at 9 and midnight; cover charge is $30 in advance, more at the door.
RATLIFF

JANE MONHEIT, Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212)475-8592. Ms. Monheit is one of the most popular new jazz singers, and though her choice of material sometimes dips into schmaltz, she wields great control over her petite voice and a way of injecting contemporary speech rhythms into her sung lines that are true, honest and contemporary. Sets through Sunday night at 8 and 10:30; cover charge is $35; minimum, $5.
RATLIFF

*BUTCH MORRIS, Zebulon, 258 Wythe Avenue, between Metropolitan Avenue and North Third Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)218-6934; www.zebuloncafeconcert.com; Belt Theater, 336 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (212)563-0487; Bowery Poetry Club, 308 Bowery, East Village, (212)614-0505. Butch Morris has set up performances every night during February; he's calling it ''Black February,'' and this month officially celebrates 20 years of Mr. Morris's ''conductions,'' performances in which he conducts groups of improvisers, jazz or otherwise, with his own language of signals and baton movements. It's fun to watch, and he has a strong sense of humor and beauty. He's playing with different ensembles each night, and here's the weekend schedule: with Butchlandband at Zebulon, tonight at 10 and midnight; free; with the Butch Morris Emyoueseyesee Ensemble tomorrow at 4 p.m. at the Belt Theater; admission is $10; with the New York Skyscraper Ensemble Sunday at 5 and 6 p.m., at Bowery Poetry Club; admission is $12. Check his Web site, www.conduction.us, for further information on these and other performances.
RATLIFF

*DAFNIS PRIETO QUINTET, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063. Dafnis Prieto, the young Cuban jazz drummer, arrived in the United States about five years ago and was quickly hired by all kinds of bands. The essence of his style is his collation of various Afro-Cuban percussion sounds -- from old religious music to modern -- within one set of trap drums. His playing is infernally complicated, and infernally precise; the blizzard of accents he throws into any pattern have their place as surely as pixels in a computer image. He is also a gifted composer. In his own work, rearranged danzons jostle against experiments in meter and harmony; his music switches between smoothly cushioned rhythms and spiky ones. Tonight and tomorrow at 9 and 10:30; admission is $15 per set.
RATLIFF

ROSWELL RUDD AND MALICOOL, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway at 95th Street, Upper West Side, (212)864-5400. The trombonist Roswell Rudd has a gregarious, rabble-rousing sound; but he did his homework a long time ago, looking for ways to unite all kinds of music, especially New Orleans and bop and free. Recently he collaborated with musicians from Mali, including the notable kora player Toumani Diabate, on the album ''Malicool'' (Sunnyside); here he presents a New York version of the music with New York's resident kora master, Mamadou Diabate. Tonight at 8 p.m.; tickets are $26; members, $22; students, $15.
RATLIFF

CAROL SLOANE AND THE NORMAN SIMMONS QUINTET, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Broadway at 60th Street, Manhattan, (212) 258-9595. Carol Sloane is a veteran jazz singer and a shrewd one, with restraint and serenity among her virtues; the pianist Norman Simmons is a master accompanist to people like her. Sets through Sunday night are at 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow; cover charge, $30; minimums, $10 at the tables, $5 at the bar.
RATLIFF

*CECIL TAYLOR BIG BAND, Iridium, 1650 Broadway at 51st Street, midtown, (212)582-2121. Cecil Taylor, at 75 seemingly as vigorous as ever, has built the art of his pianism on technique and stamina in equal measure; his music avoids the narrative of song in favor of a vatic musical free verse full of clustered chords and flashing figures. (It is notated, though: you'll see a lot of sheet music.) Above all he is a great pianist, and you hear that intermittently in the dense swirl of his 16-piece big band. These affairs over the last decade or so have been wild, boisterous nights. Sets through Sunday night are at 8 and 10, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow; cover charge is $32.50; minimum, $10.
RATLIFF

CHARLES TOLLIVER BIG BAND, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212)576-2232. The trumpeter Charles Tolliver left behind a worthwhile trail of music in the 1970's, writing and playing post-bop with a new complexity, recording on the independent label Strata-East. Over the last few years he has become a presence in the New York clubs again. Sets through Sunday night are at 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow; cover charge is $25, $20 on Sunday.
RATLIFF

*VILLAGE VANGUARD 70th ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION, Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212)255-4037. The best jazz club in New York is throwing itself a party this week, to celebrate 70 years in business, by booking some of the best and most-loved groups in jazz, all of whom claim the club as their regular New York venue. Check out the top-shelf weekend lineup: Tonight, the guitarist Jim Hall's duo; tomorrow, the Heath Brothers, with brothers Jimmy, Percy and Tootie Heath; Sunday night, the pianist Bill Charlap's trio. Sets through Sunday night are at 9 and 11 p.m., with an 12:30 set tonight and tomorrow; cover charge is $25; minimum, $10.
RATLIFF

Classical

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy opera and classical music events this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended event. Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

Opera

'ARIANNA IN CRETA' A seldom-performed opera from Handel's prime becomes sung drama at the Gotham Chamber Opera, thanks to the director Christopher Alden, but the lasting impression is of talented young singers flinging themselves headlong into their music, throwing caution (and concern about sounding pretty) to the winds. Katherine Rohrer spews out notes like water from a fire hydrant as Teseo (Theseus), the teenage Greek general; Caroline Worra, as Arianna (Ariadne), gets to use her free, slightly metallic voice in a diva turn; Hanan Alattar and Jennifer Hines bend genders as a soprano boy and a contralto girl; and Neal Goren conducts an energetic, throaty reading in the pit. Tonight at 7:30, Henry Street Settlement, 466 Grand Street, Lower East Side, (212)279-4200. Tickets: $30 to $60.
ANNE MIDGETTE

BEIJING OPERA COMPANY OF HUBEI PROVINCE It seemed a few years ago, largely on the strength of the epochal presentation of ''The Peony Pavilion'' by the Lincoln Center Festival, that Chinese Opera was gathering momentum in New York. But the boomlet has receded, so this appearance by a native company in classic fare, ''Monkey King Attacks White Bone Demon,'' is especially welcome. May the Year of the Rooster bring more. Tomorrow at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 2 and 7 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212)721-6500. Sold out.
JAMES R. OESTREICH

'LA BOHEME' It's been some time since the Metropolitan Opera's crowd-pleasing production of Puccini's ''Boheme'' has held much interest for adventurous opera buffs. But this season's revival offers an impressive and intriguing cast. The golden-voiced coloratura soprano Ruth Ann Swenson continues her exploration of the rich lyric soprano repertory as she sings the role of Mimi, with the hardy tenor Roberto Aronica as Rodolfo. The vibrant soprano Patricia Racette sings Musetta, with the robust baritone Dwayne Croft as her off-again, on-again boyfriend Marcello. Daniel Oren conducts. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000. Sold out, but returns may be be available at the box office.
ANTHONY TOMMASINI

*'LE NOZZE DI FIGARO' Jonathan Miller's 1998 production, now directed by Robin Guarino, has the virtue of letting Mozart's music and Da Ponte's libretto work their magic unhindered. But that can't happen if the casting and chemistry aren't right. The Met has assembled a youthful cast that has everything -- good looks, vocal and dramatic agility and the energy and alertness necessary to bring to life this score's vivid ensembles. The principals are John Releya as Figaro; Andrea Rost as Susanna; Jossie Perez as Cherubino; Mariusz Kwiecien as the Count and Janice Watson as the Countess. James Levine conducts. Tonight at 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000. Sold out, but returns may be available at the box office.
ALLAN KOZINN

'NABUCCO' The Metropolitan Opera's revival of Verdi's ''Nabucco'' this year promises a few bigger guns than last year's production. James Levine will conduct. Maria Guleghina sings Abigaille, and Nikolai Putilin takes the title role. Patriotism is in the air, and for many, patriotism is what ''Nabucco'' is all about. Tomorrow night at 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000. Remaining tickets: $145 and $215.
BERNARD HOLLAND

Classical

BARGEMUSIC Moored in the shadow of the Brooklyn Bridge, this intimate floating concert hall is a charming place to hear solo recitals and chamber music while rocking gently on the waves of the East River. Tonight brings works by Falla, Debussy and Dvorak performed by Jan Vogler (cello), Mira Wang (violin) and Simone Dinnerstein (piano). Tomorrow night and Sunday afternoon, Isidore Cohen, the former violinist of the Beaux-Arts Trio, will be joined by Aaron Boyd (violin), Maurycy Banaszek (viola) and Priscilla E. Lee (cello) for Haydn's string quartet arrangement of his own magnificent ''Seven Last Words of Christ.'' Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30 and Sunday afternoon at 4, Fulton Ferry Landing, under the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718)624-2083. Tickets: $35; students, $25.
JEREMY EICHLER

RICHARD GOODE This distinguished American pianist seems to have emerged whole from a period of injury and frustration and continues his progress with a recital at Carnegie Hall. The program reflects Mr. Goode's serious and reflective music mind: the Bach E-minor Partita, Schoenberg's Six Little Piano Pieces, the Beethoven Sonata, Op. 109, and, most interesting from a musician known for his concentration on German music, the first book of Debussy's Preludes. Sunday night at 8, Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800. Tickets: $23 to $87.
HOLLAND

MANHATTAN SCHOOL OF MUSIC PHILHARMONIA It has been a big week for student orchestras in New York. With ensembles from the Juilliard School and Mannes College already having displayed their wares, the Manhattan School completes the hat trick. Jeffrey Milarsky, a conductor who has made a name for himself in new-music circles, reverts here to the first half of the 20th century, leading Copland's ''Appalachian Spring'' Suite, Nielsen's Clarinet Concerto (with Mariko Sudo as soloist) and ''La Mer,'' by Debussy. Tonight at 8, Manhattan School of Music, Broadway at 122nd Street, Morningside Heights, (917)493-4428. Free.
OESTREICH

METROPOLITAN MUSEUM ARTISTS IN CONCERT Tonight the Metropolitan Museum of Art's resident chamber ensemble of excellent musicians, either young in fact or young in spirit, presents the second of three concerts this season at the Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, a wonderfully intimate hale for chamber music. Picking up with a series focus on recent music from Eastern Europe and Russia, the ensemble offers Arvo Part's Adagio for Piano Trio and Alfred Schnittke's Piano Quintet. There are also works by Schubert and Mendelssohn. The cellist Edward Arron, the artistic director of the series, is joined by Jennifer Frautschi and Laura Frautschi (violins), Colin Jacobsen (violin and viola), Nicholas Cords (viola) and Andrew Armstrong (piano). Tonight at 7, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212)570-3949. Tickets: $20.
TOMMASINI

NANCARROW FESTIVAL The music of Conlon Nancarrow has been getting a varied if not thorough exploration this season at the Miller Theater, where a four-part festival began in October. The final installment, performed by the energetic new-music ensemble, Alarm Will Sound, includes the American premiere of the composer's ''Three Movements,'' as well as the Piece for Small Orchestra No. 1 and a handful of the Player Piano Studies. Also on the program is Gyorgy Ligeti's Piano Concerto and two Studies for piano (one in both a standard piano and a player piano version), as well as works by Charles Ives and Jelly Roll Morton. Tomorrow night at 8, at Columbia University, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212)854-7799. Tickets: $20, $12 for students.
KOZINN

PEOPLES' SYMPHONY CONCERTS This venerable organization presents top-tier artists and ensembles at remarkably affordable prices. This weekend is a case in point with two prominent chamber ensembles on the schedule, each performing for about the price of a movie ticket. Tomorrow Musicians from Marlboro, a group culled from ranks of the prestigious summer festival, juxtaposes two Mozart string quintets (K. 174 and K. 516) with Hindemith's ''Melancholie.'' And on Sunday the Tokyo String Quartet offers a program of repertory staples it should pull off well: Beethoven's Quartet Op. 18, No. 6, Mendelssohn's early Quartet Op. 12 and Ravel's Quartet. Tomorrow night at 8, Washington Irving High School, 40 Irving Place, at 16th Street; Sunday at 2 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212)586-4680. Tickets: $9 tomorrow; $9 to $18 on Sunday, with limited availability.
EICHLER

ANDRE WATTS This pianist is playing a three-concert series at the Metropolitan Museum this season. In the first, in November, he performed in a chamber ensemble; for the third, in April, he plans to give an illustrated talk on a Beethoven Sonata. But the most promising of the three is the solo program he is performing tomorrow -- a concert similar to one he gave at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in November. On the program are Haydn's Sonata No. 58 in C , Mozart's Rondo in D (K. 485), Schubert's ''Klavierstucke'' (D. 946), Debussy's ''Estampes,'' a group of Liszt works, and selections from ''Musica Ricercata,'' a 1951 suite by the great contemporary Hungarian composer Gyorgy Ligeti. Tomorrow night at 8, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212)570-3949. Tickets: $35.
KOZINN

Dance

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy dance events this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended event. Full reviews of recent dance performances: nytimes.com/dance.

*NINA ALOVERT The Leningrad-born Ms. Alovert is known for her pictures of dancers from the Kirov and Bolshoi Ballet companies, which she has photographed since the 1950's. Her work will be shown in a free exhibition through Feb. 28. Gallery hours 2 to 8 p.m. daily. Furman Gallery, Walter Reade Theater, Lincoln Center, (212)875-5600.
JENNIFER DUNNING

AKIM FUNK BUDDHA The ever-exuberant Mr. Buddha specializes in dance-theater that combines unblinking stillness, storytelling, tap and Mongolian throat-singing. He adds martial arts, breakdancing, beat-boxing and Japanese, Zulu and urban English talk to the mix in his new ''Amazulu: Dance as a Weapon: The Hip-Hop Circus -- Part I.'' Tonight and tomorrow at 10 p.m.; Sunday at 5:30 p.m., La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212)475-7710 or www.lamamaorg. Tickets: $15.
DUNNING

*BRENDA BUFFALINO BASH The red-hot mama of American tap-dancing, also known as a scholar and advocate in a half-century career in tap, will present a program of retrospective and new work, performed with guests. Tomorrow at 8:30 p.m., Fashion Institute of Technology, Katie Murphy Amphitheater, Seventh Avenue and 27th Street (entrance between Seventh and Eighth Avenues), Chelsea, (646)230-9564. Tickets: $20.
DUNNING

'BUTTER MELTS AWAY MY LETTERS' Choreographed by Stephanie Rafferty and conceived and directed by Gian Marco Lo Forte, this theater-dance piece visits a group of young runaways to New York City who cannot quite shrug off the past. Tonight and tomorrow (and Thursday through next Saturday) at 8 p.m.; Sunday (and next Sunday) at 2:30 and 8 p.m. La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710. Tickets: $15; TDF vouchers accepted.
DUNNING

EVON ARTS' COMING TOGETHER Dance by 11 developing choreographers, among them Leo Arpon, Alexandre Proia and Astrid von Ussar, will be performed in programs that also include an appearance by the Cawthra Park Repertoire Ensemble of Canada. The event also offers the chance to get a closeup look at the new Ailey company headquarters. Tomorrow at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 7 p.m., Joan Weill Center for Dance, 405 West 55th Street, Manhattan, evonarts@hotmail.com. Tickets: $10.
DUNNING

'IF THE SHOE FITS' This theater-dance piece also uses visual art, video, clown techniques, baking and vacuuming to explore the internalization of fairy tales, created in a collaboration that includes a credit for hair design. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2:30 and 8 p.m., Walkerspace, 46 Walker Street, TriBeCa, (718) 381-4074. Tickets: $15; $12 for students and 65+, TDF vouchers accepted; matinees free to students under 18 with school ID.
DUNNING

KDNY Kathleen Dyer offers the premiere of ''Sheridan in Limbo,'' to a commissioned score by P.J. Merola and a video installation by Heather Kemp. The multimedia production journeys to a heaven-like world where the truly innocent eternally reside. Tonight and tomorrow at 8:30, Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, Second Avenue at 10th Street, East Village,(212) 674-8194. Tickets: $15.
JACK ANDERSON

*NEW YORK CITY BALLET Susan Stroman's hit ''Double Feature'' returns to the City Ballet repertory this weekend at all performances. You could quibble that the first act, a would-be ballet called ''The Blue Necklace,'' reveals the perils of crossover choreography. The second act, ''Makin' Whoopee!'' is pure silly pleasure, a silent-movie style comedy that at one point sends what appear to be thousands of brides and a scene-stealing dog speeding across the stage. Don't ask. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212)870-5570 or www.nycballet.com. Tickets: $30 to $83. The company will also present a ''Family Insights'' talk, designed for children 8 and older, tomorrow from 12:45 to 1:30 p.m. Rose Building, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-4074. Tickets: $8.
DUNNING

*ROYAL BALLET SCHOOL See the Sibleys and Dowells of the future in this program danced by young performers from the renowned English academy, in a program featuring Sir Frederick Ashton's ''Monotones II,'' excerpts from Ashton's ''Fille Mal Gardee'' and Petipa's ''Raymonda,'' and choreography by Kirk Peterson, Robert Hill and Paul Boyd. The program is part of an exchange with the ABT Studio Company, which will dance in London in early April. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 LaGuardia Place at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212)992-8484. Tickets: $32; $12 for students.
DUNNING

SECOND ANNUAL FOLK FEET Brooklyn-based traditional dance groups will perform in a free program of tap, hoofing, ballet and folk dance from Panama, Brazil, Greece, Bangladesh, Puerto Rico, Yemen, Senegal and Mali. Sunday from 2 to 7 p.m. (free workshops will be offered from 5:30 to 7 p.m.), Whitman Theater, Brooklyn College, Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, (718) 625-0080.
DUNNING

BILL SHANNON Mr. Shannon will perform, on crutches, with Step Fenze Crew in ''Sketchy,'' described as a living documentary of street-inspired movement that includes breaking, popping, house and freestyling. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m., the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)255-5793. Tickets: $15; $12 for students and 65+.
DUNNING

*TAKE DANCE COMPANY Founded by Takehiro Ueyama, a sleepily charismatic former Paul Taylor dancer, this new modern-dance company will present dances by Mr. Ueyama and Kazuko Hirabayashi. Tonight through Sunday at 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street between Houston and Prince Streets, Manhattan (212) 334-7479. Tickets: $20; $15 for students.
DUNNING

TORONTO DANCE THEATER The company is one of Canada's liveliest modern-dance troupes and Christopher House, its artistic director, is a choreographer who can be both brainy and playful. His latest creation is ''Sly Verb,'' an evening-long piece to music by Phil Strong that explores the sense of touch and the politics of the gaze. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)242-0800. Tickets: $38.
ANDERSON

*VISION COLLABORATION NIGHTS This mixed-media series features dancers, improvisational performers and choreographers who work with experimental jazz. The dance artists include Yoshika Chuma, Sarah Skaggs, Donald Fleming, Stephenie Skura, Bruce Haedt and PaNic. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 5 p.m., Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue at Ninth Street, Manhattan, (212)477-5288. Tickets: $20.
DUNNING

*MOENO WAKAMATSU AND MANA HASHIMOTO Ms. Hashimoto, who is known as a founding performer with Treaders in the Snow, and Ms. Wakamatsu, an architect turned dancer, will present ''Jutaikokuchi2 (Annunciation),'' a piece based on the biblical scene of the annunciation. Tonight at 8. Cave Gallery, 58 Grand Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)388-6780. Tickets: $10.
DUNNING

*CATHY WEIS PROJECTS Ms. Weis's nutty imagination and humor combine, in her dance and video pieces, to create art that has been described as rough-edged magic. High technology is not her bag. Instead, her work has a wonderfully home-made look. She will perform her new ''Electric Haiku: Calm as Custard'' with a cast of downtown dance and performance art stars, among them Scott Heron, Diane Madden and Jennifer Miller. Tonight and tomorrow (and Wednesday through next Saturday) at 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, Manhattan, (212) 924-0077 or www.dtw.org. Tickets: $25.
DUNNING

Art

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy art, design and photography shows at New York museums and galleries this weekend. At many museums, children under 12 and members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free unless noted. * denotes a highly recommended show. Full reviews of recent shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

'CONTEMPORARY VOICES: WORKS FROM THE UBS ART COLLECTION.' Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400, through April 25. What's wrong with this picture? The Museum of Modern Art, the most visionary museum of the 20th century, is inaugurating the temporary-exhibition galleries in its 21st-century home with an exhibition of gifts from a corporate collection. It is an ambitious, carefully selected corporate collection, but that doesn't keep the ensemble from feeling corporate, monotonous and by the book. The 40 (of 64) works given or promised to the Modern are nearly all by white male artists, and they are all already represented in the collection. There's nothing wrong with the individual works by artists like Philip Guston, Jasper Johns and Vija Celmins that won't be cured by integrating them into the Modern's collection, but the ensemble effect is dispiriting. With an emphasis on a narrow swath of the 1980's mainstream, the show feels like an excessively edited letter in a bottle from an art world that no longer exists. Hours: Saturdays through Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; closed Tuesdays. Admission: $20; $16 for 65+; $12 for students; children under 16 and accompanied by an adult, free. Free on Fridays from 4 to 8 p.m.
ROBERTA SMITH

'RUTH DUCKWORTH, MODERNIST SCULPTOR,' Museum of Arts and Design, 40 West 53rd Street, (212)956-3535, through April 3. A sculptor whose basic medium is clay, Ms. Duckworth makes everything from tiny, delicate vessels to monumental outdoor sculptures. Though her work fits in -- but not too neatly -- with the modernist tradition, her eye has roamed everywhere, resulting in a bewildering variety of styles and influences, from Brancusi to a beef bone found in her soup. Sometimes the influences combine awkwardly, making her work seem a little strained and quirky, but often enough her venturesomeness pays off, producing images of eloquence and power. Hours: Daily 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Thursdays: 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $9; $6 for 65+ and students. Thursdays from 6 to 8 p.m. is pay what you wish.
GRACE GLUECK

*'FROM FILIPPO LIPPI TO PIERO DELLA FRANCESCA: FRA CARNEVALE AND THE MAKING OF A RENAISSANCE MASTER,' Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212)535-7710, through May 1. The Italian Renaissance artist-priest known as Fra Carnevale was an art-world somebody in his day but a shadowy figure to modern historians, known primarily for two extraordinary paintings of tiny figures in fantastic architectural settings. Both paintings are in this intricate think-piece of a show that tries to reconstruct his career by bringing his known paintings together. At the same time, it uses his work, along with that of major figures like Filippo Lippi and Piero della Francesca, to explore larger ideas about self-created professional identity in a cultural epoch far more diverse than it is sometimes thought to have been. Hours: Sundays, Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $15; 65+, $10; students, $7.
HOLLAND COTTER

'I WANNA BE LOVED BY YOU: PHOTOGRAPHS OF MARILYN MONROE,' Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718)638-5000, through March 20. Monroe was one of the great movie stars of the 20th century, but does that make her a good subject for a museum show? Fans might enjoy the almost 200 photographs from a private collection presented in this exhibition, but though many are by famous photographers, including Richard Avedon, Cecil Beaton and Henri Cartier-Bresson, the show as a whole is like a walk-in special issue of People magazine: diverting but superficial and enervating. Hours: Wednesdays to Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (to 11 p.m. on the first Saturday of every month). Admission: $8; students and 65+, $4.
KEN JOHNSON

'IMAGES OF DON QUIXOTE: THE ART OF ILLUSTRATION AND PRINTMAKING,' the Hispanic Society of America, 613 West 155th Street, Washington Heights, (212)926-2234, through March 5. A few years back, a poll of international writers voted ''Don Quixote'' the greatest book of all time. This year Cervantes's novel is four centuries old, and the Hispanic Society of America is celebrating the occasion with this exhibition of illustrations of the story printed from the 17th through 20th centuries. Despite its small size, the show demonstrates how attitudes toward the book changed in different eras, from raucous comedy to Romantic tragedy. And in designs by artists like John Vanderbank, Fragonard and Gustave Dore, there are fascinating images and ideas to consider. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Free.
COTTER

Galleries: 57th Street

ROBERT GOODNOUGH, Katharina Rich Perlow, 41 East 57th Street, (212)644-7171, through March 3. Mr. Goodnough hobnobbed with De Kooning, Pollock and other New York avant-gardists in the 1940's and 50's, but his signature compositions of clustered triangles and trapezoids are more a rejuvenation of late Cubism than a variant of Abstract Expressionism. This show of medium-size pictures dating from 1972 to 2004 demonstrates the range of moods -- from meditative to agitated -- that he has coaxed out of his restricted vocabulary.
JOHNSON

'LEON POLK SMITH: FORMS AND FUNCTIONS,' Joan T. Washburn, 20 West 57th Street, (212)397-6780, through March 5. Spaces and their boundaries fascinated this hard-edge abstractionist (1906-1996) and in this show of his biomorphic paintings from the 1950's his elegantly calculated contrivance of one space impinging on another pleasingly asks the eye to tease out figure-ground relationships. In ''Over Easy,'' a large, partly heart-shaped figure of mauve thrusts on to a black ground at an angle; or is it the curvy black space that cuts into the aggressor? Smith's clean, flat surfaces, each restricted to two colors, are shown with examples of sleek, minimal contoured furniture by front-line designers of the period, Charles and Ray Eames and Isamu Noguchi among them. The biomorphic shapes of the furniture and their colors play nicely off Smith's smart, snappy formats.
GLUECK

'VIEW EIGHT: A FEW DOMESTIC OBJECTS INTERROGATE A FEW WORKS OF ART,' Mary Boone, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212)752-2929, through Feb. 26. This canny show of artworks and objects of design includes Josiah McElheny's curvy mirrored coffee table bearing mirrored blobby objects; beautiful blobby ceramic sculptures by Ken Price; delicate, biomorphic hanging lights by Lionel Theodore Dean; a twisted, retro-futuristic orange bench by Sachio Hihara; and, like the nightmare that domestic utopianism tries to insulate us from, one of Lee Bontecou's early, scarily militaristic reliefs.
JOHNSON

Galleries: SoHo

RALPH GOINGS, Louis K. Meisel, 141 Prince Street, (212)677-1340, through Feb. 26. A must for fans of Photorealism, vintage trucks and classic diners, this show presents three signature works by one of the best of the original Photorealist painters: old pickup trucks in parking lots copied from photographs with Vermeerish tenderness in 1970 and 71. Four lovingly rendered views of diner interiors and industrial coffee-making machines from the early 90's round out the exhibition.
JOHNSON

'WHO IS THE PROTAGONIST?' Guild & Greyshkul, 28 Wooster Street, (212)625-9224, through Feb. 26. This engaging exhibition about approaches to storytelling includes a life-size space station interior handmade by Lisi Raskin; a Modernist theater environment with a mysterious sci-fi video called ''Moon Colony'' by Ohad Meromi, the show's organizer; a short, strange sci-fi story written by Halsey Rodman; a storyboard for a film about a father and his young son by Guy Ben-Ner; and a Pop-Cubist head of cut and painted paper by Ryan Johnson.
JOHNSON

Galleries: Chelsea

GUY BEN-NER: 'WILD BOY,' Postmasters, 459 West 19th Street, (212)727-3323, through Feb. 26. Two short films by Israel's representative to the 2005 Venice Biennale charmingly spoof quasi-scientific documentary film-making. Made entirely at home, "Wild Boy" is about a feral child (played by the artist's young son) who is captured, cleaned-up and trained by a researcher played by Mr. Ben-Ner. Another film that follows the fortunes of a family of ostriches played by the artist and his family in ridiculous costumes has a perfect anthropomorphising voice-over.
JOHNSON

T.J. WILCOX: 'GARLANDS,' Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212)206-7100, through Feb. 26. The 21 short and very short films in this beautiful show, looped in "garlands" on six continuously running projectors are triggered by personal memories, family photographs, a news photo, the name of a Japanese doll. Each is as deft as a quick sketch or bit of haiku, a compressed, elegiac meditation on the fragile, ephemeral nature of life as reflected in the gossamer nature of the moving image itself.
SMITH

CECILY BROWN, Gagosian, 555 West 24th Street, (212)741-1111, through Feb. 26. Because it was a blend of Abstract Expressionist style and pornographic imagery that first drew the limelight to Ms. Brown, sensational things are expected of her. She disappoints by being merely good, as she is in her new work. With their all-over fields of splintery and squiggly gestures in nicely coordinated colors, her paintings based on landscape motifs are visually engaging, but they want some more adventurous approaches to form and imagery.
JOHNSON

SARAH ANNE JOHNSON: 'TREE PLANTING,' Julie Saul Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, (212)627-2410, through March 12. This unusually impressive solo debut recounts the coming-of-age ritual of Canada's tree-planting summer camps through an unusually affecting mixture of real-life photographs and set-up photographs. Some images show actual young vigorous people on the brink of adulthood working and playing hard. In others, stocky little dolls, made by the artist, revel in equally fake woodland settings, revealing the childlike innocence their real counterparts are trying to outgrow.
SMITH

KNUT ASDAM: 'FILTER CITY,' Gasser & Grunert, 524 West 19th Street, (212)807-9494, through Feb. 19. This Norwegian artist who has exhibited extensively in Europe presents a slow, enigmatic, 21-minute film about two young women -- one small and white, the other tall and black -- who, between long pauses, emit oracular, world-weary utterances about social issues and obscure personal concerns. It is well produced and nice to watch, though it borders inadvertently on a parody of pretentious avant-garde filmmaking.
JOHNSON

SANTE D'ORAZIO: 'PAM: AMERICAN ICON,' Stellan Holm, 524 West 24th Street, (212) 627-7444, through March 5. Pamela Anderson -- yes, that Pamela Anderson -- in all her pneumatic, mostly unclothed glory is the subject of large and surrealistically vivid photographs that were originally commissioned but not published by Playboy magazine. Students: discuss criteria for judging the value -- aesthetic and otherwise -- of these artworks.
JOHNSON

JOHN LURIE, Roebling Hall, 606 West 26th Street, (212)929-8180, through Feb. 26. The stream-of-consciousness notational ink drawings and radiant gouaches of the musician John Lurie have precedents in the work of Jean-Michel Basquiat and William Wegman's early Conceptual drawings and maybe the cartoons of Roz Chast, but they have their own sense of wiry line and texture, wordplay, sexual bluntness and radiant color.
SMITH

'WORK ON PAPER,' Nicole Klagsbrun, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 243-3335, through Feb. 26. Highlights of this lively exhibition of things made on or of paper by more than 20 artists include a huge woodblock print by Mel Kendrick; Magic Realist ball point drawings of odd wooden structures by Billy Malone; John Pilson's video sequence of different hands drawing pigs; and Juliana Ellman's funny small painting of inflatable furniture going over a waterfall.
JOHNSON

'RUGS FROM AFGHANISTAN,' Esso Gallery and Books, 531 West 26th Street, (212)560-9728, through March 5. So-called traditional art is a constantly updated mirror of current events, and this is certainly true of weaving in Afghanistan. Working on commission in the 1970's, Afghan women embroidered designs by the Italian conceptual artist Alghiero Boetti (1940-1994) of world maps reflecting shifts in the balance of power among nation-states. While this project was in progress, Afghanistan itself was traumatized by a Soviet invasion that inspired the invention of a genre of "war carpets," incorporating images of guns, tanks and war-planes. The fascinating show at Esso includes both types, as well as imaginative hybrids of the two, in a cross-cultural merging of media, styles and ideas that is a model for the way history works.
COTTER

Other Galleries

MATTHEW ANTEZZO, Maccarone, 45 Canal Street, (212)431-4977, through March 13. Among works by the artist known for deadpan copies of art magazine ads are nondescript penciled copies of photographs of feminist heroines like Bella Abzug and Gloria Steinem; copies in pencil of news photographs of American Indian protest events that took place in 1975; and a painting of an ancient statue of Diogenes of Sinope titled ''Cynic.'' What it all means could keep an undergraduate seminar busy for some time.
JOHNSON

Last Chance

'ALMOST,' Robert Miller, 524 West 26th Street, Chelsea(212) 366-4774, closing tomorrow. Including works by James Casebere, Neo Rauch, Cindy Sherman, Sherrie Levine and 18 others, this suggestive theme show studies artworks in which something seems to be "almost" something else, as in Loretta Lux's digitally massaged photograph of a beautiful child, Sylvie Fleury's chromed bronze cast of a Goodyear tire and Cardiff and Miller's video of a burning house. Don't miss Corinna Schnitt's video portrait of a wealthy couple talking about their unbelievably perfect life.
JOHNSON

GUNTER BRUS: 'DIRTY EMBELLISHMENTS,' Mike Weiss, 520 West 24th Street, (212) 691-6899, closing tomorrow. If you have only a vague idea of the sorts of things this Viennese Actionist did in the 1960s to get himself thrown in jail, you should see the fascinating compilation of films and recorded performances on view here along with recent quaintly transgressive expressionist drawings. The earliest films mix documentation and abstraction to surprisingly evocative effect; later, strictly documentary films of the artist's extremist performances are both repulsive and riveting.
JOHNSON

NATARAJ SHARMA, Bose Pacia, 508 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212)989-7074, closing tomorrow. The first New York solo exhibition of this Indian painter who has exhibited internationally is too diverse to give a clear picture of what he is about, but the best works have an intriguing allegorical resonance. They are made in a neat and orderly style combining Pop, photo-based realism and hints of Indian traditionalism. Most impressive is the large picture in which a naked man peeps into a temple filled with an semiabstract orgy of interpenetrating pink bodies.
JOHNSON


GRAPHIC: Photos: MOVIES, DANCE AND ART -- Piglet, left, Pooh, Tigger and Rabbit join in the child-pleasing animated slapstick in the new film ''Pooh's Heffalump Movie.'' Page 27. Brenda Buffalino, the red-hot mama of American tap, will perform new works and old tomorrow night at the Fashion Institute of Technology. Page 29. A carpet with a map of the world is on view in ''Rugs From Afghanistan'' at the Esso Gallery, through March. 5. Page 29. (Photos by Disney [''Pooh's Heffalump Movie'']
Lois Greenfield [Brenda Buffalino]
 Esso Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (70%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (66%); THEATER (59%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (59%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



363 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Support Pledged for Westchester Hospital

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
A day after leaders of Westchester Medical Center, the financially troubled regional hospital, made what amounted to an urgent plea for government assistance, county and state officials said they were committed to helping the hospital, but stopped short of endorsing the specifics of its plans.
 Acknowledging that their efforts to turn around the center have fallen short, hospital officials are asking for a continuing financial subsidy to keep the institution afloat. At a meeting on Wednesday night, the hospital's board advanced two alternate plans for avoiding financial disaster for the 1,000-bed hospital in Valhalla, which serves seven counties and offers the most advanced level of care between New York City and Albany.
 One would involve an infusion of $100 million a year and require annual contributions from the county, state and federal governments of $20 million each, as well as labor union concessions of $20 million. Under this scenario, the hospital administration would realize $20 million a year through management and revenue improvements. 
 The other plan is simpler, although its chances of attracting support are less certain. It would require the state to extend indefinitely the quarter-percent sales tax that is set to expire on May 31 and to apply the revenues, from $650 million to $700 million a year, to public hospitals and nursing homes across the state. By its estimate, the medical center would stand to receive about $80 million a year.
 Andrew Rush, a spokesman for Gov. George E. Pataki, said the state was eager to help the hospital, but declined to say to what extent. ''We've provided financial support in the past and we're now awaiting their official proposed plan,'' he said. ''We will review that plan in light of the overall state budget.''
 As for the second bailout plan, involving the extension of the sales tax, Mr. Rush said, ''We advanced our executive budget over a month ago and that wasn't part of the plan.''
 County officials, as well as state and county lawmakers, embraced the proposals, without commenting on the specific requests for subsidies, and cautioned that the medical center was too vital an institution to lose. 
 ''It is extremely important to health care delivery in this region, and it's a tremendous economic engine,'' said William J. Ryan, the chairman of the county's Board of Legislators. ''It cannot close.''
 Larry S. Schwartz, the deputy county executive said that Andrew J. Spano, the county executive, was ''committed to being a partner to the solution in order to return the medical center to fiscal stability.''
 Richard A. Berman, the newly appointed chairman of the medical center's board, said he was pushing both plans ''with the same zeal to see which one we have the best chance of scoring on, so to speak.''
 Mr. Berman added that in recent weeks it had grown clear that no matter what the hospital did internally, there would continue to be a gap between expenses and revenues. Westchester Medical is the only advanced-care hospital between New York City and Albany, with a burn unit, trauma center, organ transplant program and neonatal intensive-care services. It treats some of the most complex -- and expensive -- cases in the region.
 ''When you're doing that, it costs more, and no matter how efficient and effective you are, there is going to be a hole,'' Mr. Berman said. ''Some hospitals have ongoing subsidies; some have endowments. Westchester Medical has neither.''
 Since it was spun off from the county government in 1998 as a public benefit corporation, the medical center has struggled to make ends meet. The administration resorted to hundreds of layoffs and recorded a deficit of $83 million in 2003. Last year's deficit is estimated to be about $56 million.
 Last year, a new management team, Pitts Management Associates of Baton Rouge, La., announced a financial improvement plan that called for the hospital's reaching a break-even point by 2006.
 Like hospitals across the state, Westchester Medical has struggled with rising costs and stagnant reimbursement rates. More than a dozen hospitals have closed in the state in the past two years. In December, New York United Hospital Medical Center in Port Chester, also in Westchester County, announced that it would close due to mounting debt.
 Richard L. Brodsky, a Democratic assemblyman who has been a strong supporter of Westchester Medical Center, expressed confidence that government would come to the hospital's rescue.
 ''I've met with the county and state and I don't think $20 million a year is an uncloseable amount for any of the partners,'' he said. ''The hospital remains sound and moving forward, and this is a plan that people can agree to. I'm optimistic.''
 But whether the unions representing the center's workers are willing to make $20 million in concessions is unclear. ''We recognize that the situation is extremely serious and there is no easy solution to it,'' said Jessica Stone, a spokeswoman for the Civil Service Employees Association, which represents 1,600 employees at the medical center. ''But we're not going to make any concessions that will hurt our members.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Westchester Medical Center has struggled financially since it became a public benefit corporation. It had an $83 million deficit in 2003. (Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); BAILOUTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SALES TAX (72%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); APPOINTMENTS (65%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (65%); NURSING HOMES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



364 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; JOURNEYS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1658 words

HEADLINE: Where Whooping Cranes Cheat Extinction

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
SOME of the most majestic birds on the planet congregate each winter just off the narrow road to a 0cavernous barbecue restaurant that calls itself ''the Redneck Emporium'' on a spit of salt marshes stretching into the chocolate-colored waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Standing five feet in the shallow water, occasionally opening their wings to a span wider than that of an F-150 pickup, these are whooping cranes, part of a population that still numbers fewer than 500 after slowly making its way back from the brink of extinction. They arrive here, at Aransas Bay in Texas in tight-knit family units after flying 2,400 miles from their summer home in the Northwest Territories of Canada.
 On a chilly, overcast day last month, the Wharf Cat, a motorized catamaran, moved through the marshes, stalking the cranes. Inside its well-heated cabin and out on its deck, about 15 men and women, wearing sweatshirts and windbreakers, stood scanning the shallow waters. 
 Most were novices on their first crane-watching tour. But some, toting high-tech binoculars and birding guides, were ''craniacs,'' water-bird groupies drawn here for the thrill of seeing -- or seeing once again -- a truly exceptional bird. 
 Catering to craniacs is relatively new for Port Aransas and Rockport, the small Texas towns near the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge not far from Corpus Christi. The more typical trip into the marshes a few decades ago would have carried hunters seeking other, more common waterfowl, for other, more traditional purposes. But Texans have learned that there can be more money in whooping cranes and other unusual birds -- and in the people who will travel thousands of miles to see them.
 The crew on the Wharf Cat included the skipper, Danny Gross, who has been piloting boats in the area since the 80's; Ray Kirkwood, a crane expert; and Timothy Snyder, who was simultaneously reading a Mickey Spillane paperback, serving beer or coffee and keeping an eye peeled for all kinds of interesting birds. He spotted, for example, the black skimmer, about the size of a crow but with a black-tipped, bright-red bill -- ''kinda like Toucan Sam,'' he said in the twang particular to this nook of the Gulf Coast. 
 It wasn't until an hour and a half into the four-hour trip that boat and crane confronted each other. Mr. Kirkwood pointed them out, and a hush came over the catamaran. 
 Out in the marsh grasses stood a family of cranes, feet planted firmly in shallow water. Squinting through binoculars, the craniacs brought them clearly into view. The two adults, nearly as tall as the people watching them, were sheathed in white plumage. On their faces were black markings and higher on their heads was a bit of reddish coloring. With them was a single juvenile, looking small and vulnerable as its parents stood watch above the water.
 Whooping cranes -- the tallest North American birds -- are the family type. They mate for life and can live 25 years or more in the wild. These parents never veered from the side of the young one. The cranes stood aristocratically on their long narrow legs, except when their omnivorous instincts led their olive-gray bills into the water in search of crabs, clams or crayfish.
 They appeared at ease with a catamaran of craniacs gawking at them.
 The craniacs, on the other hand, were less serene. A few stared intently and silently through binoculars, but most voiced wonder -- an ''oh my God'' here, a ''they're incredible'' there -- in a chorus of amazement.
 The migration of cranes has been studied in awe for centuries, taking place on every continent except South America and Antarctica. The 15 species of the crane family, heralded in myth as symbols of longevity and good fortune, include far-flung members like the relatively small demoiselle crane that breeds in southeastern Siberia and winters in East Africa and Iraq, and the renowned red-crowned crane of Japan, whose crimson radiance was, until recently, painted on the plane tails of Japan Airlines. (Cranes also inspired the logo of another airline, Lufthansa.) Some cranes soar between passes in the Himalayas at heights of 20,000 feet, high enough to peek into the cockpit of the occasional Airbus.
 Still, the cranes' rarefied status among birds has not guaranteed their survival. Of the 15 surviving species, 11 are imperiled with the possibility of extinction, as the naturalist Peter Matthiessen described in wrenching detail in his 2001 book on cranes, ''The Birds of Heaven.'' Yet none of the cranes, whether found in isolated Bhutan or the Mongolian steppe, are as rare as Grus americana, the whooping crane of North America, and the largest flock of them, born and raised in the wild, spend their winters in the gulf marshes of Texas.
 This season, according to Tom Stehn, the whooping crane coordinator for the United States Fish and Wildlife Service at the Aransas reserve, ''We're undoubtedly having a very, very special year.'' A census flight in a light plane over Aransas counted 216 cranes, the most in about a century. Since the birds reached their low point in 1941, with just 15 recorded in Texas after the disappearance of flocks that had wintered on the immense King Ranch, the wildlife services of the United States and Canada, working together, have brought about an amazing comeback. After years of work to protect and nurture the birds, the total whooping crane population in North America is now 470; 213 are in the self-sustaining natural flock that arrives each year at Aransas, and the rest are resident in Florida, in captivity or in a flock that was reintroduced in Wisconsin and taught to migrate to Florida.
 The Texas cranes had an excellent breeding season last year in Wood Buffalo National Park in Canada, where 54 nesting pairs fledged a record 40 chicks. Most of them were old enough to fly by mid-August, enabling them to escape predators and migrate to Texas. A record 33 arrived in Aransas this winter, said Mr. Stehn, who described the numbers as ''breathtaking.''
 They are having a good year in Texas, too, as high rainfall and abundant freshwater inflows into the bays at the Aransas and nearby Matagorda Island National Wildlife Refuges have increased the number of blue crabs, their favorite food (they also eat snakes, snails, rats and other critters).
 According to the International Crane Foundation, fossil records suggest that whooping cranes have existed for several million years and once roamed from the prairies of Alberta to central Mexico. Fortunately, the communities north of Corpus Christi seem to have recognized the value of having these now rare creatures in their midst. 
 Hotels like the Lighthouse Inn in Rockport cater to crane enthusiasts from around the world, and Port Aransas holds an annual Celebration of Whooping Cranes (Feb. 25 to 27 this year). Altogether, including wildlife lovers not specifically seeking the whooping cranes, about 75,000 visitors travel to the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge each year, contributing some $5 million to the local economy. Several outfits in Rockport and Port Aransas operate crane-watching tours.
 On the Wharf Cat, the three members of the first crane family were not the only cranes spotted that day. The craniacs and novices saw eight more, a good day's watching (typical counts on the trips range from 3 or 4 to as many as 20).
 It is easy to be moved by the grandeur of these birds, and those who admire them share anguish as the effort to bring them back faces inevitable setbacks.
 In November, two male whooping cranes were shot while migrating through Kansas, Mr. Stehn said, and quickly discovered on the ground. One died within a week. The second had surgery to repair a broken wing at Kansas State University and was then flown to the United States Geological Survey's Patuxent Wildlife Research Center in Maryland, but died of respiratory problems related to its injuries. The hunters were reportedly after sandhill cranes, a more abundant species. Law enforcement officials at the United States Fish and Wildlife Service said federal charges are expected soon.
 What is it about these birds that makes people go to great lengths to try to save them?
 More than half a century ago, the ecologist Aldo Leopold tried to articulate the crane's mystique. ''Our ability to perceive quality in nature begins, as in art, with the pretty,'' he wrote in the late 1940's, when, to most scientists, the extinction of the whooping crane seemed imminent. ''It expands through successive stages of the beautiful to values as yet uncaptured by language. The quality of cranes lies, I think, in this higher gamut, as yet beyond the reach of words.''

IF YOU GO
Bearing Witness To Survival
 WHOOPING cranes winter in Texas from about mid-November to mid-April, and several tour boats take passengers out from Rockport to see them.
 The Wharf Cat, owned by Fisherman's Wharf (361-749-5448), has four-hour narrated tours that cost $30 a person. 
 The Skimmer (361-727-0643), takes three-hour tours for $35 a person.
 For $150, the Tecolote Charter Service (361-729-1529) will take one to four passengers on a 23-foot boat for four hours.
 The Port Aransas Celebration of Whooping Cranes, Feb. 25 to 27 this year, features guided birding boat trips, seminars and workshops about whooping cranes and discussions updating the challenges faced by the 15 species of cranes in the world, led by the International Crane Foundation. For information, call (800)452-6278.
 Croakers/Rockin-R-Barbeque (3911 Highway 35, Rockport; 361-729-8888), which advertises itself as the Redneck Emporium, is about as authentically Texan as a restaurant can get, with game trophies on the walls, excellent quesadillas and Shiner beer. The smoked chicken, with posole con queso, ($7.95) is also very good.
 The stylish but low-key Lighthouse Inn (200 South Fulton Beach Road, Rockport; 361-790-8439), overlooking Aransas Bay, has 78 rooms with rates starting at $79 in crane-watching season.


GRAPHIC: Photos: TIGHT FORMATION -- The whooping cranes in the Canada-Texas migration are a self-sustaining flock. The birds maintain family units.
 THE MIGRATORY TOURIST -- The care and feeding of birders is a big business. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRDS (92%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); WILDLIFE (78%); BIRDING (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FAMILY (69%) Wildlife Sanctuaries; Endangered and Extinct Species; Whooping Cranes; Travel and Vacations; Birds

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); NORTHWEST TERRITORIES, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (56%) Aransas National Wildlife Refuge (Texas); Port Aransas (Tex); Rockport (Tex); Texas; Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



365 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: A Few Worries For Wal-Mart In Sales Report

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

 BODY:
Wal-Mart Stores, the discount retail giant, rang up more than $288 billion in sales last year, the company announced yesterday, an impressive total that kept it in first place among American corporations in terms of revenue. 
 But the fine print told another story -- of higher expenses, slower growth and profit increasingly coming from sources other than the stores themselves -- that had the company pledging to investors that it would plan better for this year.
 Target, Wal-Mart's chief discount rival, reported yesterday that sales for the year were $46.84 billion, an increase of 11 percent over 2003, with net income of $3.51 a share. Analysts cheered the Minneapolis-based chain's performance. 
 At Wal-Mart, earnings per share rose to $2.41 for fiscal year 2005, up from $2.07. Total revenue was $288.2 billion, compared with $258.68 billion a year earlier, and net income increased to $10.27 billion, from $9.05 billion. Wal-Mart's fiscal year, like many retailers, ran to the end of January.
 Sales in Wal-Mart stores open at least a year, known as same-store sales, rose 1.5 percent in the quarter, which includes the all-important holiday shopping season. For the year, same-store sales increased 3.3 percent, with a 2.9 percent increase at Wal-Mart Stores and a 5.8 percent increase at its Sam's Club warehouse division. 
 For most of the year, Wal-Mart was hampered by the effect of high gasoline prices on its customers, who typically are hourly wage earners. When gasoline prices rise, Wal-Mart executives have said, customers buy less. 
 In addition, concern about the economy has made many shoppers more cautious. Sales of groceries may remain steady, while sales decline for more discretionary items, like sporting goods or electronics, that are more profitable than groceries. 
 The chief executive, H. Lee Scott Jr., told investors in a conference call yesterday that Wal-Mart stumbled in its merchandising in the second half of last year. Unexpectedly sluggish post-Thanksgiving sales led Wal-Mart to reduce prices sharply on a small assortment of goods and to take out newspaper ads -- both unusual moves for it. 
 Mr. Scott also said that Wal-Mart left ''a ton of business on the table'' by buying too little in some categories, which reduced inventory costs but also meant lost opportunities. 
 Whatever the reasons, sales did not increase the way Wal-Mart would have liked. 
 ''Thank goodness they had MoneyGram,'' said Emme P. Kozloff, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein, noting that income from services like MoneyGram and check cashing through Wal-Mart contributed more than usual to the company's profits. 
 ''But what you can tell is that over 60 percent of their profit came from these noncore items,'' Ms. Kozloff said. ''The results were not particularly strong.'' 
 Other analysts also spotted signs of problems. ''Operating-expense pressure remains a challenge for Wal-Mart,'' Wayne Hood, an analyst at Prudential Securities, wrote in a note to investors. ''Expense pressure was the result of higher wage and utility costs, below-plan sales, and rising health care expenses. Management does expect to show improvement in expense management in 2005, although we would be surprised if expense growth didn't continue to outpace top-line growth.''
 Among the costs that increased at Wal-Mart was interest expense, which grew 47.8 percent, to $297 million in the fourth quarter, Shari Schwartzman Eberts, an analyst for J.P. Morgan Chase, said in a note to investors, calling it ''worse than expected.'' 
 At the same time, corporate expenses fell 18.3 percent, to $277 million, she added, which was better than forecast. 
 Mr. Hood expressed concern about the performance of Sam's Club, the Wal-Mart warehouse division that caters to small businesses as well as consumers. Noting that profit grew 3.5 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with 13.3 percent in the third quarter, he wrote: ''We are forecasting 10 percent profit growth in 2005, but now have less confidence in that forecast.'' 
 The results at Target, which included growth of 5.3 percent for the year in stores open at least a year, won far more praise from analysts. Revenue for the year increased 11.5 percent, including $485 million in income from credit card operations. The company reported a charge of $65 million for the year because of an adjustment to its lease accounting system. Earnings per share rose to $3.51 for the year, from $1.97.
 ''A lot of accounting changes made it tough to see things clearly, but at the end of the day, they are out-executing Wal-Mart,'' Ms. Kozloff said. ''They are feeling very good about the business,'' she said, predicting 5 percent sales growth for this year as well.
 Target also reported higher expense rates, but benefited from a trimmed-down operation that sold its Mervyn's and Marshall Field's chains for $4.9 billion during 2004. In addition to intensifying its focus on Target Stores, its star performer, the sale means ''they don't have nearly as much debt anymore,'' Ms. Kozloff said.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 23, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Friday about Wal-Mart's financial results for the quarter and the year quoted incompletely from a comment by Emme P. Kozloff, an analyst who noted that ''noncore'' items had contributed more than usual to profit growth. Ms. Kozloff said, ''What you can tell is that over 60 percent of their profit growth and overall growth came from these noncore items'' -- not ''over 60 percent of their profit.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (93%); RETAILERS (92%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); THANKSGIVING (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Company Reports; Sales; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); SAM'S CLUB (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Target Corp

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (59%) Constance L Hays

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



366 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: Inside Line From Japan to CBS? No Chance, Say the Schieffers

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG and DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
Bob Schieffer likes to say that he is more than just a sibling to his younger brother, Tom. ''Hell, I raised him,'' Mr. Schieffer said in a recent interview, his eyes watering as he recalled the years immediately after their father's sudden death, which left a 20-year-old Bob and his mother to care for a 10-year-old Tom.
 But the bonds, and bounds, of that familial intimacy are about to come into play as never before. Tom Schieffer was recently nominated by President Bush -- his friend and former business partner in the Texas Rangers baseball team -- to be ambassador to Japan, and Bob Schieffer, the longtime host of ''Face the Nation'' on CBS, will soon become interim anchor of ''CBS Evening News.'' 
 What would Bob do if he had to introduce a segment on the evening news about how Japan and the United States are confronting North Korea? And how would Tom respond to CBS inquiries about classified data concerning not only North Korea's suspected nuclear arsenal but also American economic strategy in Asia? 
 No problem, both of them say. 
 ''In the beginning, people said, 'Oh, he's going to be a great source for you,' '' said Bob, who is expected to be the CBS anchor for at least three months. ''I say, 'He's going to be the worst source I ever had!' No. 1, when you're talking to a United States ambassador on an open line, you're talking to every intelligence agency in the world. Sometimes the echo is so loud.''
 Speaking on one of those open lines from Australia, to which he is ambassador now, Tom struck a similar chord.
 ''What we depend on more than anything else are each other's integrity,'' he said. ''I recognize that there are certain places I can't go with him, and places he can't go with me.''
 When asked whether he would be able to read the introduction to a news report concerning matters of import to his brother, Bob said he would defer to the judgment of Jim Murphy, executive producer of ''CBS Evening News.''
 ''Conceivably something like that could come up,'' Bob said. ''If it did, I would just make a full disclosure.''
 But he conceded that, at least as of earlier this week, he had yet to discuss the potential for such incidents with either Mr. Murphy or Andrew Heyward, the president of CBS News.
 ''Since you brought it up, I'll bring it up to them, to make sure,'' Bob said. ''Obviously they know about my brother.''
 Asked yesterday about the Schieffer brothers, Sandra Genelius, a spokeswoman for CBS News, quoted Mr. Heyward as saying, ''We will handle it on a case-by-case basis, and err on the side of disclosure.''
 CBS News executives say Bob's connections to the Bush administration through his brother -- including the fact that Bob got to know the future president well during ''dozens'' of baseball games that he attended with him, before Mr. Bush was even governor of Texas -- played no role in his being tapped to succeed Dan Rather.
 Mr. Rather is stepping down on March 9 as anchor of the evening news in the wake of his role in a report, now discredited, that said it raised new questions about Mr. Bush's National Guard service. 
 But it has not been lost on senior White House aides that the temporary face of CBS News is one the president knows well, and not only through Bob's 36 years on camera for the network. By contrast, even before the broadcast of the guard report, the White House had considered Mr. Rather -- who clashed famously with Mr. Bush's father in a live television interview in 1988 -- to be perhaps the most hostile to the president of the major news anchors.
 It is not unusual for siblings, or spouses, to find themselves on opposite sides of the journalist-newsmaker divide in Washington. Another example is Andrea Mitchell, the foreign affairs correspondent on NBC News, and her husband, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve. In such circumstances, news executives say, the reporter is generally steered away from covering the area of responsibility of his or her family member.
 Asked how they planned to reinforce the journalistic and diplomatic firewalls between them -- while still being able to talk freely about such uncontested matters as the doings of their sister, Sharon, a longtime educator -- the two brothers said in separate interviews half a world away from each other that ''common sense'' would rule.
 ''I don't talk to Tom about Dan Rather,'' Bob said. ''Tom doesn't talk to me about George Bush.''
 That may work in theory but not always in practice, said Geneva Overholser, a professor in the Washington bureau of the Missouri School of Journalism. Ms. Overholser said she was speaking not just as a journalist -- she is a former editor -- but also as the sister of a sometime newsmaker, Nannerl O. Keohane, former president of Duke University.
 ''This will affect Bob's brotherly relationship, I tell you that,'' Ms. Overholser said. ''When one sibling is a journalist, the other sibling comes to understand that the journalist's first instinct is to find out things and tell them to others.''
 And while Ms. Overholser said she applauded Bob's instinct to disclose any conflicts to viewers, she said those disclosures could be awkward in a 30-minute newscast. ''Would you really have Bob, every time he says something about Japan, say 'Let me tell you, I am the brother of the ambassador'?''
 For those who imagine that Bob has gotten scoops as a result of his brother's friendship with the occupant of the Oval Office, he has a ready retort: on the eve of the New Hampshire primary in the 2000 presidential campaign, Bob's was the last of the Sunday morning news programs to secure an interview with Mr. Bush.
 ''In that campaign, I told Karen Hughes,'' who was Mr. Bush's communications director, '''Look, I don't know what your ideas about this are, but I want you to treat me like every other reporter,''' Bob said.
 ''And I want to tell you,'' he added with a hearty laugh, ''they've lived up to their side of the bargain!''
 Bob, a registered independent, suggests that his own politics are difficult to divine.
 ''I like to tease people,'' he said. ''I'll say, 'Do you think I'm a Democrat or a Republican?' I'll say, 'I believe in the death penalty, so that makes me a conservative, right?' Then I say, 'Yeah, but I'm also pro-choice. I guess that makes me a Democrat.' ''
 Tom points out that his brother's tendency to play things down the middle was among the attributes that led the Commission on Presidential Debates, a private organization led by two former chairmen of the Republican and Democratic parties, to select Bob to moderate a presidential debate last fall.
 Tom, who as a conservative Democrat was elected to several terms as a Texas legislator representing Fort Worth, where he was raised, has also managed to work pragmatically across the political spectrum.
 His appointment to the post in Japan was engineered, administration officials say, by Richard L. Armitage, who recently departed as the deputy secretary of state. Mr. Armitage has long and deep connections to both Australia and Japan and saw immediately that Tom's experience running a large embassy and his closeness to the president would be a major asset in Tokyo.
 There, Mr. Bush's old baseball partner will be managing the relationship with Mr. Bush's closest Asian partner, Junichiro Koizumi, the Japanese prime minister. 
 The Japanese particularly treasure well-connected ambassadors, who have recently included Walter F. Mondale and Howard H. Baker Jr. That, not to mention the Japanese love of baseball, should put Tom on strong footing. 
 But Tom's experience with Japan is limited. ''I was there last spring,'' he said from Australia as he was packing to return to Washington for his Senate confirmation hearings, which are scheduled next month. ''The Yankees opened the season there. There were 55,000 people in the stands.''
 He declined to talk about Japan's relationship with the United States, citing the unwritten rule that nominees say nothing publicly about their jobs until confirmed. But he was willing to discuss his relationship with Mr. Bush, which began when they ended up partners in the Rangers.
 Someone, he said, had to navigate the politics of getting a new stadium built in Arlington, Tex. ''We talked about George doing it, but his father was president at the time and he had a Secret Service detail, and it was kind of hard for him to ease in and out of City Hall,'' Tom said. 
 How long Bob might be in the anchor's seat is not yet known. Leslie Moonves, chairman of CBS, is encouraging the news division to develop a revolutionary successor to the ''CBS Evening News With Dan Rather'' -- one that may rely on two or three anchors -- and that process is proving time consuming, several network executives said.
 So what will Bob's broadcast be called?
 ''We'll see,'' Bob said, before adding, ''Maybe the 'CBS Evening News With Your Name Here.'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: George W. Bush, former President George Bush and Tom Schieffer, who succeeded George W. as general partner of the Texas Rangers after Mr. Bush was elected governor of Texas in November 1994. (Photo by Texas Rangers Baseball Club)
Bob Schieffer, 14, with his 4-year-old brother, Tom, in Fort Worth, where they were reared.
Bob Schieffer moderating the final presidential debate last year. (Photo by Kevork Djansezian/Associated Press)(pg. A20)
 George W. Bush, former President George Bush and Tom Schieffer at a ballgame in 1994. (Photo by Texas Rangers Baseball Club)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); POLITICS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); ETHICS (61%) Television; Television; Ethics; United States Politics and Government; Television; News and News Media

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS RANGERS (93%) Cbs Corp

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) Jacques Steinberg; David E Sanger; Bob Schieffer; Jim Murphy; Andrew Heyward; tom schieffer

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (57%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



367 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Show Decline; Indicators Off

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell to the lowest level in more than four years, backing up an assertion by Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, that the economy is in good shape.
 Some 302,000 Americans filed applications for jobless benefits last week, a drop of 2,000 from the previous week on a seasonally adjusted basis and the third consecutive weekly decline, the Labor Department said yesterday. The level was the lowest since Oct. 28, 2000, in the closing months of the country's record 10-year economic expansion. 
 A report from the Conference Board, a business-financed research group, showed that its index of leading economic indicators slipped 0.3 percent in January, to 115.6. But that decline, which followed two months of increases, could be linked to recent unusual movements in interest rates.
 The Labor Department also said yesterday that prices for imported goods rose 0.9 percent in January as foreign petroleum prices jumped 4.6 percent and the price of nonpetroleum imports edged up 0.2 percent. Import prices are expected to continue rising this year as the weaker dollar makes foreign products more expensive for American consumers.
 The decline in jobless claims caught analysts by surprise. They had been forecasting an increase of around 12,000 after impressive declines of 9,000 and 12,000 in the previous two weeks.
 Most economists expect the economy to grow at least 3 percent this year, down from the 4.4 percent growth registered in 2004, but still a respectable pace.
 Scott Anderson, senior economist at Wells Fargo & Company, said the improvement in unemployment claims indicated that there was ''better traction in the labor market,'' with more companies hiring.
 He said lower productivity growth in recent quarters suggested that companies ''may need to add workers or another line on the manufacturing floor'' to increase their output.
 The Conference Board's report said that January's decline in the leading indicators index followed a revised rise of 0.3 percent, to 115.9, in December and 0.3 percent, to 115.5, in November. Before November and December, the index had fallen for five consecutive months, though the declines were modest.
 Mr. Anderson said the leading indicators may be getting ''some false signals'' from the narrow spread between long- and short-term rates, one of the index's components.
 The index is designed to predict economic activity over the next three to six months.
 Ken Goldstein, a Conference Board economist, said in a statement accompanying the report that the economic picture ''is positive, but more spotty than robust.''
 He added: ''The spike in energy prices and the lower dollar took some steam out of the economy. But the larger concern remains cautious attitudes. Business concerns about the direction of cash flow could lead to cautious decisions about hiring and rebuilding inventories.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.Graph tracks weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time (4-week moving average) since September 2004.(Sources by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); IMPORT PRICES (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); FUEL MARKETS (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Leading Economic Indicators; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States Economy; Labor

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US); Conference Board

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



368 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: Farm Subsidies Rest on What Kind of Row You Hoe

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: LODI, Calif., Feb. 11 

 BODY:
Judging by the laws of nature and the cruel twists of the farming life, Joan Lundquist is doing just fine as she takes another stab at making a living from the rich dirt of the San Joaquin Valley. No matter that President Bush has proposed to cut billions from the federal farm subsidy program.
 Most of her grapevines have been pruned, and the orange grove outside her sitting room is heavy with fruit. And, she says pointedly, she does not need a dime from the government to farm her 170 acres. 
 ''Never took any farm subsidies,'' said Ms. Lundquist, who is 71 and of 19th-century California pioneer stock. ''Don't plan on it. It's ridiculous. This whole subsidy system is irritating to no end.'' 
 Farther down this valley that is the heart of the $32 billion factory of California agriculture, John Pucheu, 61, a third-generation cotton farmer, said he could not make a living on his patch of ground without government payments. Mr. Pucheu's 3,000-acre farm, which he runs with his brother, received about $1.6 million in federal subsidies from 1995 through 2003, federal records show.
 Take that money away, he said, and the Pucheu brothers might have to get out of cotton altogether. They might even get into Ms. Lundquist's line -- fresh fruits and vegetables. The cotton farmers mean it as a threat, not an opportunity. 
 Why the federal government rewards one grower and ignores the other has long been one of the more contentious arguments in rural America. But now that Mr. Bush has proposed a curb on billions of dollars in subsidy payments for crops like cotton and rice over the next decade, the question has roiled the industry, setting off a lobbying struggle in Washington and threatening to pit one type of farmer against the other. 
 Ms. Lundquist and most other farmers here in the nation's leading agriculture state who grow fruits, nuts and vegetables -- nearly half of all American crops -- generally get little or nothing from the government, because they have been viewed as self-sustaining.
 But growers of wheat, corn, cotton, rice, soybeans -- the big commodity crops in the world market -- received the bulk of more than $130 billion given to farmers in the last nine years, a record. The rationale for the payments has been to keep domestic agriculture, or at least one segment of it, stable and competitive. 
 Critics have long said the practice created a huge welfare state among big farmers and helped promote the megafarm at the expense of the family farm. The administration has now proposed a cap of $250,000 a year per farmer on government payments, and wants to close loopholes that let hundreds of individual farmers get more than a million dollars a year in subsidies while claiming ownership in multiple operations.
 In response, some of the big growers are threatening to enter the unsubsidized segment, possibly driving down prices for those farmers.
 ''Probably the best argument I can come up with for why we need to keep the present system is that we've got 750,000 acres in cotton in California, and imagine what would happen to produce prices if every cotton grower decided to get into tomatoes,'' said Mark Bagby, a spokesman for Calcot, the largest cotton-growing cooperative in the West.
 The threats were shrugged off by the organization that represents fresh-food farmers in California. 
 ''The cotton industry is using the scare tactic of threatening to get into fruits and vegetables,'' said Tom Nassif, president of the Western Growers Association, which represents most California and Nevada produce farmers. ''I say let them try it. With their political power, we'd be a lot stronger.''
 The proposed federal cuts, amounting to about $5 billion over 10 years, are a fraction of the total paid to farmers. And the proposed caps on the corporate farms that collect some of the highest payments would not affect many growers in a state like Iowa, which is crucial to the political aspirations of presidential candidates and has about 63,000 farmers who receive subsidies. Two-thirds of the nation's farmers get no subsidies, according to records. 
 Many farm-state senators have lined up heavily against the proposed caps, leaving the fate of the Bush proposal uncertain, but if enacted, it could represent the beginning of real change in American agriculture, many economists and farmers say.
 Subsidized farmers who grow crops that are suffering from low prices because of a global glut may diversify, or get out of farming altogether, they say. 
 ''The whole purpose of the farm program is to keep the grower in business,'' Mr. Bagby of Calcot said.
 Cotton and rice farms, because they are such big operations, would be hit hardest by the cuts, farm economists say. These growers received more than 70 percent of the $757 million given to California in subsidies in 2003, the last year for full records.
 The biggest protests are coming from cotton country, here in California as well as in Texas and the South, because those farmers receive some of the biggest checks. One large cotton operation outside Fresno, the J.G. Boswell Company, has received about $16 million in subsidies over the last eight years, according to Agriculture Department records. The company did not return phone calls seeking comment. Half of all the cotton subsidies went to just 3 percent of the growers of that crop, records show, with farmers in that top bracket taking in more than $1 million apiece over the last eight years. The world is awash in cotton, and most American-grown fiber is exported, after the collapse of the domestic textile industry. 
 ''Cotton is the king of subsidy-dependent American agribusiness,'' said Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, which advocates an overhaul of the farm subsidy system and publishes a list of every payment in every county.
 But cotton and rice farmers here say they need the help. 
 ''People need to understand that the cost of producing rice is really high,'' said Bill Huffman, vice president of Farmers Rice Cooperative, which received $134 million in subsidies from 1995 to 2003 and spread it among its 900 growers. ''It couldn't be grown here, profitably, without the government money.'' 
 Still, many cotton growers acknowledge an image problem. 
 ''I'm not going to kid around,'' Mr. Bagby said. ''Wouldn't we all like to know that a $180,000 check is out there from Uncle Sam?''
 On the California farm of the Pucheu brothers, last year was a banner one, with a big crop after a perfect growing season. But the cost of producing the powder puffs used to make shirts and socks is much higher than that for other crops, Mr. Pucheu said, and the price this year is low. ''It cost more than a thousand dollars an acre to produce cotton,'' he said. ''The operations are big. The costs are great. It's not something that many people want to get into.''
 Mr. Pucheu said ''nobody in the younger generation'' of the family has plans to take over the family farm. Still, his kind does not necessarily get sympathy from fellow farmers.
 Ms. Lundquist, who lives in a 100-year-old farmhouse full of grandchildren, dogs, and memories framed on the wall, expressed disgust at the high-level payments received by cotton and rice growers. She lives on the land her grandparents bought in 1917 and frets from year to year with the swings in market prices.
 ''Agriculture policy doesn't make any sense to me,'' she said. ''What disturbs me is that the small farmers are disappearing and they get nothing from the government, while we continue to subsidize the biggest farms.''
 Born in 1933, in the depths of the Great Depression, Ms. Lundquist has seen hard times and prosperous years in this valley of vines, nuts and fruits an hour's drive south from Sacramento. She used to grow tokay grapes but tore out all the old vines and planted zinfandel, cabernet sauvignon and chardonnay.
 Even with the newer varietals, Ms. Lundquist said, she has endured some recent bad years, with the downturn in prices for table wine grapes. And yet she said she never thought of asking for money from the government during the bad years. Feast and famine, she said with a shrug, is part of the farmer's life.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 18 about proposed reductions in farm subsidies gave an outdated name for an organization whose president said the cotton industry was using scare tactics against cuts and misidentified a state where it is active. The group is the Western Growers, no longer the Western Growers Association. It represents produce farmers in California and Arizona, not Nevada.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Pucheu cotton farm, top, received $1.6 million in federal subsidies from 1995 to 2003. Joan Lundquist's grape farm, above, did not receive a dime. Ms. Lundquist, top right, finds the subsidy system ''irritating to no end.'' John Pucheu, right, says he would be hard put to farm cotton without subsidies. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)Map of California highlighting Lodi: The Lundquist farm is near Lodi
 the Pucheus' is down the valley.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (90%); COTTON FARMING (90%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); FACTORY FARMS (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (53%) Agriculture; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Cotton; Fruit; Vegetables; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Agriculture; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Crop Controls and Subsidies; Nuts; Farmers; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Timothy Egan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; California

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



369 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; What Does Alan Greenspan Want?; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Politics

 BODY:
It was inevitable that Alan Greenspan would make news when he testified before the Senate Banking Committee on Wednesday that he supported private accounts in Social Security. ''So if you're going to move to private accounts, which I approve of,'' he said, ''I think you have to do it in a cautious, gradual way.''
 But Mr. Greenspan said so much more that, by any measure of logical consistency, could hardly be read as approval. 
 He said repeatedly that the crucial underlying problem for the United States economy was a lack of national savings -- the sum of government and individual savings, an important aspect of the nation's overall standard of living. Under questioning, he also said, repeatedly and quite rightly, that moving to private accounts within Social Security would not add to national savings. That's because every dollar that went into a private account would be offset by the money that the government would need to borrow upfront to establish the private system.
 Mr. Greenspan also stressed the importance of closing Social Security's long-term funding gap -- an estimated $3.7 trillion hole that will develop over 75 years, the usual span of time used by Social Security's trustees to gauge the system's soundness. Then he pointed out that money accumulating in private accounts would do nothing to close the long-term funding gap in Social Security. The only way to do that is to increase taxes or cut benefits, or to adopt some combination of the two. Unlike the president, Mr. Greenspan acknowledged the huge benefit cuts that would be inherent in a private system. Speaking of Mr. Bush, he said, ''I gather what he has in mind is that the amounts that go into the private accounts are offset, after discount, with benefits that would have been paid with those monies in the Social Security system.'' That's Greenspan-ese for this: ''Every dollar you put into a private account, plus interest, would be subtracted from your traditional Social Security benefit.'' 
 As the nation's top banker, Mr. Greenspan was on surer ground when discussing the borrowing needed to establish private accounts -- an estimated $2 trillion over 10 years, and $4.5 trillion over two decades. He said it would be a risky thing to do.
 When Mr. Greenspan ventured into politics in 2001, he gave his blessing for Mr. Bush's huge tax cuts. Today, thanks in part to those tax cuts, the surplus Mr. Bush inherited is a $412 billion budget deficit, and the president's own budget proposal projects deficits as far as the eye can see. If Mr. Greenspan really wants to increase national savings, he should advocate cutting the deficit. If he really wants to close the gap in Social Security, he should not shy away from prudent tax increases. And if he wants to keep the financial markets calm, he should disapprove of enormous borrowing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (86%); BUDGET DEFICITS (83%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (70%); TAX INCREASES (64%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (60%) Social Security (US); Editorials; Taxation

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



370 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Urges Cutback in Scale Of 2 Big Lenders

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, urged Congress on Thursday to sharply scale back Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the giant and troubled government-sponsored mortgage companies.
 His comments were the first on the matter since Fannie Mae acknowledged major violations of accounting rules and forced out its chief executive in December. Mr. Greenspan said that the two companies had grown so big that they posed a ''substantial risk'' to the economy.
 Under pressure from banking regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission, Fannie Mae is being forced to restate its financial results for the last three and a half years and may have to reduce its earnings by $9 billion. Freddie Mac went through similar trouble in 2003, when it acknowledged that it had used accounting gimmicks to smooth out its earnings between strong and weak years. 
 Mr. Greenspan, who has long criticized both companies, said they had been able to borrow almost unlimited amounts of money at below-market rates by virtue of the widespread but false impression among investors that the federal government would ride to their rescue if necessary. 
 ''Given no limits on what they can put in their portfolios,'' he told members of the House Financial Services Committee, ''they can, by merely their initiative, create an ever larger increase in portfolio, which, given the low levels of capital, means they have to engage in very significant dynamic hedging to hedge interest rate risks.''
 ''We have found no reasonable basis for that portfolio above very minimum needs,'' Mr. Greenspan continued, proposing that the two companies reduce their portfolios of mortgage loans to about $100 billion or $200 billion from a combined total of $1.7 trillion today.
 A spokeswoman for Fannie Mae had no comment on Mr. Greenspan's testimony.
 In the past, the two big financiers have argued that they provide a significant savings to home buyers through their programs and that holding mortgage portfolios has always been part of their business. 
 Mr. Greenspan's comments came as Congress and the Bush administration attempt sweeping changes in how Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are regulated.
 Both companies were created by Congress to reduce the cost of home loans, and do so primarily by buying up mortgages and bundling them into securities that are then sold in the financial markets.
 Mr. Greenspan emphasized that the companies did a good job of securitizing home mortgages, but he said they were taking on too much risk by letting their own portfolios of loans balloon in the last decade.
 ''If you get large enough in that type of context and something goes wrong, then we have a very serious problem,'' he said in response to a question from Representative Richard H. Baker, Republican of Louisiana. ''At this stage, the risk is, as best I can judge, virtually negligible. I don't believe that will be the case if we continue to expand.''
 Mr. Baker, who is among those preparing legislation to regulate ''government-sponsored enterprises'' like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, made clear that he wanted to slow the companies' borrowing and expansion. ''I have come to the conclusion, in view of the G.S.E.'s portfolio growth over the last several years, that the rate of growth is indeed a concern,'' he said.
 Many Bush administration officials agree, with some characterizing Fannie Mae as less a mortgage company than an enormous hedge fund.
 But the two companies have powerful political support and have been able to fend off restrictions for years. Supporters include the real estate brokerage industry as well as home builders and many mortgage lenders around the country. The companies, based in Washington, have cultivated ties to lawmakers and continue to enjoy support from many Democrats.
 Mr. Greenspan has taken a dim view of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which enjoy privileges that include a special credit line with the Treasury Department.
 The Federal Reserve angered the two companies with a study last year concluding that their shareholders, not home buyers, received most of the economic benefit from their ability to borrow money at below-market rates.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Among market players who listened, if at a distance, when Alan Greenspan spoke yesterday were traders at the Chicago Board of Trade. (Photo by Frank Polich/Reuters)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIZATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) Accounting and Accountants; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Law and Legislation; United States Economy; Securities and Commodities Violations

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%) Fannie Mae; Freddie Mac; Fannie Mae; Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; George W (Pres) Bush; Richard H (Rep) Baker; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



371 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Three-Card Maestro

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan just did it again.
 Four years ago, the Fed chairman lent crucial political support to the Bush tax cuts. He didn't specifically endorse the administration's plan, and if you read his testimony carefully, it contained caveats and cautions. But that didn't matter; the headlines trumpeted Mr. Greenspan's support, and legislation whose prospects had previously seemed dubious sailed through Congress. 
 On Wednesday Mr. Greenspan endorsed Social Security privatization. But there's a difference between 2001 and 2005. In 2001, Mr. Greenspan offered a convoluted, implausible justification for supporting everything the Bush administration wanted. This time, he offered no justification at all.
 In 2001, some readers may recall, Mr. Greenspan argued that we needed to cut taxes to prevent the federal government from running excessively large surpluses. Even at the time it seemed obvious from his tortured logic that he was looking for some excuse, any excuse, to help out a Republican administration. His lack of sincerity was confirmed when projected surpluses turned into large deficits, and he nonetheless supported even more tax cuts.
 This week, Mr. Greenspan offered no excuse for supporting privatization. In fact, he agreed with two of the main critiques of the administration's plan: that it would do nothing to improve the Social Security system's finances, and that it would lead to a dangerous increase in debt. Yet he still came out in favor of the idea.
 Let me make a detour here. The way privatizers link the long-run financing of Social Security with the case for private accounts parallels the three-card-monte technique the Bush administration used to link terrorism to the Iraq war. Speeches about Iraq invariably included references to 9/11, leading much of the public to believe that invading Iraq somehow meant taking the war to the terrorists. When pressed, war supporters would admit they lacked evidence of any significant links between Iraq and Al Qaeda, let alone any Iraqi role in 9/11 -- yet in their next sentence it would be 9/11 and Saddam, together again.
 Similarly, calls for privatization invariably begin with ominous warnings about Social Security's financial future. When pressed, administration officials admit that private accounts would do nothing to improve that financial future. Yet in the next sentence, they once again link privatization to the problem posed by an aging population.
 And so it was with Mr. Greenspan. He painted a dark (and seriously exaggerated) picture of the demographic problem, and said that what we need is a ''fully funded'' system. He then conceded that Bush-style privatization would do nothing to improve the system's funding.
 But privatization ''as a general model,'' he said, ''has in it the seeds of developing full funding by its very nature.'' Nice metaphor, but what does it mean? Clearly, he was trying to create the impression of links where none exist.
 Mr. Greenspan went on to concede that the opponents of privatization are right to worry about the huge borrowing that Bush-style privatization would entail. 
 Privatizers claim that financial markets won't be disturbed by all that borrowing because the Bush plan prescribes offsetting cuts in guaranteed benefits for the workers who open private accounts. Mr. Greenspan, who does know a thing or two about markets, put his finger on the reason why those prospective future benefit cuts wouldn't offset current borrowing in the eyes of investors: ''Well, the problem is that you cannot commit future Congresses to stay with that.''
 Yet the chairman managed to avoid admitting the obvious -- that borrowing on the scale the Bush plan requires would substantially increase the risk of a financial crisis. And the headlines didn't emphasize his concession that crucial critiques of the Bush plan are right. As he surely intended, the headlines emphasized his support for privatization.
 One last point: a disturbing thing about Wednesday's hearing was the deference with which Democratic senators treated Mr. Greenspan. They acted as if he were still playing his proper role, acting as a nonpartisan source of economic advice. After the hearing, rather than challenging Mr. Greenspan's testimony, they tried to spin it in their favor.
 But Mr. Greenspan is no longer entitled to such deference. By repeatedly shilling for whatever the Bush administration wants, he has betrayed the trust placed in Fed chairmen, and deserves to be treated as just another partisan hack. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TERRORISM (86%); AGING TRENDS (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); AGING (71%); ETHICS (71%); AL-QAEDA (63%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%) Social Security (US); Ethics; Social Security (US)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); PAUL KRUGMAN (59%) Paul Krugman; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



372 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Shares Decline on Greenspan's Interest Rate Comments

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday as Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, reiterated to Congress that interest rates were relatively low, and as an indicator of the economy's outlook declined.
 ''For the market to be waffling around is not a surprise,'' said Nathaniel Paull, who helps manage more than $4 billion at New Amsterdam Partners in New York. Mr. Greenspan's comments are ''possibly giving people the idea that rates may have to go up more than everybody was thinking,'' he added. 
 Financial stocks like Wachovia dropped for a second day on concern that higher interest rates will crimp profit growth. RadioShack, the electronics chain, tumbled after cutting its earnings forecast for the year.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 9.59 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,200.75, and the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 80.62 points, or 0.7 percent, to 10,754.26, erasing its gain for 2005. The Nasdaq composite index slid 26.09 points, or 1.3 percent, to 2,061.34.
 About eight stocks fell for every three that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.6 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 6.9 percent more than the three-month daily average.
 Mr. Greenspan told the House Committee on Financial Services yesterday that inflation-adjusted interest rates were still ''fairly low,'' and that a drop in yields on longer-maturity debt since the Fed started raising rates in June was a ''conundrum.'' 
 A gauge of financial stocks fell 1 percent on Mr. Greenspan's comments. Wachovia declined 52 cents, to $54.02. Fannie Mae, the nation's biggest buyer of mortgages, lost $1.41, to $60.61. 
 In economic news, the index of leading economic indicators fell 0.3 percent in January, the first drop in three months, as consumer confidence lagged and stock prices slumped, according to a survey by the Conference Board. A Bloomberg survey of economists had forecast a median decline of 0.2 percent.
 A Labor Department report showed jobless claims unexpectedly declined to 302,000 last week, the lowest in more than four years, from 304,000 the previous week. 
 ''Everything looks stable,'' said Mark Bronzo, who manages $1.2 billion at Gartmore Separate Accounts in Irvington, N.Y. ''The economic growth rate is probably moderating. Earnings news is good. With rates at these levels, there's no reason why the market can't grind higher.''
 RadioShack tumbled $3.44, or 10 percent, to $29.93, the biggest drop in the S.&P. 500. The company expects profit this year of $2.34 to $2.40 a share, less than the average estimate of $2.41 by analysts in a Thomson Financial survey. The expensing of stock options and weak sales at the start of the year contributed to a 7-cent drop from the company's prior forecast, RadioShack said.
 Wal-Mart Stores and Target advanced after reporting better-than-expected results.
 Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, added 10 cents, to $52.70. The company's fourth-quarter profit rose 16 percent, to 75 cents a share, beating by a penny the average analyst estimate in a Thomson poll.
 Target gained $1.09, to $50.16. Excluding a 1-cent gain related to the sale of its Mervyn's and Marshall Field's chains, it earned 90 cents a share in the fourth quarter. Target was expected to earn 89 cents a share, the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Thomson.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note fell 6/32, to a price of 98 17/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.18 percent, from 4.16 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Chart: ''Freddie Mac Yields''Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly.Graph tracks average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly, since October 2004.30-year: 5.12%15-year: 4.64%(Source by F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (74%); STOCK OPTIONS (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (65%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); RADIOSHACK CORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: RSH (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (65%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (65%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



373 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Immigrant Voters Defy Political Patterns

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
First-time immigrant voters streamed to the polls in New York City last November, accounting for almost the entire increase in turnout, or 185,000 votes, a new study has found. And in many ways they defied traditional political patterns.
 More than 18 percent of the new voters chose President Bush, compared with 15 percent of the native-born voters. And more than 12 percent said they were registered Republicans, compared with fewer than 10 percent of native New York voters. 
 ''If this trend continues -- immigrant voters moving into the electorate more rapidly than the native-born -- politics in New York will be reshaped by immigrants in the electorate,'' said Lorraine C. Minnite, a political scientist at Barnard College who directed the study, conducted with the help of the New York Immigration Coalition of Barnard and Columbia University. The study, released yesterday, was based on three exit polls over the last four years.
 Nearly one in three New York voters is now foreign-born, Dr. Minnite estimated, and though over all they supported Democrats over Republicans, immigrant voters showed slightly more willingness to register and vote Republican than their native-born counterparts. 
 In the 2002 governor's race, nearly half -- 47 percent -- voted for George E. Pataki, compared with 32 percent of native-born New York City voters.
 Since most traditional exit polls do not ask about birthplace, the combined samples provide a rare demographic portrait of immigrant voters, as well as a glimpse of differences by national origin. President Bush, for example, did best among Russian and Chinese immigrants, while getting only a fraction of votes from Dominican or Jamaican immigrants.
 The new voters are more likely than native-born voters to be women, married and have a child under 18. 
 Yet despite their growing numerical importance, they were less likely to have been contacted about their vote before the election by party organizations, unions or friends.
 ''They're not in the mix, they're not on the list, they've moved three times, perhaps, or they haven't given enough money,'' Dr. Minnite suggested. 
 Margie McHugh, executive director of the Immigration Coalition, said the numbers showed the effects of the voter registration and mobilization efforts by many community groups last year. Noting that several recent elections have turned on 50,000 votes or fewer, she added, ''We really see a payoff for all the work we've been doing.'' 
 Asked the top three issues that mattered most in voting for president last year, immigrant voters in the city gave rankings similar to those of their native-born counterparts -- jobs and the economy, the Iraq war and health care -- but about a quarter included immigration, compared with fewer than 6 percent of the native born. They were more likely to list health care or housing as the most important state issue, and they supported driver's licenses for noncitizens by more than 62 percent, compared with 52 percent among the native born. 
 The sampling was constructed with help from John Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Foreign-Born City Voters''The New Americans Exit Poll, a project by the New York Immigration Coalition, was conducted during the 2000, 2002 and 2004 general elections and designed to improve understanding of New York City's foreign-born electorate. Here are some of the study's findings.Demographics (Based on the 2004 presidential election.)RACE/ETHNICITYForeign-BornWHITE: 20%BLACK: 23HISPANIC: 33ASIAN: 17OTHER: 6Native-BornWHITE: 43%BLACK: 30HISPANIC: 20ASIAN: 3OTHER: 4FAMILY INCOMEForeign-BornLESS THAN $15,000: 25%$15,000 TO $49,999: 46$50,000 TO $99,999: 22$100,000 OR MORE: 7Native-BornLESS THAN $15,000: 10%$15,000 TO $49,999: 43$50,000 TO $99,999: 33$100,000 OR MORE: 14Totals may not add to 100 because of rounding.How They Voted (Combining the 2000 and 2004 presidential elections.)VOTERS FROM CHINAAL GORE/JOHN KERRY: 71%GEORGE W. BUSH: 26FROM JAMAICAAL GORE/JOHN KERRY: 94%GEORGE W. BUSH: 3FROM RUSSIAAL GORE/JOHN KERRY: 58%GEORGE W. BUSH: 42Those voting for ''other'' not shown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); TRENDS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



374 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
NESVIG, TIMOTHY WILLEM

 BODY:
 NESVIG--Timothy Willem, of New York City, died February 8, 2005, at the City of Hope Cancer Center in Duarte, CA, after a courageous 18-month battle against lymphoma. The disease overcame him, but never defeated him. 
He was 30 and lived in New York City. Tim was an account executive at ESPN/ABC Sports Customer Marketing and Sales in New York. Previously, he worked as a media supervisor at Carat, NY, and a media buyer at DDB/Needham, NY. Tim received a bachelor's degree in economics from Bucknell University, where he also captained the water polo team, receiving All-America, as well as Academic All-America honors in that sport. In 1996, he received the Christy Matthewson Award as Bucknell's outstanding male athlete. Tim was born October 23, 1974, in Santa Monica, CA, and attended the Greenwich, CT, public schools, graduating from Greenwich High School in 1992. He was a four year varsity letterman in swimming and won Connecticut All-State swimming honors in two events. He captained the Greenwich High water polo team and won Eastern Interscholastic and High School All America recognition. As an adult, he became an avid golfer and was a member of the Innis Arden Golf Club in Old Greenwich, CT. Tim is survived by his parents, Jon and Hanneke Nesvig, of Riverside, CT, and two sisters, Mieke and Carrie Nesvig, both of New York City. A memorial service will be held Monday, February 28, 4:30pm, at the New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th St, New York. The family requests donations be made to the Tim Nesvig Fellowship for Lymphoma Research, City of Hope Cancer Center, c/o Kathleen Kane, 1055 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 1200, Los Angeles, CA 90017. Contributions are tax-deductible. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WATER SPORTS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SPORTS (90%); WATER POLO (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); CANCER (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LYMPHOMA (89%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ATHLETES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); ETHICS (74%); ONCOLOGY (73%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ABC SPORTS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CITY OF HOPE (84%); BUCKNELL UNIVERSITY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



375 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: Quick, Early Gains Embolden Business Lobby

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
These are heady days on Capitol Hill for business lobbyists. Just as the House of Representatives was completing work on one measure sought by some of the most powerful business lobbyists -- which would sharply restrict class-action lawsuits brought against companies -- the Senate began work on a second measure, to overhaul the bankruptcy system. It has long been sought by major banks, credit card companies and retailers and has its strongest chance of quick passage in years. It now heads to the Senate floor as soon as the members return from their recess in early March.
 After suffering numerous setbacks in President Bush's first term, business lobbyists now say they have the wind at their backs. The class-action bill, for example, was approved on Thursday in the House by a vote of 279 to 149, after languishing in Congress for years. Its passage is a significant victory for businesses ranging from auto, drug and gun makers to home builders and tobacco companies. President Bush intends to sign it on Friday. 
 The measure, supported by 229 of the 230 voting Republicans and 50 Democrats, is the president's first big victory in his effort to rewrite the tort laws. It came after the United States Chamber of Commerce and another group it founded had spent $168 million over the last five years lobbying for overhaul of the civil liability system. 
 Mr. Bush called the vote in the House ''an important step forward in our efforts to reform the litigation system and to continue creating jobs and growing our economy.''
 The bankruptcy bill, which the administration also supports, would make it significantly more difficult and expensive for poor and moderate-income families to use bankruptcy protection to shield themselves from creditors. The bill's supporters say it is necessary to curb abusive filings, although its critics say it is largely a gift to the credit card and banking industries.
 Elizabeth Warren, a bankruptcy expert at Harvard Law School, testified last week that the legislation unfairly hits families driven into bankruptcy because of large health care bills and does virtually nothing to prevent large corporations from abusing the process through techniques like seeking bankruptcy protection to limit pension obligations. It sets up a means test that denies access to Chapter 7, or liquidation, bankruptcies, for persons who are deemed ''able'' to repay their debts under a complex calculation of income and debt. 
 It sailed through the Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday by a vote of 12 to 5. Three Democrats -- Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, Herb Kohl of Wisconsin and Dianne Feinstein of California -- joined nine Republicans to assure passage.
 After breakfast on Wednesday morning with President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney, Senator Bill Frist, the majority leader, crossed the street to the Chamber of Commerce's ornate granite headquarters where he announced that he intended to take the bankruptcy measure to the floor the first week in March. He suggested that the bill would be swiftly adopted. ''I don't see any particular amendments that are show stoppers,'' Mr. Frist told the chamber audience.
 The early successes have heartened business groups, which are moving quickly to secure other gains that proved elusive in prior years even though Congress has been under the control of their Republican allies. 
 ''You have this voracious appetite of business interests who think this is the year and who know they have the president on their side,'' said Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen, a public advocacy group, and a senior safety regulator in the Carter administration. The group lost the class-action fight.
 What has changed?
 The business groups gained enough victories in a handful of states in the Senate -- notably Florida, Louisiana and South Carolina -- to overcome filibusters or other procedural roadblocks. While there are 55 Republican senators, which is 5 short of the number needed to cut off debate, enough Democrats are willing to vote with the G.O.P. on selected measures to assure passage. 
 The business lobby also played a strong role in helping President Bush and Republican members of Congress during their election contests, and are now reaping the benefit.
 Other political forces are at work in favor of the business groups. The leaders of the House and Senate, often at odds even though the same party controls both chambers, have so far been working well together. In the case of the class-action legislation, the House agreed to adopt the Senate measure provided that the Senate did not amend the bill. Senate supporters then used that commitment to beat back both significant and modest proposals to change the legislation. There was talk on Capitol Hill this week that the same strategy could be used for the bankruptcy bill.
 Moreover, Republicans and the White House have scheduled consideration of these measures early in the legislative session, before the atmosphere could become poisoned by such divisive issues as judicial nominations, or distracted by more difficult political issues like taxes and Social Security.
 ''We've gotten early on the schedule, which was helpful, because if you got further down the road, when we're trying to approve judges and do all that sort of stuff, it would have gotten more crowded in the parking lot,'' said Thomas J. Donohue, president of the chamber. ''We broke out of the gate and we got a break.''
 The chamber and other groups, from the National Association of Manufacturers to the American Bankers Association, have seized the moment and worked closely with the Republicans to move the legislation.
 ''There are some more supporters and that is very helpful,'' said Floyd E. Stoner, executive director of Congressional relations at the American Bankers Association. ''But moving the legislation early in the Congressional cycle is also a very encouraging sign.'' 
 In addition to completing bankruptcy legislation, the groups face their biggest test over two other tort revisions. One would sharply limit damage awards in medical malpractice lawsuits. Another would overhaul the way courts dispose of asbestos cases, but that has become bogged down in negotiations among trial lawyers, unions, manufacturers and insurers. 
 The Senate has also begun working early on a measure supported by manufacturers and opposed by environmentalists that would set new emissions standards for three major pollutants: sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury. The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee withdrew that measure from consideration on Wednesday when it became clear that it faced heavy opposition from Democrats. The chairman of that committee, Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, said it would be reintroduced shortly.
 Still, business lobbyists are hoping that their early gains will lead to more victories, even as they are cautious in their outlook.
 ''I would hope, and underline the word hope, that the strong working relationship that was built here over time will get people to more carefully look at some of those opportunities and look to see if they can work together to get some of those things done,'' Mr. Donohue said. ''But your supporter on Legislation A can be on the other side of the fence on B and back with you on C. That's why people in this town who don't keep relationships and don't treat people as individuals, not as the last vote, have a hard time in the long run.''
 One potential obstacle for supporters of the bankruptcy legislation is an abortion-related amendment, sponsored by Senator Harry M. Reid of Nevada, who is the minority leader, and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. It would prevent people involved in blocking access to abortion clinics, and who are later assessed damages, from avoiding those payments by filing for bankruptcy protection. The measure was in earlier bankruptcy legislation, which failed as a result. It was stripped out of the latest version.
 Senator Schumer vowed on Thursday to try to block the legislation unless the provision was reinserted. But it is unclear whether he will have enough support to stop the bill from passage without the measure.
 Mr. Frist did not seem concerned about the Reid-Schumer amendment. ''It will come to the floor,'' he said. ''I won't predict the outcome but it will be handled well.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lobbyists line up outside a Senate Judiciary Committee meeting yesterday. The business lobby played a strong role in re-electing President Bush. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (92%); LITIGATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); TORTS (77%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (76%); CREDIT CARDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LAWYERS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (71%); FAMILY (69%); TOBACCO MFG (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); JOB CREATION (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); LAW SCHOOLS (61%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (53%) Suits and Litigation; Law and Legislation; Bankruptcies; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Credit and Money Cards; Banks and Banking; Credit; Suits and Litigation

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); HERB KOHL (58%); DICK CHENEY (56%); JOE BIDEN (56%) Stephen Labaton; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



376 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Bush's Bipartisan Moves On Social Security Fall Flat
President Bush's first effort to build bipartisan support for his Social Security plan ran into resistance among senior Republicans.
 Mr. Bush's suggestion that he might consider a tax increase was rebuffed by leaders of both parties in Congress, underscoring the difficulty the administration is having with the Social Security issue. [Page A17.]

Merck May Sell Vioxx Again in U.S.
A top Merck executive suggested that the company might soon decide to sell the painkiller Vioxx again in the United States. [A24.]

Women File Suit Against Novartis
A dozen women sales representatives for Novartis sued the company, contending that they were discriminated against. [C3.]

Credit Suisse Profits Beat Forecast
Credit Suisse reported a 22 percent increase in quarterly profits, beating analysts' expectations. The results reflected both the company's weaknesses and the first fruits of its plan to refocus its investment bank. Investment banking advisory fees at Credit Suisse First Boston fell 18 percent in 2004, revealing the steep toll that management turmoil has taken. [C6.]

New Challenges for US Airways
Two low-fare airlines, Southwest and AirTran, stepped up competition with US Airways in Pittsburgh and Charlotte, N.C. The moves may make it harder for US Airways to emerge from bankruptcy. [C2.]

PBS Warning About Iraq Program
PBS has told member stations that it cannot protect them against federal indecency sanctions if they broadcast an unedited version of a documentary about soldiers in Iraq. [C2.]

Random House in Cellphone Deal
Random House bought a stake in Vocel, a start-up company that offers educational content to subscribers over cellphones. [C2.]

Times Company Buys About.com
The New York Times Company said it would buy the operator of the Web site About.com from Primedia for $410 million. [C6.]

European Software Law Stalls
The European Parliament demanded that a proposal for a law on software patents be scrapped. [C13.]

WorldCom Witness Hid Expenses
Scott D. Sullivan, left, the government's star witness in its case against the former chief executive of WorldCom, ended his testimony by admitting he broke the law so the company could meet targets. Mr. Sullivan, WorldCom's former chief financial officer, said he had hid billions of dollars in expenses. [C3.]

Greenspan's Remarks Hurt Stocks
Stocks fell after testimony from the Federal Reserve chairman and several economic reports. The S.&P. 500 lost 9.59 points, to 1,200.75, and the Dow dropped 80.62 points, to 10,754.26, erasing its gain for 2005. [C7.]

Spotty Oversight on Rail Projects
Railroads often overcharge states for installing warning signals at grade crossings. [A24.]

Two Schieffers in Powerful Jobs
Bob Schieffer, who will soon become interim anchor of the ''CBS Evening News,'' may have to report on his brother Tom, who was recently nominated to be ambassador to Japan. [A1.]

Tell Your Friends About Our Towels
Even makers of packaged goods are trying to tap the power of viral advertising on the Internet. Advertising. [C6.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,754.26 down 80.62Nasdaq composite -- 2,061.34 down 26.0910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.18% up 0.02The euro -- $1.3075 up 0.0041The dollar -- 105.55 yen up 0.19Graph: ''TODAY'' shows producer prices from July to December.Producer PricesJanuary figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3%Graph tracks the daily closing price of Credit Suisse shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); WITNESSES (85%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); SALES & SELLING (76%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); STARTUPS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); AIRLINES (71%); SALES FORCE (71%); WEB SITES (71%); LITIGATION (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); BUSINESS TORTS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (67%); AIR FARES (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); RAIL CROSSINGS (62%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (60%); PATENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (84%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (84%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (82%); NOVARTIS AG (57%); ABOUT.COM INC (53%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (84%); CS (NYSE) (84%); LCC (NYSE) (84%); NYT (NYSE) (82%); NVS (NYSE) (57%); NOVN (SWX) (57%); VZC (LSE) (52%); VZ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005



377 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Afghans Fear More Deaths in Poor, Snowbound Areas

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: HERAT, Afghanistan, Feb. 18 

 BODY:
Thousands of families have been cut off by heavy snow and hundreds of children may have died in mountainous regions of Afghanistan as several weeks of extreme weather have blocked access to some of the most impoverished regions of the country, aid and government officials said Friday.
 The crisis, which officials said they believed had reached emergency levels, is a reminder of how vulnerable millions of Afghans remain, particularly in the rural areas after two decades of war and a seven-year debilitating drought. 
 The Ministry of Health has reported outbreaks of whooping cough, measles and other infectious illnesses in isolated areas, and officials fear that much more is occurring in regions now inaccessible because of snow. The Afghan government has reported nearly 300 deaths countrywide during the last few weeks of extreme cold weather. 
 The aid organization Catholic Relief Services said survey teams had reached 16 villages in one snowbound district of Ghor Province and discovered that 80 children under the age of 5 had died in the past month, most in the last two weeks. The survey showed an average of five children per village were dying from sickness in the cold weather, said Paul Hicks, program director of the aid group in western Afghanistan.
 ''We are not able to access most of the interior, so we don't know what is happening,'' he said. ''But when you look at the scale of things, numbers could get very high. Our fear is that 1,000 deaths is a conservative estimate.''
 Six districts in the central highlands, home to a population of half a million, are almost completely inaccessible because of snow. 
 The United States military and United Nations organizations have started emergency airlifts and convoys of trucks with supplies, but aid agencies said helicopters were needed to reach remote snowbound areas of Ghor and neighboring provinces.
 Much of the rural population of Afghanistan is impoverished because of consecutive years of severe drought. The World Food Program said last year that six million Afghans, a fifth of the population, did not have enough to eat. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); FAMILY (90%); WEATHER (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MOUNTAINS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); DROUGHT (76%); DISEASE REPORTING (75%); MEASLES (75%); WHOOPING COUGH (75%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (71%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); TRENDS (70%); HELICOPTERS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Weather; Snow and Snowstorms; Children and Youth; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: Carlotta Gall

GEOGRAPHIC: HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (73%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) Afghanistan 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



378 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Study of Size of Jury Awards Finds a Flattening Trend

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
As corporate America celebrates the legislation on class-action lawsuits signed by the president yesterday as a victory in the battle to limit civil lawsuits, some evidence has surfaced that jury verdicts -- another oft-cited villain in debates over problems with the civil justice system -- may have leveled off and perhaps even declined. 
 In the 100 biggest verdicts of 2004, juries assessed a total of $11.1 billion in damages, down from $20.1 billion in 2003 and $40 billion (a result of a $28 billion tobacco verdict) in 2002, according to The National Law Journal, which drew on data assembled by VerdictSearch; both are units of American Lawyer Media. The 100 cases include class-action lawsuits in state and federal courts that went to a jury. 
 At the same time, according to the data, the amount of the median jury award in those cases fell to $34 million last year from $36 million in 2003 and $51 million in 2002, all in inflation-adjusted dollars. The average award also fell, to $111 million, last year from about $200 million in 2003 and $400 million in 2002, also in inflation-adjusted dollars. The averages, however, may be less reliable because they were affected by the largest, outlier verdicts.
 One reason the totals declined last year may have been the absence of a single large verdict in a tobacco lawsuit, said Stephen J. Paterson, chief executive of Vinson & Company, a consulting firm in Los Angeles that advises lawyers on jury selection and other aspects of trial preparation. The public attention to lawsuits against corporations probably also had an effect, he said.
 ''We see that as we run surrogate jury trials around the country,'' Mr. Paterson said, referring to mock trials conducted in advance of the real thing to gauge how potential jurors might react to specific arguments. ''The sentiment of most people is that these mega-verdicts are somehow out of control.''
 The declining awards come after a wave of revelations of corporate fraud that crested in 2002 and had the effect of making jurors skeptical about the arguments of corporate defendants, Mr. Paterson and other jury consultants said. But they may also reflect greater skill, on both the plaintiff side and the defense side, in analyzing cases.
 Cases that strongly favor one side or the other settle quickly without going to trial, said Patricia McEvoy, a partner at Zagnoli McEvoy Foley in Chicago, another litigation consulting firm. That means the cases that go to trial may produce less-extreme verdicts because they are more difficult, less clear-cut, she said.
 ''I would have expected, five years ago, to see more on the low side and more on the high side,'' Ms. McEvoy said, ''but now they'd be more in the middle.''
 According to the study, punitive awards also declined as a component of the 100 largest jury awards last year. That may be because juries realize that judges will throw out excessively large penalties, Ms. McEvoy said. ''They know that if they get too crazy, the judge knocks it out,'' she said. ''That has had a moderating effect.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VERDICTS (95%); JURY TRIALS (94%); LITIGATION (92%); DAMAGES (90%); TRENDS (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); JURY DUTY (77%); LAWYERS (75%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



379 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Doubting U.S., China Is Wary Of Korea Role

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Feb. 18 

 BODY:
The dispatch by China of a high-level envoy this weekend to persuade the North Koreans to return to talks on their nuclear weapons would seem to present it with an ideal opportunity.
 China's economy is growing enormously, casting shadows in every direction. Its fast-modernizing military has the attention of every power, regional or global. No other country, meanwhile, enjoys the kind of long, unbroken friendship that China has nurtured for over five decades with North Korea. In short, all the pieces would seem to be in place for Beijing to score its first big coup in global diplomacy, brokering an end to the nuclear threat on the Korean peninsula. 
 The only problem with this optimistic scenario is that it is shared by almost no one in China. 
 For now, the Chinese remain reluctant to take major diplomatic risks on North Korea, convinced that this longtime ally, a country that Chinese soldiers shed blood in large numbers to defend, will never turn against them. Analysts say that Beijing's top priority is to maintain quiet on its frontier, and that it would take a more aggressive tack only if tensions between Washington and North Korea were to increase seriously. 
 Beyond such doubts, however, lingers an even more fundamental reason for the reluctance of China to take the lead in this crisis: its deep-seated skepticism about the United States' strategic designs in the region. 
 ''If we cut off aid and the Koreas are unified on South Korean terms, that would be a big disaster for China,'' one analyst said. ''The U.S. would insist on basing its troops in the northern part of the peninsula, and China would have to consider that all of its efforts going back to the Korean War have been a waste.'' 
 Other experts here look cynically on Washington's insistence on Chinese leadership in the North Korean face-off, seeing it as part of a broader effort by the United States to entangle Beijing in a growing web of international arrangements, the better to limit Chinese influence. 
 A fresh example of the divisions between the United States and China was provided this week with confirmation that Tokyo is moving closer to Washington's policy position that the status quo on Taiwan must be maintained. Chinese analysts often point out that having a friendly country tying up American troops on its northern border frees Beijing to focus its forces on other contingencies, notably the Taiwan question.
 Meanwhile, most Chinese international security experts insist that the United States holds the two most important keys to resolving the North Korean problem: ending a state of hostility that dates from the earliest days of the cold war and providing tangible assurances to North Korea that Washington does not seek the government's overthrow. 
 ''Although many of our friends see it as a failing state, potentially one with nuclear weapons, China has a different view,'' said Piao Jianyi, an expert in international relations at the Institute of Asia Pacific Studies in Beijing. ''North Korea has a reforming economy that is very weak, but every year is getting better, and the regime is taking measures to reform its economy, so perhaps the U.S. should reconsider its approach.'' 
 This widely held picture of a slowly, painfully reforming North Korea suggests a broad sympathy for North Korea among Chinese intellectuals and policy makers. For many, North Korea's experience echoes China's fitful reforms of a generation ago. ''In the late 1960's, China also had a lack of transparency,'' Mr. Piao added. ''It was also threatening to other countries and, as Westerners would say, it was an oppressive country. But one threatens others because one feels threatened, and in that perspective, you can better understand North Korea.'' 
 Many experts in Chinese affairs say the main emphasis of the country's foreign policy remains avoiding turbulence wherever possible in international relations, the better to realize its economic ambitions. ''As far as the Chinese are concerned, the bottom line is stability,'' said Robert Sutter, a former national intelligence officer for East Asia, and author of the coming book ''China's Rise in Asia.'' ''They've been really concerned about the danger of war in Korea, and that is why they got busy behind the six-party talks, not because they wanted to be seen as any great Asian player. Still, putting a lot of pressure on North Korea would be hard for them, and I don't think they want to take those risks.'' 
 But if caution remains the cornerstone of China's policy toward North Korea, Beijing wants to keep up at least the appearance of being a responsible power and attentive to regional problems. Moreover, some voices here have begun to insist that traditional diplomatic approaches no longer meet its current interests. 
 The nuclear situation on the Korean peninsula is unlike anything China has faced before, said Zhang Liangui, a foreign affairs expert at the Central Party School, in Beijing. The new development ''might lead to nuclear competition in northeast Asia, which is the most important region in the world for China,'' he said, adding, ''We must treat this with the greatest seriousness.'' 
 Other Chinese experts go further. Shen Dingli, vice president of the International Relations Institute at Fudan University in Shanghai, said China's priorities in the international face-off were clear: keeping North Korea from collapsing, and keeping American troops south of the 38th parallel, the line that divides the two Koreas. But he complained of Chinese timidity in limiting itself to a host's role for the talks. 
 ''China still does not have a mentality for leading the world, and has no reflexes for pushing the U.S. and North Korea to do something,'' Mr. Shen said. ''This crisis is a reminder that we must raise the level of our diplomacy quite a bit still. If China is not wary of the old passive approach to the world and doesn't learn how to be more pushy, we will only have ourselves to blame.''

	 	 		--------------------	 	

North Korea Sets Talk Conditions
 SEOUL, South Korea, Saturday, Feb. 19 (Reuters) -- North Korea will return to talks about its nuclear weapons program if the United States pledges ''coexistence and noninterference,'' the North's envoy to the United Nations told a South Korean newspaper in an article published Saturday.
 The envoy, Deputy Ambassador Han Song Ryol, also told the newspaper JoongAng Ilbo that the North wanted an assurance by the United States that there would be substantive results from negotiations before it returned to talks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); COUPS (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); COLD WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%) Atomic Weapons; International Relations; United States International Relations

PERSON: Howard W French

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); TAIWAN (92%) North Korea; China; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



380 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-8

Suicide Bombers' Attacks Kill Dozens in Baghdad
Five suicide bombers, some disguised in the black robes of religious pilgrims, exploded their bombs in crowds of worshipers and at a police checkpoint in the Baghdad area, killing 35 and maiming dozens of people on the eve of the Shiite holy day of Ashura. A1

AIDS Report in South Africa
South Africa's government reported that annual deaths caused by AIDS increased 57 percent from 1997 to 2003, with common AIDS-related diseases like tuberculosis and pneumonia fueling much of the rise. The increase in mortality spanned all age groups, but was most pronounced among those between ages 15 and 49, where deaths more than doubled. A3

Togo Leader Plans New Election
Togo's new military-backed leader agreed to hold new elections in 60 days to choose a president. The leader, Faure Gnassingbe, said he would remain president in the interim rather than cede the office to the speaker of the Parliament. Opposition political parties vowed to march to demand his removal. A3

Raids Continue in Ireland
Irish police officers continued a second day of raids on houses and businesses spanning the length of the Irish Republic, aimed at a sprawling money-laundering ring that is believed to help finance the Irish Republican Army. There was no confirmation whether money seized in the raids would definitively link the I.R.A. to the robbery of $50 million from the Northern Bank in Belfast. A8

Sex Scandal at the U.N.
The refusal of Ruud Lubbers, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, to yield to closed-door pleas to step down over sexual harassment findings ballooned into public exasperation as Mr. Lubbers denied that his resignation had been discussed and attacked the United Nations for ''slandering'' him. A8

Japanese View on Taiwan
Senior Japanese officials plan to assure their American counterparts that Japan shares a common concern about the future security of Taiwan. Japan is increasingly concerned about the growing political and military might of China. A6

NATIONAL A10-13; 16

Panel Advises Against Ban On 3 Leading Painkillers
A panel of experts voted unanimously to advise the Food and Drug Administration that three leading painkillers -- Celebrex, Bextra and Vioxx -- can cause worrisome heart problems, but also advised against banning the drugs. A1

1,092 New Priest Abuse Cases
Roman Catholic bishops reported that they had received 1,092 new allegations of sexual abuse by priests as they released the second annual survey of the church's procedures for handling and preventing such abuse by clergy members and employees. A12

Newspaper Loses Libel Lawsuit
A jury ordered The Boston Herald to pay $2.09 million to a superior court judge, ruling that the newspaper libeled him in articles that accused him of making disparaging comments about crime victims. A10

Rift Over A.F.L.-C.I.O. Funding
Many of the nation's largest labor unions are pushing a plan to cut in half most unions' contributions to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and instead devote the money to organizing workers. A10

Intelligence Nominee Criticized
Human rights advocates accused John D. Negroponte, President Bush's nominee as director of national intelligence, of covering up abuses as ambassador to Honduras in the 1980's. A13

Judge Faults Navy on Airfield
A federal judge ruled that the Navy distorted an environmental impact study to justify the construction of an airfield near a large waterfowl refuge in eastern North Carolina. A13

A Sort of Blog for the Ears
Thanks to a technology barely six months old, enthusiasts of all sorts are creating their own broadcasts, or ''podcasts,'' on computers and then posting them to a Web site, where they can be downloaded to an iPod or any MP3 player. A1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

NASA Sets Date for Next Liftoff
NASA officials set May 15 as the date for launching the first space shuttle since the loss of the Columbia, calling the plan realistic even though much work remains to be done. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Higher Spending May Undo Early Pataki Tax Cuts
Gov. George E. Pataki delivered on his campaign promise to cut taxes across the board in New York state years ago, but with state spending now outpacing inflation, some fiscal analysts warn that unchecked spending increases over the last few years could, in the coming years, help undo one of his most significant achievements. A1

Support Law Spurs Debt
Low-income men forced to pay child support are accumulating enormous debts because of a tough law that allowed many states across the country to revoke any state license and restrict direct access to bank accounts for not meeting their payments. B1

Audit Criticizes Road Deal
A former state worker for the Department of Transportation on the project to rebuild a portion of the West Side Highway in 1998 helped a contractor receive $516,610 for construction materials that were never used and then began working for the company that benefited from his actions, according to state auditors. B1

Religion Journal B7

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-8

Hope for a Canceled Season?
A team executive in the National Hockey League expressed optimism that even though teams had already begun issuing refunds to season-ticket holders, a deal could still be worked out over the weekend and an abbreviated season could be played as soon as possible. Some members of the players association's executive committee were believed to be traveling to New York, as were Mario Lemieux and Wayne Gretzky, former superstar players who are now team owners, to take part in the discussions. D1

ARTS B11-23

OBITUARIES B9

Yolanda Garcia
A South Bronx community advocate who forced planners and politicians to rethink how they would rebuild a sprawling swath of the Melrose section, she was 53. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Stock Options Dropped
Time Warner will no longer grant stock options to most of its employees, citing new accounting rules. The decision comes at a time when a number of companies are reining in the use of options. C1

Health Care Fix Sought
Dr. David J. Brailer, who is trying to prod the health care system into the computer age, has warned that unless steps are taken to come up with a single set of technical standards for electronic records, the government will probably impose a solution. C1

Mitsubishi Makes Offer
The Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group has offered $29 billion in stock for UFJ Holdings. C3

US Airways Reaches Deal
US Airways, which is operating under bankruptcy protection, said it had reached agreement on a $125 million deal with Eastshore Aviation, an investment group owned by Air Wisconsin. C4

Gurus Heed Calling
In response to China's severe shortage of skilled business managers, western management experts are flocking to China to capitalize on the country's capitalist frenzy. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Time for an accounting; the experts' verdict on painkillers; picking a World Bank president.

Columns: David Brooks.

Bridge B21
TV Listings B27
Crossword B20
Weather B24


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); LIBEL & SLANDER (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); RELIGION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (84%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); MUHARRAM (78%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); TUBERCULOSIS (71%); JUDGES (69%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (69%); VERDICTS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); MONEY LAUNDERING (65%); REFUGEES (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); SEX SCANDALS (64%); SCANDALS (64%); LITIGATION (63%); JURY TRIALS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOSTON HERALD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (70%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRELAND (93%); JAPAN (93%); TOGO (93%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



381 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 535 words

PERSON: Yolanda Garcia

HEADLINE: Yolanda Garcia, 53, Dies; A Bronx Community Force

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
Yolanda Garcia, a South Bronx community advocate who forced planners and politicians to rethink how they would rebuild a sprawling swath of the Melrose section, died on Thursday. She was 53.
 The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Yolanda Gonzalez. She was stricken at the office of Nos Quedamos/We Stay, the community group she helped found in the early 1990's to prevent the eviction of hundreds of people who lived and worked in the neighborhood. 
 The vow embodied by the group's name became a rallying cry for Ms. Garcia, after she and her neighbors learned of a city redevelopment plan that would transform 30 blocks from rubble-covered lots into buildings that would house 4,000 families.
 In a story she would recount often, proudly and with a wry smile, they found out about the plan by accident in 1992, when a resident noticed a city worker outside her house jotting down notes. Residents soon learned that the city had begun surveying the area to see which buildings were still occupied and who might have to be relocated as part of the Melrose Commons redevelopment plan.
 Incensed by the idea that their reward for enduring years of abandonment, arson and crime would be eviction, they confronted officials during public hearings. Ms. Garcia, whose family owned a carpet store on Third Avenue, became one of the more outspoken leaders.
 ''If this area deteriorated, it wasn't because of the people -- it deteriorated because of poor city planning,'' Ms. Garcia told The New York Times in 1993. ''If we kept our area up when it was in dire need of repair, we should be part of the progress.''
 The confrontation turned into collaboration as politicians and planners invited the group to work alongside architects not only to critique the original plan, but also to redefine it. An apartment on Courtlandt Avenue was turned into a planning studio, where nearby residents pored over architectural drawings and models. 
 Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx borough president at the time and a proponent of the redevelopment plan, said Ms. Garcia offered insights that had to be heeded.
 ''She was right,'' he said in an interview yesterday. ''They stuck it out in the toughest of times, and they were saying to government: 'You're planning for my neighborhood? Ask me.'''
 Their suggestions ranged from allowing for lower-density housing to including numerous smaller gardens. The group sponsored construction of several dozen town houses and currently has 750 more units of rental and cooperative apartments in the pipeline. Their efforts became a model for community-based planning, said Richard Kahan, the former head of the New York State Urban Development Corporation who was active in the Melrose Commons plan.
 Ms. Garcia was born in Santurce, P.R., and moved with her family to the Bronx when she was 6 months old. The family members moved often, always within the borough, as did their carpet business. She was helping run the business on a stretch of Third Avenue that had seen better days, when she became active in civic affairs.
 She closed the carpet business several years ago to devote herself full time to her community work.
 She is survived by her daughter, and one relentless community group.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Yolanda Garcia (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times, 2001) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EVICTION (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); FAMILY (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); ARSON (66%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



382 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; 7 Habits of Highly Effective Cadres; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: Western Management Experts Descend on an Eager China

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: HARBIN, China 

 BODY:
The crowded auditorium began to take on the feel of a rock concert. At the urging of the speaker, people suddenly stood up and, to the pulsing strains of a recording by the group Barenaked Ladies, thrust their fists in the air and shouted, ''Yes! Yes! Yes!''
 After the speaker finished, a middle-aged woman, who had been lucky enough to catch one of the souvenir furry carrots tossed into the crowd, dashed toward the podium like a wild teenager, seeking another one. Then a larger throng of people scrambled toward the dais in search of autographs. Elbows flew.
 Something similar happened a few days earlier, at the prestigious Tsinghua University in Beijing, when a group of students and faculty members pushed one another trying to reach the speaker: a tall, Western business icon. Several students crashed to the floor in the mayhem. 
 Everyone wanted to meet Chester Elton.
 Chester who?
 Mr. Elton, the 46-year-old author of a 105-page management handbook called ''The 24-Carrot Manager,'' is practically unknown in the United States. But in China, where Western business and management gurus are suddenly all the rage, he is a big celebrity.
 ''I just love coming to China,'' Mr. Elton said while signing one of his books and nearly being pushed over in the frenzy here in Harbin. ''I feel like a rock star here.''
 Mr. Elton is actually just one of many popular management gurus: experts say the country has a severe shortage of skilled business managers and a growing cadre of people who want to be the next Bill Gates.
 So Western management experts -- teaching everything from how to reward employees to how to foster innovation -- are flocking to China, trying to capitalize on this capitalist frenzy.
 Big names are coming, like John F. Welch Jr., Stephen R. Covey and Michael E. Porter, a Harvard Business School specialist on competition. But so are the lesser known. They are conducting management-training seminars, hawking their books, making television appearances and soaking up the adoration.
 Many of them, like Mr. Elton, have even been hired by Communist Party officials, who are eager to transform China's struggling, money-losing state-owned companies into lean, mean capitalist machines.
 ''There's a huge demand for management training in this country,'' says Juan A. Fernandez, a professor of management at the China Europe International Business School in Shanghai. ''There's a transformation going on, from the state-owned mentality, where the only objective was production, to a market-oriented mentality, where you have to care about employees and customers.'' And profits.
 Along with the management gurus and motivational speakers, America's leading universities are now offering high-priced executive M.B.A. programs here. Major consulting firms are rushing into China to help state-owned companies realign their operations.
 The management problems are particularly acute here in northeast China, the nation's Rust Belt, where large industrial companies are struggling with bloated, inefficient operations.
 Hoping to reinvent some of these companies, government officials are asking Western experts to unleash a new form of government-backed propaganda, one with decidedly non-Communist slogans, like ''downsizing'' and ''performance-based pay.''
 The management craze is also being fed by the growth of private enterprises here. Business newspapers, magazines and television shows are proliferating; bookstores are stocking management best sellers translated from English; and airport shops are regularly drawing crowds by showing motivational videos with titles like ''You Will Be Rich!''
 Wang Renping, a 32-year-old Harbin entrepreneur, exemplifies the changes reshaping China. He keeps a photograph of Mao on his office wall, and a picture of Peter F. Drucker, the ultimate management guru, on his desk.
 ''I started reading Peter Drucker's books four years ago,'' Mr. Wang, general manager of an online real estate company, said. ''He's my idol, and that's why I put his picture on my desk. It reminds me of his theories when I'm working.''
 In China's biggest cities, people like Mr. Wang are not just reading the works of their heroes. They also want to get as close to them as they can. 
 Last June, for instance, an overflow crowd paid $1,000 a ticket -- a huge sum in a country where the average worker earns less than $3,000 a year -- to receive the gospel according to Mr. Porter, a professor at the Harvard Business School with an international reputation for his works on competition between companies and across national borders. Many of them, of course, probably had their way paid by their employers.
 The money is making a small dent in the American trade deficit with China. Mr. Covey, the best-selling author of ''The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People,'' earned about $50,000 last year just by speaking via video to a group of Chinese businessmen.
 Given the demand as China's economy continues to boom, it is no surprise that many decidedly lesser lights have sought to bask in the glow. Robert P. Miles drew crowds by billing himself in promotions here as the ''spokesman'' for Warren E. Buffett, the billionaire investor.
 Officials at Berkshire Hathaway, Mr. Buffett's investment vehicle, said Mr. Miles was not a spokesman for Mr. Buffett. He is an author who has written about Mr. Buffett.
 Mr. Elton began to focus on China about a year ago. His book, ''The 24-Carrot Manager,'' has sold more than 50,000 copies in China. So Mr. Elton, a motivational speaker, came to China with his Utah-based ''rewards and recognition'' company, O.C. Tanner, hoping to sell more books and earn large fees.
 His message is quite simple, even elementary: treat your workers with respect, reward them with gifts -- carrots, in his metaphor -- and productivity and profits will soar.
 ''How do you motivate and engage your employees?'' he asks his audience rhetorically. ''You have to find out what's important to them: that's the power of carrots.''
 Western-educated M.B.A. students might consider this baby talk. But here in Harbin, an old industrial center that has little of the allure of coastal China, more than 300 entrepreneurs and government officials seemed to find such talk enlightening.
 On a recent visit, the bald-headed Mr. Elton, helped by a translator, paced the stage, peppering his talk with slapstick humor: a segment on how not to reward employees opens with a video showing a penguin slapping another penguin down, repeatedly.
 ''People want a pat on the back,'' he said, ''not a slap in the head.''
 The act includes props (he tossed furry carrots into the audience), rock music and even historical references: ''When times got tough for Mao in the new government, Mao would say, 'This is not tough. The Long March was tough.'''
 But his teachings did not always hit the mark. In Beijing, when he asked the audience who was in love, a woman raised her hand and he called her forward.
 ''How many times does your husband say, 'I love you'?'' he asked. Never, the woman shot back. ''Can he say, 'I love you,' too much? Is it possible to say, 'I love you' too much?''
 ''Yes,'' the woman answered, saying that would be unrealistic and essentially meaningless. The audience seemed confused. Mr. Elton laughed and said: ''You failed. Here's a carrot. Go sit down.''
 Mr. Elton's message was that saying ''I love you'' or telling employees they are important should be part of a manager's everyday thought. But that did not translate very well here.
 Indeed, much of his talk seemed lost on the Chinese audience. Some people slumped in their chairs, some slept, others toyed with their mobile phones. 
 But when Mr. Elton blared rock music and asked the audience to participate in the closing, saying, ''Do you believe in the power of the carrot?'' the crowd leapt to its feet. When he asked them to raise their hands and shout, ''Yes!'' they did. And before long, the stampede for carrots and autographs began.
 After the speech, a human resources manager from the impoverished Anhui Province, who spoke on condition he not be identified, said: ''This really broadens your mind. This is the first time I get this kind of method.'' 
 Others said the talk was ''refreshing'' and ''creative,'' though not always so adaptable to Chinese circumstances.
 ''In state-owned companies it's not that easy to launch a decision promoting someone or raising his salary,'' said Yanchun Liu, 46, the director of human resources at Beiya Dairy in Harbin, suggesting that jealousy and hard feelings develop among other employees.
 But even as several experts here agreed that China was not yet ready for many of the ideas espoused by Western managers, the demand for those promising to unlock the secrets of capitalist success remains strong.
 When Mr. Welch, the former chairman of General Electric, came to China last summer -- for a $500,000 fee -- fistfights nearly broke out after his speech as cameramen jostled with audience members who had paid more than $3,000 to get close to him.
 ''We didn't hire many security people,'' said Zhou Fei, whose company organized the Welch appearances. ''Things turned into chaos after the forum was over. People ran to Jack Welch asking for autographs and photos.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chester Elton, author of ''The 24-Carrot Manager,'' is little known in America, but draws large crowds in China.
Wang Renping keeps pictures of Mao and Peter F. Drucker in his office. (Photo by Mark Ralston for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Chester Elton, holding a stuffed carrot, has been received like a rock star at his presentations in China. He urges managers to treat their workers with respect and reward them with gifts. (Photo by Chien-min Chung for The New York Times)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); MANAGER TRAINING (87%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (68%); WRITERS (67%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%) Executives and Management; Executives and Management

PERSON: JACK WELCH (58%); BILL GATES (50%) Chester Elton; David Barboza; John Jr Welch; Stephen Covey; Michael Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (71%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (71%) HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (73%); NORTHEAST CHINA (71%); EAST CHINA (56%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



383 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Mystique Keeps Fans In the Seats

BYLINE: By TOM BARTUNEK. 
Tom Bartunek is the president and general manager of WQXR-FM.

 BODY:
''League Cancels Hockey Season in Labor Battle,'' ran a headline in The New York Times on Thursday, over a front-page article about the cancellation of the National Hockey League season. ''The Silence in St. Louis Is Starting to Hurt,'' ran a headline in the same issue, over an article about the continuing work stoppage at the St. Louis Symphony, which began on Jan. 3. 
 There are probably some in St. Louis who have been season-ticket holders to both the St. Louis Symphony and the National Hockey League's St. Louis Blues, but to nearly everyone else these are unrelated stories. Other than their current labor crises, what could symphony orchestras and professional hockey teams possibly have in common? 
 The answer is, quite a bit. And indeed, it is largely what they have in common that has led them both to the labor crises they currently face.
 For one thing, both occupy relatively small niches of much larger industries. By most measures -- concert attendance, record sales, radio listening -- classical music is ''consumed'' by less than 10 percent of the population. Hockey's national television ratings barely move the meter when compared with those of baseball, basketball and football. 
 At the same time, symphony orchestras and hockey teams have a much higher profile than their market clout would otherwise warrant. The naming of a new local music director is front-page news in most communities in America; cities still struggle to secure N.H.L. franchises, either by relocation or expansion, sometimes going so far as to build an arena before it has a tenant.
 For orchestras and hockey teams are both considered civic assets, evidences that a community is sophisticated and ''major league.'' In fact, many orchestras and teams perform in buildings that were built with considerable government backing, and many receive subsidies (from government-financed arts councils, for example, or through sweetheart leases). Consequently, there are more and more orchestras and more and more professional hockey teams in smaller communities whose resources are insufficient to sustain them in difficult economic times.
 A successful orchestra or team can add significantly to a community's self-esteem, both in the abstract (just by existing) and in reality (as the citizenry follows the rhythms and achievements of the season). 
 Conversely, the disbanding of an orchestra or the loss of a hockey team can have a devastating effect. (Witness the vilification of professional franchise owners who have moved their teams elsewhere.) So the price of failure is even greater than the benefit of success.
 Orchestras and N.H.L. teams also have something else in common: to a considerable degree, financial security is a means to an end rather than an end in itself. The most celebrated orchestras aren't the ones with the healthiest balance sheets; they're the ones with the most celebrated artistic achievements. They attract distinguished guest conductors and soloists; they play Carnegie Hall; they earn rave reviews from sophisticated, demanding critics in musical capitals.
 But the Philadelphia Orchestra, one of the most artistically successful ensembles in history, came close to a strike last year over what its management described as the need for ''structural changes'' in the musicians' contract. Things were almost as tense during negotiations with the orchestras in Cleveland and Chicago, two other distinguished ensembles whose managements predicted dire financial consequences without major concessions from the players.
 For N.H.L. teams, the measure of success is winning -- in general, of course, but more particularly winning the Stanley Cup, which is most certainly not awarded to the team that makes the most money. The New Jersey Devils franchise, for example, is one of the most ''artistically'' successful in hockey, having won three Stanley Cups in the last 10 years. Yet their attendance is among the lowest in the league, and a year ago, Forbes magazine estimated that the value of the franchise was actually declining.
 Two other ''successful'' N.H.L. teams, frequent Stanley Cup contenders in Ottawa and Buffalo, have declared bankruptcy and are still in business only because new owners have taken over the franchises. 
 But why would an intelligent, rich person buy a bankrupt business that shows little prospect of achieving fiscal health? For the same reason that many intelligent, rich people join the boards of symphony orchestras despite the significant and often stressful fiduciary and financial obligations involved. Through a combination of altruism and vanity they want to have an important role with a prestigious institution that serves a valuable civic function. 
 Of course, the employees of these organizations, the musicians and the players, are aware of how important their organizations are to the communities where they reside. They also know that historically, orchestra boards and team owners have been influenced by issues of community service and prestige as much as by business concerns in their collective bargaining. They've been reluctant to cause an orchestra or a team to disband or go on strike on their watch, no matter how hard a line they take at the beginning of negotiations. However subtly, that fact, and the employees' understanding of it, have influenced the endgame of contentious negotiations.
 The dynamic has changed. Several major orchestras have endured work stoppages in the recent past, and negotiations at the St. Louis Symphony have been among the most bitter in the industry. And while the N.H.L. has endured work stoppages in the recent past, it has just become the first major professional sports league to forgo its entire season. 
 No one from the outside can say whether the employees of these organizations were surprised by management's resolve, or whether they would have bargained differently had they understood just how far their managements were prepared to go. What matters now is, first, how quickly and productively the contracts can be resolved. But more important, how the public will react when ''play'' resumes.
 One of the most alarming things about the N.H.L. cancellation is the tepid response of the fans. The Hall of Fame goalie Ken Dryden, The New York Times reported, has suggested that for Canadian fans, hockey might have been more of a habit than a passion -- a habit that can be broken. While communities might see maintaining orchestras and fielding teams as a civic duty, ticket-buyers don't necessarily feel the same way. 
 Those whose ticket-buying is more casual and more habitual than passionate may not be so quick to return to either the arena or the concert hall after a work stoppage or a publicly acrimonious negotiation. While management and players work to gain negotiating leverage and press their cases in the media, those ticket-holders in St. Louis might just be finding other ways to spend their time and money.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, a quiet hockey rink in Montreal. Above, St. Louis Symphony musicians on the picket line. (Photo by Shaun Best/Reuters)
(Photo by J.B. Forbes/Associated Press)(pg. B11)
 Not a minnow was nipping this week at the San Jose Sharks' stadium. (Photo by Dino Vournas/Associated Press)(pg. B17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); BASEBALL (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); TICKET SALES (75%); STRIKES (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (51%) Hockey, Ice; Labor; Music; Strikes; Labor

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS STARS (91%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); SAN JOSE SHARKS (59%); ST LOUIS BLUES (57%) St Louis Symphony

PERSON: Tom Bartunek

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



384 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1192 words

PERSON: Pierluigi Collina

HEADLINE: A Soccer Superstar Prepares to Hang Up His Whistle

BYLINE: By JASON HOROWITZ

DATELINE: VIAREGGIO, Italy 

 BODY:
PIERLUIGI COLLINA, Italy's most successful soccer star, has never even come close to scoring a goal. Yet his icy glare and head as bald and polished as a doorknob have made him one of the most recognizable figures in the world's most popular game. Not as a player, but as a referee. 
 ''That's not always helpful,'' Mr. Collina, a 45-year-old financial adviser, said of his conspicuous pate, which has led to his being called everything from Nosferatu in black shorts to soccer's bald beacon. ''If you were doing a poor job, everyone would know it was you.''
 By most accounts, Mr. Collina does not do shabby work. The international soccer federation has named him world's best referee in six out of the last seven seasons, during which time he has officiated the finals of the World Cup and other top tournaments. His swift and fearless dispensing of justice on the field, and the aplomb with which he throws the book at the most pampered prima donnas on the world's most revered teams, has made him a cult figure for millions of fans. 
 At the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta, the entire Chinese team came up to him after a match, one by one, seeking autographs and pictures with Italy's unlikely idol. ''Even an injured player came hopping off the bench,'' he said.
 But despite the accolades, this may be the last season for soccer's reigning lawman. The international and Italian soccer federations have a 45-year age limit on referees, which means that Mr. Collina, whose birthday was last week, will effectively be benched after the season's final whistle blows in June. 
 ''If they don't change the rule, it would be a shame, because Collina is a real treasure for the sport,'' said Tullio Lanese, the president of Italy's referees' union, which is currently lobbying to raise the retirement age to 48. ''When there is a great athlete, he deserves a chance.''
 Mr. Collina refuses to talk about efforts under way to change either the international or the Italian rule. But in his 2003 book, ''The Rules of the Game,'' he wrote that the prospect of having to call it quits left ''a bitter taste in my mouth'' and that age discrimination against arbiters was ''a real pity'' for soccer.
 That book, translated into nearly a dozen languages, including Greek and Japanese, competes for space with dozens of trophies in his modest home in this seaside town. Mr. Collina, dressed in dark jeans and a black sweater, sat for a light lunch of pasta and pears before his training session on a recent afternoon.
 INTENSELY serious about refereeing, which earns him more than $200,000 a year, Mr. Collina works out four days a week. Before a match he also reads up on the players and spends up to 15 hours watching tape. Tall stacks of soccer videocassettes make a skyline on the television in the living room.
 ''You must know everything,'' he said. ''The tactics, the skills of the players; for a referee it is important not to react to something, but to know what is going to happen. Reacting is too late.''
 He also claims to have an innate resistance to anxiety, and credits nerves of steel for getting him through everything from economics exams in college to championship matches.
 That mix of confidence and concentration has prompted corporations like IBM and Unilever to hire him as a consultant to help develop their employees' decision-making skills. His on-field performance, business savvy and distinctive dome have led to endorsements and appearances in television commercials, music videos and even a fashion show.
 They have also made him a somewhat peculiar icon for Italy, a country where court rulings are rarely final and where Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has characterized judges as lunatics.
 ''I don't make bad calls,'' Mr. Collina said, explaining why a recent dinner with Mr. Berlusconi, who also owns one of Italy's top soccer teams, was so cordial.
 Not everyone agrees. Fans of Juventus, the New York Yankees of Italian soccer, charge that Mr. Collina is biased and say he has cost their team matches and championships.
 ''The more you rule against Juventus, the more famous you get, and Collina wants fame because he wants sponsors and money,'' said Sergio Vessicchio, the creator of the ''I Hate Collina'' Web site, which has registered more than 200,000 hits over the last two years. ''He makes more mistakes than anyone, but no one says anything because he is now considered a national treasure. Give me a break.''
 Despite such criticism, Mr. Collina has consistently received the highest profile assignments in soccer and, for the most part, enjoys his country's esteem.
 After Mr. Collina presided over the World Cup final in 2002, the president of Italy, Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, honored him for exporting a positive image of Italy to the world. (On the other hand, the country's star player, Francesco Totti, was thrown out of last year's European Championships for spitting in an opponent's face.)
 On the field, Mr. Collina's approach to refereeing ranges from laissez-faire to rigorous interventionism, depending on the demands of the game. If the players abstain from kicking one another's shins or faking injuries to draw fouls, he is willing to silence his whistle and let them play. But when he senses that a player is trying to put one over on him, his blue eyes can pierce like ice picks, and his slow gait toward an offending player has left many a grown man quaking in his cleats.
 Aldo Biscardi, the host of one of Italy's more popular soccer talk shows, called Mr. Collina ''one of the greatest of all time,'' citing his unwavering independence on and off the field. ''There is a problem in Italy that the referees give too many calls to the big clubs,'' Mr. Biscardi said. ''The big clubs don't love him, but he couldn't care less.''
 THAT respect for law and order was instilled in Bologna, where he was brought up by his mother, a schoolteacher, his father, a clerk at the Ministry of Defense, and the strict nuns who taught in his grade school. He refereed his first match at 17, and immediately took a liking to dispensing of justice on the field.
 But some players started contesting his authority when, at 24, Mr. Collina developed Alopecia Areata, an autoimmune skin disease that causes hair to fall out of the body. ''Some thought losing hair could be a problem for a referee. I showed that wasn't true,'' he said. ''Plus, I save on hair products.''
 Since making it to the Italian big leagues in 1991, he has used his silver whistle to humble the world's highest-paid players and then whittled away countless hours in locker rooms waiting for angry fans to go home. He has forced fascist hooligans to take down racist banners, and dodged water bottles, flares, smoke and concussion bombs launched from the stands onto the Italian fields.
 It is clear that sitting around the house and waiting for his future to be decided does not suit Mr. Collina well.
 ''If you are used to taking decisions, it's not easy to let someone else take them for you. You don't have the last word,'' he said. Later, after his wife rebuked him for coming home late to lunch, he added, ''At home, the only one who accepts my decisions is the dog.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: PIERLUIGI COLLINA (Photo by Sandro Michahelles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); HAIR LOSS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); SPORTS INJURIES (73%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (73%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); OLYMPICS (71%); RETIREMENT AGE (63%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (63%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (61%) Soccer; Officiating (Sports)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (56%)

Jason Horowitz; Pierluigi Collina

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%) GEORGIA, USA (55%) ITALY (95%); UNITED STATES (55%) Italy

CATEGORY: Sports

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



385 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Picking a World Bank President

 BODY:
The World Bank goes around the globe preaching transparency, good governance and meritocracy. Yet the process to choose a new leader for the bank is devoid of much of that. Since the bank was established after World War II to finance development in poor countries, its leader has traditionally been an American, chosen in secrecy by the American president and ratified by the bank's executive board -- without any input from other countries that might do business with the bank. 
 That tradition has outlived its time. Today, the decisions made by the bank's president can literally mean life or death for hundreds of millions of people. By treating the job as if it's an ambassadorship to Liechtenstein, we fail to consider the most highly qualified candidates and too easily fall into the trap of using the bank as a tool of American policy.
 The current president, James Wolfensohn, is an Australian who obtained American citizenship in order to compete for the job. He decentralized the bank's management, sent more top people into the field and emphasized the importance of local support in development projects. 
 Good candidates for the job would know the problems of the third world -- particularly Africa -- and work to solve them. They would probably not be bankers because the World Bank is almost the opposite of a bank. It is a development organization that lends money to cure market failures, financing projects whose returns could not attract other lenders. The bank's president should be able to generate enthusiasm for helping the world's poor. And he or she should have experience running a huge, chaotic bureaucracy.
 The world does not lack good candidates, like the former presidents Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico and Fernando Henrique Cardoso of Brazil, or the former and current finance ministers Gordon Brown of Britain, Trevor Manuel of South Africa, Leszek Balcerowicz of Poland and Kemal Dervis of Turkey.
 The signals, however, are that the Bush administration will make its choice the old-fashioned way, using a closed process to pick a convenient American. There are credible American candidates, among them Jeffrey Garten of Yale, and, more fancifully, Bill Clinton and Bill Gates. There are even credible Republicans, like the former Michigan State University president, Peter McPherson. One rumored front-runner, John Taylor, a Treasury under secretary, is globally unpopular for his eccentric policy views and poor leadership skills. He would be a very bad choice, but his nomination could finally push the bank into adopting a better selection process for the bank's presidency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (62%); WORLD WAR II (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); GORDON BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (79%); LIECHTENSTEIN (56%); POLAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



386 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2756 words

HEADLINE: Budget Growth Clouds Pataki Legacy of Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and JO CRAVEN McGINTY

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 18 

 BODY:
When George E. Pataki campaigned for governor in 1994, he vowed to do what the incumbent, Mario M. Cuomo, had proposed but could never fully deliver: to cut taxes across the board in New York, beginning with the state's notoriously high income tax.
 Shortly after taking office, Mr. Pataki pushed through an average 20 percent reduction in the state's income tax rate, with the top rate dropping to 6.85 percent from 7.875 percent, bringing it to the lowest level in New York since 1953 and removing half a million low-income workers from the tax rolls.
 At the same time, a growing state economy and changes in the tax code have allowed New York to gradually reduce its dependence on business taxes in the 10 years Governor Pataki has been in office. In 1995 these taxes accounted for 18 percent of the tax revenues in New York State; now they are projected to make up about 12 percent, a change the governor says has helped let the state shed its reputation of being hostile to businesses while at the same time creating new jobs. 
 The governor's success in cutting taxes in a Northeastern state with a huge Democratic electorate has helped him as he seeks to burnish his conservative credentials and explore a run for national office. But after the budget austerity of Mr. Pataki's first term, a different fiscal reality has settled in: State spending has regularly outpaced inflation, with the size of New York State's budget rising from $77.8 billion in the 1997-98 fiscal year to $96 billion in the 2003-4 fiscal year, adjusted for inflation to 2004 dollars.
 Fiscal analysts warn that such unchecked spending could, in the coming years, help undo one of Mr. Pataki's most significant achievements as governor.
 Those spending increases of the last few years, coupled with the post-9/11 downturn in the state's economy, have put intense pressure on the state budget, and New Yorkers are now feeling the impact on their pocketbooks: the governor's tendency to use incremental increases in fees and assessments -- taxes by other names -- to help close budget deficits.
 Residents are also paying higher costs for state-financed services -- through public university tuition and mass transit fares, for instance -- as the state has paid a smaller share of these systems' budgets. And the state debt load has increased to $47.9 billion so far this year from $27.6 billion in 1995, saddling future taxpayers with growing costs to pay for that debt.
 So difficult were the state's budget problems in 2003, when an $11.5 billion gap opened up, that Joseph L. Bruno, the State Senate's Republican majority leader, allied himself with Sheldon Silver, the Democratic speaker of the State Assembly, to unravel some of Mr. Pataki's early tax-cutting successes. Over the governor's vetoes, the state's two top legislative leaders instituted a temporary income tax surcharge on the state's top earners, including married couples filing jointly and earning more than $150,000 and individuals earning above $100,000.
 That income tax surcharge single-handedly brought the top rate, 7.7 percent, to just under the level Mr. Cuomo left it nine years before. Today, even with all the governor's tax cuts, New York's state and local tax burden is among the highest in the nation, driven especially by high local taxes.
 ''There is no question that when you add it all up, Governor Pataki has initiated or approved more tax cuts than any governor in New York's history,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy of the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy research group. ''The unanswered question is whether the budgets he leaves will be able to sustain his tax cuts, because they are already starting to unravel.''

The Reckoning
Burden Is Reduced, Then Spending Rises
 James W. Wetzler, a Democrat who was Mr. Cuomo's tax commissioner from 1988 to 1994, said that Mr. Pataki's tax successes are notable compared with the state's historical track record, and that they have helped spur the growth of New York's economy during a difficult era.
 ''His major tax accomplishment has been addressing some of the nettlesome taxes that have been viewed as damaging to the state's economic climate,'' said Mr. Wetzler, now director of the city office of Deloitte Tax L.L.P. ''In my view, that is a significant accomplishment.'' 
 Mr. Pataki has contended that his tax cuts have helped spur the job and salary growth that has in turn generated more tax revenues and kept the state's budget in balance. The governor, his aides say, has built a tax structure devised to help the financial services industry to keep the state more competitive in a global economy. Even as he cut the personal income tax rate, the amount of revenue collected from that tax, when adjusted for inflation, increased by 17 percent from the time Mr. Pataki took office and rose as a portion of total tax revenues to 58 percent from 51 percent.
 ''The cornerstone of our efforts to create jobs has been cutting taxes,'' Mr. Pataki said in a Jan. 18 speech introducing his budget proposal for the fiscal year that begins April 1 and urging lawmakers to join him in speeding the demise of the temporary income tax surcharges. ''In fact, between 1995 and 2000 we cut taxes more than any state in the nation.''
 The Pataki administration recites a lengthy list of taxes that have been cut during his 10 years as governor. He signed into law a cut to 7.5 from 9 percent in the general tax rate on corporations, including banks and insurance companies; he created virtually tax-free zones for businesses called Empire Zones; he eliminated the gross receipts tax paid by businesses that buy energy from utilities in New York and reduced it for residents; he cut the tax on gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel; and he reduced the state's estate taxes.
 But from the 1997 to 2003 fiscal years, state spending rose 46 percent, while inflation rose just 18 percent, and even conservatives have been raising alarms. This month, a National Review cover article questioned Mr. Pataki's commitment to fiscal restraint. Those concerns were crystallized in 2002 by his role in helping to engineer $1.8 billion in raises for hospital workers to be financed through the state. In return, he got the support of the politically potent hospital workers' union as he ran for re-election.
 New York's fiscal problems were magnified after the Sept. 11 attack, when the state lost 300,000 jobs. To deal with the resulting budget gap, Democratic and Republican lawmakers said that they were forced to impose the temporary income tax surcharge merely to support spending levels Mr. Pataki helped create, and that his planned cuts would have forced localities to raise property taxes even higher.
 ''The governor was not willing to be labeled as someone who would increase taxes in order to sustain the government that he had let grow in good times,'' said Charles Brecher, research director at the Citizens Budget Commission, referring to the veto-override fight in 2003.

Tax Alternatives
Increasing Fees To Balance Budget
 To help balance the budget, particularly in hard times, the governor has occasionally turned to fees, assessments and other creative revenue sources, a practice he once criticized Mr. Cuomo for using. Mr. Pataki used this strategy sporadically early on, and has relied on it again to raise revenues in the recent financial crisis, increasing the costs for a grab bag of state-supported services, including hospitals, nursing homes, campgrounds and driver's licensing. One example is that state and local taxes on cigarettes in New York City are now the highest in the nation at $3 per pack, with much of the state's share of that tax going to pay for health care.
 The governor's budget officials estimate that, cumulatively, all of the tax cuts Mr. Pataki has so far enacted will save New Yorkers $14.6 billion this year. And revenues derived from user taxes, fees and assessments for state expenses have gone up slightly during the governor's tenure, to just under $7 billion from $4.6 billion, according to Pataki administration figures.
 ''The state has increasingly relied on revenues from fees during the governor's tenure, as opposed to tax increases, and that is reflected in a slight overall increase in many fees,'' said Michael Marr, a spokesman for the State Division of the Budget.
 The governor's aides say fees, many of them not raised in decades, feed pools of money to improve specific services, like trails for riders of all-terrain vehicles. Two years ago, the governor proposed $1.4 billion in new fees and surcharges, including a $2.25 levy for every new tire sold. He has also tapped drivers: this year he proposed doubling the fee, to $10, for license photos; last year, one of his proposals led to fees of at least $300 being imposed on drivers who have six penalty points tacked onto their licenses in an 18-month period.
 ''In that case, it is certainly aimed at people's behaviors on the roads,'' Mr. Pataki said in a telephone interview. ''And every time you have to do the traffic enforcement, you have to put out the law enforcement, you have to go through the processes of whether it is a traffic ticket or an appearance in court; the expenses are very significant.''

State Services
Costs Are Shifted To the Users
 Budgets are reflections of state leaders' priorities. Under Mr. Pataki, some costs for services financed partly by the state have been passed directly to those who use them. 
 So during the period that Mr. Pataki cut taxes, costs for higher education and transportation have gone up. Fares have increased for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, while tuition and fees have risen at the State University of New York.
 For example, in 1994-95, state subsidies made up 63 percent of revenues in the budgets for public colleges, while tuition made up 37 percent, according to an analysis by Assembly Democrats. In 2005-6, state subsidies made up 49 percent and tuition 51 percent, their analysis shows.
 In the public college system, Mr. Pataki acknowledged that SUNY tuition has gone up to $4,350 this year from $3,400 in 1995, though tuition increases are something ''I don't like to see.'' SUNY has plans to raise tuition $600 next fall. As the state has reduced its role in financing the system, the Pataki administration has challenged the public colleges to come up with new revenue sources.
 ''SUNY always wants more,'' Mr. Pataki said. ''We want them to create their own endowments; we want them to look at other ways to get private commitments and to make them more cost conscious.'' He said that enrollment at the colleges had increased, and that campuses had improved partly because of two multibillion-dollar capital programs the state financed.
 A parallel situation is occurring at the transportation authority, another agency that has traditionally relied heavily on state financing. Its subway and bus riders have seen the one-way regular fares increase to $2 from $1.25 since Mr. Pataki took office, though average fares are slightly lower because of unlimited and discounted MetroCards. Another round of increases in commuter railroad fares and some MetroCard fares is imminent.
 In 1995, state subsidies for the authority's operating budget were about $200 million, a figure that has remained roughly the same each year since then, according to the Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonprofit research organization financed in part by unions.
 Hungry for revenues to supplant state subsidies that failed to keep pace with inflation, the authority has increasingly turned to increases in subway, bus and commuter rail fares and bridge and tunnel tolls. Since 1995, the portion of its operating budget drawn from fares and tolls has increased to $4.5 billion from $3.1 billion, while regional taxes to support it have more than doubled to $2 billion, said Frank J. Mauro of the Fiscal Policy Institute.
 During that time, the authority's debt has sharply increased in part because of flat state operating aid, and since 1982 state and city government subsidies for capital plans have declined rapidly. That has put more pressure on fares and tolls to pay for projects to keep an aging transit system running.
 ''To balance his budget in the face of the tax cuts, he could not give the M.T.A. enough money to maintain the state share, thus putting increased pressure on fares; so he made a policy choice,'' Mr. Mauro said.
 The governor said that as the city began to significantly reduce its financial commitment to the M.T.A., the state did so as well. He also said changes to the fare structure, like the introduction of the MetroCard, helped offset fare increases.
 ''It is a far better system,'' Mr. Pataki said. ''The fare on the M.T.A. is still lower than it was. Even after all this, the average cost of a ride with a MetroCard, today, is less than it was years ago.''

The Local Burden
Debating State Role In Property Taxes
 In New York, the state tax bill is only part of the equation. The other is local taxes, considered among the highest in the nation.
 In New York, state and local tax burdens are inextricably linked, particularly through the state's leverage on local spending. Albany helps finance local schools, and it shares with localities the cost of Medicaid, the costly health care program for the poor. It requires localities to provide certain services, and when the state enhances public sector pensions, that forces up payroll costs for local governments.
 For years, New Yorkers have seen local taxes go up as local officials complain that the costs of Medicaid and other state mandates have grown much faster than the rate of inflation. Those officials say the costs have forced them to increase property taxes, cut spending or lay off workers.
 Seeking to ease the local tax burden, in 1997 Mr. Pataki introduced STAR, the School Tax Relief Program, which uses a portion of state income tax revenues -- now more than $3 billion -- to pay school districts to reduce property taxes for homeowners. Originally, the governor wanted to send rebate checks directly to homeowners and tie the program to a cap on school spending, an idea lawmakers rejected.
 A debate has ensued about whether Mr. Pataki's taxing and spending policies can be blamed for shifting the financial burden onto local property taxes. Mr. McMahon of the Manhattan Institute said that Mr. Pataki had failed to rein in state mandates to reduce pressure on local taxes, and that he had also overseen lavish increases in Medicaid spending. At same time, he starred in television commercials to promote these costly programs.
 But aides to the governor say that a variety of factors have led to high local taxes in the state, and that he has worked through STAR and other efforts to reduce that burden. But they add that factors like the unusually high values of homes in places like Long Island or Westchester County are artificially inflating local taxes.
 Recent studies have backed up what many taxpayer groups and others have long asserted: New York's state and local taxes are among the highest in the nation. A new study from the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston found that New York ranks first among states -- and second overall behind the District of Columbia -- in the intensity with which it taxes its resources. It draws the most tax dollars from its overall pool of available per capita taxable resources, including, among other things, income, sales and property. New York's level of taxation is 43 percent above the national average, according to the study, released in December and based on figures from 1999 -- before the income tax surcharge was instituted.
 The governor said he was frustrated that the ''record aid'' his administration had sent to localities had not led to lower local taxes. And since he has no recourse when the Legislature fails to enact his proposals, his budget this year has several built-in incentives to require localities to control their property taxes.
 ''Certainly we have done everything in our power to lower the tax burden that the state either directly imposes or indirectly imposes on other levels of government in this state, and I think it has been very successful,'' Mr. Pataki said. ''Having said that, our tax burden is still way too high.''

10 Years Later
 This is the second in a series of articles examining aspects of state government in the time since Gov. George E. Pataki took office. A previous article examined efforts to overhaul the government and is available at nytimes.com/metro.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters demonstrate against SUNY tuition increases last year. SUNY tuition has gone up to $4,350 this year from $3,400 in 1995. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)
 Gov. George E. Pataki at a new Fujitsu research center in Pearl River in 1997. He says his tax cuts have improved the state's business climate. (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B6)Chart: ''Cutting Taxes While Spending More''During Gov. George E. Pataki's 10 years in office, spending has increased substantially . . .Graph tracks total state spending from 1995 to 2004.. . . while tax receipts have not risen as much, largely as a result of tax cuts.Note: All figures adjusted for inflation to 2004 dollarsGraph tracks total state tax receipts (actual and without Pataki tax cuts) from 1995 to 2003.Note: Figures for tax receipts without cuts assume no effect of tax policy on the economy. The state also receives revenue from other sources.At the same time, the amount of debt held by the state has risen by 30 percent (adjusted for inflation).Graph tracks state-funded debt from 1995 to 2003.Personal income tax and sales tax have also come to make up a larger share of state taxes.Graph tracks percentage of all state taxes (personal income tax, sales tax, business taxes and other fees and taxes) from 1995 to 2005.Note: Figures do not include cigarette taxes that went to the Health Care Reform Act, which are not formally a part of the state budget.(Source by New York State Division of the Budget)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); GOVERNORS (91%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); POLITICS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (64%); TUITION FEES (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%) Taxation; Surveys and Series; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Taxation

PERSON: Al Baker; Jo Craven Mcginty; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



387 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Social Security: Heat and Light

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Social Security Plan Hinges on the Peg'' (news analysis, Business Day, Feb. 11) discusses ''price indexing'' of initial benefits with the assumption that wages will rise at an annual rate that is 1.1 percentage points faster than prices. Under this scenario, benefits are cut by 10 percent for 45-year-olds, 28 percent for 25-year-olds and 46 percent for newborns. But the proposal is not simply to make these benefit cuts, but to use price indexing as part of calculating initial benefits. This indexing makes the size of benefit cuts depend on how fast real wages grow.
 With faster real wage growth, benefit cuts are larger, even though the financial difficulty of Social Security is smaller. With real wages growing 1.5 percent annually, the cuts become 14, 36 and 56 percent for 45-year-olds, 25-year-olds and newborns. This form of indexing works backward. It should be abandoned, along with the idea that only benefit cuts be used in restoring financial balance.

Peter Diamond
Peter Orszag
Lexington, Mass., Feb. 12, 2005

The writers are, respectively, a professor of economics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a senior fellow, Brookings Institution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); WRITERS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (70%) Social Security (US); Privatization

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%)

PERSON: PETER ORSZAG (90%) Peter (Prof) Diamond; Peter Orszag; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (84%) UNITED STATES (84%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



388 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Iraq or No, Guard Bonus Lures Some to Re-enlist

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: SPRINGER, N.M. 

 BODY:
Lisa Marez could not manage a smile as this town cheered the return of her husband's National Guard unit with a parade of pickups and police cars, followed by a celebratory calling of names in the high school gym. Just days earlier, she had learned that her husband, Sgt. Jesse Guillermo Marez, had accepted a bonus to re-enlist for six more years, virtually guaranteeing another tour in Iraq.
 Sergeant Marez, who in civilian life in Albuquerque works as a machine operator at a weapons laboratory, stoically explained that he supported the war in Iraq and was not afraid to return. He also said he would soon receive a re-enlistment bonus of $15,000, part of the National Guard's effort to bolster its ranks after missing its recruiting goals for the first time in a decade last year. 
 ''The money's a nice extra incentive,'' Sergeant Marez, 27, said in early February inside the gym before the ceremony for his unit in this small northeast New Mexico town. 
 ''I'd like to put it in the bank for a while, maybe save some for college expenses,'' he said, pointing to his 10-year-old son, Michael. 
 Whether to pay down debt, splurge on a vacation, buy a car, make a home down payment or cover education costs, the bonuses are being embraced by some members of the National Guard as an unexpected bounty. The National Guard introduced the bonuses in mid-December in hopes of strengthening its forces, which now constitute a large part of the military in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 Sergeant Marez is one of two soldiers in his 57-member unit, about 90 percent Hispanic and mostly men from northern New Mexico, to re-enlist for six years while still stationed in Iraq. They can thereby collect their bonuses free from taxes. A third person in the unit, the 515th Corps Support Battalion, re-enlisted for three years for a $7,500 bonus.
 The re-enlistment rate rose nationwide in the first weeks that the bonuses were available, though much of the gain was attributed to a single unit from North Carolina, many of whose members signed up together in Iraq to get the tax break. It is too soon to gauge the program's impact, and the early numbers could have been ''artificially strong,'' said Lt. Col. Michael Jones, deputy division chief in charge of National Guard recruiting. 
 Last year, the Guard attracted 49,210 soldiers, about 7,000 short of its goal of 56,000, reflecting its shifting role from weekend duty preparing for national disasters to defending foreign soil. 
 ''The Guard is looking for an economic solution to a socio-political problem,'' said David Segal, a military sociologist at the University of Maryland. ''Fifteen thousand dollars is half a muscle car. I'd be surprised to see this policy have more than a marginal effect on the Guard's numbers.'' 
 Particularly in relatively poor areas of the country like Springer, a town of 1,200 people surrounded by small ranching communities, the Guard will be recruiting in coming months as its roster of recruiters swells to 4,100, from 2,700. A low-ranking Guard member can make about $35,000 a year in a combat tour in Iraq, or about $5,000 more than a young schoolteacher can earn here in a year. 
 Though $15,000 may stretch further here, the pay and the bonuses failed to sway many of the 515th who returned home with Sergeant Marez. Sgt. Dennis Trujillo explained why a couple weeks ago as he sat down for barbecue after the welcome-home ceremony concluded with a show of digital photographs of the unit in Iraq to a medley of hard-rock and heavy-metal classics. 
 No one in the 515th was killed in Iraq, Sergeant Trujillo said, but the unit had suffered about 40 indirect mortar attacks and its duties, which included supplying Army troops with gasoline and water, were sometimes grueling. The money the Guard was offering was ''good but not enough,'' said Sergeant Trujillo, 29, who grew up in Roy, a ranching community of 400 people not far from Springer, and whose term with the Guard expires this summer. 
 ''I'm happy to be back here,'' said Sergeant Trujillo, explaining how his main goal now was to secure a stable state job in the forestry service. ''I don't see a reason to return to Iraq.'' 
 Ms. Marez, a 30-year-old teacher's assistant who stood by her husband's side throughout the ceremony celebrating the return of the 515th, did not look so favorably on the re-enlistment bonus either.
 ''This time of war has been so difficult,'' she said, holding back tears. ''I don't care much for the Guard. It's taking my husband away.'' 
 Sergeant Marez's father, Guillermo, who works at a sheet-metal company, remained mostly silent and proudly applauded his son. His mother, Corrine, was more expressive and, unlike her daughter-in-law, let the tears flow. Her son's decision to re-enlist was tearing her apart, she said. 
 ''It's a scary feeling because he's my only son,'' said Ms. Marez, a homemaker. ''I wish we hadn't gone to war, but it's happened now. What I need to do now is learn to respect his decision.'' 
 Soldiers from other units in northern New Mexico said they had re-enlisted only after some reflection.
 Sgt. Francisco Cazares, a business student at Highlands University in Las Vegas, N.M., said it took him several months to start feeling at ease after his unit, the 720th Transportation Company, returned last July after more than a year in Iraq. Sergeant Cazares said he spent a lot of time alone, waiting until December to decide to return to school and re-enlist for six more years in the Guard. 
 ''I couldn't hold a conversation too easily for a while,'' said Sergeant Cazares, 26, describing how he had grown accustomed to not talking much while in Iraq, where one of his main duties was driving or protecting Humvees as they led supply convoys throughout the country. ''The sounds of the engine, the wind, the dust, were kind of overwhelming.'' 
 Despite the stress associated with that time, Sergeant Cazares figured he should re-enlist for a combination of financial and ideological reasons. In an interview from Las Vegas, he said he was a supporter of the war. The $15,000, he said, would wipe out nearly all his student loans. And six more years would give him a total of 14 years in the Guard, just a half-dozen shy of the 20 years needed to collect pension benefits when he turns 60. 
 Sergeant Cazares said his parents, who live in Halper, Utah, where his father works for the Union Pacific railroad, had opposed his decision to re-enlist.
 ''Some individuals think I'm crazy, including some in my own unit,'' he said. ''I'm a single guy, so at least this is easier for me than for the people with families.'' 
 The Guard tells those signing up that they will not be called for another tour overseas for at least 12 months, though those who re-enlist could be summoned for a total of 24 months of duty in Iraq or Afghanistan. The National Guard is also seeking legal approval to offer $15,000 signing bonuses, up from $50, to active-duty soldiers from the military's regular branches, part of wider efforts to increase financial benefits for Guard members. 
 New Mexico, for instance, this year became the first state to approve a measure paying the life insurance premiums of its National Guard members, providing as much as $250,000 in death benefits for each soldier's family. Congress is considering similar insurance benefits on a national level. 
 Dying in Iraq is not what those who re-enlist focus on. Sgt. Carla Maria Maldonado, 28, said she preferred to consider the prospect of making a down payment on a modest house near Albuquerque. Before leaving Iraq last month with the 515th, she had decided to re-enlist for three years for a bonus of $7,500. 
 Sergeant Maldonado, who has a job doing clerical work at the New Mexico National Guard's headquarters in Santa Fe, said she was also considering a return to college to study accounting. But before making that decision, she said, she intends to pamper herself with a brief vacation in the ski basins of northern New Mexico and southern Colorado. 
 ''Breathing in the clean air, feeling free for a while, that's what I'm hoping for,'' Sergeant Maldonado said. ''Then if I have to go back to Iraq, I'll just go.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 24, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about re-enlistment bonuses offered by the National Guard misstated the amount received by regular active-duty service members who sign with the Guard. It is $50 a month for the length of their commitment, not just once. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Marez, 10, and his parents, Sgt. Jesse Guillermo Marez and Lisa Marez, recognizing the American flag at a ceremony in Springer, N.M.
 Sgt. Carla Maria Maldonado, just before a welcome home ceremony for the 515th Corps Support Battalion of the National Guard. (Photographs by Rick Scibelli Jr. for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); SOCIOLOGY (60%); TERRORISM (59%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Bonuses; Draft and Recruitment (Military)

COMPANY: NATIONAL LATEX PRODUCTS CO (90%); NATIONAL SUPER SERVICE CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: National Guard (US)

INDUSTRY: SIC3069 FABRICATED RUBBER PRODUCTS, NEC (90%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (90%)

PERSON: Simon Romero; Jesse (Sgt) Guillermo

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Springer (Nm)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



389 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Rift Deepens as Professors At Harvard See Transcript

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Feb. 18 

 BODY:
A mood of uncertainty settled over Harvard University on Friday in the aftermath of President Lawrence H. Summers's release of the transcript of his contentious remarks last month about the shortage of women in the sciences and engineering.
 Many people were parsing and debating the often dense and rambling 7,000-word transcript, a long-awaited document that quickly became a must-read on campus. 
 A group of professors and students was collecting names on letters supporting Dr. Summers. Another group of professors, who had criticized Dr. Summers's leadership style at a tense faculty meeting on Tuesday, was continuing to discuss the matter. 
 Scholars normally immersed in research and teaching were preoccupied with questions about the leadership of the university, to which many of them have devoted their adult lives.
 ''My sense of the mood among key faculty is that they're deeply, deeply distressed about the way this entire thing is tearing the university apart, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences in particular,'' said Theda Skocpol, a government professor who spoke out against Dr. Summers at the meeting. ''And I share that distress.''
 Daniel Laibson and Claudia Goldin, both economics professors, were among those leading the effort to collect the signatures of full professors throughout the university on a letter endorsing Dr. Summers's leadership.
 ''Everyone has a viewpoint,'' Professor Laibson said. ''At this moment there's a great deal of intensity. All of us care passionately about this university''
 Professor Laibson estimated that 160 professors had signed the letter so far, with many of them representing the sciences, he said. Dr. Summers has made the sciences a major focus of his administration.
 An emergency meeting of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, which is considered the heart of the university, has been scheduled for Tuesday to continue the discussion of Dr. Summers's leadership. 
 Despite talk of a no-confidence vote, professors said such a vote would be highly unlikely at the meeting because so many had signed up to speak. As a practical matter, they said, the earliest date for such a vote would be March 15, at the regular meeting of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. 
 Despite the concerns voiced at last Tuesday's meeting about what some faculty members described as Dr. Summers's intimidating style, there has been no organized demand for his resignation. On Thursday, James Houghton, a senior member of the Harvard Corporation, which appointed the president and is the only body that can remove him, affirmed the corporation's support for Dr. Summers, saying he had ''brought energetic leadership to an unusually complex and demanding job.'' 
 The letter of support circulating among the faculty emphasizes Dr. Summers's strengths and the achievements of his three-and-a-half-year administration. ''He devotes himself to finding and implementing policies that enrich the minds of Harvard's students and extend the frontiers of human understanding,'' it reads in part.
 The letter also acknowledges that Dr. Summers ''has made mistakes,'' and adds, ''We agree that his personal interactions sometimes feel confrontational.''
 The debate over Dr. Summers's leadership has now extended to the professional schools. At the medical school, Dr. Nicholas A. Christakis, a physician who is a professor of health care policy, said he spent a day studying Dr. Summers's remarks and mulling over the letter of support before signing it.
 ''I'm sure hundreds of hours of expensive faculty time have been spent in the last two days in deciding what to do about this matter,'' Dr. Christakis said.
 He added that he believed that Dr. Summers had been vilified and said he did not think Dr. Summers's remarks about women were ''unreasonable.''
 Eric Chivian, an assistant clinical professor of psychiatry at the medical school who shared in the 1985 Nobel Peace Prize, said he did not sign the letter. Instead, Dr. Chivian said, he reluctantly wrote his own letter to the Harvard Corporation.
 The letter criticizes what Dr. Chivian calls Dr. Summers's pattern of insensitive, divisive comments and describes reports from numerous faculty members of ''Dr. Summers' reputation for abusing his position of power and for vindictiveness towards those who disagree with him.''
 Noting that he is an alumnus of both the college and the medical school, Dr. Chivian wrote that the recent remarks about women ''should finally convince the corporation that President Summers has brought, and will continue to bring, embarrassment and dishonor to the university.'' 
 He also wrote that many alumni, himself included, ''will no longer contribute money to the university as long as he is its president.''
 Dr. Chivian said in an interview that ''it should be Harvard's extraordinary accomplishments in medicine, science, the humanities and in other disciplines that are daily front page news, not its crisis of governance, brought on by Lawrence Summer's failure of leadership.'' 
 ''For the good of the university,'' he added, ''it is time for him to resign.''
 For now, the campus is anticipating Tuesday's meeting. So many professors have expressed an interest in attending that the meeting has been moved to a larger room. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 21, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the divisions at Harvard over remarks by its president, Lawrence H. Summers, misstated the given name of an economics professor who is seeking signatures on a letter supporting Dr. Summers. He is David Laibson, not Daniel.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); WOMEN (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%) Colleges and Universities; Women; Shortages; Science and Technology; Engineering and Engineers

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) Harvard University

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (91%) Sara Rimer; Lawrence H Summers

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



390 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Shares Finish Mixed as Concern About Inflation Rises

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
A sharp rise in wholesale prices intensified fears about inflation, sending stocks to a mixed finish yesterday as bond prices fell. 
 Blue-chip stocks got a late lift from the pharmaceutical sector, but the major indexes finished the week with losses.
 Investors were surprised as a Labor Department report showed wholesale prices rising at the fastest rate in six years. While the Producer Price Index rose just 0.3 percent in January, a drop in oil and food prices kept that figure artificially low. With oil and food removed, the core figure rose 0.8 percent, a hefty increase that could signal higher consumer prices down the road. 
 ''Inflation-sensitive stocks are doing well, but that's about it,'' said Brian Pears, head equity trader at Victory Capital Management in Cleveland. ''There's not a lot of reason for people to make bets on too many other sectors.''
 But the Dow Jones industrials and large-cap stocks rose in late trading as federal regulators approved the continued marketing of painkillers from Merck and Pfizer, saying the benefits for patients outweighed increased risks of heart attack and strokes.
 The Dow rose 30.96 points, or 0.29 percent, to 10,785.22. The Dow is once again up for the year to date, but by just 2.21 points, or 0.02 percent.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 0.84 point, or 0.07 percent, at 1,201.59, while the technology-focused Nasdaq composite index lost 2.72 points, or 0.13 percent, to 2,058.62.
 Inflation concerns kept the markets from substantially surpassing their December 2004 highs this week. Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, while giving lawmakers a bullish assessment of the economy, warned that higher prices could become an issue.
 For the week, the Dow fell 0.1 percent, the S.&P. 500 was down 0.34 percent and the Nasdaq dropped 0.87 percent.
 A rise in oil prices also pressured stocks. A barrel of light crude was quoted at $48.35, up 81 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 A muddled trading session turned higher thanks to the Dow's pharmaceutical components. Merck surged $3.76, or 13 percent, to $32.61 after a Food and Drug Administration advisory panel voted narrowly to allow Merck to continue marketing the arthritis drug Vioxx in the United States. The company voluntarily pulled Vioxx last year after it was found to carry an increased risk of heart attack and stroke.
 The advisory panel also ruled that two of Pfizer's pain relievers, Bextra and Celebrex, can remain on the market despite studies that questioned the safety of the drugs, which are chemically related to Vioxx. Pfizer gained $1.74, to $26.80.
 A fresh round of merger news also helped investors overcome the economic data. Qwest Communications International was up 11 cents, at $3.95, after the company said it would renew and possibly raise its bid for MCI, hoping to break a $6.7 billion deal by MCI and Verizon Communications. MCI rose $1.65, to $22.31, while Verizon slipped 37 cents, to $35.31.
 Ending what appeared to be an impasse, Federated Department Stores is again discussing a takeover bid for May Department Stores, The Wall Street Journal reported. The two sides are getting closer on a final price per share, the paper said. Federated lost 65 cents, to $56.72, while May added $1.93, to $33.45.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note fell 21/32, to 97 28/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.26 percent from 4.18 percent on Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); BONDS (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); DRUG SAFETY (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); MERGERS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); STROKES (71%); HEART DISEASE (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); ANALGESICS (67%); ARTHRITIS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (85%); MERCK & CO INC (85%); VICTORY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); CENTURYLINK INC (50%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (85%); PFEB (BRU) (85%); PFE (NYSE) (85%); MRK (PAR) (85%); MRK (NYSE) (85%); CTL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (85%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



391 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Japan Said to Support U.S. on Security of Taiwan

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18 

 BODY:
Senior Japanese officials, in meetings here on Saturday, plan to assure their American counterparts that Japan shares a common concern about the future security of Taiwan, administration officials and a foreign diplomat said Friday.
 While Japan is not expected to make specific offers of military or logistical aid in the event China attacks Taiwan, officials said, it is increasingly concerned about the growing political and military might of China, which considers Taiwan a province and continually threatens the island.
 With its new assurance, officials said, Japan is moving closer to the American point of view: that the status quo between China and Taiwan should be maintained. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, speaking to reporters on Friday, said the United States and Japan shared the goal of maintaining peace between China and Taiwan. 
 ''The United States and Japan ''enjoy very deep and broad relations in an alliance to try and help bring and maintain peace and stability'' in the region, she said.
 She and Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld are to meet with the Japanese foreign minister, Nobutaka Machimura, and the Defense Agency director general, Yoshinori Ono, on Saturday. The primary topic is expected to be efforts to coax North Korea to return to talks on ending its nuclear weapons program.
 But an administration official said the United States and Japan would also issue a joint statement confirming a ''common strategic direction'' on policies toward Taiwan, China and other regional issues. On Taiwan, the statement will ''encourage the peaceful resolution'' of the Taiwan Strait dialogue, the administration official said. This would be the first time that Japan joined the United States in voicing public concern over China's growing military buildup in the area.
 A senior foreign diplomat said that has been Japan's policy for many years, even though it has not been stated in a public manner. The United States and Japan maintain complex and conflicted relationships with the Chinese. Both have valuable economic relationships with China. Last year, China replaced the United States as Japan's largest trading partner. China is an important trading partner for the United States, too. On Friday, the State Department announced that the Export-Import Bank of the United States had made a preliminary commitment to lend China $5 billion to build four nuclear power plants in Zhejiang and Yangjiang Provinces. 
 At the same time, however, the United States has had angry exchanges with China in the last few days. On Wednesday, Porter J. Goss, the director of central intelligence, issued a stern warning about China's growing military prowess. 
 ''Beijing's military modernization and military buildup could tilt the balance of power in the Taiwan Strait,'' he told the Senate Armed Services Committee, adding, ''Improved Chinese capabilities threaten United States forces in the region.''
 And on Thursday, Mr. Rumsfeld said the United States was concerned about the expansion of the Chinese Navy.
 In response, the Chinese Foreign Ministry, in a statement on Friday, angrily denounced those remarks, saying, ''The United States has severely interfered with Chinese internal affairs and sent a false signal to the advocates of Taiwan independence.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); POWER PLANTS (65%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (53%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%) United States International Relations; Armament, Defense and Military Forces

COMPANY: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE US (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (63%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (63%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (88%) Joel Brinkley; Nobutaka (Min) Machimura; Yoshinori (Dir Gen) Ono; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (78%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Taiwan; Japan

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



392 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Political Memo; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Bidding Stance Shows How Little Help Mayor Is Getting From the Governor

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's relentless drive for a stadium for the Jets and the 2012 Olympics over the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's West Side railyards seemed to be inching toward the finish line.
 But the authority's agreement to consider a last-minute, rival bid for the development rights from Cablevision and any other bidders was another stark reminder of how little help Mr. Bloomberg is getting this election year from his counterpart in Albany, Gov. George E. Pataki, a fellow Republican. 
 Mr. Bloomberg was also stung by Mr. Pataki's failure, in the budget he released in January, to provide anywhere near the amount of money the mayor was seeking for school rebuilding projects and other educational aid. The mayor's Democratic mayoral opponents portrayed that as a slap in the face.
 The move by the M.T.A. to open the land to other bidders is coming across as, at the very least, benign neglect by Mr. Pataki, who appointed the authority's chairman, Peter S. Kalikow, and controls the authority's board.
 By inviting other bids, the authority raised serious questions about whether the stadium would ever be built. The invitation came just as the search team for the International Olympic Committee was preparing to visit New York to gauge whether the city is the best choice for the 2012 Games. 
 The increasingly pitched battle over a sports venue, viewed as crucial to the Olympics, threatens to become an embarrassing backdrop to the visit. 
 Press officers for Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Pataki say that their relationship is solid and that they are of one mind about the stadium and the Olympics. 
 But tensions seemed to have risen between the state and the city the day that Cablevision offered two weeks ago to pay $600 million for the stadium site, hundreds of millions more than the Jets offered. Cablevision has been fighting the project because it says a West Side stadium will harm its venue, Madison Square Garden, by drawing away business.
 Agitated city officials, led by the deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, Daniel L. Doctoroff, called Mr. Kalikow that Friday and lobbied him to dismiss the bid -- which they have derided as an act of sabotage -- out of hand, according to several people familiar with the conversation, all of whom spoke on condition of anonymity.
 Mr. Doctoroff and the deputy mayor for operations, Marc V. Shaw, a former top official at the M.T.A., argued that the authority was within its rights to dismiss the bid because it had a memorandum of understanding with the Jets, these people said. 
 That memo of understanding had laid out a plan to have the stadium approved by last November. Construction was to begin in June, well before the July 6 Olympic Committee meeting at which it is decided whether New York or any of the other five cities in the running -- among them Paris and London -- will get the Games.
 An executive who knows both Mr. Doctoroff and Mr. Kalikow said the telephone call never devolved into anything near the standoff several months ago when they were discussing the value of the air rights of another part of the yards (That dispute, the executive said, ended with Mr. Kalikow storming out of the meeting room after stern words from Mr. Doctoroff and had set the tone for an overall tense relationship since.) 
 Mr. Kalikow and Mr. Doctoroff did not respond to requests for comment.
 Neither a spokesman for the mayor, Edward Skyler, nor a spokesman for the governor, David Catalfamo, would comment on what happened during a phone conversation between Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Pataki after Cablevision made its offer.
 Either way, Mr. Pataki clearly sided with Mr. Kalikow's decision to open up the bidding for the site. Mr. Pataki said on Thursday that he would continue to ''push for'' the stadium but added that the authority had ''a fiduciary obligation to look and see if there are offered proposals that might be more in the public interest.''
 A state official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, added that Mr. Pataki believed he had no choice but to side with Mr. Kalikow. ''We believe that a process that is unassailable will ultimately result in the appropriate decision,'' this official said. ''The worst thing for the proponents of the West Side would be for the M.T.A. to rush to judgment, leaving them open to litigation that could delay the project for years."
 For his part, Mr. Skyler said, ''We have faith that through the process the M.T.A. has set up the best proposal will win and that the sports and convention center is the best proposal for the M.T.A. and the best proposal for the city.''
 Mr. Pataki's aides are clearly most concerned by the appearance that he is somehow undercutting the mayor's bid for the Olympics -- and his bid for a second term.
 The state official argued that Mr. Pataki had frequently voiced his backing for the stadium -- a pet project of the mayor, not the governor -- at no small risk to himself. ''Some critics of the governor's support of the mayor's priorities such as the West Side, or the Olympic bid, don't appreciate that the state is facing its own challenges,'' the official said.
 To underscore how supportive he was of the bid, aides to the governor noted on Friday that he was cutting short a vacation to the Dominican Republic to attend at least two events related to the Olympic Committee visit, both with the mayor. 
 Yet Mr. Pataki will not be attending a private dinner the mayor is having for the search committee members at his town house on Wednesday night. He will instead attend a rival Olympics-related event, the 25th anniversary celebration of the 1980 Winter Games in Lake Placid. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg discussed a deal by the New York Jets to ensure minority participation in building a proposed stadium on the West Side earlier this week. L. Jay Cross, president of the Jets, looked on. (Photo by Keith Bedford for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); CITIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BUDGETS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SPORTS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (93%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



393 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Time Warner Stops Granting Stock Options To Most of Staff

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Time Warner said yesterday that it would no longer grant stock options to most employees, citing new accounting rules.
 The decision comes at a time when a number of companies that happily doled out options to employees during the last market boom are reining in their use. With the stock market weak, options no longer have much of a cachet for many employees. Some companies -- most notably Microsoft -- have sought other ways to link equity pay with performance. In 2003, Microsoft announced that it would award stock instead of granting stock options. 
 About half a dozen other companies, including Aetna and Charles Schwab, have either eliminated or significantly cut back on options for their rank and file in the last year, according to the National Center for Employee Ownership, an independent research group in Oakland, Calif.
 ''More and more companies today are no longer offering stock options to all employees,'' Ann Moore, the chief executive of Time Inc., and Norman Pearlstine, the editor in chief, said in a memo to employees of the Time unit. Most of the parent company's 80,000 employees will no longer receive stock options, a company spokeswoman said.
 Some workers, however, will continue to get stock options based on their job responsibilities and industry practice. The spokeswoman declined to describe how the decision would affect top executives or what would be the split among AOL workers, in the technology sector where stock option awards remain common, and the Time Warner journalists and entertainment employees. 
 The stock option grants will not be replaced with other forms of equity, the company said. Salaries and benefits will largely stay the same. 
 In the memo, Ms. Moore and Mr. Pearlstine suggested that the decision was made in response to pressure from investors and recent changes in accounting rules. New Securities and Exchange Commission rules, which require shareholders to approve option plans, have limited the pool of options. So have concerns about the way options can dilute earnings per share. 
 New financial reporting standards, the memo added, which will require companies to treat stock options as expenses, ''make it prohibitively expensive'' to continue the practice for all employees.
 Several corporate governance experts questioned that reasoning. Time Warner workers held 650 million stock options at the end of 2003, worth about $6.5 billion, according to regulatory filings.
 ''Either they were doing something all these years that made no economic sense,'' said Gregory P. Taxin, the chief executive of Glass Lewis & Company, an institutional advisory firm in San Francisco, ''or they are ending an economically viable program because of a requirement to disclose it.''
 ''Neither of those is a happy outcome for shareholders,'' he said. ''Either way, it causes you concern about the judgment of the board.''
 A number of companies are restricting options. ''Companies manage what they measure, and for the first time, we are going to have to measure the real cost of these options,'' said Lynn E. Turner, a former S.E.C. chief accountant who now oversees research at Glass Lewis. ''And the result is that companies are going to have to quit giving away the store.''
 But Ira Kay, a compensation consultant for Watson Wyatt Worldwide, said that dispensing with broad-based stock option plans could be a sign of a disturbing trend. ''The number of overall options is coming down, more slowly at the top and more rapidly at the bottom,'' he said. 
 Companies, meanwhile, are substituting other stock plans for stock options, frequently with lower net accounting costs or a reduction in the number of employees eligible, he noted. ''I am worried that reducing eligibility could create morale and productivity problems at some companies because historically, even though executives were well-paid, since many employees shared in the stock gains, there appeared to be very little resentment.''
 In addition to the companies that have dropped options programs, Delphi, Eastman Kodak and AstraZeneca plan to cut back on the options they distribute to regular employees, said Corey Rosen, the executive director of the National Center for Employee Ownership. Last year, Citigroup ended its renewable stock option plan, and like Cisco Systems, reduced the life span of the options it awarded to cut compensation costs. 
 Based on his research and industry survey data, Mr. Rosen estimated that at least 40 percent of publicly traded companies with stock option plans are reconsidering them and as many as a third may discontinue them in the next few years.
 But despite the talk about accounting expenses, Mr. Rosen suggested that most companies with broad-based stock option plans, about 17 percent of publicly traded companies, would keep them. ''Companies that are more committed to this, like Starbucks, Southwest Airlines, Whole Foods, will hold on to their programs,'' he said. ''And some companies, not nearly as much as anybody predicted, will change the form of the equity but they will still give everybody equity. When it actually came down to telling people, you are not going to get what you used to get, it's very difficult to do.''
 Most of the retrenchment may come from companies like Time Warner, which had a profit-sharing program before the AOL merger in 2001 and where a commitment to broad-based stock options was never strong in some divisions. 
 Employees at Time Inc. in New York said the development was expected in a climate of cost-cutting. Expense accounts are now closely scrutinized, the lavish holiday parties have been eliminated and even the magazines are now distributed in the lobby, not to employees' desks. 
 Time Inc. employees contacted yesterday shrugged off the loss of the options program. After all, the vast majority of stock options awarded over the last few years now have little or no market value. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OPTIONS (96%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (73%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); WRITERS (67%); APPROVALS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (83%); TIME INC (69%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (57%)

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (83%); SCHW (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: ANN MOORE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2005



394 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: N.H.L. Labor Dispute Brings Painful Memories of 1994

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

DATELINE: FORT MYERS, Fla. 

 BODY:
NOT that we need another sports poll, but this one would be intriguing. Which is a greater blow to the country, its sports fabric and its sports fans: cancellation of the 1994 World Series or cancellation of the 2004-5 National Hockey League season? 
 When Gary Bettman announced Wednesday that he was canceling the season because of the labor dispute that prompted the N.H.L. to lock out its players, it was reminiscent of Bud Selig's announcement on Sept. 14, 1994, that he was canceling the remainder of the baseball season, the playoffs and the World Series because of a labor dispute that prompted the players to strike on Aug. 12.
 For baseball, it was the first time the World Series was not played since 1904. For the N.H.L., if the effort to save the season fails, it will be the first time since 1919 that there will be no Stanley Cup playoffs. 
 To digress for a moment, if you're looking for a link between that season and this, it's the Boston Red Sox. The Red Sox won the World Series in 1918 and, 86 years later, they won it again last October.
 Enough digression.
 ''I don't think I've ever had a more painful year in my life than 1994,'' Selig said. ''It was very sad and a very difficult year, so I have a great compassion for certainly Gary Bettman and all the people involved. Sports, like everything else in life, have changed. The economics have changed. Sometimes in confronting change we run into a lot of pain.''
 At the core of both cancellations was an effort by the owners to get a payroll cap linked to revenue. Baseball and hockey are the two sports that don't have payroll caps.
 Donald Fehr, head of the baseball union, said Bettman's announcement vividly reminded him of Selig's announcement. 
 ''As I watched the announcement being made, it brought back lots of memories from '94,'' he said. ''You just wish it didn't have to be this way. It seems like a long time ago in one respect, but memory seems very fresh when you see this happen.''
 Selig recalled that Jackie Autry, who was operating the Angels, ''begged me not to make the announcement; others said don't do that. But we were getting a lot of heat from people who wanted answers.
 ''The players were gone and I was getting calls from managers and general managers saying they're gone; you can't resume the season. At that point, I felt I owed it to the networks and the sponsors. The clubs needed to know. We were not having any discussions. We all knew we were going nowhere.''
 Although the similarity between the disputes figured to continue, one difference has developed. After Selig canceled the World Series, the labor representatives for the owners and the players didn't meet for 39 days, until Oct. 19.
 In the current dispute, the N.H.L and union representatives met again yesterday, although the talks broke off once again. 
 What remains to be seen is the direction the hockey talks now take. Obviously, the two sides must reach agreement to have a 2004-5 season. But if the two sides remain entrenched in their positions -- the league wanting a payroll cap, the union adamantly opposed to it -- N.H.L. officials could declare an impasse and unilaterally impose new work rules.
 That is what the baseball owners did in December 1994, but that was their mistake. The union went to the National Labor Relations Board, which agreed with the union's position that the owners should not be allowed to impose new work rules. 
 The board sought an injunction in federal court, and the union said the players would end their strike and return to work if the board got it. The board did. 
 Judge Sonia Sotomayor, who has probably not received enough credit for saving baseball -- though that was not what she set out to do -- ordered owners to restore the work rules that were in the expired agreement, and the players ended their strike.
 Before the hockey union accepted the concept of a payroll cap, though not linked to revenue, the N.H.L. might have been in position to declare an impasse, impose new work rules and end the lockout, inviting players to return to work. 
 The players would very likely have declared a strike at that point, and the league could have stocked its teams with replacement players.
 Before the injunction was granted at the end of March in the baseball dispute, clubs had recruited replacement players and had them in spring training. It was never determined if they would have begun the season with them. It was, however, not likely.
 If the N.H.L. were to declare an impasse, it would involve other elements, namely Canadian labor law. There is disagreement among Canadian labor lawyers whether Canadian teams could use replacement players. 
 But the league won't say if it had impasse plans before or would have them in the future. The union would not comment on potential league strategy.
 There is another difference that could have an impact on future developments. In 1994-95, the N.L.R.B. was a Democratic board under the Clinton White House. The board is now Republican and might not take a favorable view of issues supported by the union. Republican boards are historically kinder to employers than to employees.
 No one knows what the outcome would have been had the board had a Republican majority in 1995. 
 Although baseball players returned to work in April 1995, the two sides did not reach a new labor agreement until October 1996. But at least they played the 1995 World Series.
 What about that poll idea, World Series or hockey season?
 ''That's a debate I won't get into,'' Selig said. ''But the World Series not being played was certainly in the national consciousness and very painful for a lot of people.''

Room for Improvement
 Despite the perfect ending to their year -- eight victories in their last eight games -- the Boston Red Sox were not perfect last season. So says their manager, Terry Francona.
 ''Two things jump out at me,'' Francona said.
 ''Our pitching staff needs to hold base runners better. We lost some one-run games, probably more than our share. When you're in a one-run situation and you don't hold base runners, it's difficult to win one-run games.''
 No. 2, Francona said: ''I think we can pick up our base running. Not that we're going to become a base-stealing team, but we need to be an intelligent team that takes bases when they're supposed to.''

Pedro the Irreplaceable
 If there was any question about the value the Red Sox put on Pedro Martinez, the erstwhile ace of their pitching staff, Jason Varitek, his catcher the past seven seasons, offered this blunt assessment in discussing the team's three new starters, David Wells, Matt Clement and Wade Miller:
 ''You're talking about an irreplaceable pitcher in baseball. We can't replace Pedro Martinez. I won't even go down that road trying to. These guys are different guys. None of them should pitch with the thought process of replacing Pedro Martinez. It can't be done. He's been the best pitcher in a decade.''

A Thumb Down for 'Juiced'
 Jose Canseco didn't write his book, ''Juiced,'' to gain literary accolades, but he should be happy that Curt Schilling isn't reviewing it for some publication.
 ''I couldn't finish the book,'' Schilling, a Red Sox pitcher, said. ''It got to the point where I thought it was unreadable. You can't stick your head in the sand and say it's all lies. But who's to say what is true and what isn't? I can only go with what I know. It's unfortunate to see someone go in that direction. He's obviously being bitter that his career went the way it did. But I don't think he has anybody to blame but himself.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: There were no fans and no Tigers-Angels game at Tiger Stadium on Aug. 12, 1994, the first day of a strike that would last 232 days. (Photo by Lennox McLendon/Associated Press)
Donald Fehr, the head of the players union, was still working the phones on Dec. 22, 1994, but fans had already had their say. (Photos by left, Ted Mathias/Associated Press
 right, Luc Novovitch/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (91%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS FANS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); LOCKOUTS (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (82%); DALLAS STARS (58%); EDMONTON OILERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (75%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



395 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2872 words

HEADLINE: The Mommy Trap

BYLINE: By Judith Shulevitz. 
Judith Shulevitz is working on a book about the Sabbath.

 BODY:

PERFECT MADNESS
Motherhood in the Age of Anxiety.
By Judith Warner.
327 pp. Riverhead
Books. $23.95.
 Manifestoes blast their way into the popular consciousness on two kinds of fuel: recognition (we see ourselves in them) and rage (we can no longer tolerate the injustice they describe). Judith Warner's ''Perfect Madness: Motherhood in the Age of Anxiety'' brims with both. She clearly means for her denunciation of American-style mothering to do for overstressed 21st-century upper-middle-class American women what Betty Friedan's ''Feminine Mystique'' did for underemployed 20th-century ones. ''Perfect Madness'' is not half as good as ''The Feminine Mystique'' -- not as painfully accurate or cleverly argued -- but, like Friedan, Warner channels a big, explosive feeling, which she identifies as frustration at ''the mommy mystique'' or, more resonantly, ''this mess.'' Since I and other mothers I know expend a great deal of energy trying to quash the suspicion that our once carefully groomed resumes now look as shabby and unpromising as our toy-strewn homes and lumpy midsections, I read most of Warner's long and somewhat repetitive book in a single sitting, and so, I think, will fellow travelers on the mommy track. The mess, c'est moi; the injustice is that it doesn't matter how committed I am to my work or how efficient I become. As soon as I began bearing children I hit, not a glass ceiling, but a brick wall. It is no longer cool to say stuff like this, not even in female company. After God knows how many thousands of books, articles and talk shows on the rapid-aging process human resources professionals politely call ''the work-life balance,'' we have had about as much as we can stomach on the subject. We are not zesty, pie-eyed, would-be superwomen. We acknowledge life's limitations and the needs of our children and adjust our ambitions accordingly. On the other hand, just because we have issue fatigue, that doesn't mean we don't have an issue. Judith Warner, a biographer of Hillary Clinton and Newt Gingrich and the co-author of a book with Howard Dean, interviewed 150 mostly well-off women, about half of them in and around Washington, and wrote up her observations in a breathy women's-mag style that would seem to disqualify her somewhat for the job of filtering out the chatter and identifying the threat to our emotional and economic security. (She confined her interviews largely to upper-middle-class women because, she says, images of upper-middle-class motherhood tend to crowd out all other kinds in magazines and on television and therefore exert an outsize pressure on discussions of the subject -- a claim with merit, but still a remarkably circular way of going about things.) Then again, as the defense secretary recently said, you go to war with the army you have. 
 And so, to war. Warner has two points to make. The first is that, in affluent America, mothering has gone from an art to a cult, with devotees driving themselves to ever more baroque extremes to appease the goddess of perfect motherhood. Warner, who has two children, made this discovery upon her return from a stay in Paris, where, she says, mothers who benefit from state-subsidized support systems -- child care, preschools, medical services -- never dream of surrendering jobs or social lives to stay home 24/7 with their kids. In the absence of such calming assistance, however, American moms are turning themselves into physically and financially depleted drones. 
 The truth of this last observation is perceptible on even a short visit to any faintly tony suburb, though it's doubtful that only mothers have lost their sense of proportion. Parents no longer set up metal swing sets in corners of their backyards; they hire professionals to erect sprawling wooden castles that consume half the lawn. Parents line up at 5 a.m. to get slots in just the right neighborhood preschool and bring their children to specialists upon noticing the slightest delay in speech or motor coordination. Desperate to maximize their children's levels of attachment and developmental capacity, they turn marital beds into family beds, flash ''Baby Einstein'' cards at their 3-month-olds, enroll toddlers in nonstop improving activities, and give up quiet evenings at home to plan Girl Scout cookie drives -- ''Girl Scout cookie meetings? At 8 o'clock at night?'' exclaims Warner. (That last surely is a mother-only activity.) The ex-professional stay-at-home mothers who, like haughty high priests, identify each new form of self-sacrifice set the pace for the still working ones, some of whom leave their jobs to keep up. 
 Warner tends toward hyperbole, but she strikes me as right about the basic phenomenon. In a society that measures status in consumer goods and hard-to-come-by symbols of achievement -- grades, awards, brand-name colleges -- the scramble for advantage is bound to propel American upper-middle-class parents into exponentially goofier displays of one-upsmanship. Try giving your 3-year-old an old-fashioned cake-and-balloon birthday party at home, with neither facilitator nor gift bags, and you'll see that Warner's onto something, and that it's harder to opt out than you'd think. Allison Pearson was a lot funnier about the anthropology of parental rivalry in her novel, ''I Don't Know How She Does It,'' and incidentally revealed that elites use their children to jockey for status in other developed nations, not just in the United States. (Pearson's hyperjudgmental mothers lived in London.) But then, fiction is always better on the details than sociology.
 There's more than just detail, however, to back up the theory that parents put in more time than they used to. According to the Families and Work Institute's most recent five-year study of the national work force, children receive on average one hour more of parental attention on work days than they did 25 years ago. Translated out of the levelling language of statistical averages, that means many, many hours of helping with homework, cheering at basketball games and schlepping to music classes. (Interestingly, the study says that it's men who are putting in the extra hour, while working women spend the same amount of time as before: 3.4 hours per workday. Men now average 2.7 hours.) Insofar as Warner implies that these new standards of parenting are driving women from the work force, she may be exaggerating. She is right to observe, however, that something is taking them out of action. A 2002 Census Bureau report shows that from 1998 to 2000 the percentage of women in the work force with small children declined from 59 to 55 percent, reversing a general upward trend; 13 percent more children were being raised at home by full-time mothers in 2002 than in 1994. 
 These changes may seem relatively small, but small changes can have cascading effects. Mothers experience them at the most personal level. Take the woman who decides to scale back when her baby is born. Her smaller paycheck makes her husband feel that he must bring in a bigger one, or at least make sure not to slip into a lower income bracket. That means longer hours and less time at home. Before long, the wife cuts back her hours even more to cope with the increased housework, shopping and cooking she has to do, and to care for the baby, who, as he gets older, needs more love and educational enrichment, not less. Soon she is wondering whether to keep her expensive part-time baby sitter (who is probably looking around for a full-time position) and whether her career, now barely recognizable as such, is worth what it costs to maintain it. ''Was I really a good enough writer to justify the sacrifice?'' Warner wondered when she found herself in that situation. ''Or should I, at long last, just hang it up?'' 
 I hate to think what America would be like should even the small number of women who could afford it decide just to hang it up. One imagines the halls of law firms, businesses, universities and newsrooms slowly thinning out of all but the youngest women, who, over time, would tend to be confined to jobs that don't lead anywhere, since no boss would want to see his investment in a fast-track employee rewarded by her leaving to have a baby. At the moment, more women than men get master's degrees and as many women as men get professional degrees, but that, too, could change, if a diminished idea of what women are capable of starts deflecting them from even beginning serious careers. (That a dearth of women in a particular field leads directly to doubt about their suitability for that field was made amply clear by the controversy last month over whether women lack the genetic capacity to succeed as professors of math and science. Maybe they do and maybe they don't, but you don't need genetics to explain why women might fail to rise to the top of a profession that requires an 80-hour workweek.) 
 This leads to Warner's second point, which is more openly political than her first. Our neurotic quest to perfect the mechanics of mothering, she says, can be interpreted as an effort to do on an individual level what we've stopped trying to do on a society-wide one. In her view, it is the lack of family-friendly policies common in Europe that backs American mothers into the corner described above -- policies that would promote ''flexible, affordable, locally available, high-quality'' day care; mandate quality controls for that day care; require or enable businesses to give paid parental leave; make health insurance available for part-time workers; and so on. 
 Unfortunately, Warner doesn't say how we might organize to get such policies passed in a rightward-drifting, Europe-hating America. She is content merely to criticize social conservatives, on the one hand, and old-school feminists, on the other, for making such legislation unthinkable. (Some feminists fear that a focus on motherhood and the needs of children will distract from the goal of workplace equality, though I think Warner overstates their influence.) Nor does she grapple with research that suggests a downside to European-style family legislation. One typical study, for example, argues that cushy state supports for Swedish mothers have weakened the bonds of marriage in that society and undermined the family. Such arguments (in my opinion) often lack context -- any signs of dissolving family ties, such as rising levels of divorce, that you can point to in Europe tend to be worse in the United States -- but Warner ought to have dealt with them. 
 In the end, she acknowledges that life isn't perfect for French mothers, either. ''There is a price they pay for the wonderful (and expensive) benefits they enjoy: a pervasive and all-but-unchallenged kind of institutional sexism,'' she writes. ''It can keep women of childbearing age from being hired. And can condemn others to being fired when they fully avail themselves of the 'rights' so readily accorded to them.'' Warner signs off after conceding this point, as if to say, c'est la vie, but I think it goes to the heart of the problem. We can and should write more maternal supports into law, but until we change our bedrock assumptions about what the proper balance of work and life should be, women will always pay a price for interrupting their careers to have children. Non-upper-middle-class women who have no choice but to keep working will continue putting in the kinds of days that make them strangers to their children, while those with more options will either tear their hearts out at not exercising them or drop out of the work force and apply their skill at climbing career ladders to pushing their children up them. 
 There is reason to believe -- to hope -- their children will resist. The Families and Work Institute study cited above found that, compared with members of the baby boom generation, younger college-educated workers seem markedly less willing to sacrifice everything to advance in their careers. Many of the younger workers yearn to work fewer hours, and say they would turn down promotions if the new jobs required longer days and more work brought home -- claims that may well prove untrue in practice, but nonetheless say a lot about the people making them. More young professionals rank their families as equal in importance to their jobs, or even greater. More young women than men hold these views, not surprisingly, but what is surprising is how many more young men interviewed in 2002 disagreed with the statement that it is ''much better for everyone involved if the man earns the money and the woman takes care of the home and children,'' compared with young men interviewed 25 years earlier. You could dismiss this as just the young folk regurgitating the gender ideology they learned in school, except that more young fathers also ''walk the talk,'' in the jargon of corporate America: they spend an average of one more hour a day with their children than baby boomers do.
 Which brings us back to overparenting. Warner deplores its dangers both to us and to our children, who, she says, are likely to wind up as spoiled, callow, allergy-prone, risk-averse success machines with no inner lives. I rather doubt it. Social scientists and commentators have been warning of the ill effects of overparenting since parental advice books first began appearing in bookstores, but each new generation seems about as agreeable or disagreeable as the last. For all its excesses, overparenting is still preferable to its alternative, which was depicted with quiet sadness by the sociologist Arlie Russell Hochschild in her 1997 book, ''The Time Bind.'' Hochschild studied a Fortune 500 company with exemplary work-life balance policies for both men and women and discovered that few mothers and almost no fathers took advantage of them. Some were afraid of losing their jobs; some couldn't cope with the fear that they'd be diminished in their bosses' eyes; some wanted overtime pay; but a majority eventually admitted that they liked life in the office and even on the plant floor better than life at home. Work was orderly and companionable. Home crackled with the anger and acting-out of children cycled through jury-rigged baby-sitting arrangements and yanked through their lives like tiny factory workers keeping pace with a speedup. 
 Hochschild interviewed only workers employed by the company, not those who had dropped out to stay home, so hers was a world perhaps overly drained of nurture. But the majority of women now work, and given the growing gap between the wealthy few and the less-wealthy many, that probably won't change. With the rise of the service economy and companies that spread their production process across several continents, Americans are more likely to be working longer and during evenings and weekends, making child care even more complicated. What Hochschild forces us to consider is that we're losing the ability to imagine a world in which we work less and at more reasonable hours, and therefore that we no longer bother to fight to bring that world into being. It is our own internalized workaholism that threatens to devour us and our children -- that, and the increasingly untenable absence of a public infrastructure of care. 
 Overparenting has a lot in common with overwork. Both make economists happy, because they lead us to buy more stuff, whether that stuff is baby-wipe warmers or gourmet meals delivered after hours to our offices. Both are powered by fear of a loss of face. But the two also come into conflict, and therein may lie one route to salvation. It is mothers caught between overparenting and overwork who have the strongest incentive to push back against the forces that drive them. I wouldn't go so far as to echo what one writer recently said in The New York Times Magazine, which is that mothers opting out of their careers herald a new revolution, because revolutions tend to end badly, and this one seems pretty inauspicious. But insofar as mothers with jobs and mothers without them could conceivably band together to form a very large interest group, we do represent a whopping opportunity for change. Whether we take that opportunity depends on whether we can pull ourselves out of our mess long enough to persuade those around us to clean up theirs. 

I Listened to my friends, listened to talk radio, to the mothers on the playground, and to my daughter's nursery school teachers, and I found it all -- the general culture of motherhood in America -- oppressive. The pressure to perform, to attain levels of perfect selflessness was insane. And it was, I thought, as I listened to one more anguished friend wringing her hands over the work-family ''balance,'' and another expressing her guilt at not having ''succeeded'' at breast-feeding, driving American mothers crazy.
 Myself along with them. 
 It took very little time on the ground in America before I found myself becoming unrecognizable. I bought an S.U.V. I signed my unathletic elder daughter up for soccer. Other 3-year-olds in her class were taking gymnastics, too, and art, and swimming and music. I signed her up for ballet. I bought a small library of pre-K skill books. I went around in a state of quiet panic. From ''Perfect Madness.''


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (89%); WOMEN (89%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); INTERVIEWS (67%); HUMAN RESOURCES (62%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%) Judith Shulevitz; Judith Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



396 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 3920 words

HEADLINE: The Cuban Import

BYLINE: By Robert Andrew Powell. 
Robert Andrew Powell is the author of ''We Own This Game: A Season in the Adult World of Youth Football.'' This is his first article for the magazine.

 BODY:
A question mark hovers above Kendry Morales like a halo. One of the newest members of the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim baseball team, which begins spring training this week, he may be the best young hitter ever to defect from Cuba. Or, just as likely, he may be another overhyped bust, like so many Cuban prospects before him. When I met him last summer, a couple of months after his flight from Cuba, at his temporary home in the Dominican Republic, there were only two people who seemed certain of his success. One was Morales himself. The other was John Di Manno, an accountant from Toronto.
 Wherever Morales went, Di Manno was by his side. They slept in the same apartment in Santo Domingo, the capital of the Dominican Republic. Di Manno hired the cabs for the 40-minute drive to the complex where Morales worked out every morning and sat in the cramped back seat. Along the way, the car climbed drive-shaft-scraping speed bumps and passed by roadside vendors selling mangoes, cigarettes and coconut water tapped with the swift slice of a machete. Morales, folded into the front passenger seat, sang along to the radio. When the car drove by an attractive woman, Morales reached over to honk the horn. Di Manno chuckled approvingly. 
 The way Di Manno followed Morales around, he could have been mistaken for a personal valet. At La Loma del Suenos, a collection of fields rented and operated by the New York Yankees, Di Manno carried the player's bat, spikes, hat and batting gloves. When Morales broke a sweat, Di Manno pulled a fresh shirt from an equipment bag. When Morales requested a cup of water, Di Manno trotted off to find a cooler and some waxy paper cups.
 Di Manno told me that he was an accountant only by training, that he had evolved into more of an entrepreneur. His partners back in Canada, at DSP Chartered Accountants, accepted his new job description at face value. ''I'm doing all the actual accounting for him,'' Adam Sorrenti, one of the firm's partners, said. ''He hasn't been seen around here in four months. When he gets back, if he ever comes back, he's got to decide what he wants to do -- be an accountant or be a baseball agent.''
 Di Manno apparently wants to be a baseball agent. For several years he had been trying to hook up with a top Cuban player willing to defect to the United States. There were some false starts -- like the time, according to another agent, Di Manno pursued a promising pitcher only to lose him to that agent. But finally, in Morales, Di Manno had found his man.
 ''In this business, it's all about landing the right guy,'' Di Manno said. ''That one big client that can lead to more opportunities down the road, many more opportunities.''
 He spent months winning Morales's confidence, meeting with him in Cuba, phoning him from Canada, dangling before him all the dollar signs available in the major leagues. When Morales finally defected, last June, Di Manno was waiting for him in Miami. Morales signed a personal-services contract binding the two men even though Di Manno was not yet an agent certified by Major League Baseball and had never represented another athlete.
 I flew to the Dominican Republic with as many questions about Di Manno as scouts had about Morales. Scouts wondered if Morales could field, or hit major-league pitching. I wondered if Di Manno was a shark, a hustler holding undue influence over a 21-year-old new to a free market system. After a few days in the company of both men, however, I wondered who exactly was the savvy businessman and who had just stepped off the boat.
 ''It's amazing how quickly he picked up on capitalism, on stuff like leasing,'' Di Manno said. ''In Cuba you can't rent or own, yet he'll ask me late at night, 'What do you think about buying this apartment building, putting money down and paying off the mortgage with the rent?' It's incredible.''
There is a calmness about Morales. It's a trait he shares with many elite athletes, a certainty that if he works hard at his game, the details and problems of life will take care of themselves. That's the way it has been so far. Baseball gave him a better life in Cuba, an air-conditioned three-bedroom house and more food on the table for his mother and his young wife (who remains in Cuba).
 Like many boys in Cuba, he started playing the game when he was very young. By 18, Morales had emerged as a star on Havana's Industriales, a team in Cuba's domestic league. He played first base, third base, right field and even pitcher for the Cuban junior national team. He hit a grand slam to help the senior national team defeat Taiwan during the 2003 Baseball World Cup, which was held in Havana.
 He was leading the Cuban league in hits in late 2003 when he was suspended after authorities suspected he was trying to defect. By last summer, two months after he did defect, and after nearly a year spent outside baseball, Morales looked overweight more than athletic. He stood a bit taller than six feet and was thick in the trunk, and his face was rounded with the last remnants of baby fat. A stomach as broad as his shoulders made him resemble a water tank. His ropy forearms -- his most distinctive muscle set -- were thicker than some men's legs.
 His swing revealed his grace. It's a good swing, compact and violent. Power from both sides of the plate -- that's what his advocates always say. That's his gift, his talent. Batting left or batting right, he sprays line drives so hard and fast that they often lead to stand-up doubles and runs batted in.
 ''He has hitting potential,'' Carlos Rios, the Yankees' head scout for Latin America, told me back in August, when the Yankees were considering a bid for Morales. ''Any blind man can figure that out.''
 When he was not hitting, Morales moved in slow motion, conserving his energy much the way Henry Aaron did. Peter Gammons, the ESPN baseball analyst, has said that Morales has carried himself with the air of a veteran ever since he was a teenager in Cuba's development program.
 Morales expressed mixed feelings about the quality of his life in Cuba. When prompted, he responded with the standard exile party line, guaranteed to play in Miami. ''Castro didn't allow freedom,'' he said. ''When we got on that boat and left Cuba, my first thought was that I was a free man, that I wasn't a prisoner anymore.''
 He complained that he was paid only $5 a month to play baseball. Yet he also admitted that $5 stretched pretty far: the large air-conditioned house; Industriales fans helping out with food.
 ''Everyone in Cuba struggles, and I struggled as well, but after I started to play better, things improved,'' he said.
More than 100 Cuban baseball players have defected since 1991, when the pitcher Rene Arocha broke away from the national team during a layover in the Miami airport. Very few of the players who followed his lead have enjoyed successful major-league careers. Most have flamed out with blown elbows or inferior play. Only three Cuban pitchers have thrown more than 200 innings in a single major-league season.
 In less than a season with the Yankees last year, Jose Contreras was demoted twice to the minor leagues and then traded to the Chicago White Sox. Danys Baez was cut from the Cleveland Indians after losing his spot as a closer. (He has since landed with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.) Soon after Morales defected to Florida, three other Cuban players defected to Mexico. None of them have signed a contract.
 A few defectors have succeeded. Rey Ordonez won three Gold Gloves at shortstop for the Mets. The center fielder Alex Sanchez bats leadoff in Detroit. Livan Hernandez, a pitcher, was the M.V.P. of the 1997 World Series. Orlando (El Duque) Hernandez, Livan's half-brother, won his own World Series rings with the Yankees as a pitcher.
 Despite this uneven record, there is true talent in Cuba, and because major-league teams are barred by law from scouting the island, Cuban baseball players have long enjoyed the lure of the forbidden.
 ''It's exactly like Cuban cigars,'' says the Cuban baseball historian Milton Jamail. ''The players are almost always overvalued. The players may be really good, but they're still overvalued because they're exotic.''
 Even in Communist Cuba, Morales came to grasp his market value. Players he considered himself to be every bit as good as -- if not better than -- had signed eye-popping major-league contracts. The Yankees agreed to pay Jose Contreras $8 million a year. Livan Hernandez earns $7 million a year. The pull to follow his peers to the U.S. was there for Morales, though it was not strong initially.
 ''I knew that one could have a better life in North America, but I never really thought of it as an option, because at that time I'd never really had any problems with the government,'' Morales told me.
 Sometime after he first met Di Manno, about two years ago, Morales changed his mind. While he never publicly said he planned to leave the country, government officials grew wary of Morales's commitment to the revolution. In November 2003, during an Olympic qualifying tournament in Panama, a Cuban official pulled Morales off the field in the third inning of a game and drove him straight to the Cuban Embassy. Morales was flown back to the island, sequestered on the airplane in the middle of an empty row of seats. He never played for the national team again and was permanently suspended from his club team in December.
 ''I started to think then I might as well defect,'' he said.
 Morales claimed he tried and failed to leave Cuba eight times before he finally succeeded, on June 8. In a coastal town he declined to identify, Morales joined a former pitching coach and 17 others for a clandestine trip to Key West.
 The traverse of the Florida Straits has been mythologized with tales of dehydration and starvation. After El Duque's defection in 1997, stories arose of his having fended off a shark. On a tipsy raft, the trip can last as long as three days. ''It took about four hours,'' Morales said of his trip, a sure clue that he was smuggled on a go-fast boat.
Cubans who set foot on Florida soil are almost always allowed to stay. When Morales was released from the immigration detention center in Miami, John Di Manno was there to pick him up.
 ''I used to know John from Cuba,'' Morales said. ''We used to communicate on the phone in Cuba. After I got out, I called John, and John came over.''
 The decision to call Di Manno is one the aspiring agent told me was simply good fortune on his part. The Miami Herald reported that there was a six-figure bidding war for Morales involving at least four agents, a charge Di Manno flatly denies. Yet one of those competing agents, Juan Iglesias, based in Miami, insisted Morales did try to auction himself to the highest bidder.
 ''I was contacted directly,'' said Iglesias, who represents Livan Hernandez. ''You can quote me: Kendry was trying to make a deal.'' 
 Another agent based in Miami, Henry Vilar, told me that he, too, was offered the right to represent Morales in exchange for an upfront cash payment.
 The competition for Morales didn't stop after he signed with Di Manno. Before arranging to move Morales to the Dominican Republic, where the player would not be subject to baseball's annual draft and so would enjoy greater negotiating leverage than he would in the United States, Di Manno hid out with Morales for a month in Orlando. Together they rode roller coasters at DisneyWorld and fattened up on chicken wings at a Hooters restaurant.
 ''I had to get out of Miami,'' Di Manno said. ''There was this group of people from, I guess I'll say a third-world country, who had befriended him in Cuba. As soon as Kendry got to Miami, they started calling for him four, five, six times a day, every day. They were calling his mom telling her that he'd been kidnapped and was being held hostage. Kendry had to call her and say, 'No, I'm staying in a nice house and I'm eating well and I'm being taken care of.'''
 Di Manno is 40 years old. In a polo shirt and khaki shorts, with his receding hairline trimmed to a buzz cut, he looks like the adult embodiment of Charlie Brown. A steady diet of cigarettes has stained his teeth. He smokes when he's bored or nervous, the cigarettes dancing around his fingers while his eyes dart left and right. It's as if he's always on the lookout for spies or rival agents, which he is.
 Cockroaches, he called them, men who sidled up to Morales on the street or even in the field at practice, denigrating Di Manno, saying he didn't know what he was doing, how he had never represented a player before, how Morales would be so much better off switching to a real professional.
 Di Manno insists he is a professional. He talks like a professional, anyway. ''In this business, you have to have a team,'' he said. ''You can't do it alone. I've surrounded myself with people I can trust -- because in this business it's dog eat dog -- and I let them do it.''
 An immigration attorney in the Dominican Republic helped Morales obtain residency there. A crew of marketers had been mobilized in Toronto, Di Manno said, ready to affix the Kendry Morales brand to beer, bats, shoes and other endorsable products. Discussions with major-league teams were subcontracted to David Valdes, a 32-year-old agent based in Miami, a man whose e-mail goes through the mortgage company where he works, and which he can fall back on if the agent business doesn't pan out.
 ''He's the money man,'' Valdes said of Di Manno. ''I'm the certified agent of record, but he's the money man. He's like the C.E.O. of this operation.'' If Morales makes the majors, then Di Manno, as his representative, is eligible to become a league-certified agent who would no longer need a middleman like Valdes. (Breaking in as the agent of a major-league player is a bit of a Catch-22. Only union-certified agents like Valdes are officially allowed to negotiate with major-league teams like the Angels. Once a player signs with a team, and is added to its 40-man roster, that player can turn around and appoint whomever he pleases to be his representative. Only then is that new agent allowed to apply for union certification.)
 Di Manno's move into the sports business grew out of his love for Cuba in general. He had been vacationing there for years and has a Cuban-born wife; they take their young son back to visit her family every year. On the island, Communism doesn't foster the celebrity posse; there isn't much of a barrier between athletes and average citizens. Di Manno had little trouble penetrating Morales's circle.
 ''The first time I met him we talked and clicked,'' Di Manno recalled. ''There was a little patio in Havana where he was talking to a few friends. One of the people I was with recognized him and introduced me to him. We kept in contact, talking occasionally. 'How you doing?' This and that. I saw a business opportunity.''
 Before he hooked up with Morales, Di Manno established a relationship with Maels Rodriguez, probably the least fortunate of the recent defectors. When Rodriguez fled Cuba in 2003, he was touted as a sure-fire major-league player -- not just a starter but an ace, an All-Star. His fastball had been measured at more than 100 miles per hour. His agent, Henry Vilar, established residency for Rodriguez in El Salvador, then announced that the $32 million contract Jose Contreras signed with the Yankees was a good starting point for negotiations. Some 15 teams sent scouts to watch Rodriguez pitch in San Salvador. But at those workouts, the baseball never traveled into the 90's, much less triple digits. Rodriguez has yet to sign a contract with any team.
 ''I didn't know who Di Manno was until he called me after Maels signed with me,'' Vilar told me. ''I got a call from Di Manno saying he had a lot of money invested in trips to Cuba visiting Maels and that he's been good to him and that he can't believe he got [expletive] over by him.'' Di Manno claimed he did not try to represent Rodriguez.
 Although Vilar landed Rodriguez initially, he eventually lost the pitcher. After relocating Rodriguez to the Dominican Republic in an attempt to restart his career, Vilar flew to Miami to celebrate his son's fifth birthday. When he returned to Santo Domingo two days later, Rodriguez disappeared. The pitcher eventually resurfaced under contract with another agent in Miami.
 In a lawsuit filed in November in Miami-Dade Circuit Court, Vilar claimed that he invested more than $500,000 of his own money in Rodriguez and a second Cuban player, a figure he told me is at least $200,000 below what he actually spent.
 ''It's not just the two players,'' Vilar said. ''It's also family members, wives and best friends who were living life large here. I have a lot of my money in real estate, and I had sold off some of my properties to have the money available to do this business deal.'' After I met with Vilar, in the family's cigar shop in South Miami, located in a strip mall between the Big Tomato pizzeria and a beauty shop, the parties to the lawsuit agreed to submit to arbitration.
 Di Manno said the dollar figures in Vilar's lawsuit sounded plausible. ''I don't really know the particular details,'' he told me, ''but there are a lot of costs. Room and board for four or five months, travel -- it starts accumulating. When you get involved with international players, there are a lot of up-front costs.''
 Like Vilar, Di Manno became personally leveraged in his Cuban investment. Also like Vilar, Di Manno enjoys no guarantees that the time and money he advanced Morales will be recouped. It's almost impossibly tricky for any athlete to make a major-league roster. More than a few pro scouts doubt Morales's ability to become one of the lucky few, even though he has signed with the Angels.
The lessons of Maels Rodriguez were perhaps the primary reason that Di Manno harnessed himself so completely to Kendry Morales. He relocated his entire life to Santo Domingo. He stopped looking at clients' tax returns, though he said he could have been billing $350 an hour for his accounting expertise. Even factoring in an unfavorable Canadian exchange rate, his time was valuable.
 The negotiations with major-league teams dragged on for months, into late November. Di Manno and Morales tried to stick to a routine. They would catch their taxi at 7 a.m. for the drive from Santo Domingo to the Yankees' baseball complex. Kendry practiced his swing in batting-cage sessions and lifted weights in a modest gym. Some mornings he worked on fielding drills -- Morales is not known for his defense. As Morales scooped up ground balls sprayed by a Yankees coach, Di Manno stood on first base with a mitt, collecting the balls in a duffel bag.
 The Yankee imprint was everywhere at La Loma del Suenos, which in English is known as the Mountain of Dreams. The six infields were meticulously manicured. The bushes were groomed to resemble the arched wainscoting of Yankee Stadium. In deference to the Yankees, who insist players in their organization be clean-cut, Morales had taped a Band-Aid over a small gold stud in his ear.
 The Yankees have a history of foreign investment, which includes El Duque and Contreras. Yet the team lost interest in Morales, perhaps because Contreras was such an expensive disappointment. So Morales proceeded to showcase his swing at compounds run by other major-league teams. The Mariners were interested for a while, then passed. A Florida Marlins scout declared Morales a legitimate hitter, if not quite ready for the majors. A scout for the Tigers flew back to Detroit unwilling to offer Morales a contract.
 ''I think the guy has the chance to be an average offensive player in the major leagues,'' said a scouting director for one of the few teams that expressed sustained interest in Morales. (He asked not to be identified because he didn't want to poison any future dealings with the Angels, Morales or Di Manno.) ''And that remains to be seen. He's an average player to be sure.'' 
 Every afternoon Morales ate and napped in the apartment he shared with Di Manno and Di Manno's wife and son. Morales was inclined to stay in all evening watching baseball on television, but at least a few nights every week Di Manno dragged him out. They ate pork sandwiches while sitting on a rocky seawall that juts off the Malecon. Sometimes they played pool in a bar until the electricity failed, as it did for hours almost every night. As the calendar advanced toward December, Di Manno worried that Morales would start playing Dominican winter ball without the safety net of a contract, leaving him vulnerable to a slump or an injury that would reduce his market value.
 ''Our initial assessment of them was that they were in kind of over their heads,'' the scouting director said, referring to Di Manno and his partner, David Valdes. ''The numbers they were talking were unrealistic in our opinion. I think they really didn't have a good perspective for the kind of market it was.''
 Only the Angels were willing to take a chance. The team flew two scouts down to spend a week in Santo Domingo. They stayed in the same hotel as Morales and Di Manno. The scouts shared meals, playing Ping-Pong with Morales after dinner. After they returned to the U.S., the Angels offered Morales a contract, which he and Di Manno accepted. 
 The contract is two-tiered, depending on whether Morales makes the Angels or is relegated to the minors. If Morales makes the Angels this spring and stays with the team for the next six years, he will earn at least $6 million, on top of the $3 million signing bonus he gets now. If he stays in the minors all six years, his minimum earnings sink to $1.5 million total after his signing bonus. The contract is unusual: in the fantastic economy of Major League Baseball, $9 million over six years for an established player is outrageously low, an almost-criminal steal for the Angels. Yet if Morales fails to make the team, his salary -- even with its hefty cut -- will make him one of the best-compensated minor leaguers ever.
 ''All I'll say is we're happy with it,'' Di Manno said. ''It's a very good contract. It's a six-year major-league contract with a sizable signing bonus and a lot of guaranteed money.''
 Kendry Morales, born into Communism, unproved and unwanted by almost every major-league team, is now a millionaire. It's not clear what Di Manno's take will be. If Kendry establishes himself with the Angels, Di Manno stands to make about $80,000 a year, minus taxes and whatever cut he must slip his partner Valdes. 
 For Di Manno to really cash in, though, Morales must play six years of exceptional professional baseball -- and then, as he prepares to sign a new major-league contract, he must retain Di Manno as his agent. A number of reasons make that a difficult proposition to count on, however. One of the biggest hang-ups: most Latin players change agents four times in their professional careers, according to Vilar.
 ''The player has to back you up,'' Vilar said. ''That's the biggest thing. Di Manno can be there'' doing everything -- ''but the next day Kendry can still be gone.''
 Di Manno trusts Morales to show loyalty. They are a team now, he said, more like brothers than mere business partners. 
 ''Kendry is a very intelligent man,'' Di Manno said. ''He knows I've made an investment in terms of dollars. And let's be honest, he is a very good investment on my part. I stand to make a very good return for my work.''
 The investment will pay off, Di Manno said. He is sure of it. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Landed: Morales and John Di Manno.
 Morales at the Angels' training complex in the Dominican Republic. The big money, if there is to be any, will come from his swing, which is compact and able to shoot line drives from both sides of the plate. (Photographs by Stefan Ruiz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ACCOUNTING (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LOS ANGELES (90%); NEW YORK YANKEES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (74%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%) DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



397 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Four Strong Emerging Markets. But How to Play Them?

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
WHAT do Brazil, Russia, India and China have in common? They have the greatest prospects for long-term economic growth among big emerging-market countries, in the view of many analysts, who are bullish about investing in them.
 Goldman Sachs calls the four countries the BRIC's, for their first initials, and many analysts say that all four have growing middle classes and improving domestic infrastructures, and are likely to play dominant roles in the global economy. 
 ''The strong growth in these economies should mean good growth in stock returns and currency appreciation over the long term,'' said Dominic Wilson, senior global economist at Goldman Sachs.
 For Americans, making a focused investment in all four of these countries isn't easy, or necessarily desirable. For one thing, no American mutual fund concentrates on just these four countries, although some firms are considering the possibility. Christian Deseglise, product manager for emerging markets at HSBC Asset Management, said his firm had just created an overseas BRIC fund for wealthy European investors and may start an American counterpart soon. 
 More crucial, though, is that some strategists say it wouldn't be wise to put too much money into these markets. Even if the four countries fulfill their economic potential, their domestic stock markets will not necessarily boom.
 Over the short term, emerging-market performance doesn't neatly track economic growth. Last year, for example, the gross domestic product of Brazil grew by only 5 percent, but its stock market jumped about 30 percent in United States dollar terms. And in China, the stock market was virtually flat despite economic growth of 9 percent. 
 The Brazilian market benefited because it had been so depressed by earlier concerns over the 2002 election of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, who some investors feared was unfriendly toward business. Concerns about corporate governance in China continue to worry international investors who are still skittish about putting money there. 
 ''There are so many difficult issues for foreign investors in China,'' said Brad Durham, an analyst at Emerging Portfolio Fund Research in Boston. He said that foreigners could buy only certain designated shares on Chinese exchanges and that a lack of regulation had led to trading abuses. 
 For those reasons, he said, making big focused bets is not wise for most investors. ''Retail investors should not go into single-country stocks,'' he said. ''They tend to be volatile, and you have to monitor the market regularly.'' 
 Instead, many experts said, the best plan may be to stick to a diversified fund that includes broad exposure to the four major emerging markets, though is not limited to them. Jacob Rees-Mogg, who manages the Eaton Vance Emerging Markets fund, says he does not believe that opportunities for investment are any better in the BRIC's than in emerging-market countries in general. ''There is no reason to exclude the other countries,'' he said. His fund's largest country allocation -- 20 percent -- is currently South Korea. That is partly because domestic consumption is picking up there, he said, after a huge increase in credit card debt. 
 Another expert on emerging markets, D.Kirk Henry, who manages the Dreyfus Premier Emerging Markets fund, said that ''many of the big markets in Asia have been dependent on selling to Western markets.'' Mr. Henry added, ''Now we are seeing a shift toward Asia, where domestic consumption is more important.'' The fund gained 22.9 percent a year, on average, over the last three years.
 For the future, the BRIC's have great allure. Their representation in global equity markets, measured by total capitalization could soar to as much as 10 percent by 2020 from 3.5 percent today, Goldman Sachs estimated. But some investors say that it is too risky to move much money into a single market like China. Mr. Rees-Mogg, for one, said that his fund had little investment there because of corporate governance problems. ''In many companies, investors are minority shareholders alongside the government or a family,'' he said. ''A family-controlled company may decide to diversify into a completely different line of business, for instance. And though the government is a better partner, you have to be concerned because only a small percentage of the stocks in many companies actually trades. For example, PetroChina is a $100 billion company of which the government owns 90 percent. It can decide to issue new stock at any time.'' 
 Whether the investment is in individual stocks or country-specific mutual funds, political developments in emerging markets can have a big impact. Consider that the Indian stock market fell 17 percent over two days in May after parliamentary elections permitted the Indian National Congress party to retake power.
 Of course, markets can stage quick comebacks. Oppenheimer's India Fund, for example, managed by Punita Kumar-Sinha, has averaged a gain of 37.8 percent, annualized, over the last three years. It had a surge of 139.3 percent in 2003 and a decline of 20.8 percent in 2001. 
 Returns of Oppenheimer's Asia Tigers fund, also managed by Ms. Kumar-Sinha, have not been quite as volatile. The fund, which is more diversified, has returned 15.9 percent, on average, over the last three years. Last year, when the fund was up 10.5 percent, it had about 30 percent of its holdings in South Korea, 10 percent in India and 2.4 percent in China. ''In India last year we were overweighted in construction, engineering and capital goods,'' she said, adding that the company had positions in Bharat Heavy Electricals and in ABB India, both power-equipment manufacturers. 
 ''In China we liked the consumer sector,'' she said, with holdings in People's Food, largely a pork processing company, and the Want Want Group, a food company whose main product is rice crackers.
 SOME analysts are bullish on India. Nandita Parker, who runs the Karma Fund, a small hedge fund that invests in Indian stocks and jumped 37 percent last year, said that the economy was expected to sustain economic growth of 6 to 8 percent a year over the next several years, slower than the 8.25 percent growth of last year. But Mr. Rees-Mogg has pulled back his fund's holdings in India, he said, because he thought valuations there were too high. 
 And some analysts say that while the Russian market is now relatively inexpensive, the short-term outlook for stocks is very uncertain, because of the battle between Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president, and Yukos, the nation's largest oil company. Yukos is seeking bankruptcy protection in federal court in Houston, while the Russian government is trying to liquidate it. 
 Indeed, the volatility of emerging markets can sometimes make investors' stomachs churn. That is why diversification in these markets may be a smart move. When a market plummets, ''if it is 10 percent of your portfolio, it is annoying; if it is 100 percent, well . . .'' Mr. Rees-Mogg said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shares of the Want Want Group, a Chinese food maker, are in the Asia Tigers fund. (Photo by Want Want via Bloomberg News)Chart: ''Promising Markets''Stock market performance in U.S. dollarsGraph tracks stock market performance (3 years, 1 year and year to date) for:BRAZIL -- Bovespa indexRUSSIA: RTS indexINDIA: Mumbai Stock Exchange Sensitive indexCHINA: Shanghai B-share Stock Price index(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (92%); BRIC COUNTRIES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); HSBC ASSET MANAGEMENT LTD (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (58%) EAST CHINA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (94%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



398 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: A Bookkeeping Error Adds To Heating Bills Statewide

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
While it has been a relatively mild winter, it may not feel that way for people who heat their homes with natural gas. Heating bills in New York State have increased by more than 20 percent since last winter as the price for natural gas has gone through the roof. But for some people the spike is even bigger because they are still feeling the effects of a bookkeeping error that sent the gas market haywire in November.
 It all started around noon on Nov. 24 when a federal agency known as the Energy Information Administration issued its weekly report on natural gas inventories. The report indicated erroneously that there would be one-third as much gas put into storage that week as the industry expected, sending energy traders on a buying frenzy. 
 ''It was a complete panic,'' said Saul Horowitz, chief executive officer of Econnergy, a company based in Spring Valley, about 20 miles north of Manhattan. ''The price for natural gas went from $6.30 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas to $8.05 in less than hour.'' The error led Econnergy to pay more than $6 million extra for its gas, a charge that is being passed to its 160,000 customers.
 Part of the mistake was caused by Dominion Transmission Inc., an interstate gas transmission company based in Clarksburg, W.Va., which submitted incorrect numbers to federal regulators. But even though company officials notified federal regulators of the mistake later the same day, the Energy Information Administration, an agency within the Department of Energy, did not publicly correct the mistake until it printed its next report, a week later.
 Last May, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission adopted new rules against market manipulation that required utilities to give back profits earned as a result of data that was intentionally misconstrued. But against the arguments of consumer advocacy groups, federal regulators decided not to require utilities to return profits based on data that was unintentionally misconstrued.
 On Friday, Senator Charles E. Schumer sent a letter to the energy administration requesting an exact figure on how much New York customers paid for gas bought at the price that had been inflated in error. A spokesman for Mr. Schumer said that federal officials had estimated that the mistake inflated consumer fuel costs nationwide by $200 million to $1 billion.
 David C. Flanagan, a spokesman for the New York State Public Service Commission, which regulates utilities in the state, said that the commission had asked the Energy Information Administration to begin publishing its reports daily rather than weekly so that problems could be caught sooner.
 Econnergy and other small energy providers in the state were hit hardest by the mistake because they depend more on short-term markets for buying gas. 
 Larger utilities like Consolidated Edison and KeySpan Energy Corporation are less vulnerable to short-term markets because they usually buy much more gas in advance.
 ''The impact we felt was ameliorated by the fact that we keep a diverse portfolio of short- and long-term contracts,'' said Chris Olert, a spokesman for Consolidated Edison, which has about 1.1 million gas customers. An average Con Ed residential gas customer, who paid about $888 for home heating fuel from November 2003 through January 2004, paid about $1,040 for the same period ending last month, he said. For competitive reasons, Mr. Olert said he could not disclose how much the utility bought from short-term markets or how much of this winter's price increase was a result of the energy administration's error.
 The manager of regulatory affairs for KeySpan, Joan Graves, said that its 1.5 million gas customers in the New York City region would probably face an 11 percent increase in their bills this winter from last. Although she could not estimate how much the utility had been affected by the recent error, she said that the bigger variable had been the nationwide increase in natural gas prices.
 The price of natural gas has increased by more than 30 percent nationwide in the last year.
 ''New York customers are simply too vulnerable to the short-term fluctuations in energy spot markets,'' said Gerald A. Norlander, executive director of the Public Utility Law Project in Albany. ''The state needs to catch up with the national trend in which utilities are becoming less dependent on short-term buying.'' 
 In an Oct. 7 petition to the Public Service Commission, Con Ed requested that state regulators push all utilities to buy more of their gas from longer-term markets in an effort to stabilize prices. The commission denied the petition in December.
 ''We still don't have a figure on how many people in New York were affected by this mistake,'' said John B. Howard, chief of staff for State Assemblyman Paul D. Tonko, chairman of the Assembly's Energy Committee. ''But I think it's pretty clear that we need more regulations on how these utilities operate.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (65%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (83%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); ED (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



399 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; GOING TO: LOS ANGELES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1678 words

HEADLINE: Paying Homage to Hollywood's High Holy Days

BYLINE: By SALLY HORCHOW

 BODY:

Why Go Now
 The historian Carey McWilliams once said that being in Los Angeles was like having a ''ringside seat at the circus.'' Never is that truer than during the entertainment industry's high holy days -- the awards season -- which culminate in the 77th annual Academy Awards at the Kodak Theater on Feb. 27. 
 Between the frenzy of award-related parties, the rush of the ''-ists'' (stylists, publicists, hair and makeup artists) to properly adorn their clients, and the flash of celebrities at every turn, it's difficult not to get caught up in the ''Hooray for Hollywood''-soundtracked excitement -- even if a ticket, guest-list inclusion or Oscar nomination evades you.

Where to Stay
 Although Los Angeles has a premium selection of hotels, the more centrally located luxury fare offer the best vantage points. The elegant 85-room 2 Four Seasons Hotel Los Angeles at Beverly Hills, 300 South Doheny Drive, (310) 273-2222; www.fourseasons.com/losangeles, is the entertainment industry's year-round home away from home. Leading up to the Oscars, the hotel celebrates its Hollywood family with specialty cocktails, a three-week exhibition of the pastry chef's confections inspired by each nominee for best picture and a viewing party for the few guests who don't attend the ceremony. The hotel's famously grand floral arrangements seem much more lush, and the pool and lobby bar seem much more glamorous when you spot Liam Neeson, Cate Blanchett or Morgan Freeman around them. Double rooms start at $375. 
 Down the street, The Peninsula Beverly Hills Hotel, 9882 South Santa Monica Boulevard, (310) 551-2888, www.peninsula.com, takes a more subtle approach to its Oscar revelry. As a result, its guests are often heads of state, privacy-seeking stars and, most notably, Miramax Films executives (the Weinstein brothers hold court there). The French country estate decor and over-the-top service, with amenities like free monogrammed pillowcases (upon request) and 24-hour check-in and check-out, add to the hotel's refined ambience, though the lobby still gets its share of rushed stylists and harried assistants during Oscar week. On Oscar Sunday, when an onslaught of limousines surrounds the hotel, the crisply uniformed valets coordinate the departures with aplomb, calling up to the room as a guest's car enters the cobblestone driveway. The subsequent lobby walk is the first red-carpet parade of the day and worth the price of admission, which is $425 to $575 for a double and a place on the general manager's tightly controlled reservation list. 
 In 1929, when the first Academy Awards were given out at the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel, the legendary Chateau Marmont, 8221 Sunset Boulevard, (323) 656-1010, www.chateaumarmont.com, was being built a few miles west. Thanks to the high profile of its current owner, Andre Balazs, and a smartly done renovation in the 1990's, the European-style Chateau remains the hotel of choice for cosmopolitan creative types. Originally a luxury apartment complex, most of the rooms have kitchenettes. But the nightly goings-on in the salon-like lobby -- more living room than entrance hall -- are the reason to stay there. Place your entourage in one of the period seating vignettes and watch Javier Bardem, Leonardo DiCaprio and Pamela Anderson inhale the same smoke-filled air. Doubles start at $315. Belushi's infamous bungalow: $1,500.

Where to Eat
 The Ivy, 113 North Robertson Boulevard, (310) 274-8303, is on one of the most popular shopping streets in town, making it an ideal spot for lunch, though securing a table on the street-front patio is like getting a ticket to the Oscar ceremony itself. The never-changing menu of crab cakes, chopped salads and grilled items takes a back seat to the rubbernecking to see celebrities, or the ducking from paparazzi by the stars. Open daily for lunch and dinner.
 Perhaps a slightly easier reservation, but just as much a power lunch or dinner spot, the Polo Lounge at the Beverly Hills Hotel, 9641 Sunset Boulevard, (310) 887-2777, aka the Pink Palace, with its banana-leaf wallpaper and standard-playing pianist, packs an old-school Hollywood punch but is just as popular with the young set. Order the famous McCarthy salad ($20) and look out for regulars like Warren and Annette.
 Across town, there is never a dull moment at Mauro's Cafe in the Fred Segal Center, 8100 Melrose Avenue, (323) 653-2874, where a selection of delicious pastas is shunned by the carb-free likes of Paris Hilton and Jennifer Garner for the spinach salad or vegetable sautes. Others embrace the traditional Italian fare, tiramisu and all, before a calorie-burning session in the adjoining trendy Ron Herman boutiques.
 If you want to follow the ''it'' crowd to dinner, head to Koi, 730 North La Cienega Boulevard, (310) 659-9449, for sushi and sake and sightings. It's open nightly, except on Oscar Sunday, when it's being rented for a top-secret Oscar party.

What to Do During the Day
 On any other visit, a jaunt to the surf breaks of Malibu or taking in a performance at Frank Gehry's Disney Concert Hall would be compulsory. This time, Oscar prep time is essential. Nominees, presenters and their stylists spend the week attending private in-suite shopping sprees at hotels. But apparel worthy of the red carpet is readily available around town for everyone else.
 The second-floor couture department at Barneys New York, 9570 Wilshire Boulevard, (310) 276-4400, is the best place to start. Unless it's the afternoon before the Oscar ceremony, when most stars attend the Independent Spirit Awards in Santa Monica, you're bound to spot a few descending the grand staircase. The dizzying shoe department has the best collection of Manolo Blahnik, Marc Jacobs and Prada around. 
 For gowns, resist the temptation to hit the Rodeo Drive stores -- you can see those anywhere -- and go to Decades, upstairs at 8214 1/2 Melrose Avenue, (323) 655-0223, a vintage couture boutique where the owner, Cameron Silver, expertly edits classic eveningwear from the 1920's to the 1970's. To secure a fitting of the apple-green Galanos chiffon gown from the 1970's ($3,600) or the Nina Ricci strapless floral gown from the same era ($4,200) that have been on display, visit the salon Monday through Saturday from 11:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
 The reigning queen of a new generation of jewelry designers is Erica Courtney, 7465 Beverly Boulevard, (323) 938-2850, www.ericacourtney.com, who has taken her rightful place on the red carpet next to Harry Winston and Neil Lane. On view at her boutique are platinum, diamond and colored-stone baubles (for $9,000 to $120,000) that you just might see at the Awards show. 
 After shopping, it's time to get ready for your close-up -- an industry in its own right, with every Beverly Hills spa trying to entice nominees with new treatments containing diamonds, caviar or other potentially luck-enhancing ingredients. But dedicated clients of the Face Place, 8701 Santa Monica Boulevard, (310) 855-1150, which include Sofia Coppola, Michelle Pfeiffer and Johnny Depp, prefer this West Hollywood hideaway's year-round anti-aging approach: a no-nonsense facial using galvanic current. 
 The 2 Spa at the Four Seasons Hotel Los Angeles at Beverly Hills, 300 South Doheny Drive, (310) 273-2222, is the only place in town to get Sun FX ($85), a new, odor-free Australian airbrush tanning treatment that will cast a streak-free bronze. Exfoliate with a chamomile body scrub ($85) first, and the tan will last through the week. 
 Christophe and Frederic Fekkai may be too busy to create your updo on Oscar weekend, but who goes to a salon anymore, anyway? Fred Segal Mobile, from Fred Segal Beauty at 420 Broadway in Santa Monica, (310) 451-3808 or on the Web at www.fredsegalbeauty.com, will bring all of its services -- from a basic blow dry ($125) to a make-up application ($125) to a wardrobe styling ($175 an hour) -- right to your hotel room. 
 While you're at it, have a customized, delivered workout from Absolution, 8535 Santa Monica Boulevard, (310) 657-7878; www.absolution-la.com, a fitness center in West Hollywood that dispatches instructors in myriad practices, including Pilates, yoga, rock climbing -- even strip tease.

What to Do at Night
 ArcLight, 6360 West Sunset Boulevard, Hollywood, (323) 464-4226 or at www.arclightcinemas.com, offers an only-in-Hollywood movie experience, and for a city of film buffs, every detail -- including reserved seating, double-wide cinema chairs, THX systems and real butter for popcorn -- counts. Look for ''21+'' shows, when you can watch nominated films while sipping a martini or margarita from the lobby bar. 
 If yours was not one of the 300 names drawn on Oct. 1 for a bleacher seat at the Kodak, or you aren't Joan Rivers, you should plan on screening the red carpet arrivals on your television of choice. But if you later head to the Vanity Fair party at Mortons Restaurant, 8764 Melrose Avenue, (310) 276-5205, you can stand behind velvet ropes across Robertson Boulevard and watch the parade of stars. Who knows? You might just be discovered.

Your First Time or 10th
 Started in 1934 when a contingent of farmers displayed their produce on their truck's tailgates, the charming Farmers Market at 6333 West Third Street at Fairfax Avenue, (323) 933-9211, www.farmersmarketla.com, now has more than 70 shops and stalls (selling everything from gumbo to goat cheese). This place is the real deal: a unique melting pot of octogenarians, Japanese tourists, businessmen on lunch and yes, celebrities, gathered daily for the varied food choices and a respite from the city's other star attractions. 

How to Get Around
 Don't even think of public transportation: in Los Angeles, it's all about your car. To fit right in, forgo the Kia and call Beverly Hills Rent-a-Car, (800) 479-5996 or at www.bhrentacar.com. They will meet you at the airport or a hotel with one of a fleet of luxury cars, which includes a Hummer H2 ($349 a day), a new Rolls-Royce Phantom ($2,995 a day), and, for Leo-lovers, an economical, but trendy, Honda hybrid ($89 a day).


GRAPHIC: Photos: The salonlike lobby of the Chateau Marmont.
After picking up a vintage designer gown at Decades, above, you can get ready for your close-up at the Face Place, below.
 The spectrum of Los Angeles dining: The lunch crowd at the streetside patio of The Ivy, above, and grabbing a snack at the Farmers Market at Third and Fairfax, left. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)Map of Los Angeles shows tourist attractions and points of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CELEBRITIES (77%); FILM (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (71%) Travel and Vacations; Motion Pictures; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Academy Awards (Oscars)

PERSON: CATE BLANCHETT (57%); BOB WEINSTEIN (56%) Sally Horchow

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Los Angeles (Calif); California; Hollywood (Calif); Beverly Hills (Calif); West Hollywood (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



400 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Older Hands Find Place in a New Course

BYLINE: By Nicholas Confessore. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
FOR the last few years, Jack McGourty, an associate dean at Columbia University's engineering school, has been dispatching his department's first-year students into the neighborhoods of Upper Manhattan. There, they have applied the same talents that got them into one of the country's most selective colleges to helping those who have not had quite so many opportunities.But this year, Columbia's undergraduates will be joined by a few older faces: participants in a new program that gives out-of-work New Yorkers a chance to take classes at an Ivy League university, then puts them to work on service projects that use what they have learned.
 ''We like to say it's the community helping the community,'' says Dr. McGourty. 
 The new initiative, known as the Gateway Workforce Development Program, began last fall. Once a week, 20 New Yorkers -- selected by Managed Work Services, a Bronx-based employment services organization and Columbia's partner in the effort -- come to classes at the computer lab at the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. They learn how to operate Web design software, but just as important, they work on group projects and attend lectures on skills that can be harder to learn, like communicating with colleagues and managing team members who do not get along. 
 As the semester rolls on, the participants will begin designing a Web site for the program's client, Morningside Gardens, a middle-income housing development. (Last semester's participants did the same for the West Side Inter-Agency Council for the Aging.) Some students have had software training, Dr. McGourty said, but others ''have never even turned on a computer.''
 By combining the traditional ''service learning'' approach with training in job skills, Columbia's program aims to overcome a problem associated with traditional work programs: they cannot always provide on-the-job experience. 
 ''This program is more giving you experience in the real world,'' said one participant, Venus Lee, a Brooklyn woman in her late 50's who lost her job with I.B.M. a decade ago and has struggled to find full-time work while looking after her brother, who has required constant care since he was injured in a robbery in 1991. 
 ''The client gets a full-functioning Web site that fulfills their needs,'' Dr. McGourty said. ''And the students are put in a real working condition.''
 He continued: ''They have to work together and collaborate with both each other and the client. They have to manage their time and manage all the tasks involved in completing the product.''
 Dr. McGourty said he and his colleagues also believed that other programs did not teach the kind of life skills that many chronically unemployed people lack. ''What makes this different from other work programs,'' said Mary Sprague, the director of Managed Work Services, is its ''richness.'' ''So many of the training programs are very skill-oriented,'' she said. '''I'll teach you to be a dental assistant or a commercial driver.' This is much more holistic.''
 Cynthia Connor is an unemployed 32-year-old from Brooklyn whose last job was with the city's Parks Department. She was taking a computer course when she heard about the Gateway program, which she said she hoped would help her deal with a problem more perplexing than navigating menu screens or sorting Excel spreadsheets. 
 ''I don't get along well with other people,'' she said. ''And I can't get ahead like that. Here, I'm in an environment where I can learn to work with people.''
 Though the program's record on moving participants into full-time work is mixed -- some of last semester's eight students remain unemployed, others are working, and a few are now taking classes elsewhere with an eye toward finding a job down the line -- Dr. McGourty and Ms. Sprague said they believed that the program's real value is sometimes more elusive.
 ''This is really about self-esteem,'' Ms. Sprague said, citing the example of a student from last semester who, before joining the program, could not even bring himself to fill out college applications and now plans to study engineering. Frank Silverberg of Manhattan graduated from New York University in 1970 and spent 20 years in the textile industry, then retrained to be a programmer and got a job as one -- only to be laid off when his bosses decided they wanted someone with different expertise. He came to Columbia, he said, to ''increase my skills and get my own business started.'' He said he also likes ''the prestige of attending classes at an Ivy League school.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ON-THE-JOB EXPERIENCE -- Cynthia Connor in the Gateway Workforce Development Program at Columbia University, which combines training with community service. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); SERVICE LEARNING (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); WEB SITES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); DISMISSALS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005

 
